If you could take your Bibles and let's turn to Proverbs chapter 2 for our opening scripture reading. Proverbs chapter 2, and we are looking at verses 1 to 9. Here's what the scriptures say. My son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee. So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply thine heart to understanding. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge and liftest up thy voice for understanding, If thou seekest her as silver and searchest for her as for hidden treasure, then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord, and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord giveth wisdom. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. He is a buckler to them that walk uprightly. He keepeth the paths of judgment and preserveth the way of his saints Then shalt thou understand righteousness and judgment and equity, yea, every good path. This morning as we are joined together for worship. We're going to be focusing in on a very important topic of seeking godly wisdom in our responses in the last days. And so I want to invite you, let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to have quieted hearts, that we will be attentive to the ministry of his word. That as we sing praise to him, our hearts will really think about these wonderful truths that we'll be expressing in song. So let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together as a body of believers. We're thankful for the local church. You've ordained the church to be the pillar and the ground of the truth. This is a wonderful, wonderful assembly. It's so vitally important to our growth into Christ's likeness. I pray that this morning as we gather together, we would exalt you appropriately and consistently with your wonderful character. Father, we're so grateful that you're a God who is just and a God who is infinitely wise. Father, we are so grateful for your patience and your loving kindness We're thankful for your power, and we're thankful for your redemptive work to the Lord Jesus Christ. Pray that as we sing these hymns of praise to you, our hearts would be united in expressing incredible gratitude and incredibly grateful worship to you. Father, we pray for those in our congregation who are carrying heavy burdens. You know each burden that is represented in this room. You know the cares. I pray that you would strengthen and uphold each person. Father, we think about those who are dealing with physical infirmities Some who are sick and they're not able to be with us today and they're on the live stream joined with us. People who are who are going through long-term illnesses that weigh them down and make them weary. I pray that this morning you would strengthen and uphold every person that has the opportunity either to be with us or to join us virtually. Father, I pray that you would be with our nation. We are concerned about the days that we live in. We recognize that we are living in the last days, that these are tumultuous times. Father, we pray for those who are in authority in this land, whether it be on the local level, the state level, whether it be on the national level, I pray that the men and women who are in positions of authority, would be people who are guided by your hands, that they will make wise decisions that are consistent with your will, and that we will be able to continue to live quiet and peaceable lives in all godliness. So that we can be in a position to proclaim the gospel openly in this nation. We pray for churches around the world that are suffering. Because of the sake of the gospel. We recognize that there are there are churches that have not been able to meet for a very long time because of restrictions in the lands where they are. We think about some of our missionaries right now who this week I had conversation with who are not able to be open because of very stiff restrictions in the nations that they serve. I pray that you'd use those restrictions. I pray you'd protect your people. And I pray that through the difficulties that these churches are encountering, And the difficult decisions that the leadership of these churches are being forced to navigate, that you would continue, continue to bless your work. I pray that they would continue to see people reached with the gospel. that believers would continue to grow into Christ's likeness. I pray that you would preserve and protect your people in these very difficult places. Father, we lift up to you this service. May all that is done point honor and glory to the Lord Jesus Christ, and may we be wonderfully enriched by this time of corporate worship. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good morning. Let's get ready to sing this morning. We'll open up our hymn books to hymn number 93. Glorious things of thee are spoken. Please stand as we sing all three Verses of this song Glorious things of the spoke. For me born is on a The rock of agents found it What can thy story for? Well the rounded Steve the streams of blending waters Springing from eternal well Multiply thy sons and daughters And all there are one train Who can paint while such are ever blown? Never small. It's a place of having See the God and by glory and our common so in That the Lord is there thus deriving from that banner quite my night and said by day save Great singing as we turn back a few pages to hymn number 44. To God be the glory, great things he hath done. We will sing all three verses of this hymn. To God be the glory, great things we have done so long. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the idea, praise the Lord, praise the Lord. Let the bridge glory choice welcome to the Father within the Nam and given glory with And we have on perfect dance and the birds and one to every baby. And women give us a hard and race. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let me have an envoy. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice Come to the Father, virtual son, and given the morning great thing. Things he had got the great things he had done and bring our rejoicing burden was glorious. And higher and greater will be I wonder our transport when Jesus with me. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord. Let the earth in voice, praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people come to the father. Amen. Please be seated As we continue our wonderful singing this morning, we're going to turn over to hymn number 445-445. Standing on the promises. We'll sing verses 1, 2. And four. Standing on the promises of Christ my King for eternal native when this praise is raised. Glory in the highest I will shall dancing standing on the promises of God Standing Standing Standing on the promise of the From a dead of God, I 'm not standing, standing I standing on the promise of my God. Standing on the promises that cannot fail. When the island storms of doubt that we must fail. By the maybe word of God I shall prevail. Standing on the promise. I'm God standing standing on the floor, then I'm God might say don 't stand. I'm standing on the promises of God Standing on the promises I cannot fall Listening every script To the spirit, resting in my Savior as my own law, standing on the promises of God , slaves. Standing on the promises of God my Savior standing standing I'm standing on the promises Amen. Great singing. I'll await my letter of censure from the Song Leaders Guild Association for letting you sit on that song. Our scripture reading this morning will be from the book of James, chapter five. James chapter five, verses twelve through sixteen. The scriptures say , But above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath. But let your yea be yea and your nay nay, lest ye fall into condemnation. Is any among you could afflicted? Let him pray. Is any merry? Let him sing psalms Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with the oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. And if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another And pray for one another that ye may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availth much May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word as we continue our singing. Do we have an offertory? Oh, we have an offertory. I never know these days. And uh , You bad at a pup , beautiful. Do you understand? Well what All right, as we continue our singing, let's turn our hymn books to hymn number four hundred seventy-five. Hymn number four hundred seventy-five, rejoice in the Lord. We'll sing all three verses. God never works with a purpose or fine when trying a servant. Though your transfigure O rejoice and the Lord in mixed on the stack Hero and the end of its time That I say for will and I stand on for that. Oh I could not say the shadow, so I won't let the water. I blow on the master that his came and seems well. For his choice in the Lord Ms. No Mistak Helo and the end of his For well I tried that for a fight, I sound come forth as long. Now I can say something comes from above God 's friend, but just children and put us and want My father And I trust him burden or fruit right well We choice in the Lord immensal neck, you know , the next I shall as long. Amen. Please stand with me once more as we sing from the blue book, hymn number 65, our song for the month of April. God has spoken. And we'll sing all three verses. Sing out this morning. God has messed. Yes, I'm making all that big As we take the voice the white goes through the words we near. Oh what 's my boat? Oh my nephew I show God I was my friend God has to get Breathing on the sacred word Spirit with the holy authors and declare step. Teaching us our send and settles and not savings that God has spoken for. Pointing us to Jesus Christ Pointing us to Jesus Christ God has doubted The Savior crazy man would request my small parents one of us with our Saying messing God God has it for us Say God. Praise the Maving Word of God. Praise the Mavy Word of God. Amen. Please be seated. Come to my way when sorrow so I see the way It is well with my soul. It is well, it is well with my door. When my soul is well, it is dwell, when my soul constraints God has me caught in my states and has yet his own. So it is well, it is well in my soul, in my soul, in his wife. It is well, my soul, my My said not impart, but the whole is nail to the cross And I per it no more. Praise the Lord Pray the Lord my soul, it is one as well in my soul. When my soul it is well, it is well with my soul can burn his soul. Well yeah when my face shall be style But he will never Lord shall be sound, and more God shall be sent , even so it is well. Oh it is well it says well with my soul with my soul Children ages three to seven can be dismissed to the back for a junior church. And the rest of you would like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to James chapter 5. James chapter 5, we're looking at verses 12 through 13. We read through verses 16 this morning for our scripture reading. But because of how much is in this section, we're not going to unpackage the entire section this morning. We're just going to look at verses 12 and 13. I want to remind you that we're actually almost done with our study in the book of James. I think we've gone about 27 or 28 weeks, and I hope that you've really enjoyed our studies verse by verse through the book of James. James chapter five, we'll begin in verse twelve. Here's what the scriptures say. Above all things, my brethren Swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath, but let your yea be ye and your nay nay, lest ye fall into condemnation. Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. If any merry, let him sing psalms. I want to remind you that these verses are written in a context that is really driving home the point that these Jewish Christians who had been dispersed all throughout the Roman Empire These were Christians who were living in the last days. Now it's important for us to realize that if they were living in the last days, that means you and I are living in the last days as well. When we talk about the fact that these believers were living in the last days, what we're basically saying is this. There is nothing on a timetable that has to take place between the moment that we're living through right now and the return of Christ. We talk about the rapture of the church. We talk about an event that is signless. It's an event that is imminent. That means that at any moment the Lord Jesus Christ can come and take us to be with him. Well, I want you to realize that when the Bible talks about this period of time known as the last days, the Bible talks about that period of time being an extremely tumultuous time. In fact, when we look at church history, we're going to see that from the time of the early church in the first century all up until the time that we're living today in the 21st century, what we see is that throughout church history, you see People who have suffered for the sake of the gospel, people who have come in conflict with governments, people who experienced personal hardships. The reality is that the church has been an oppressed group of people because of their identity with the Lord Jesus Christ. Because of the gospel message, the world around them has not been benevolent to them. I want you to realize that these scriptures that are given to this group of people in the first century are meant to give sound wisdom. for how people are to live in the last days. And when we see these two verses, there are several things that he's going to talk about them needing to do when it comes to living wisely in the last days. In fact, if I was going to summarize these verses, I would put this simple statement. The scriptures before us give us several practical responses to the unique situations we will all encounter in this period we call the last days. God wants us to be a people who live wisely in this time period. In fact, it's interesting when Jesus sent out those seventy disciples and they were to go all over the land of Judea and they were to preach the gospel of the kingdom and they say, the Messiah is here. Repent and prepare the way for the Lord. As those individuals went all throughout that Jewish hillside and they preached the gospel of the kingdom to those people people, one of the things that Jesus said is, I'm sending you out who to be lambs amongst wolves and to be wise as serpents and harmless as doves. Do you know what Jesus was communicating? He was saying it's going to be dangerous for you to represent the gospel in the last days. It's going to be dangerous for you to represent the Lord Jesus Christ. And I want you to realize that during the lifetime of those individuals that went out, they watched the Lord Jesus Christ. be betrayed by one of the twelve, go through all these illegal courts on the night leading up to his crucifixion. They saw this terrible miscarriage of justice when Pilate says, what is truth? And he says, you can take Barabbas and the crowd said, Forget it. We will take our you can take Barabbas or you can take Jesus. And they said, crucify Jesus. Give us Barabbas. We want him to be free, not Jesus. And I want you to realize that the people that plotted behind the scenes to bring Jesus to that fateful day, that mentality has not left the world. And once you realize that, that mentality has not left the world. Not in the United States, and not in the governments all around this world. And he can break this to you, but there are people in high places in every nation under the sun that despise the gospel. That hate the gospel, that would do everything in their power to silence it if they believed they could get away with it. You realize if we did not have the constitutional liberties that we have in our country today, I guarantee you, I guarantee you, there would be a movement immediately to silence and close church doors. I promise you that. And the reality is, unless God is very merciful to us, we may see it happen in our lifetimes. The fact is that we have to be people who walk wisely in the last days And these verses are going to tell us how to walk wisely in the last days. What's very interesting about the things that James records here is that James goes back to Jesus' Sermon on the Mount in several places. And he reminds them of some of the things that Jesus taught. And so I want to show you the three simple truths that we find in this text that talk about how to live wisely in the last days. First of all, I want to remind you we are living in the last days. In the immediate context, in verse 7 of chapter 5, he says, be patient, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Now we talked about this the last time we looked at that passage of Scripture, but we saw that when he uses this term, the coming of the Lord, it can actually be used in a couple of different ways. He can be talking about how God is going to step into a situation situation and he's going to right or wrong that's going on an injustice that somebody is personally experiencing. We talk about times in history where God came and he humbled very powerful people like Nebuchadnezzar is an example of a person like this. But primarily when the Bible uses this term, the coming of the Lord, he's talking about this eschatological time. where God is going to come and he's going to establish the last things that are going to happen before we enter into our eternal state. When he talks about the coming of the Lord, he's reminding this persecuted group, this diaspora of Jewish believers who were suffering. Under the heavy hand of oppressive people in their communities, these individuals were reminded Jesus is coming. And he is watching, and he is going to set the record straight in his time. And verse 80 says, Be also patient, establish your hearts, the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. And so he's reminding them again that God sees and he knows and he loves you and he's not abandoned you, he's not forgotten you. God sustains his people with this reminder, he is coming. But I want you to see some of the things that the scripture says about the last days. For instance, in 2 Timothy 3, verse 1, this is what Paul writes. He says, this know also, in the last days, perilous times will come. Now, when he talks about perilous times, he could have just left that general and said, hey, by the way, it's going to be tough before the Lord Jesus returns. But he actually lays out, he explains the nature of those perilous times. Go to 2 Timothy chapter 3 and read it. Read it for yourself, and you know what you'll see. That's a description of the generation that we live with. It's a description. In 2 Peter 2, verse 9, it says that the Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. And so what God reminds his people is that you are a pilgrim. You are moving through this world, and this is not your final destination. This is not your home. You're to walk wisely, you're to walk circumspectly, and you're to remember that God settles in justice in his own time, and God preserves his people, protects his people. Defends his people so you can obey God even when it's hard, and he will protect you. Living in the last days will come with very difficult tensions. And so we see these three very simple facts about how we're to live in these days. The first truth that we see is that we are to be Christians of integrity. Look down at what it says in verse 12. He says this: Above all things, my brethren. Swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any oath, but let your yea be yea and your nay nay, lest ye fall into condemnation. Now when we read these verses, we ask the question, what exactly is James talking about? What's interesting is James actually refers back to something that Jesus taught In Matthew chapter 5. Now, for us to understand what Jesus is saying, it would be important for us to kind of understand the cultural context of what was going on when Jesus said these words. This is what Jesus said in Matthew 5. 33. Again you have heard that it's been said by them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thy oaths. But I say unto you, swear not at all, neither by heaven, for it is God's throne. neither by the earth, for it is his footstool, neither by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king. Now it's interesting, we look at this statement in a cross-reference, we'll see that he's specifically addressing something that was very common amongst the Pharisees. When the Pharisees were coming to say something, they would tack on a statement like , I'm going to make this promise. on the basis of the temple, or on the basis of the gold of the temple. And essentially what these religious leaders were doing was saying You know, when I tell you something, I might be telling you the truth, I might not might not be telling you the truth. So that you know that I'm serious, I'm going to swear by something that I view as sacred. In fact, it's very interesting. In the Old Testament, many times we would see that someone would make an oath like, I'm giving you a promise on the basis of the God before whom I stand. Or even pagan worshippers would many times swear an oath by one of their pagan deities, and they were basically saying, if I'm lying to you, let the gods do this to me. That's basically what they were saying. But what's very interesting about what Jesus said in the Sermon on the Mount is, that's not how you should communicate. And James says, listen, that's not how you're to communicate. This is how you're supposed to communicate. Let your yes be yes and your no be no. The very simplest way to put it is this. Be so honest that people don't feel compelled to say, so how serious really are you? You know what I'm saying? Like, would you put a hand on your Bible and say that? Would you make a promise on your great-grandmother's grave? You understand what I'm saying? This is the idea He says, rather than living in a duplicitous way, where you feel like I've got to tell somebody I'm serious, so how can I say this more strongly? I will make an oath by something very precious and something very valuable. He says, you're so consistent that when you say I'm going to do that, somebody goes, that's his word. He's an honest person. She's an honest person. People will never feel compelled to say, you've got to prove it to me. Do you know what he's really saying? Be a person of integrity. Be a person of integrity. I want to ask you this question. When you tell somebody something, do they trust you? Not should they trust you or not? Do you feel they should trust you? But do they trust you? You say, well, I can't help it if they don't trust me. Well, you can't help it now. But there probably was a time when you could have. The simple fact is that we trust people on the basis of how they have demonstrated they are trustworthy. And you know what James is basically saying? You need to be an honest, consistent person. A person of integrity. It takes one moment to destroy your trustworthiness And it takes years, in some cases decades, to restore what has been lost And so you know what Jesus says? Speak the truth. So your yes is yes, and your no is no. You know what James says: speak the truth. So your yes is yes, and your no is no. In other words, he's saying God wants you to be a person whose words are consistently true, so that you never feel compelled, nor do others feel compelled, to make you prove what you're saying is true by an oath that you must prove. I want you to realize that the way that we live as Christians is to be distinct and very different from the world around us. And one of the most distinct ways is whether or not you are truly a person of integrity. You know, it's interesting. We go back to that passage where it talks about The last days being perilous times, one of the things he talks about is people who do not speak the truth. They are unfaithful. They are not trustworthy. You would be a fool to stake anything of value on their words. And that is the way that the world lives in the last days. Let's just take an example of those in the political realm. Should you believe any promise made by a politician today? Probably not. Okay, probably not And you know what? We've come to a place in our culture where we accept that. We accept that. What would happen if we said we would never vote for a dishonest politician? We wouldn't elect anybody, would we? We have a problem in our land. Folks, it shouldn't surprise you. That's the world. That's people that don't know God. But God calls us to a different standard, a different ethic. We are to walk with integrity. Listen to what the scriptures say in Ephesians 4. He says Put off concerning the former conversation, the old man, which is corrupt according to the listen carefully, deceitful lusts. Be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. Put away lying. Speak every man truth with his neighbor. We are members one of another. What Paul says is that Christians living in the last days, living in a tumultuous world, are to be people who put off the old ways. And speak the truth, because the truth is a way that says, I respect you, I honor you, I'm transparent with you. 1 Peter 3 verse 10 says, He that will love life and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil and his lips from speaking guile. You know what guile is? It's dishonesty. Let him eschew evil and do good. Let him seek peace and ensue it. For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers. But the face of the Lord is against them that do evil. Who is he that will harm you if ye be followers of that which is good? If you suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye Be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your heart and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is within you with meekness. and fear. Having a good conscience that whereas they speak evil of you, as evildoers, they may be ashamed, that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ I'll summarize it this way. As a Christian, we are to live different than the world around us. And if we live different than the world around us, guess what? They're going to exploit you. It's that simple. But when they take advantage of you, they're gonna have to deal with God. And that is a tremendous thing for us to remember. The reason that he has to exhort these believers to be honest is because sometimes honesty costs you something. I want to encourage you, be a man, a woman, a young man, a young woman of integrity. Second truth. Be a Christian who humbly prays. In verse 13, he says this: Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Now, this is an interesting word afflicted. You know what's interesting when we read the Bible and we see that word afflicted. I want you to realize there are actually several different Greek terms. That are used in the New Testament that are translated afflicted in our English Bibles. But what's really interesting is the word that is translated afflicted in this context is uniquely used in only four places in the New Testament. What's interesting about this word that is translated affliction here is in all the contexts that I looked at, it is always an affliction that is associated with a cause. That's not a natural cause like I'm suffering some kind of affliction physically, like I have an injury, I'm sick. I'm going through internal trouble of soul. He's talking about an affliction that is specifically connected to our association with Christ. For instance, 2 Timothy 2, verse 3. He says, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. The enduring of hardness is connected with being a soldier of Jesus Christ. Or in 2 Timothy chapter 2, he says, I suffer trouble as an evildoer, even unto bonds, but the word of God is not bound. When Paul suffered affliction, was it because he was an evil man? The answer is no. Was it because he had violated some moral and righteous law? The answer is no. It's because of his association with Christ. So he says, endure hardness as a Christian soldier. Suffer trouble like I have at times because of your association with the gospel. In 2 Timothy 4, verse 5, he says, Watch in all things, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry. Again, the affliction that he's talking about is connected to our association with Christ. I want you to realize that in the last days we will suffer affliction, not just because we are fallen creatures living in a fallen world, but also because we are God's children living in a fallen world. Because we're walking with a distinction of character living in a fallen world. I think of what Job says in Job 5. 7. He says Man is born of trouble as the sparks fly upward. Everybody, Christian and non-Christian alike, experiences hardship in life. physical infirmity, your body begins to get old and tired and weary, and we begin to have health issues and we experience difficulties in a fallen world. But this is a different kind of trouble. This is like what the psalmist says in Psalm 34. Many are the afflictions of the righteous. But the Lord delivereth him out of them all. I want you to realize that if you're going to be a distinctly godly individual, As beautiful as a righteous character is, before those who love God, a righteous character can be a scourge in the side of a person who despises And hates and loathes God. You see, there are really people like that? Of course there are. In Psalm chapter 2, the second Psalm, he says, why do the heathen rage? Rage. Folks, there are people that are irreligious. There are people that are agnostic, and there are people that are what we call anti -theist. In other words, it's not that they say, I don't know if God exists. They say, whatever the God of the Bible is, I hate him. I hate him. And I hope with all my being, and I've convinced myself with all my being, he does not exist. Because if he exists, he is evil, and I don't want to ever stand before that God. The more and more a society begins to think in that way, the more dangerous it becomes to be a Christian. And so when we talk about affliction in the context, he's saying if you are afflicted because of the cause of Christ, you need to pray. You need to pray. There's a lot of different ways that we can respond to affliction. Hey, when somebody is unjust to you, what is the first way you feel to respond? What's the first way I don't feel to respond? Well, I'll just tell you. I get angry. And I talk a lot to myself about the situation. And I probably talk to God too, not as a prayer, but as an expression of venting. I'm very frustrated. If it's somebody that I'm really close to, I will probably express it to them as well. But that is not what the text says to do. Anxiety, manipulation, anger , compromise, that's not how we're to respond. In Philippians 4:6 he says, be careful for nothing. That means don't be anxious. Don't be overcome with care. And fear and anger. Be careful for nothing. Instead, in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be made known unto God In other words, Paul says, you know what? When you are in affliction, pray. I don't mean vent to God. I mean pray. I mean He knows this in our heart. It's not like when you vent to God, all of a sudden He goes, What in the world is going on with this person? I mean, God is not like that. Read the Psalms, folks. In fact, the psalm we're going to look at next Sunday, I've already started reading through that psalm and think about it. And the psalmist is venting to God, okay? He's expressing to God this overwhelming sense of frustration with life So God knows he's not shocked, he's not surprised when he sees us in such a state. But that's not what he's saying. Go to God humbly and express to him your need. In Matthew 6, 31, he says, Take no thought, saying, What shall we eat or what shall we drink? Wherewithal shall we be clothed? After all these things the Gentiles seek. Your Heavenly Father knoweth that you have need of all these things. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. All these things shall be added unto you. In other words, he says, don't be anxious. Don't manipulate. You know what anxiety is? Anxiety is when you manipulate and you realize you can't anymore. You understand what I'm saying? Like we have reached the point where we cannot control it any further. And so now we feel the emotional anguish of knowing we have reached our limit and we don't know what's coming next. He says, Don't do that. Another is compromise. Do you know why there were Christian martyrs in the early church? It's because Christians were not willing to pinch incense to the emperor. Like you just like pinch, you know, it's done. It's like, I didn't mean anything by it. They refuse to do that. They refused to do that. Like literally they were killed in the most gruesome of ways because they refused to worship that man. When we talk about the Great Tribulation, the reason that Christians will be martyred, people who embrace the gospel during that tribulation time. Period. The reason they will be martyred in massive droves, the book of Revelation tells us, is because they will refuse to take the mark of the beast. A mark that's going to give them access to their food. A mark that's going to give them access to everything that they need to survive in the world. And by the way, it's pretty easy to see now that we live in a world that that can happen like Right now, if it needs to. It can happen right now at any moment. The technology is all there. It's even being used in some countries right now. I don't mean the mark of the beast, okay? But I'm saying the technology is there. What's the point? The point is this: when we are oppressed, there's a temptation to compromise. To say, you know what? It's not worth it. I can do that thing, I can just not mean anything by it, and I can move on. I want to remind you of the story of those Jewish boys. Who were the only boys that stood in Daniel chapter 3 when Nebuchadnezzar said, Everyone, when you hear the music, bow down and worship my image. And I want to read to you what went on in the conversation when they stood alone and everybody else was bowing down. It says in verse 14, Nebuchadnezzar spake unto them. Can you imagine talking to the most powerful person in the world at that time? And by the way, there are no Geneva codes for warfare and things like that in those days. You realize that it was a brutal, vicious, nasty world. This is a guy who had no problem killing anybody any way he chose, and he's looking these men in the f in the face and he says Is it true? Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, do you not serve my gods or worship the golden image which I have set up? This is what he says. If ye be ready to at what time you hear the sound of the chordette, flute, flute, harp, sackbutt, sultry, dulcimer, all kinds of music. Fall down and worship the image which I have made well. But if ye worship not, ye shall be cast the same hour into the midst of a burning fiery furnace. And who is that God that shall deliver you out of my hand? I mean it's really easy to read it like it's a kid's story and just forget about like what it would have been like I mean, do you get anxiety about a tough conversation with somebody in your life that's a little bit like verbally harsh sometimes? They're not Nebuchadnezzar. They're not Nebuchadnezzar, I promise you. And this is what happens. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter. If it be so our gods whom we are our God not gods, our God who we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace. And we and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O King. But if not, be it known unto thee, O King, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up. They look the most powerful person in the world in the eye and they say, you know, we're not going to obey your wishes. It's that simple. This is okay. Heat it hotter. Throw them in. I'm going to watch them cook. And God intervened in this situation. But I want you to realize that there are lots of people God did not intervene in their situations. And the end result is they were Christian martyrs. When we feel the pressure of the harshness of living in the last days, the question is: how are we to respond? If you're afflicted, pray. Prayer acknowledges our need. Prayer submits to God's wisdom. Prayer trusts in God's power. Prayer submits to God's sovereign ways. This is a tough position and response, but it is godly wisdom. The third and final fact we see is we are to be Christians who live joyfully. In verse 13, he says, Is any Mary let him sing Psalms. When he uses the term Mary, the question is, what does he mean? What he's talking about is it's the same joy that's rooted in God's goodness. I don't mean like I'm in a good mood because I got a pay raise today. And you know, after I go back to work and I found it I got a pay raise, but I also got a lot more responsibility and I got a lot more people that don't like me, and so life's not so easy anymore. We're not talking about that. We're talking about a state that is consistent because it's not rooted in circumstance, but it's rooted in someone who is bigger than circumstance. It's ultimately rooted in God. It's rooted in our position in Christ. It's rooted in what we have as believers. It's shaped by the scriptures. Colossians 3. 16. Let the word of Christ Dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs. That's what he's talking about It's being stirred up and produced by the Holy Spirit. Galatians 5. 22. The fruit of the Spirit is love and joy. God produces this state in our heart. It's that contentment of mind. Because I am contented in the presence of God and how He works and how He moves in my life. And it's cultivated within a growing context of a walk with God. First John 1, he says, That which we've seen and heard, we declare unto you, and have fellowship with us, and truly our fellowship is with the Father and his Son Jesus Christ. And these things rightly unto you that your joy may be full. In other words, you have joy because you're walking with God. This is what he means. Communion with God, the work of the Spirit, the presence of the Word, it produces joy. He says, if that's where you are, express It. Express it in song. Living in the last days. You may come under pressure. But because you know God and you're walking with God and you have the truths of God richly dwelling in your heart, you express it in joy In Psalm 107 he says, Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness and his wonderful works to the children of men. Let them exalt him also in the congregation, praise him in the assembly of the elders. Notice the word congregation and assembly, not just alone, but in unison with other believers. Psalm 11, verse 1, praise the Lord. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart in the assembly of the upright, in the congregation. Assembly congregation again. Psalm 149, verse 1, praise ye the Lord, sing unto the Lord a new song, seeing praise in the congregation of the saints. Do you know why the congregation is so important? Because there are days you come into this place. Even I come into this place. I'm supposed to lead you guys. And I'm not feeling the joy of the Lord. And neither are you. It's true. And as a scriptures are open as the scriptures are read and we we stand to sing praise to God all of a sudden you hear that person to your right and you hear that person to your left and you see your little kids on the side singing praise to God and all of a sudden you go, I can do this. I can do this If you were sitting alone in your home, you couldn't do it. You have no encouragement from anybody else. You're isolated, you're alone, you can't do it. But when you come together into this place , And we lift up our songs in unison and praise to God. As one assembly, we exalt his name together. And you know that may be the very thing, it may not be the preaching of the word that is what strengthens you most throughout the week It may be the fact that we come together and we sing praise to God and you walk out of that door and you say, I can go through the next couple days of the week. That's what church is about. It's not just about you getting raped over the coals every week and, oh, I'm not doing very well spiritually. It's about worship. It's about the word of God being expounded. So yes, we get convicted at times. And yes, we feel guilty at times. And yes, we find the balm. And yes, God is high and lifted up, and yes, our hearts are strengthened, and we have to express it in some way. It's not just about listening, it's about singing. We live in a day where people don't sing anymore. We listen. It's okay to listen if you're singing along. Let's sing to the Lord. Singing connects the mind to the affections. Folks, if your walk with God is nothing more than sterile words on a page , And it's not engaged your heart in any way. There's a problem. Singing takes doctrine. And it makes it settle in hearts. In other words, it connects minds to affection. God's people aren't supposed to just be students. We're to be lovers of God. We're to be a people that are overwhelmed with affection for the God that we serve. Seeing is so personal. Let me tell you. It's hard to sing in front of people. Very hard. I don't mean up here. I mean next to them. And it might be hard to listen to people sitting next to you too sometimes. You know the Bible just says make a joyful noise It doesn't say a beautiful joyful noise. It says a joyful noise. And in heaven it'll become really beautiful. No, but the reality is it's a very personal thing. You know, you feel a little bit uncomfortable maybe expressing in song. One of the reasons on Sunday night to let the kids pick the hymns, you know why that is? Because they aren't ashamed to sing out And when they take it, they sing it out, and then we start singing too. That's why I do it. I want our kids to not just have the minds engaged, but I want minds to engage affection. Corporate seeing is one of the most powerful ways that we express worship as a church. And this is why the physical assembly of the church is an absolute essential. Because we do not sing as a congregation in front of our computers. We just don't. Or in front of our cell phones while we're checking Facebook. We just don't do it. When we sing side by side, we encourage one another in praise. We focus on Him. Probably one of the greatest things that you could do as a mom and dad. Take your kids to church, let them sit next to you in a service, and sing so that they see you believe what you believe. God wants us to be a joyful people, filled with intense passion for and a willingness to express to others in our words and in our songs. Colossians chapter 3, verse 1 says this If you then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God. And I love this statement. Set your affection on things above, not on things of the earth, for ye are dead and your life is hid with Christ in God. And when Christ who is our life shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him. Folks, God wants us to live wisely in the last days, and so I want to encourage you. Let's obey the text in front of us. Let's be Christians who are men and women of integrity. Let's humbly and prayerfully come into God's presence when we suffer. It happens. It's going to happen. And let's be joyful and let's sing praise to our great God. Let's bow together for prayer Our Father in heaven, we are so grateful, and I mean grateful, for this passage in front of us. Father, help us to walk with integrity in this generation. Help us when we are grieved and when we are hurting, to humble ourselves in your presence and pray. And Father, help us when we have hearts that are in a healthy place, filled with joy to sing. I pray that we would be a singing people, a rejoicing people People that are not just engaged in the mind, but that the mind affects the affections Help us to be lovers of our Creator and our Lord and our Redeemer. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want to encourage you if there's ever a time that you sit into a message and you say, you know, Pastor, I I need to reach out and talk to you about something that God just Grab my attention about. Do not, do not, do not hesitate to reach out. This message was not a gospel service. It wasn't designed to give the gospel. But if you don't know for certain that you're saved, If you've trusted Christ as your Savior, please, please reach out. I interact with people on email all the time. I get calls from Google Advertisements. People reach out through Facebook, people reach out through email. It's real easy. Reach out, say, Pastor, I need to talk to you. I need to meet with you. I need a Zoom call with you. I don't know I'm saved. I'd be glad. Take the Bible and show you how you can be saved. Maybe you just need encouragement. You say, man, I listen to that message and I need that. I need that desperately. I don't have that. I don't know how to get there. Can you talk with me through this? I'd be glad to do that. Let's go ahead and take our hymn books out and turn to hymn number 390. And the hymn that we're going to sing for our closing is the hymn, I surrender all. Hymn number 390, I surrender all. We're to sing three verses of this. And I want to encourage you sing it as a genuine, especially after the point number one, as a genuine expression to God All to Jesus I surrender. All to him I freely give. Let's sing the first, the second, and the fourth verses together. Let's begin together with the first. In his presence he leaded right to remove. On the second place. Jesus was his good I went just for say Save me, Jesus. Take me I surrender. I surrender all. Let's sing it on the last Just now I survived more I give myself to me till we call the I surrender all I surrender all. All to de my pass it saved for Want to encourage you, if you can, please come back this evening. Um the folks from the edge will be with us, Brother Scott will be preaching. Uh also the group is going to be doing a couple of specials and kind of give you a little bit of a sense of their uh their group that does um music there at the camp. In fact very similar to uh we have our Marin Atha group in for the Lit conference. our teenagers have been to the wilds. Uh they have groups that uh that sing during the services and so these are the guys that do that. And so I think that you would really be blessed by it. I know they got some Really good songs that they have planned for tonight. So really looking forward to that. Hope that you can make it back tonight for that if possible. Um I'd like to ask you guys if you can be dismissed to the back so that you can be by your table and people can go by and greet you. If you're visiting, I hope that you felt warmly welcomed and we definitely want to reach out to you. One of the ways we do that is if you can uh fill out a visitor card and put that in the box in the back. That's how we reach out to you. And um so I just want to encourage you with that. Also, um if you wanted to give uh for a love offering to be a help uh to the Carcy family and to Edge Camp. Please put that in the box as well, but uh just say it's love offering for the Edge Camp. And um that would be good as well. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. And I'd like to ask if uh Eric, you could come and close us in prayer. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for this day and thank you for uh this good message we've heard in your house today. walk with you and pursue holiness, Lord. And we just ask your blessing over us as we leave this afternoon. And I pray this in Christ's name. Amen.