Turn with me to the fifty-first Psalm, and we are going uh psalm by Psalm through the entire uh book of Psalms. So as you can see, this is uh the Three quarters, Mark. We have gone through one third. Not three quarters. We've gone through one third. That would not be the correct one. We've gone through one third of the psalms, and now we are starting on uh the second third of the psalms. And so this is an excellent psalm for us to reflect on this morning as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table. I'm going to read the entire section to you. And then we are going to work our way through the contents of this psalm as we think about what Christ has done for us, what we have in him. Psalm 51. It says, have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy loving kindness. According unto the multitude of thy tender mercies, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from mine iniquities and cleanse me from my sin. For I acknowledge my transgression, and my sin is ever before me. Against thee, thee only have I sinned, and done this sin in thy sight, that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest. Behold, I was shapen in iniquity and in sin. Did my mother conceive me? Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts, and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom. Purge me with hyssop and I shall be clean. Wash me and I shall be whiter than snow. Make me to hear joy and gladness, that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice. Hide thy face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from thy presence. Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. Then will I teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners shall be converted unto thee. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God. Thou God of my salvation, my tongue shall sing aloud with thy righteousness. O Lord, open thou my lips, and my mouth shall show forth thy praise. For thou desirest sacrifice, thou desirest not sacrifice, else would I give it. Thou delightest not in the burnt offerings. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise. Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion. Build thou the walls of Jerusalem. Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifice of righteousness, with burnt offerings, and whole burnt offerings. Then shall they offer bullocks upon thy altar. This is the word of the Lord. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to bless this time of reflection on his word. Our Father, I thank you so much for the text in front of us. I know that this was written during one of the lowest, most painful, darkest seasons of David's life. And as he penned these words, I pray that the things that he wrote would be things that resonate in our souls. As we think about how he describes what he needs from you. I pray that we would recognize why he needed that from you. As he reflects on your glorious character even in the midst of his own sin I pray that we would be reminded afresh of your unchanging character as he expresses how his sin has affected him personally. I pray that we would recognize that sin is always going to cause pain and sorrow and difficulty And as he reflects on his hope, his sure foundation of joy and comfort, his conviction that he had communion with you despite his brokenness and sin. I pray that as we consider the loving kindness of God, his faithfulness to his promises , that we would understand that we in fact look to the same promises that have been fulfilled in Christ. And so I pray that this would be a wonderful time. of encouragement, reflection, worship, instruction. May we be strengthened by it. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Text in front of us is such a heavy passage of scripture. It is David expressing his deep brokenness over his sin. In fact, if we think about the background of this psalm, we know that this psalm was written after David had committed a horrific sin. In fact, in verse Before we even get into the text, it says it's to the chief musician, a psalm of David, when Nathan the prophet came unto him after he had gone into Bathsheba. And so this tells us the context of what David is writing this psalm is on his mind and what he has just been living through. It's an expression of his deep brokenness that was described in 2 Samuel 11. During this time, David's treacherous actions were probably the greatest blot that he ever experienced on his life. I think about what it says in 2 Samuel 12, verse 14. It says, by thy deed thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of the Lord to blaspheme. What God is communicating to David is because of your actions, there are many people that scorn my name. They know that you are a worshiper of the one true God. You are supposed to be a righteous king over his people. You're supposed to uphold the law, but rather you have broken the law. You have done treacherous things. You have committed adultery. You have murdered. You have concealed. You have included others in what you have done. You have for a long period of time you have hidden these things, and I have seen all of them, and in fact, it is a great blot on your legacy. There are all kinds of miseries that David experienced that are a direct result that flowed out of his treacherous actions. You know the Bible says the way of the transgressor is hard, and he who says to his flesh will reap corruption. That's exactly what David experienced. The child died. His house became divided. He would not address very serious injustices that took place in his own household. The nation would eventually go through a horrible war started by his own son. He would be personally humiliated by the actions of that son when he was running for his life. Many of his most trusted advisors would actually attach themselves. to uh Absalom and they would advise him on the way to destroy his own father and he would see the sinful pattern repeated in his own children's lives. Now, why do I say that? When we read Psalm 51 and we talk about forgiveness and cleansing and joy and restored communion, all of that is true. And I don't want us to miss it and I want us to think deeply about it. But what is also true is that there are certain consequences that follow sin. that even though you are forgiven, even though you can enjoy fellowship with God, those seeds that were sown are going to reap a harvest. And David experienced that. Yet despite all of that, David also experienced God's rich mercy. And this psalm is going to remind us of the mercies of God. We are also reminded not only that David experienced suffering, but God also gave him another son, actually gave him several sons through Bathsheba. But one of those sons was Solomon. And Solomon was a son that brought great joy to his mother and to his father. In fact, he was loved of the Lord, the Bible says. He was going to be a part of the lineage of Christ, and he is the one who would eventually build the temple. In fact, it's very interesting. If you were to look at the lineage of Christ, obviously we see uh his humanity coming through Mary, and we know that Joseph was not his biological father, but his legal right to the throne of David came through Joseph. And what's fascinating is as Matthew records. The genealogy, and as Luke records the genealogy of the two different sides of the family, I put that in quotes. What you see is that both of the sons of David who are a part of the lineage of Christ, either the legal right or the biological, both of them were the children of Bathsheba. And so, what that shows you is that even though God had to deal very harshly with David, he didn't stop loving David Even though the sin had consequences, it did not change the fact that God poured his grace in that situation. And God does this over and over and over again in our lives as well. And so we see that God hated the sin and what David did, but he loved David, and he was gracious to David, and he brought goodness even out of this miserable situation. And so with that in mind, let's consider what David writes and why it is so significant. I would summarize this psalm in the following way, despite the lowest moment in David's life. He turned to God in his brokenness. He penned one of the most powerful prayers of repentance in all of Scripture. And as we read these verses We need to turn to God and take comfort in the same promises that David took comfort in in these verses. First thing I want you to notice from this psalm is David's penitent cry. And there are at least five different burdens. deep burdens that David is going to express to God in this Psalm. In fact, if you were to pick it apart, you'd probably find more than what I'm going to present to you. But I wanted to kind of limit it to five just for the sake of time. The first is this. In verse number one, he writes, Have mercy on me, O God. David wanted God to pour out his mercy on his compassion unto him. Now, when we use the term grace and we too use the term mercy, we kind of conflate those in our minds many times. But grace has the idea of an undeserved favor that is given to someone. Mercy has more to do with the compassion and the moving of the heart that someone has toward a person in their misery. The most common way that we respond to people in their misery is say, what did they do to deserve that? Isn't that true? Or I bet they had that coming. But David is saying, I did have it coming. I did deserve God's disfavor. But the reality is I know God's nature, and he is a merciful God. He is a compassionate God in my misery that I have brought upon myself. God, please show me compassion. That's what he's saying. Now before I answer the question why, you think about it yourself. Why did David say that? The second thing he mentions. Is that he wanted the deep stain of his sin to be removed. In verse 1, he talks about this. In verse 2, he talks about this. In verse 7, he talks about this. He actually mentions it multiple times. Let's look at each of them. Verse 1, blot out my transgression. Take it and remove it from the record of my life. Verse 2, wash me thoroughly from mine iniquities, cleanse me from my sin. David understood that his sin was a blot against him. And it's something that made him dirty. It made him defiled. He was unclean. He understood this. Verse 7 says, Purge me with hyssop, I shall be clean. Wash me. I shall be whiter than snow. Verse 9, hide thy face from my sins and blot out all my transgressions, all my iniquities. Verse 14, deliver me from blood guiltiness. And when David uses the term blood guiltiness, he means that in the literal sense. He shed innocent blood through the hands of his enemies. And so as he sent Uriah into the battle and he told his generals, remove from Uriah so that he'll die in the fight. He is murdering the man through other individuals. And so the guilt of this man's blood was on David's own hands. And so David says, I understand that my sin is a blot against me. God, please wash it away. Third dimensions. He wanted the joy of communion with God to be restored. When we read through the Psalms, we read the some of the Psalms are some of the most amazing, heartwarming passages you read in all scripture. God God is God is God is celebrated by David. He talks about him in the most loving ways that you can ever imagine. There is such an intimate way of describing his love, his affection, his communion with God. But in these verses, notice what he says, verse 8, make me to hear joy and gladness. because the bones which you have broken that the bones that you have broken may rejoice. He says in verse 12, restore unto me the joy of thy salvation and uphold me with thy free spirit. Now, what David is describing here is how he knew what it was like to be in communion with God. He knew what it was like to think deeply about God's goodness and God's promises. and God's ways, to reflect on how kind God had been to him. He knew what it was like to fellowship with God, to sing to God, to pray to him, to just worship him with all of his being. But during this period of time, from this sin and the concealing of the sin to the confrontation to the writing of this psalm, David has not enjoyed that joy. David has not enjoyed that communion with God. He's not enjoyed that because his sin is weighing on his conscience and he knows there's a problem and he's been unwilling to address it So why does he ask for joy and communion to be restored? It's because he didn't have it when he was in this condition. We also see fourthly he wanted to be renewed in the inner man. This is a very interesting one. Verse number 10 he says, Create in me a clean heart, O God. Renew a right spirit. within me. One of the things that David had experienced as a result of his sin was that his heart, his thinking was disordered, it was twisted, it was upside down, it had become perverse. And David's heart was not clean before God. His spirit was not what it ought to be. And he understood that he needed God to do in him something that he was powerless to do for himself. him. A New Testament parallel would be Romans chapter 12. He says that we need to be transformed through the renewing of our minds. David needed his mind to be renewed so that he could be transformed through the renewing of his mind. And then fifthly, he wanted God's presence and empowerment for service. He says in verse 11, cast me not away from thy presence. Verse 11, take not thy Holy Spirit from me. I want to pause and make a comment about this. What David's expressing is something that was unique to him as a king living under the old covenant. Now, when we become Christians in the New Testament, we place our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. The Bible teaches the Holy Spirit comes and dwells all of us. We are the temples of the Holy Ghost. But what's really interesting is if you read in the Gospels, the way that the relationship of the Spirit to the believer is described different than the way it is in the epistles. It's described as something that God's going to send, that God's going to give, something that they're going to experience. Interestingly, throughout the Old Testament, we see We see examples of many people who were empowered by the Spirit for acts of service, some who were even indwelled by the Spirit for acts of service, but we do not see that described as a normative situation for Old Testament Christians. We don't see that described as a normative situation for people living during the time of the Gospels because that's still under the old covenant system. But everything changed when people became New Testament Christians. The Holy Spirit now comes and indwells the believer at the moment that they place their faith in Christ. We are the temples of the Holy Ghost. And so the question is, what exactly is David concerned about in these verses? He's not concerned about something that you and I could lose as New Testament Christians He's worried about something that was unique to him as a king over God's heritage. God put his spirit upon David for his ministry as a king And David understood in the same way that the Spirit of God departed from Saul, the Spirit of God could depart from him as one who is ruling the people. God could have easily cast him aside like he did to Saul and say, the kingdom will be taken away from you and given to someone else. He understood that was Saul's experience because of his disobedience to God. In fact, David was the personal recipient of this action. God rejected Saul and God established David and he knew that. And so David is concerned that God would remove him from his position. He would lose the power of God to do the work that he was called to do in that capacity in the same way that his predecessor would have. You say, why is that? The truth is none of us are entitled to the things that we get to do in life. You realize that? I'm not entitled to be a pastor. You're not entitled to the roles that God has given you in your family or maybe in areas of service to Him. The truth is, every single one of us could come to a place in our life where we compromise our ability to do the things that we're doing And David was concerned that, in fact, that very well could have happened. The only reason that God continued to permit David to do what he did is because he's gracious. And by the way, God didn't put him on the throne because he was a perfect man. He put him on the throne because he's a gracious God. And so this is what David is concerned about. Why does he bring all this up? Because these burdens reveal to us what sin does in people's hearts. What it does in our lives, it wreaks havoc on us. And the only remedy for that havoc that is wreaked on our lives is the gospel itself. Sin causes us to become the objects of God's wrath against sin. It leaves us stained and unclean. It robs us of intimate communion and joy. Something that we were created to enjoy. It disorders our thinking and our passion. It separates us from God and leaves us powerless to live as we were created to live. But the gospel changes everything. The gospel deals with every single one of those issues. And so I encourage you to look at the next part of this. David's painful experience in sin. He was crying out to God for things that he desired from him, but he also expresses how his sin deeply hurt him in his innermost person. His cry flowed from a painful experience with sin. Everybody in this room, if you have gone down a path and you have resisted God for a season, And he has brought you to a point of repentance and brokenness. You have in some way experienced what David is expressing here. Because that repentance completely changes how you think about your sin. And it completely reorients your heart toward God. And you're willing to express that because you know it's true. You know, I think it's very interesting here, he doesn't blame God. He doesn't blame Bathsheba. He doesn't blame the people that were around him. He blames himself. He owns it all. And he realizes that God alone is the one who can remedy his problem. Notice what he says in verse 2, wash me thoroughly from mine iniquities and cleanse me from my exit my sin. He knew what it was like to fill the file. You ever felt that way? In fact, that sometimes in the Christian life we'll have an area where we struggle and and we constantly fall to the flesh and we give in to temptation. And when we give into temptation, how do we feel inside? We feel so, so dirty. Why is that? Because that's what sin does. It defiles us. He experienced the misery of that defiled conscience. He said in verse 3, my sin is ever before me. What he's saying is, I can't hide from it. What's amazing about sin? Is that when we are tempted, it's like, oh, if you do this, it won't matter. Nobody's gonna catch you, nobody's gonna hear about it, nobody's gonna say anything, it's not gonna hurt anybody. It's okay, don't worry about it. And as soon as you do it, guess what? You can't stop thinking about it. Why is that? Because the conscience is awakened. And that is what David experienced. David was physically affected because of his conscience being so in turmoil during that period of time. time. He experienced the presumption and arrogance of sin. Verse 4, against thee only have I sinned. I don't think that David's trying to minimize his sin here. He's not saying, well, you know, I didn't sin against Bathsheba. I only sinned against you, God. I didn't sin against Uriah, I only sinned against you. I didn't sin against Joab and those leaders who I commanded to do something that was clearly unjust, clearly evil. But I did I just sinned against you. He's not saying that. What David is suggesting is that when I think of all of those who I've wronged, the one who is the foremost of them all is God Why is that? Because he is the sovereign over everything. And my sin has been presumptuous against him. My sin has been arrogant against him. I have done this sin in his presence. I've hidden it from other people, but he saw it. Some people don't know anything about this. He does. And that weighed on his heart. And he recognized how presumptuous and how arrogant it was. Verse 5, he talks about how this brokenness is something that has entangled him from the womb. Children are not born into this world innocent, folks. We are born sinners. In verse 5, he says, I was shapen in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. I don't think David is suggesting that his mom was an adulteress or that she committed some sin and he was the product of that. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, from the moment I receive life from you, God, I was flawed. I was a sinner That brokenness came out in my speech, in my actions, in my affections. Every aspect of me has been affected by this brokenness, even from the time I was a little child. In other words, without your grace, without your renewal, without your forgiveness, without you working in me, I have no hope. Verse number 8, he says, Make me here joy and gladness, that the bones that you have broken may rejoice. He experienced the loss of joy in a wearied body. Have you ever been so sick in your conscience that you got sick in your body? Have you ever been so in turmoil in your own heart that there were you began to actually have physical effects that flowed from that internal turmoil? David did. He understood that. That's because sin is something that is so detrimental to each of us. In verse 13, he talks about how his ministry was compromised. He says, Then will I teach transgressors thy ways, and sinners shall be converted unto thee. The idea is until this issue is dealt with, until this issue is dealt with is resolved, what I am doing and what I should be doing has been compromised because of my sin. He experienced a suppressed desire to worship God, verse 15. Open my lips and my mouth shall show forth thy praises. Why would David say that? It's because he didn't feel like singing. He didn't feel like going into the word. The truth is that when we sin and we feel dirty and our conscience is defiled and we're in misery of soul, we don't feel like singing The Psalms and singing the praises of God. We don't open the Bible and find comfort and joy. We read this book and we feel the weight of condemnation because our conscience is troubled. But it doesn't have to stay that way. Verse 19, he experienced what it was like to be a hypocrite in worship. He says, then shall thou be pleased with the sacrifice of righteousness. That word then is important. Because that wasn't what he was doing He was going through the motions, but he wasn't doing it with a genuine heart. These devastating effects of sin can only be reversed by one person, and that is God. God through one action, and that is Christ's sacrifice on our behalf. The third thing I want you to notice, which I find very intriguing here, is David's renewed vision of God. You know, God doesn't waste those seasons where we are not who we ought to be and where we ought to be. He uses them for good. And so David experiences the weight and the misery of his sin, but he also, as he comes to this position of repentance, has a renewed view of God. And it's very interesting how he describes this. As a penitent sinner, he realized that only God could meet his need. He took comfort in the unchanging character of God, and I want us to notice How he describes God. Verse number one, have mercy how? According to your loving kindness. Don't forget that statement. We're going to come back to it because it's very important. That we're loving kindness is a Hebrew term that is sometimes describing God's covenant faithfulness. A covenant is a promise. That you enter into. A covenant is a promise that you bind yourself to. God is faithful to his promises. That was going to be the basis of his mercy. Don't forget that statement. We're coming back to it. Number two, according to the multitude of your tender mercies, he understood that God, though a holy and righteous God, a God of justice, is also a God of deep mercy. Verse 4. He says, against you only have I sinned. He recognizes that God is the sovereign Again in verse 4, I've done this evil in your sight. He expresses that he understands that God is always there. He sees everything. Nothing is hidden from his eyes. He is omnipresent. He is there. Verse 4, he says that thou mightest be justified when you speak and be clear when thou judgest. He recognizes that God is righteous in all he does. God never missteps. God never gets out of line. God never does something that is unrighteous. He is righteous in all that he does. And then in verses 10 and 11, he describes the power of God to restore the broken. He says, Create in me a clean heart, O God, renew a right spirit within me, cast me not away from thy presence. Why does he pray that? Because God can do it. God can do it. And so this psalm is not just about David's misery and not just about David's brokenness. It's also about David's Ability to see God again as He truly is. But there's a fourth thing I want you to see, and this is really the comfort of the entire psalm. And that is the basis of David's hope. Look down at the very first thing that David says, because that is the basis of his hope. In verse number one, he says, have mercy upon me according to thy, what's the next word? Loving kindness. David cries out to God on the basis of something. And the question is, what is in David's mind when he says, Have mercy on me on the basis of your loving kindness? The answer is he knows that God has promised to send a redeemer. That's what he's talking about David's desire for comfort is according to his loving kindness, according to the multitude of his tender mercies, blot out my transgression. He's asking God to do something that has not yet happened. You say, what is that? It's something that is rooted in the promise of God, those redemptive promises. David's comfort is the gospel In fact, interestingly, there's another passage in a part of this passage where he talks about rejoicing in his righteousness, God's righteousness. That's an amazing statement. David is trusting in a promise. David is trusting in something that's going to take place. His iniquities are going to be blotted out. David finds comfort in the fact that he has righteousness in the Redeemer. That is all a part of this passage of Scripture. So what is David's comfort? Two realities. God is faithful to his covenant promises and his tender mercies. He will blot out David's transgressions It has not yet taken place. It's going to take place. You say, Pastor, I don't understand that. Let me explain it to you. God promised to send a Redeemer all the way back to Genesis chapter 3. In Genesis chapter 3, here is Adam. He eats the fruit. The day you eat the fruit, you will die. And he did. Immediately there was a brokenness between Adam and God. David is hiding from David Adam is hiding from God in the cool of the day. Hey Adam, where are you? Have you eaten that fruit? Who told you you were naked? Why does Adam say and act the way that he does? Because he has been separated from God. And what does God do? He kills an animal. He clothed Adam and Eve, and he makes a promise. The seed of the woman is going to crush the serpent's head. And from that point in history, all the way up to the time that we are reading this Psalm right here, God has given promise. after promise after promise that he's sending a redeemer. And you know what David is saying? I believe that God keeps his word. Have mercy according to your loving kindness. You are a covenant-keeping God. You made promises all the way back to the garden, and I believe them. Have mercy on me because you will keep your word. That's what David said. This promise and God's covenant faithfulness gave David comfort through the promises that he had been Though this promise had not yet been fulfilled, David knew that God would do what he promised to do. David knew that God was going to deal with his own sin. Even though it had not yet been accomplished, he knew God cannot lie, God will keep his word, and so I can ask him to have mercy on me because that sin is going to be dealt with someday. That's an amazing thing to consider. As David writes these words, he is asking God to have mercy for something that's coming in the future, not something that's happened. And the basis of that prayer was confidence in a promise. David knew that God would one day blot out his transgressions. David's comfort was the cross to come and what it would accomplish. Let me expand this just a little bit more. We talked about this this morning in our Sunday school class. You and I have forgiveness of sins, not because God just says, I forgive everybody, but because God forgives on the basis of the cross. Do you understand that? If there was no cross, God can't forgive. Colossians chapter 1 verse 14, in whom we have redemption. Through his blood, forgiveness of sins. Hebrews 9 22, all things are by the law purged with blood. Without the shedding of blood there is no remission. Now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. God forgives you because Christ has blotted out your transgression. But David's situation was slightly different. God forgave David on credit. And God was the one who held that assurance. He promised to forgive on the basis of something to come. And you know how I know that? Because the Bible says it a lot of places. But one place one place really says this very very clearly. Romans chapter three verse twenty one twenty-five. Listen to what it says God hath set forth Christ to be a propitiation through faith in his blood to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past through the forbearance of God. You know what that verse says? When Christ went to the cross, God demonstrated he was righteous to forgive people like David. And people like Moses and every single Old Testament saint, God was forgiving them on the basis of a promise. of something that would happen. And when God fulfilled the promise, he demonstrated, I'm righteous to forgive all those sins. You know what that tells you? There is no forgiveness without the cross. There is no forgiveness without the shedding of Christ's blood. As David is here feeling the weight of his sin, he believes his only comfort is that God keeps his promise. And I can ask him to forgive me and have mercy on me because he's going to remove it someday. That's real faith right there, folks. Now you know what's really interesting about it? You and I look at the same event from a different period of time. We look back, he looked forward. David said, I believe God's promise, and so God forgive, God cleanse, God blot out, God turn away, God restore. I look back at what Christ has done and I say, God, thank you, you did. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? 1 John 1. 9, listen to what it says. It says, if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, the blood of Jesus Christ, his son. Cleanseth us from all sin. If we say we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Where does cleansing come from? Where does forgiveness come from? Where does the restoration of joy and communion come from? One place. Christ Jesus. And by the way, it's not coming, it's happened. In other words, every time you and I feel what David felt and we feel the weight of our sin and our misery, you know what we need to do? We need to turn our eyes to the cross of Christ and say Say, God, thank you for what Christ did. Remind me again that I am cleansed I'm forgiven. I'm restored. All because of him. As long as a person is resistant and says, I'm not going to do that. You know what they do? They break the communion that they have with God. And it's totally unnecessary. There's no reason to do it. When we come to that position of brokenness and a willingness to turn to God, and Satan puts in our head That sin can never be forgiven, that sin can never be blotted. You say, no, it has been. It's finished. How do we apply such a passage? Well, if you're not a Christian, your sin at this moment stands between you and God. You say that's such an arrogant statement. I'm just telling you what the Bible says That's what God's word says. There's nothing that you can give God and nothing you can do for God to remedy your desperate situation. You can't say, hey God, will you take this money and remove my debt? He says, no, no, it doesn't work that way. Hey God, look at all the good things that I'm doing. I give to my church. I'm here on a Sunday morning. I'm kind to my spouse. I'm kind to my children. I do my work to the best of my ability. I read the Bible. I pray. I'm doing this. I'm doing this. I'm doing this. He says That's not how people are redeemed to me. It's Christ. It's what he did. You need to turn to Christ and place your faith alone in his finished work. And you need to do it now. Don't sit back and say, well, someday in the future when it's convenient. Now is the day. You do not have a guarantee of another Another day, another hour. You do not know when the Lord will return. You do not know what lays ahead of you, lies ahead of you in life. So if you're not a Christian, turn to Christ today. Right here, right now, in your seat. Call it the Lord. Ask him to save you. Turn to him. Place your faith in the finished work of Christ. But to the believer, my encouragement is a very simple one. We're about to partake of the Lord's table. And when we partake of the Lord's table, we do a couple of things. One is we remember. We remember that our sins that cause us to become the objects of God's just wrath against our sin are Stain and our brokenness and our cleanness, that sin that robs us of communion with God, that disorders our thinking and our passions, that separates us from God. It leaves us powerless to live for him. That sin has been nailed to his cross. His body bore our sins. His blood was shed for the remission of our sins. Remember that. The second word is the word reckon. I was in South Carolina yesterday. So there you go, reckon. But the word reckon means consider it true. Consider these promises true in him The blood of Christ truly does cleanse us from all sin, not some sin, not most sins, the little sins, all sins. He's faithful to forgive. I like this thing. He's just to forgive. God didn't compromise his justice when he forgave us. He's cleansed us from all unrighteousness. He has done these things so that we can have fellowship with him and we can have that fellowship. He invites us to that fellowship. He has written these things so that we could have joy and fullness of it. It's all available to you right now. No matter no matter the mindset you came into this building with this morning. If you're a c Christian, this is all available to you. If you'll reckon it to be true. The problem is a lot of times we don't. And the third word is the word rejoice. Rejoice that you are a forgiven sinner. Rejoice that you are a cleansed person who was once defiled. Rejoice that you are received by a holy God who once you were at enmity with. Rejoice in the fact that He loves you and His love never fails. Rejoice that you can experience his presence now and you will forever. As we take the Lord's table, as we remember the body of Christ that was broken, his blood that was shed, that's what we need to do. Remember, reckon, and rejoice. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Lord, we thank you for your word. This psalm. It's a very humbling psalm. It's a very powerful psalm. It's a very emotional psalm. I pray that we would remember. And reckon and rejoice as we partake of these elements, the spread and the This juice that are symbols of Christ's body that bore our guilt. His blood that was shed for the remission of our sins. I pray that we would be overwhelmed with gratitude. That we would consider to be true what your word says about who we are in Him. And I pray that as we leave this place, our hearts would be filled with joy unspeakable. I pray that we would be gripped with who we are in Christ today in a way that we never have before. For. That it will so flood our hearts with joy that we will be overwhelmed by the communion that we have in you. And that that would affect how we relate to one another. We ask this in Christ's name, amen