Turn to the book of Haggai, Haggai chapter one, and uh you'll notice that this is not the text that we read for our scripture reading, and that's because I decided I was going to switch the morning and evening service Well this morning, that's when I decided to do that. So I'm doing Haggai, just so you just in case you're wondering back there, Frank. Basically, when we come to this time of the year, when we come to Christmas, we come to New Year's, I like to kind of pause for a little bit and do more of a topical study. Which is a little different than what we normally do in our church, where we go through verse by verse, chapter by chapter, through certain books of the Bible We do that because during these times of the year, I think it's helpful sometimes to just focus on themes that are very important. The theme that we're going to look at this morning is really a very reflective theme. And I'd like to invite you to look at Haggai chapter 1 as we look at this theme. Haggai 1. In the second year of Darius, the king, in the sixth month of the first day of the month, Came the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet unto Zerubbabel, the son of Sheatel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedek, the high priest, saying, Thus speak the Lord of hosts, saying, This people say, The time is not come. The time that the Lord's house should be built Then came the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet, saying, Is it time for you, O ye that dwell in your sealed houses? And this house lie waste? Now therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Ye have shown much, and bring in little, ye eat, and ye have not enough. You drink, but you're not filled with drink. He clothes you, but there's none warm. He that earneth wages earneth wages to put it in a bag with holes Thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Go up to the mountain, bring the wood, and build the house, and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, saith the Lord. Ye lick for much, and lo it cometh to little. When ye brought it home, it did blow upon it. Why, saith the Lord of hosts? Because my house, that is waste, ye run every man to his own house Therefore the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stayed from her fruit. Then we come to verse 14. It says this, and the Lord stirred up The spirit of Zerubbabel, the son of Sheatil, governor of Judah, the spirit of Joshua, the son of Josedek, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people, and they came and did work in the house of the Lord of hosts, their God. You may say, what in the world is the purpose of this section of the book of Haggai? By the way, probably this year Very few in this church, unless you're reading verse by verse through the Bible, have opened up to the book of Haggai and read it. Okay? It's not a commonplace. In fact, there might be some who couldn't find it before we finished our scripture reading this morning Why is that? Because it's a little book in the minor prophets that we don't often go to. But the reality is what we're looking at this morning is an extremely important principle or concept. But I think that God really wants us to think about as we head into a new decade in the twentieth year of the 21st century. Okay? Think about that. I want you to think back twenty years. Twenty years ago, we were all talking about Y2K. Anybody remember that? I had a neighbor who was stocking up all kinds of goods and packing them away because he was quite convinced that When we came to the year 2000, everybody's computer was going to blow up and we weren't going to be able to do transactions. You wouldn't be able to get money out of your bank account. Stock up on silver and stock up on tin cans with baked beans, that's how you're going to survive Y2K. Well, that's 20 years ago. Didn't happen the way they said it did, did it? There are a lot of people in this room right now that don't remember 9-11 because you weren't born yet. Or you were so young you don't remember it. But there are people in this room today that remember exactly where they were when those trade towers came down. You remember that? That's nearly 20 years ago. Ten years ago. Doesn't seem like a very long time ago. Twenty years ago doesn't seem like a very long time ago. And the reality is there are times when we need to stop and we need to ask the question, what's gone on in 20 years? What's gone on in 10 years? What kind of choices have I made? What kind of paths have I forged down? And what has been the outcome of those decisions and those paths and those directions that I've taken? That really is the sense of this book here. The reality is that this book is being written 16 years After the exiles returned from Babylon back to Jerusalem, with this responsibility, rebuild the walls that are all around Jerusalem and rebuild the temple. But as this message comes to those people, you know what's built in the temple? Nothing. No walls No roof, no paneling. All they have is an altar where they could do sacrifice, and they had, well, they just had a concrete slab. Kind of like some churches' gyms. You know, we're going to build a gym and 40 years later the slab 's still there. That's basically what happened with these people in Jerusalem. And so the reason that this section is written is so that the people will be called to critically think about their personal priorities. So that they could see the emptiness of self-centered living and choose a path that God would be happy to bless. Now when I read this, I'm not suggesting that everybody in the church It's self-centered and following their own pursuits. That is not my suggestion at all. But I think it's appropriate for us from time to time to stop and ask the question. Are there ways, are there pursuits in my life that are very similar to what we see in this text? And this is a wonderful time of the year for us to examine and respond as these people did. The reason that the prophet Haggai comes to them is because God wants these people to have right priorities. He wants them to think biblically. He wants them to purpose to do what God wants them to do first. So how can we do this like they did? And by the way, this is a happy-ending story. Because the reality is that these people did exactly what God wanted them to do. 16 years later, nonetheless. But they did it, and God blessed them for it. How can we make the right choices that these people made if that's the need that we have today? Well, I want to begin by talking a little bit about the context. We have God's people, the nation of Israel, who spent 70 years in Babylon in captivity. Basically what happened is over the course of hundreds of years, God allowed certain kings to rise to power in Israel and in Judah. And over that time period, most of those kings Predominantly all of the kings in the north in Israel and most of the kings in the south and Judah did not lead the people well. They didn't lead the people to follow God's laws. In fact, they allowed a lot of compromise They allowed a lot of sinful practices and idolatry. And over the course of hundreds of years, God sent prophet after prophet after prophet to warn the people and to warn those kings. And over the period of time, guess what happens? Falls on deaf ears. Eventually God brings in the prophet Isaiah, and then the prophet Jeremiah, then ultimately Ezekiel, and during the time of those individuals, God warns the people: I'm going to send a captive. to come and to take you into captivity. And this is going to be a judgment against my people because you've rejected my laws and you've rejected my ways. And for 70 years the nation of Israel as a whole was living in Babylon. In seventy years a lot of the people didn't remember the language. that they had grown up with as parents and grandparents. A lot of the young generation didn't even really speak Hebrew anymore. And they come back to Jerusalem, and when they come back to Jerusalem, they see a city that has been completely destroyed by their enemies. All the walls are broken down. All of the places that are supposed to be secure and protect the people, they're they're passable by animals and people and armies can come in. They have no safety. And so what does God do? God, in his providence and in his wisdom and in his power, he raises up a group of people headed by Nehemiah who rebuild the walls of Jerusalem. And then over the course of time, he raises up a couple of other individuals who are supposed to rebuild the temple. Now, you know, we need to understand the significance of the rebuilding of the temple. The temple was the center of all of Jewish religious life, all of their feasts and all of their festivals and all of their sacrifices. They were connected to the temple. And so the fact that after sixteen years they hadn't rebuilt the temple What it basically says is this, for 16 years they ignored a walk with God. That's basically the simplest way to put it. It's like somebody who walks away from church for fifteen years of their life. Maybe they come from time to time, but the reality is church is no priority to them at all. They don't have time for God. He's a part of their life to the extent that he doesn't step on their toes. At the end of that period, they look back and realize how much time they've wasted. And how far they've gone and how much that walking away from the Lord has impacted them. That's the sense of what's going on in this passage of Scripture And so God wakes up the people by sending a prophet, the prophet Haggai. And Haggai is going to be very direct, and he's going to be very forceful, and he's going to call the people to think about the fruit of their labors or the lack of the fruit of their labors. And he's going to call them to make what is the practical and wise and godly decision. To do what God called them to do so many years later as a group of people. I want to begin with this first truth that we find in the text, and that's this: people naturally have misplaced priorities. There's nobody in this room that doesn't on some level struggle with priorities. None. That's me, that's you. Doesn't matter how old you are, doesn't matter what season of life you're in You can be a child, you can be a teenager, you can be a college student, you can be a single adult, you can be a grandparent. It doesn't matter because we are sinners by nature, we struggle with this concept of priorities. And we're going to see a living example of that with these people. It says in verse 1, in the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month of the first day of the month. There came the word of the Lord by Haggai the prophet unto Zerubbabel, the son of Sheatzel, the governor. You know, if we don't study this passage and look at the background, we don't understand the significance of the date that's given. But the significance of that date is basically this in the background. 50,000 Jewish people were sent back to Jerusalem during the reign of Cyrus. This is the king before Darius. And their job was to rebuild the walls and rebuild the temple and basically reestablish themselves as a city and as a culture and as a people that are oriented properly towards the Lord. But that's not what they did. They built an altar, which was a good move, good decision on their part. They started the foundation, but then they got tired and they left They stop doing the work. I'll give you kind of this illustration. Anybody ever moved? And the first week that you move, you're tearing apart boxes and you're putting things in their places, and then you get back to work and you say, you know what? I'm just gonna wait on that box. 20 years later. I know I've got something somewhere. There's a box down in the basement. Let me go see if I can find it. And you blow off that dust You cough a lot because of the mildew down in the basement. Hopefully not in your basement, right? You go down there, you open that box, and there it is, it hadn't been touched for 20 years. Because when you moved You got tired of moving everything, and you just kind of continued on life. Or somebody buys that fixer up her house. This is a great investment. I'm going to pour all this time and energy and I'm going to make a ton of money off of this house. And pretty soon you realize that it's okay to live with like, you know, maybe some unfinished titles in some places and oh that wall needs to be painted and I need to take care of this and that. But I got other things I gotta do. Life is busy. That's basically what happened with these people. I don't think it was that they were evil people. It's not that they didn't want to serve the Lord. They didn't care about God at all. Their lives just moved on and they forgot about what was going on. And the reality is that when we drift away from the Lord on some level, I think that's generally what happens. Many times You know, think about when a young person graduates from college and they end up moving to a new area. They don't know anybody there. They look for three churches and all of them are really weird and they say, you know, there's no churches here. Number four was the one that they could have stuck with. Okay? That's really what could have happened. You have somebody that gets into a new season in work Because of that new season of work, they have a different schedule and a different season of life, and they get focused on their work, and pretty soon, miss that Sunday and miss that Sunday and Miss that Sunday and oh I gotta get back to church and they go and and that becomes a habit over decades. They hit church, you know, every three or four weeks. This is a way of life. And it's not that somebody is militantly saying, I don't want God in my life. It's that he's a lesser priority than he was initially. That's really what happened to these people. In fact, we're going to see later on when God rebukes them and he draws their attention to what they're doing, they respond well. It was seriously more or less a carelessness on their part. He then we see this statement. It says, This people say that the time has not come. The time that the Lord's house should be built. In other words, when the prophet comes to them and he has this message from God, he says, I know what you're saying. We don't have time. We're so busy. You know, it amazes me the excuses that we can create to say we're busy to do things that really are of lesser importance than the main thing. It's true. I do it. We all do it. These people were doing it. They basically said, God, the reason that the temple hasn't been rebuilt is because we're so busy And God says, I know it's true. You know what you've been busy doing? He then goes on to say this. Is it time for you, or ye that dwell in your sealed houses, that The house of the Lord lies in wait. Say, what does he mean by a sealed house? Well, if you look up what that word means, the idea is that it was a wood paneling that was very ornate and beautiful. Now, most of the people in those days didn't live in wood houses. In the Middle East, you know, termites kind of destroy wood. When I lived over in West Africa, not a lot of people lived in wood houses. Like we have wood construction here in the States. People lived in block housing. And so the reality is that if somebody was going to have wood paneling in their house, they had money. They had time. They were putting together ornate work so that they could live in a very beautiful home. And basically what he's saying is this You didn't have time to build the temple, but you did have time to make a beautiful home to live in. In other words, you had time for what was most important to you. And what was most important to you was you. Has anybody ever been there before? The reality is that they didn't even think about it that way In their minds, they were busy. And so it was a moment of reckoning and a moment of reflection when they looked back and they said, you know, 15 years came and went, and we didn't even realize what we'd been doing. The truth is drift is a very gradual thing. We talk about throwing the frog in the frying pan. You know what I'm talking about? You try to throw a frog in boiling water, he's out of there. You put him in the water and you heat it up a little out of time. He doesn't even realize what's happening. And pretty soon he acclimates to boiling temperature. And then he's done. And the reality is that we don't realize how much we drift until we stop and we reflect. It's like we don't realize how much money we spend on, you know, going out to Chick-fil-A. Okay, full disclosure, I was at Chick-fil-A at least once this week. Alright. I know at least one family here knows that because they ran into me there. How much money I spent on Chick-fil-A this year, I have no idea. I just I'm kind of hungry. I want to get a Chick-fil-A and I go. And then if I sat down and pulled out my credit card and I looked at the hundred and fifty times that I went there, I may go, you know, it's not really worth it to spend a thousand dollars a Chick-fil-A All right, anybody been there before? I mean ten bucks times $150, what is that? That's fifteen hundred dollars. Did you want to spend fifteen hundred dollars in a year on, you know Goopy fries and you know, and and of course a milkshake, all right? The truth is we don't realize what we do with our time. And with our money and with our energies until we stop and reflect. He says, you don't have time because you made time for things that were more important to you. You know, we do this as well. We naturally love ourselves. There's a lot that I could say here, but I'll just pass on with this simple statement, Matthew 22, 37 to 40. Jesus says, this is the law. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first commandment, and the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law on the prophets Why is it only two commandments instead of three? Why does he say love God first, love your neighbor second, and then love yourself third? Because he had to tell you to do that one. We do it by nature. He says, love your neighbor like you love yourself , because he assumes that we love ourselves. The truth is sometimes it's a lot easier to see other people doing this than it is to see ourselves And I ask you to just take a moment of reflection and say, Lord, is there something in my life, is there a path that I have pushed down? Not rebelliously and not not trying to shake my fist at you at all, not me saying, I don't want you in my life. It's just I have not prioritized my time and my energies and my money as he would have me to do it. We then come to truth number two. God will not bless misplaced priorities. Now, before I state this, I want you to understand something. I don't believe that God in heaven sits down and says Here is the formula for you. You want blessing, then you need to plug in this decision and that decision and that decision and boom, it cranks out this outcome. There are some people that take the Christian life that way. Job didn't experience that, did he? He did not experience that. He plugged in the formula and what was he doing? He was sitting on the heap with boils and saying, I want to die. He plugged in the formula, he didn't get what he thought. There are other people in the Bible that God lavishly blessed who made all the wrong decisions in some places. Look at Jacob. Jacob made horrible decisions. And God still blessed him in so many ways. Look at Abraham. He made some pretty bad decisions, and God still blessed him. The reality is what we're looking at here is not, here's the formula, you do it this way, and here's the bad outcome, you do it this way, here's the good outcome. But the Bible does teach this: what you sow, you reap. You know, if you plant corn in the spring and it all you know comes up, means that the birds don't get it and the rats don't come and get it and all that kind of stuff, it comes up, it survives, what do you get? You get corn. You don't get wheat, you don't get grapes, you get corn. What you plant is what you get. There is a law of sowing and reaping, and the reality is when we sow, there's an outcome that comes and we're gonna see that there's an example of that. This in Haggai chapter 1, verse 5. He then goes on to say this. Now therefore, thus saith the Lord of hosts, consider your ways. Ye have sown much. And bring in little. You eat, but you have not enough. You drink, but you have not been filled with And the hole's gotten smaller in the last few years, but you never know, it could get bigger again. No, it's not called the IRS. The fact is that when there are times in life that we're going through seasons And the money is tight, and we're trying to pay our bills, and at the end of the month we look back and we go, How in the world did that happen? I actually survived that month and I paid off all my bills and I did it all. I don't know how it happened. Where did the money come from? And there are other times that you have so much prosperity And you say, where'd it all go? You go to pay that credit card bill and you go, that's like double what it was last month. Where did all those expenses come from? You know what's amazing? There is a sense to prosperity that you actually don't control. There is. There is a sense where some people receive much And they have little to show for. If you live in New York City, you live in New York State, that's you. You make a ton of money, and at the end of the month, you got nothing, right? If you live down south, you make a little bit of money and seems like it goes further in some states. But that's not what he's saying. He's saying you've worked hard. Get all your energy, all your time. You've poured all your time into these pursuits. And that's good. You've been faithful. But you know at the end of it all, it's like it's all been wasted. You ever had a situation like that? This is gonna be the big deal. I'm gonna I'm gonna strike out and become a millionaire on this decision right here. And you strike out and you're you struck out. Anybody ever been there? There's decisions like that. And he says, that's your experience here. You have made all this money and you put it in your bag. And when you go to get the bag, it's gone. It's not there. What happened to it? I don't know. You go and you look at your field and you put all this time and energy and it's wasted. Kind of like the first time I ever did a garden. You know? All that time, all that energy, and it was all gone. But what was the cause of that? Why did these people not experience the normal cause and effect blessings of the fruits of their labors? And here's the answer. It's that God didn't allow them to experience those blessings. There are times that God makes the tires go an extra 10,000 miles, and you don't know why. And there are times that they don't go ten thousand extra. In fact, they didn't outlive what they were supposed to We go through these seasons, and it's things that God allows into our lives to humble us and remind us that it's not how hard we work. That is the ultimate cause of the outcome, but it's the blessing of God. It's his good hand. It's his blessing. It's his grace. And these people were not experiencing that good hand. God had withdrawn his grace. He had withdrawn his kindness and his blessing. Not because he wanted to be cruel and mean to them, but because he wanted to get their attention. He wanted them to realize that the path they were on, the decisions they were making That was an empty, worthless, vain pursuit. And the fact is that there are times in our lives that God gives us the drought Not a physical drought, but the drought in the sense that these people are experiencing it. There are times that our money just goes into a bag with holes And it's not because God hates us, it's not because God is mean, it's not because God wants to make us miserable, it's because he wants our attention and he wants our hearts. He wants us to make good choices. He wants us to invest wisely. He wants us to live for eternity. He says it's because of this. Because mine house is waste, and you run every man to his own house, therefore the heaven over you is stayed from dew And the earth is stayed from her fruit, and I call for you a drought upon the land and upon the mountains, and upon the corn, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon that which the ground bringeth for worth Upon men, upon cattle, upon the labor of the hands. Do you see what the Bible says God was doing with these people? He was trying to get their attention. And my question is, have you ever experienced God doing that with you? I know I have. Absolutely no question in my mind, there are times that I have done exactly what they did. A different set of circumstances, okay? Different set of circumstances. But I experienced exactly what he's talking about here. And God used circumstances to get my attention. Folks, God loves you too much to just let you go down that road forever. He really does. He wants you to have a day when you stand before him at the judgment seat where he can bless you. Where he can commend you. He wants to be able to say, well done, good and faithful servant. But he's not going to just say it because he wants to. He's going to speak the truth. And so God in his ways draws us through circumstance. He says, command, consider your ways. He says you've sown much and you bring in little. You don't have enough. When you drink it, you earn your wages, it goes into a bag with holes. Folks, my question is. Could he say the same thing to us? Here's the point: we need to work hard, we need to make good decisions, but if God doesn't bless our labors, we won't prosper. It's that simple. You can get the best paying job. But there are circumstances that you have no control over that can completely humble you in just a moment. There was no man in the world like Job. Yet that man went through incredible physical agony, incredible internal turmoil, even to the point where his own wife looked him in the eyes and said, Just curse God and die. There's no hope for you. Can you imagine that? That's a very godly man. I'd have to see him probably married to a godly woman. And they had just reached the point where they couldn't handle anymore. God can humble us. We come to a third truth, and this is what I think is very important for us to consider. God gives us opportunities to get back up. I'm so thankful for that. In fact, I hope that if you can come back tonight, you will, because tonight we're going to look at this concept. It's going to be an extremely encouraging. This is a little bit heavy, okay? Tonight's going to be a really encouraging message. And really, tonight's message is going to be a story about a man. I see a story. It's going to give the record of Peter who denied the Lord three times and God reinstated him. It's a really encouraging passage. But the reality is, this third truth is important. Yes, we can live for the wrong things, and we are so prone to live for the wrong things. But God in heaven confronts us and he gives us opportunity to change. He gives us opportunity to change. There's nobody in this room that has reached the point of no return. Nobody The fact that you're hearing this message is God saying, I want to get your attention. I love you, I care about you, I don't want you to continue down this road, I want to get your attention. That's why this entire message is being presented. For you, that's what God is doing. It then says in verse 12, then Zerubbabel and Joshua, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the Lord their God. And the words with Haggai the prophet, as the Lord their God had sent him. And the people did fear the Lord. Then spake Haggai the Lord's messenger and the Lord's message unto the people, and said, I'm with you, saith the Lord And the Lord stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel, the son of Shetel, the governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua, the son of Josedek, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people. And they came and did work in the house of the Lord their God, the Lord of hosts, their God. Don't miss what it's saying. The people heard this message, and they didn't walk away unchanged. They didn't walk away having ignored what was said. They stopped and they thought about it and they said, It's true. It's true. I mean, there's the foundation, and here's my house. It's true. Fifteen years of proof right here. I can't walk away from it. It's there. And when they heard that, what does it say they did? They obeyed. God, it's true. Here is what I'm doing. Here is what I've done. Here's what needs to change. I confess it. I admit it. I want to do different. I want to make good choices. I want to reprioritize my life. I'm ready to do that. That's what the people did. And what does it say when the people did that? God speaks through Haggai and says, I'm with you. I'm with you. In other words, when the people had been moving for 15 years, going their own way, and God draws them back, when they finally get on track, what happens? God says, I'm right here with you. You know, there might be a person in your life that has walked away from God for 15 years. Would you respond to them as graciously as God responded to these people? They come and they sit in the church service and you go, it's been a long time since I've seen you around here. You know how we feel about these things. What did God do? He says, I'm with you. I care about you. I love you. In other words, the reason I withheld that blessing and the reason you went through those hard times is not because I'm mean and cruel and I hate you. It's because I love you and I want to draw you to this point. And then it says this, the spirit of Joshua and the spirit of the remnant and the spirit of Zerubbabel was stirred up by God. Not just that he was with them, but he motivated them and he pressed them to be able to follow through with what they wanted to do. It's sort of like we come to the new year. And I I I dread going to the gym on Wednesday morning. I dread it because There'll be triple the people in there that there were on Tuesday. All right? Triple. I know it. I want to see it. It's there. It's gonna happen. They make all their money and then they then everybody's trying to get their fees back You know, I I don't have time, can I can I end this and they're like, Well you gotta sign this and you gotta sign that. That's what they do. Why is that Why do people fall away, you know, a week, two weeks, a month, two months, three months? Why is it that the gym explodes in people and then it goes back down? Because people don't have the will to follow through with their commitments. They just don't. But when God stirs up your heart, when God is the one pressing your soul and motivating you, You can follow through your commitments. He can keep encouraging you. He can keep strengthening you. He can keep pressing you. He didn't just stir up Zerubbabel, the governor. He stirred up Zeroba and Joshua the high priest. In other words, the man with authority and the man with spiritual authority. He encouraged those people. And he encouraged everybody else. This is why we need the church. We need each other to encourage and build up and strengthen one another. And so God in his kindness stirs up the hearts of those individuals. The person who was the governor, the person who was the priest, and the rest of the people, he stirred up their hearts. And what did they do? They did the work. They did the work. They got it done. And the fact is that there's no reason why God can't do that here. Now I'm not talking about this building here, all right? That's not what I'm talking about. I don't know what it is in your life. The specific area. The truth is it might be very different for you than the person sitting right to your right and right to your left. May be very different. We're walking different paths. We have different things that catch our attention and draw us away. It might be that you're walking down that road and nobody around you'd ever think it. But you know very well that it's you. You know it. I want to encourage you this morning to respond like the people did. Because God is gracious and he loves you and he is ready to come alongside you and strengthen you in the commitments that you'll make in the coming year. God wants us to establish good priorities. We need to learn from this group of people who had misplaced priorities. We need to consider our ways. We need to adjust our thinking. We need to sit down and say what's the real priority. Your priority is what you arrange everything else around. It's that simple. You arrange everything around work, that's your highest priority. Arrange everything around church, highest priority. Arrange everything around family? Highest priority. Arrange everything around your friends. What you arrange everything around. That thing that on your calendar is set and everything else is flexible around it. That's the highest priority. What's your highest priority? May it be the Lord. May it be his ways. May it be the things that he loves. Let's ask the Lord to help us to follow through with this passage. Spare our hearts in prayer, please. Father in heaven, this passage is extremely convicting to all of us. Certainly in 20 years of reflection, there's got to be something in each of our lives that we have misplaced priorities. I pray you'd help us to be reflective, and I pray that you'd help us to be humble. Help us to be willing to admit what you're showing us through your word. Father, help us to be committed to making the changes necessary and the way we orient our lives. Father, we want to experience your blessing. We want to delight in you and we want to be used by you. We want our lives to be impactful on eternity and in the souls of people around us. So I pray that you'd take these words and use them mightily in your service. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.