Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we are in James chapter 5, and we're looking at verses 12 through 16. If you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to go ahead and turn with me to James 5, 12 through 16, and then we'll begin reading in this passage. James 5, 12 through 16. But above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath, but let your yea be yea, and your nay nay, lest you fall into condemnation Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Is any marry? Let him sing psalms. Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church, and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up. And if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Now we come to this passage of Scripture. I've entitled it Godly Wisdom and Practical Responses. And so let me give you a simple summary statement of these verses and then we'll dig into some of the details. These scriptures were given to give us several practical corporate responses to unique situations that we will encounter at times in life. In fact, let's go ahead and look at some of the details. The first thing we'll see is truth one, we need to consistently speak the truth. In verse 12, he puts it like this. He says, Above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath, but let your yea yea and your nay-nay, lest ye fall into condemnation. Someone might say, Well is he forbidding us if we're ever in a court of law from raising our right hand and putting our hand on the Bible and saying, I Swear to give the truth, the whole truth, and nothing but the truth, so help me God. Is that what James is telling us that we're not allowed to do? And the answer is no, that's not exactly what James is saying. James is really emphasizing that when we communicate with one another, we need to consistently speak the truth. And we need to speak the truth so consistently that no one would ever feel obligated to say Joel, are you speaking the truth? I want you to swear that you are speaking the truth. Why would a person do a thing like that? Well the reason they do that is that they don't believe that you are consistently honest. So we could say that we put people who are consistently are we we understand that people who are not consistently honest need to use stronger language than simply saying, here's my word. They have to do that to convince people that they're speaking the truth. God wants us to be consistent. He wants us to speak so consistently what is truthful that people don't feel compelled to do that. And you say, well, why do we do that in a court of law? Well the reason that we do that in a courtroom is we understand that people are not honest with one another all the time in society. It's sad that we would make that kind of an observation, but we do And so basically what we're saying when we tell someone they need to take an oath before they speak in a court of law is we're saying You do speak the truth many times, and many times you don't. But in this situation, if you don't speak the truth, you will be held accountable in a way that we don't hold people accountable in normal life It's sad that we would have to make that kind of a statement, but that is really what we're saying in a courtroom. A second truth that we find When we're afflicted, we need to pray. Verse 13 says, Is any among you afflicted? Let him pray. Now the affliction that's mentioned here is a very general statement of affliction. So he could be talking about a health issue He could be talking about a financial crisis. He could be talking about a relational issue. When he talks about a person being afflicted, he's saying that the person is burdened down. They're weakened. They're in a weakened state. And that state really could come from a lot of different situations. So if a person is going through a difficult time and they're struggling, well, what do they need to do? They need to go to God. Instead of going to the people around them and complaining and being frustrated and discouraged, they need to go straight to the Lord and say, we understand you're sovereign. You're good. You love us. And so I pour out my request to you. I lament before you, and I'm putting this in your hands. God's people need to be praying when they have trouble rather than complaining. We then see a third truth that's emphasized. When we are we are encouraged, that when we need, or excuse me, when we are encouraged, we need to express that encouragement in a very public way so that people around us can be encouraged Here's how he puts it in verse 13. Is any Mary? Let him sing Psalms. He's saying, if you're in an encouraged state. And obviously, when he's talking about singing psalms, he's talking about a person who's encouraged in a corporate setting. He's saying, if you're encouraged, you need to sing. You need to proclaim with your voice that your heart is full of joy toward God. Well what is the what is the practical result of a person singing in that setting? Well it's to encourage the people around them. One of the things that's so important about corporate worship and so powerful about corporate worship is that we're sitting under the same ministry of the word, our hearts united together in prayer. And we are publicly in song expressing our joy to God. We're expressing our gratitude to God. In other words, the corporate nature of worship and the singing that we do within corporate worship is something that is mutually encouraging to everyone in the congregation. The person that's discouraged and down and frustrated is able to be uplifted and encouraged and strengthened through this mutual edification of one another and song. We then come to a fourth truth that's in this passage. When we're sick We need to pray. We need to go to God. Now, when he talks about someone being sick, this could be part of what falls under that idea of a person being afflicted. But this is a little bit more precise. It's a little bit more specific. It's a specific kind of affliction. Here's how he puts it in verse 14. Is any sick among you? Let him call for the elders of the church. and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord Jesus. Now basically what he's saying is that a person who's a Christian who is afflicted physically with sickness needs to recognize that he should not bear that burden alone in isolation But he needs to go to people who have been given the responsibility by God to shepherd, oversee that person's soul. And they need to appeal to those individuals that God has given that responsibility to pray on their behalf and to intercede for them. That means that not only should we bear our burdens, but we shouldn't bear them alone. We should bear them with the strength and the enabling of other people We should go to those who look out for our souls so that they can bear with us in our weakness and our sickness, and they can bring those things before God's throne. We see a fifth truth in this passage. When God chastens us, we need to be restored. And there's a proper way to do that. In verses 15 to 16, he says, and the prayer of faith shall save the sick The Lord shall raise him up, and if he hath committed sins, they shall be forgiven him. Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed Now it's very interesting when we come to this passage of Scripture, there are little details that we need to pick out that will help us to understand it and not take what is stated and use it, misuse it in ways that it was never made to be understood. The first thing I'll say is that this passage is not teaching that God will always heal people who are sick. I believe that this is an extremely specific situation. Here's the context. First of all, you have a person in the church who is weakened, who is sick, who is going through difficulty. This is a person who, according to the context, needs to make some kind of confession to God and to those who are in leadership You would say, well, why does he need to do that? Well, in the context, it's likely that this is a person who has been unrepentant about a particular area of sin. The church has come to that individual. They've appealed to this individual to make the issue right. They've been unwilling to do that. Not only have they appealed to that person, but it's come to the place where the leadership has had to deal with them in some kind of a disciplinary manner. And when that person has been dealt with in that way, they have now become isolated from the church. And God's going to deal with them very directly. The scripture teaches that when a Christian is unrepentant about a matter, and people have brought that there to their attention repeatedly in a very godly manner, there comes a point Where that person can be chastened by God, even to the point of weakness and physical sickness. And in my opinion, that's exactly what James is addressing here. He's not just talking about any person who's sick. He's talking about a person who is sick as a result of the chastening hand of God. And so part of what he's doing is talking about how this person is able to be restored to those in leadership, restored to the church body, and also graciously restored to good health This sickness that is being talked about is very, very specific, and so I want to mention that. Another detail that's very important is it says that the prayer of faith will save the sick And the question is, in this context, who is who is the one who is praying? Is it the one who has sinned? Is it the one who is weakened and is sick? Or is it the leadership of the church praying for that individual? If we look at the context carefully, it's the leadership of the church who's praying for that individual. So it's the faith of the leadership, not the faith of the individual that's ultimately what God's looking at here. And so basically what it's saying is when a person who's been unrepentant is humbled by God's chastening hand and comes to the leadership and seeks restoration, part of that restoration process is that those whom God has put in authority in that church are to pray that God would very mercifully restore this individual to good health and strength. When we come to this passage, we need to understand that it's not teaching that God heals all sicknesses, nor is it teaching that all sickness is connected to sin. It is a very precise, specific scenario, and should be viewed in that way. So the question that we have this morning is how do we practically apply these things? How do we take these simple truths and apply them in our daily lives? Let me share with you a couple of things that I jotted down this morning and I hope that they'll be an encouragement to you. First, let your words be so consistent A people never feel compelled to press you into using stronger language to convince them that you're speaking the truth. When someone has to say something like, are you giving me your word 100%? And they begin to press you and they ask you to use stronger terms. so that they'll be convinced that what you're saying is true. That is an indication that your word is not as strong as it should be. A second point, take your burdens to God and let him work on your behalf. Don't be a person that's constantly complaining, frustrated, discouraged, and bitter. There's a God in heaven who cares about you. He cares about me. I can go to him and I can pour out my request to him and I can have confidence that God in his wisdom and according to his providence is going to work in that situation in the very best way possible. A third fact that I wrote down this morning. Express your encouragement publicly so that you can encourage other people. One of the reasons that church is so important is that it is in the church body, as we worship together one with another, that we mutually encourage the people around us. As I sing praise to God, and it is very apparent that that's really what I mean, and it's really in my heart. Boy that encourages the people around me. It is so good. for your children, your spouse, your friends to sing with you. I want to encourage you, if you don't have family worship as a family, I want to encourage you to do that. If you have family worship but you don't sing during family worship, I would encourage you to do that. Because singing is something that encourages and it unites people in a very special way. And that's what the text is emphasizing. A fourth fact, when you're sick, bring that burden to God personally. Bring it to the Lord. God does heal people who are sick God is able to do things that are far beyond what human medicine can do. God is in control. That doesn't mean he will always heal us in every situation. One day I'm going to die and so will you. But the truth is that before that day, there may be times that we come through tremendous affliction, and as we pray to God, he moves and works on our behalf. And lastly, I'll mention when you've sinned and God is chastening you, ask those who care for your soul to intercede to God on your behalf I hope that these pat this passage will have been an encouragement to you this morning. I was a bit late today. My recording equipment wasn't at the house, and so I had to wait until I came to the church this morning. But I hope that these truths will be a help to you. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we'll look forward to talking to you next time. Father, we thank you for the opportunity we've had this morning to study your word together. I pray that you would use these things to encourage and help your people. May they be edified and strengthened by the explanation of these truths. And we ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen If this devotional has been encouragement to you, I hope that you'll just jot a note down and perhaps share it with others who might be encouraged by it. And we will see you next time. Bye now.