Well good morning. It's good to see each of you today, and I hope that you are having a blessed Lord's Day. Uh if you could like to uh direct your attention to a couple of announcements that we have in our bulletins and then we'll uh open our time in prayer and in studying God's Word together. First thing I want to mention is we do have our 2021 directories and offering envelopes in the back. So Please make sure that you pick those up. Those are in the back. Also wanted to mention that Truth Trackers are having a special night this coming Wednesday. So for all of our kids that are in the Truth Tracker program. Please remember to dress up as Bible characters. My one son wanted to dress up as the maniac of Ghidera. But we're gonna have to uh work through that one with him. Okay, not entirely true. But we did joke about it, nonetheless. Also, uh, I wanted to mention that on the 16th we're planning to go to the Museum of the Bible. That is uh still uh uh subject to change. But we are planning to hopefully go there this coming Saturday based on the situation in DC. So if you're interested in going to that, please do sign up and we'll be buying our tickets online. If we're not able to go this weekend, then we will plan it for another month. So just a heads up there. Also, we have a quarterly business meeting on the seventeenth. The agenda is very simple, basically just an update to our membership role and our financials for 2020. But please make sure that you're aware of that. There's also a couple of other items on there that I want to encourage you to look over. If you could, let's direct our attention to Micah 6. Micah 6, and we're going to Look at verse number eight for our opening scripture. Micah 6. 8. It says this. He hath showed the O man what is good. And what doth the Lord require of thee? But to do justly, to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God. I think that this text of Scripture is a great, great challenge to us today, considering the days that we're living in. As we focus our attention in worship, we're going to focus on the importance of walking under the restraining hand of God's wisdom. And so I want to encourage you to really take time this morning to ask the Lord to help your heart to be quieted. As we focus on his word, that God will really speak to us, that as we worship, our hearts will really be knit together as one body, and that we will be strengthened and encouraged today. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, we kneel before you and we recognize that we are a feeble people. We recognize that if it's not for your sustaining hand, we will be crushed under the weight of the uncertainties and the struggles of life. Yeah, Father, we're reminded that you're a God who is truly good, and your goodness is unchanging, and your love flows out of your goodness, and so does your mercy, and so does your grace. Father, we were reminded this morning in Sunday school that you are a God who has an unwavering love for your children. And so I pray that you'd help us to be a people who live as if what is true is true in our own hearts. May the truth resonate in our souls, and may we find our strength and encouragement in you this day. Father, we are so grateful to you for your hand of protection in our lives. We think of our physical protection. We think of the way that you have protected each individual and each family in this church. throughout the entire past year. And Father, we are not we are not taking it lightly. We are so grateful for it. Father, we are so grateful for your righteousness. We know that you are a God who is just and is holy, and we can rest in the fact that we know you will always do right in circumstances. Father, we also are reminded and we're thankful for your sustaining care. Last week we learned about your mercies being new every morning and how great your faithfulness is. And so we are so grateful and we acknowledge our gratitude to you as you sustain us day by day. Father, we are also thankful that you are sovereign. We are thankful that you rule and you govern in events in history. And as we study history, we see that your hand has truly continued to be actively at work in humanity. In the midst of all of the brokenness and the sufferings of this world, we see that you're a God who cares for your creation. And so, Father, we acknowledge that and we're grateful to you for that today. Father, we pray for those who are in authority that you would work in their lives, the king's hearts in the hands of the Lord, and so are those who govern in this land. Father, we pray that you would work in our land these days, that we would continue to be able to live quiet and peaceable lives in all godliness. that we would not take for granted the tremendous liberties we've enjoyed, and that we will be faithful and responsible with the liberties that you've given us. Father, we pray that you would bring peace and healing to our nation. We recognize there's a lot of turmoil. I pray that you'd help your people to be a stability and a strength. assault and light in the midst of the crookedness of this world. Father, I pray that you would provide wisdom and right responses for those in authority. Father, we pray for the church. We pray for this local church. We pray for local churches all throughout this land who are preaching the gospel and have not wavered in standing firm for what is true and what is right. I pray that you would bless and strengthen every congregation in this land where the truth is being proclaimed, and in fact they could be called true churches of the living God. I pray that pastors, I pray that fathers, I pray that church families would be strong in these days. I pray that you would revive your people, that we would see churches that are proclaiming the truth with passion and with clarity. That would see the Holy Spirit doing a mighty work in the hearts of your people. And as the church is healthy and vibrant, I pray that it would affect the health of the souls of our nation. Father, we pray that you would encourage those who are burdened. I know that many this day carry heavy loads. Some are personal, some are interpersonal. Some are just the cares of the day. I pray that you would strengthen and encourage them and uplift them. Father, I pray for continued physical protection. Pray that you would continue to protect our church family as you have. And Father, I pray more than all that we would have a renewed sense of how truly glorious and great you are. That our hearts would be drawn to the truth today, that the truth would resonate in our souls, that we would be strengthened and encouraged, and we would not be weary with the day in which we live. But that we would be energized by the Spirit's work in us through the Word. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good morning. Let's open our hymn books to hymn number 81. A mighty fortress is our God. Hymn number eighty one. Let's all stand as we sing all four verses of this great hymn. For still anxious problem that seeks to one must go De cobre, as white women , right. The Lord of Thai , the man of God, does that good baby Christmas? I'm longer from my bottom, so crap and do while May well not be able to try to break up. That 's right, we try not to wait with all this women. So one My brother has brought to my bro, the border may make it. Great singing, please be seated. As we turn over to hymn 84, Eternal Father Strong to Save, we will sing in verses 1, 2, and 4. It 's a smartest sake, some With the mighty boss and came to my dead man that will give us many pride. I like our big battle on the land the sweet be able to And rock and blessed home. I will thus ever shall rise to the praise wear and season. Great singing, and we'll turn over to hymn 91. We'll sing both verses, The Steps of a Good Man. Oh , talk with me the nice, and on me the night. So wanna play everyone , but some of the great be my. . Make me separate the stats on the ordered by the Lord. And we like this when Do we call we shall not be all to make us down for the Are no way make no mess, Lord make me Christ like what I said. Just the son of God by the Lord, and cleared by the Prince is why. All these are not before we cross down for the war, for the war, for the war. Amen. Wonderful singing this morning. Please open your Bibles to James chapter three. James chapter 3, for a scripture text this morning. James chapter 3, verses 13 through 18. Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your heart, glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure. than peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word as we continue our singing this morning. We'll turn over to him Ninety nine. A shelter in the time of storm. See verses one, three, and four. As I rock and then we won't A shelter and the time was gone Sigura and the time of stone Oh team the world of stuff to When the time was gone through A shelter when the time was gone when he was taken. I shelter in the time of storm For tea the bent a walk and a women a wearing a wearing man for people To run away, the shelter and the time has gone. Oh rock may not be for shelter and the time has gone. We ballaker, a shelter, the time as my. Right now we force it for being a blue, and I'll be away. So to him that I must And let's stand once more as we sing our song of the month. Complete in thee. We'll be singing four verses. Complete And the work of mine may take the Lord a place of mine. I 've learned that part and walk for me, and I am out. Please in me, give us the fight of lust the blood, and take the part of this and more, thy blood has heard and for me. And glorified I too shall be complete in thee. No more shall sin Thy grace have God bring with them by word. I shall be but interfine complete in thee. Yes, I step out of what they've got and take the part. I blood and war for me and forever I serve complete and death once a part. And no birthday to the denied Since thy force and Lord wants me. I ask no more conflict in thee. I bought a lot and one for me and one I find I too Dear savour when before thy war Other dead songs I stumble are among thy sores and while I be At thy right hand step by blessed life and save the fight, salvation right, thy blood. Great singing, thank you so much. Please be seated Small one hanging on a tree in agony and blood, Who fixed his loving eyes on me as near his cross I stood, and never till my dying Will I forget that look It seemed to charge me with this death Though not a word is work My conscience felt and heart for guilt and plunged me in despair I saw my sense his blood had spilled And helped to nail him there And with us Second look he said, I freely of forgive This blood is for your ransom pain. I died that you might live. For everything upon my mind is the look of him who died And now I cruise the heart And now my life will sing the praise of your authoring grace That looked on me and gladly took my place. Thus while his death might be this place for all the world to view Such is the mystery of grace. It seals my My pardon, too, with pleasing grief and mournful joy, my spirit now is filled, that I should such a life destroy. Live by him like your rest upon my mind with the look of him who lies. And let my cruise apart And now my life will sing a praise of your adurning grace That looked on me and took my My place for the reached upon my mind is the love of him who died, and then I crucified A pure toning grace That looks on me and gladly took Karak , and it's a bigger one. Okay, thank you so much for that beautiful song. Our children ages two to six can be dismissed to the back for junior church. And the rest of you I want to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together. to the book of James, uh James chapter three, and uh we were in the midst of a sermon series through the book of James And I was looking back over my notes and I realized that the last time that we were in the book of James was on the 20th of September. So we have been on pause from our James study for Quite a few months. And during that time period we've uh had our missions emphasis month and so every single week we were looking at sermons related to missions conference and reaching the world with the gospel and making disciples, church planting. Then once we finished our time in in uh October, we moved into November and we focused on Thanksgiving. And we emphasized the importance of being a thankful people. And then as soon as we moved into December, we were focusing on the incarnation and looking at lots and lots of scriptures related to the birth of Christ. And we walked through the first uh two chapters of the book of Luke. And so now we're going back into James. And so the text that we're looking at is James chapter 3. This was the last place that we were in our study through the book of James. And we are looking at verses 13 through 18. Also, I wanted to mention that tonight we will be picking back up where we left off in our study through the book of Ecclesiastes. So on Sunday mornings, under most circumstances, we'll be in the book of James. And on Sunday, on Sunday evenings under most circumstances will be in the book of Ecclesiastes. So make sure that you are following along through those books, please. James chapter 3, verse 13 says this. Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your heart, glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above. It is earthly, sensual, devilish. But where envying and strife is, there's confusion and every evil work. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality and without hypocrisy. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace. Now this morning we're looking at a very interesting text of Scripture. In fact, when we work our way through the book of James, one of the things that we see is that James draws her attention to practical living in light of the power of the gospel. So when we talk about the way that a Christian is supposed to live, one of the reasons that our lives are supposed to be so distinct and so different in the world around us is because one, we are in a position where we are forgiven, we are cleansed, we are declared righteous by God. That position is a purely grace-based position. We are not there because of anything that we've done or anything that we promise to do or anything that we hope to do. The fact is we are saved entirely by the work of Christ and what he did for us on the cross, entirely in the righteousness of Christ, not our own righteousness. and entirely by the power of his resurrection, not our power to live out the Christian life. But though we understand that our position in Christ is secured by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. We also recognize that once we are placed into that position, there are some things that take place fundamentally within us. We talk about the new birth or regeneration. The idea is that when I was living in this world as an unbeliever, I was spiritually dead. That didn't mean that my conscience was entirely without any knowledge of the truth. The fact is I have a conscience when I'm a non-believer. I do come in contact with a lot of things that convict me when I do wrong. But the reality is I had no power to live for God. I had no power to walk in his ways. I was spiritually dead, separated from God, and God's law simply condemned me It didn't give me any hope of ability to make myself acceptable to God because by the deeds of the law there's no flesh justified in his sight. By the law is simply the knowledge of sin. But when I became a new creature in Christ, old things passed away, all things became new. I had spiritual life, and with that spiritual life comes the potential, the ability to actually walk in conformity to God's moral will. What's interesting is in Galatians it says, I through the law became dead to the law, so that I might live unto God. I'm crucified with Christ. Nevertheless I live, yet not I, but Christ liveth in me And the life that I now live in the flesh, I live by the faith of the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Basically, what Paul is saying is that the law Broke me so that it showed me I was undone and I had no hope of ways to make myself acceptable to God. And when the law had finally humbled me and shown me my spiritual bankruptcy. Then the grace of God shows me the work of Christ. And so in this broken and repentant position, I turn to Christ And I trust in what he did for me. And all of a sudden the law doesn't condemn me anymore. I became dead to the law. But what's so interesting is when I become dead to the law, now I actually walk in a totally different way. I walk by the power of the Holy Spirit who indwells me. So the book of James lays out in verse after verse after verse. That though we are saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, those who are saved walk in newness of life. And that newness of life is very distinct, it's very different from the world around us. When we come to James chapter 3, we see that James lays out two kinds of wisdom that really flow in the world. One is a wisdom that comes from God, and one is a wisdom that dwells in the hearts of men That one wisdom is a godly wisdom that comes from outside of us, and the other is a worldly wisdom that remains within the heart of every person who is unredeemed. And it remains in the hearts of those who, though they are saved, have not been transformed through the renewing of their minds. In fact, the passage in front of us reminds us That conflicts and how we deal with conflicts are perhaps the greatest way that we're able to identify the true nature of the kind of wisdom that is guiding our thoughts and our hearts. When we get into conflict and we get into difficult situations, you can know the nature of the wisdom that guides us by the way that we respond to people and circumstance and even God himself in the midst of those situations. And I want to submit to you this morning that God wants us to live lives that are distinguished by godly wisdom. God wants the people of God to live as the people of God. I don't have to tell you how broken our world is. We've seen a lot of reminders of that in the last few days. We've been reminded that this is an evil world. That this is a broken world. It's a world that you and I personally have very little ability to manipulate or control. The reality is we are in many ways at the mercies of God's hand when it comes to circumstances. And the fact is, the way that we respond to how God chooses to govern the affairs of this world has a lot to do with the kind of wisdom that is guiding our minds. How can we be people who live lives characterized by godly wisdom? That's the question I want to answer this morning. I want to answer it straight from the scriptures. And so let's begin with this first truth: that godly wisdom is shaped by a spirit Empowered self-control. Now I didn't simply say that God's wisdom, that godly wisdom is shaped by self-control, but I indicate that this is a spirit empowered self-control. This is not just purely discipline. You can be a disciplined person who doesn't have godly wisdom The fact that you can get up every day at four o'clock in the morning and run three to five miles and then go do your push-ups and eat your Wheaties And go to work on time and do your work and be a disciplined person has nothing to do with whether or not you have godly wisdom. Some of the most disciplined people physically in this world have no sense of godly wisdom at all. Godly wisdom is something that flows out of a heart that is dominated by the Holy Spirit. I want you to notice what it says in verse 13. It says, who is a wise man? And notice the phrase, endued with knowledge among you. The idea is that this is something that's been put into you. He says, let this man show out of a good conversation And that word conversation has the idea of the entirety of our lives, not just what we say, but how we walk, how we respond, how we think, the entirety of our lives. Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. There are so many words and so many phrases in that series of statements. that really have to be broken down and absorbed and understood and really they need to become a part of the fabric of our hearts Four statements I want to point to you on this verse. The first is that this wisdom can be verified in a practical way. In other words, if a person has godly wisdom, it's not just something that we talk about in some superficial way, but it's practical. It really impacts the way that a person lives. He says, who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show. It's practical. In other words, you have to be in real situations. That enable the people around you to know, to verify if in fact you are walking according to godly wisdom. That indicates that we're gonna have to go through situations that crush us and that squeeze us. And that press us and make us uncomfortable. Because in those situations, that's how the nature of the wisdom that we have within us gets squeezed out. If we never were pressed, you'd never know the nature of the wisdom that guides you. What's so interesting is you could have a person that from all appearances seems to be wise and self-controlled. And has a good disposition about them, and all of a sudden, one set of circumstances can completely change your perspective of that person. Boom, just like that. It really can. You say, wow, that person really isn't so self-controlled. That person really isn't so wise. That person really isn't so selfless. All of a sudden, the squeezing of events gives you the opportunity to see what's really going on inside. On the other side, a person that may seem very unassuming, that you don't think a whole lot about their character all of a sudden, under the press of circumstances The true nature of that person's character is squeezed out, and you see something that in fact is quite lovely to behold. It's the crushing of circumstance. Wisdom can be verified in practical ways. Might I submit to you that all of us today are having our true nature being verified? It's being verified around the dinner table at night. Assuming we all sit together. It's being verified when we watch the news. It's being verified when we tweet if we're still on Twitter or on Facebook or whatever. It's being verified in the conversations that we're having with our friends. It's being verified in lots and lots of different ways. Godly wisdom is practical. Secondly, this wisdom comes from outside of us. Godly wisdom isn't something that you naturally have. There is nobody in this room who is born with godly wisdom. In fact, we're going to see that the text shows us that we're actually born to the contrary. We're born with a worldly wisdom that is in opposition to godly wisdom. But I want you to notice the way he puts it. He's a wise man that is endued with knowledge among you. In other words, it's something that comes to us from outside of us. And what's really interesting is when he talks about worldly wisdom, he's going to talk about it as something that you already have Godly wisdom has to be put into you. Worldly wisdom is going to flow out of you if you're not affected by the Spirit of God and His Word. In Proverbs 2, verses 1 through 7, Solomon says the following to his children, If thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments, So that thou incline mine ear into wisdom, apply thine heart to understand, if thou criest out after knowledge and liftest up thy voice to understanding, if thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for a hidden treasure, Then shalt thou understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. He doesn't say look within yourself He says, look for godly wisdom outside of you. Look for godly wisdom in his word Look for godly wisdom from godly people who have walked with God and have learned his ways. You do not find this wisdom naturally indwelling within you Yet the world around us tells us the exact opposite. Live out your true self. I hope that nobody in this room lives out their true self Because your true self is desperately wicked. Apart from the grace of God. We'll see that in just a few moments. I hope that you'll live out your position in Jesus. Because that's a very different thing. He says, The Lord gives wisdom. that walk uprightly. Folks, if you want godly wisdom, you will not get it from your own heart. You're going to get it from the Word of God. Thirdly, this wisdom will shape our hearts so that godly patterns are established in our lives. He talks about having a good conversation. It's not just that you're going to get it right once or twice. You know, that clock will be right twice a day if the battery's taken out of it. It'll be wrong the rest of the day, but it'll be right two times a day. He's not talking about a life that occasionally gets it right. He's talking about a life that is characterized by good, solid, God-centered decisions. It's a conversation, it's a way of life that is guided by principle by God's wisdom. Fourthly, this pattern is characterized by self-control. And remember that self-control is a spirit-empowered self-control. He says it is with the meekness of wisdom. Now we talk about the word meekness. The word meekness simply is a quality that's measured by being restrained, being controlled. Another way to put it is strength that is under control. And I've heard it characterized many times that way. Like in Ephesians 4. 26, it says, be ye angry and sin not. You see, how can you be angry and not sin? Apparently, you can be angry and not sin. God is angry without sin when he hates our sin. God is angry without sin when he judges evil. The fact is, when we become angry, we are usually out of control. We're not measured. We're angry about something that's outside of our purview. But a person who is angry without sin is characterized by strength that is controlled. We see this perfectly characterized in the Lord Jesus Christ. The same Jesus who stood before the woman taken in adultery and said, Where are your accusers? Go and sin no more Is the exact same Jesus who went into the temple and he overturned the money changers and said, Get out of my father's house He's the exact same Jesus who went to the cross humbly as a lamb to the slaughter of the sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. He's the same Lord Jesus Christ who ate with publicans and sinners. Yet he looked at Pharisees and he said, You all are a bunch of white-walled sepulchres , generation of vipers. You say, what does that tell us? What it tells us is that the Lord Jesus Christ, his anger was measured and was dominated and controlled by what is righteous. And it was always perfectly ordered. In other words, this kind of we could say meekness or self-control is one that has the heart led by the head. You know what I mean by that? Instead of it being your emotions that drive you, you are guided by principle. Words that are measured and guided by principle are actions that are guided by principle. We don't step out of bounds. We consider the full weight of the choices we make. The force we exert will be appropriate, measured, at least to constructive, not destructive ends. We talk about meekness. We're not saying that a person is a pushover, that they're weak, that they can't stand for what is right. We're saying is when they stand for what is right, they do it the right way. This meekness is not selective, it covers every area of life. The second truth that we find in the scriptures is that worldly wisdom on the other side is shaped by impulsive, natural, self-centered reactions. Let me state that again. It is guided by impulsive, natural, self-centered reaction. In verses 14 and 15 he says that this, but, contrast, if you have bitter envying and strife in your hearts Glory not, and lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. I want you to see the contrast in the way that he describes worldly wisdom and godly wisdom. The first thing we see is that he says that this wisdom is the exact opposite of godly wisdom. He says, but this wisdom descendeth not from above. So godly wisdom comes from God Worldly wisdom doesn't come from God. Very, very simple, very, very practical. That's exactly what he's saying. In other words, on the personal level Galatians 5. 17. The flesh lust against the spirit, the spirit against the flesh. These are contrary the one with the other, so that you cannot do the things that you would. You cannot say that your flesh and the spirit of God are going to work together. They are always in opposition on the personal level. We talk about the corporate level, how we relate with other people. In 1 John 2, he says, love not the world. And then he uses the term world. He's talking about a system in opposition against God. Neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. All that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life, it is not of the Father, but is of the world And the world passeth away in the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. In other words, if you could take every single individual who lives in opposition to God and rages against his authority and you put them all into a system of thought, guess what you have? The world. That's what he's saying. And that system, those values, that wisdom, it is in opposition 100% to God and his ways. We could see the same thing when it comes to history. In Ephesians 6:10-13. Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might, put on the whole armor of God, that you may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in the evil day. Now the idea is this: when we look at history, we can observe the rise And the fall of true evil. We can see it. How would you describe what took place in Nazi Germany in World War II? How do you describe that? You have a man, Adolf Hitler, who is able to conquer an entire nation, and might I say almost the entire continent of Europe And he was trying to exterminate the Jewish people. What was Adolf Hitler? He was an evil, wicked, oppressive man. But where did he get his power from How did he rise to such a level of preeminence? It's because he was being guided by the Prince of the Power of the Air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. The reality is, folks, that we see that godly wisdom and worldly wisdom are in conflict within the hearts of people, collectively within the hearts of lots of people. And in history, within the movements that we see that come up and come down throughout human history, the fact is that God's wisdom and the world's wisdom will never be together. They will always be in conflict. The third thing I'm going to mention is that this wisdom is our natural disposition. Now, there might be people that really recoil at that statement. But it is clearly what the Bible teaches. Notice the way that he puts it. He says, if You have. Now how did he put word godly wisdom? He says the person that is endued with godly wisdom. There's a difference between those two statements. One has the idea that God has put it in the person. The other has the idea that they already have this kind of wisdom. In other words, he uses the perfect tense saying, This is already settled naturally in our hearts. From the moment we are born till the day that our hearts have been opened to the gospel by God's work, and we become new creatures in Christ. And the Spirit of God begins working and molding and shaping us. From that point till that day, the fact is our heart is deceitful and desperately wicked. Jeremiah 17, 9, the heart is deceitful above all things, desperately wicked, who can know it? Psalm 51:5, I was shaped in iniquity and in sin. Did my mother conceive me? David says I was going astray from the time I was born. First Corinthians 2. 14 says that the natural man What is a natural person? It's a person that is in his natural state, the way that he was born. The natural man does not receive the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness unto him. Neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. When James says that we already have worldly wisdom, he means it literally, you're born with it. It's within you. If you're going to live out what's inside your heart without God's word coming in and taking that thinking of yours. And the wisdom that you're guided by, if it's not for him restraining that, there's all kinds of evil that can go on in our hearts. And then we see fourthly that there's there are several specific expressions of this naturally occurring in the worlds. Jealousy, he uses the words bitter envying. Selfish ambition, he uses the words strife. Pride, he says, do not glory. Dishonesty, he says, lie not against the truth. When he talks about godly wisdom, he basically says it's a wisdom of meekness, spirit controls. When he talks about worldly wisdom, he talks about jealousy, selfish ambition, pride, dishonesty. And I asked this question. As you look out into the world around you, what is the most common thing you see? Do you see restraints? Do you see the meekness of wisdom in people? Or do you see jealousy, selfish ambition, pride, dishonesty? It's pretty clear, it's pretty obvious, folks. What we see is that the world is doing what the world does. If you want to see an example of this in the Bible, look at King Saul. King Saul was a blessed man. He had so much opportunity from God. He was head and shoulders above every person in Israel. He appeared very humble at the beginning of his ministry, or his i his uh his rule as a king. Yet by the end of the time, what's he doing? He's trying to take David, his son-in-law, okay. A guy who fought wars for him and made him a hero, he tries to stick David to a wall with a javelin twice. He chases him. While the enemies of Israel are bearing down on the nation, what is Saul doing? He's preoccupied with chasing David, and he wants to kill David. And when David has opportunity to take matters into his own hands and to kill Saul so that his enemy has been conquered and he chooses not to do it, Saul still, he still comes back after David. What does that show us? A man that is totally dominated by his flesh. And folks, that's what worldly wisdom does. It controls us. Destroys people. We have many examples in the day in which we live, but that is exactly the way they think and act. The third truth we find is this: living according to worldly wisdom brings chaos. In verse 16, he says, where envying and strife are, there is confusion. And every evil work. Two specific results of worldly wisdom. The first is disorder. He says there's confusion. The second thing he says is there are endless possible expressions of sin. He says, every evil work. So what James is basically saying is if you want to know what happens, when people are guided by worldly wisdom, not for the grace of God restraining them through whatever means he chooses to restrain them. If people could just do what was in their heart without the restraint of God's grace, God's common grace. If they could just express themselves as they wanted to, there would be utter confusion. Is there not confusion in this day? It's because we're a land that is not dominated by godly wisdom. We live in a land where people have thrown off the restraints of God. I would be shocked if in a society that thinks the way our society thinks, we didn't have confusion. I'd be very surprised. Because the reality is that the prevailing thought of our day is do what's in your heart. Because your heart's good. It's the real you. And the fact is, when you live that way, you bring confusion, disorder. Every evil work. I mean, if you want to sit down and you want to think about all the different ways that following that type of thinking can lead you to evil and to sin and to destruction, you could just write it down all day. Because there are endless possibilities of the way that our broken hearts can express themselves in evil. You know, every generation is going to have new things to write down. Because of the same old problem in the heart. But we then come to a fourth truth, and this one's very important. Living according to godly wisdom points people to God. And this is really where I want us to draw our attention, because this is so important. In verses 17 and 18 he says, But the wisdom that is from above is first pure. Then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy, and good fruits, without partiality, without hypocrisy. And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make what? Peace. Do you know what the hope of this nation is? It's that God's people start living like God's people. I'm telling you that is it. It is not in a political situation. It's not gonna be changed by political means, I promise you. I don't care what direction you want to take this nation politically, if the state of the hearts of the people of this nation stay as they are, there is no good outcome. There is no good outcome. But the bottom line is that when God's people will be God's people and preach the truth as God intended it to be preached, And demonstrate the power of the gospel by living out lives that are characterized by godliness. They become peacemakers between God and man. And between men and other men. The truth is some of the most terrible and divisive things that we are witnessing in our nation today Would not be divisive if people had hearts that were conquered by the Spirit of God. It's honest truth. I mean, you name every single conflicting issue that we're dealing with in our nation, the most painful , the most intense. If the people on both sides' hearts were conquered by the Spirit of God and they were guided by godly wisdom, those contentions could be dissolved very quickly. And people could live at peace with one another. But the problem is that we have a land that wants peace without God. And we as God's people need to live out the truth so that we are positioned to affect our culture. There is a tendency in people, when they're angry and when they're fearful, to withdraw. You know, give me some land out in South Dakota and I'm just gonna deal with the winners, but I'm gonna live off the grid and I'm gonna enjoy my life there and I'm gonna have my gun and I'm gonna protect my family. And I'm not gonna deal with the nonsense of the culture anymore. Anybody ever feel like that? Maybe South Dakota's not the place you want to go. Okay. You might want to go to a warmer environment. But there'll be a lot of people going there. And that's the way we feel. I don't want to engage in public discourse. I just want to be my own person and mind my own business. Don't bother me, I don't bother you. But here's the bottom line: you don't affect people positively that way. You don't. You don't lead anybody to the Lord Jesus Christ that way. You're not going to demonstrate the power of the gospel that way. As much as there's a tendency within Christians to withdraw from everything going on in the world and just live in isolation, we need to engage with the culture that we live. And that actually might cost us. But we need to live godly lives characterized by godly wisdom as light and assault in this generation. He calls it the wisdom that's from above. It's God's wisdom. He's the giver of this wisdom. And God's people are supposed to be different than the world around them. Whether you realize it or not, people who are screaming at one another still do have a conscience. Okay, they may not demonstrate that today, but they still have a conscience. The fact is, you can only take a way of thought so far before you finally hit a brick wall and you realize, you know what, I'm wrong. And what people do with that means they have to turn somewhere. If we withdraw from our culture, they won't turn to the truth. But if we're living in godly ways, They will realize as much as I hate that gospel and I hate the authority of Christ, I know it's true. And I have to embrace it. And they're compelled to embrace it. Seven ways that God's people are different. They're genuine. He uses the word pure. They don't seek out revenge. They're peaceable. It doesn't mean they're weak and pushovers. Revenge is different than justice. I want you to understand that revenge is not the same thing as justice. Justice means this has been violated and so what is appropriate we deal with it. Revenge is taking it out on people that have nothing to do with it. We live in a society that wants revenge, not justice. God's people are different. They're peaceable. They don't seek the harshest response. The word is gentle. How many times did Jesus show restraint with sinners? He was blunt with people who were ardent And we're arrogant and rebellious. He was gentle with the repentant sinner. They listen. They're easy to be entreated They feel other people's pain. They're full of mercy. They call it like it is without partiality. Hey, if it's my side that's doing the wrong thing, I'm going to state it just like the other side. They're going to speak the truth. That's the way that God's people are to function in society. He says they're not fake. They're without hypocrisy. I want you to realize that as much as the world around us is thinking so irrationally, is being guided by emotion so much, deep down in the hearts of people, they want What the text says God does when people have godly wisdom. They really do. They want people to be not hypocrites around them. They don't want people to be fake. They want people who are just. They want people who actually are empathetic and care about other people. And the fact is that godly wisdom gives you those things. Second thing I'll mention is that he calls it the fruit of righteousness. That is such an interesting statement. Fruit is something that is produced. Fruit is something that's produced. It's not manufactured, it's produced. Orange juice is manufactured. Oranges are produced. Okay It's the fruit of righteousness. Literally, it's the practical righteousness that flows out of our position in Christ. In Ephesians 2:10, he says that we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works. Which God has before ordained that we should walk in them. Romans chapter 8, verse 1 says that there's no condemnation to those who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. He's talking about the distinction, the characteristic of godly people, the righteousness that flows out of a position in Christ. It's a fruit that's produced by the Holy Spirit in sanctification. In Galatians 5, he calls it the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. In other words, it's produced by the Holy Spirit. You don't manufacture those qualities. They are produced by God in people. It's the transformation that takes place in the Christian's heart through the renewing of his mind. Romans 12, 2, he says, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed through the renewing of your mind. Literally, God takes the junk that's in our hearts, he uproots it, he replaces it with truth, and he shapes our hearts to be conformed to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's being changed into his image. 2 Corinthians 3. 18. Being changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. Folks, if we will live out the Christian life, God can use us in remarkable ways. When we pray that the church of God is revived, we mean we're praying that God's people live like God's people. I want you to realize revival is not people getting saved. It's the saved getting right with God. And the result of the saved getting right with God is that they start influencing and impacting the lost around them. So as the church is revived, the church has an impact. And as the church has an impact, then the nation is blessed by the righteousness that God produces in the hearts of people that are dominated by the Spirit of God. We need reviving in the churches of this land. We absolutely do. And I want to challenge you to pray that that's what God does. Instead of being worried about who's in the White House, or who isn't in the White House, or what's going on in the Supreme Court Or what's going on in the Judah or what's going on in the House and in the Senate. And I'm not saying that I'm not in any way concerned about those things. I'm not stating that. But instead of being consumed with those things, Be consumed with being what God wants you to be. Hey, the king's heart is in the hands of the Lord. God can do whatever he wants with the government of this land. I make zero predictions about what that is. He could do whatever he wants with this land. But the fact is as his people, we need to be a revised people. And I have no reason to doubt that if we'll pray that he does it, that he would do it. No reason to doubt it. So I ask you this question. How are you living in these troubling days? By the way, I told my wife this morning, I said this is the message that Pastor Joel needs. So yes, I spent some time reflecting on what I put on paper here today. Not just today, but over the last couple of days. And I was deeply convicted by how much this had not gotten into my own heart and how much it needed to be. But in what ways are we responding to the circumstances of life different, different than the world around us? That's a that's a that's a probing question, isn't it? Do our lives reflect the typical responses of the people we hear in the media and in our culture, or is there a distinction in a Christ like this and the way we respond? Are we really functioning as salt with a distinctiveness? Are we really shining as light in the darkness, or are our lives indistinguishable from the world around us? Is there a stability, grace, strength, confidence, humility, and a confidence in God's providence? I want to challenge you. Let's be the people who walk As God commanded in Micah 6. 8, this is our opening scripture today. He says, He hath showed thee, O man, what is good, and what doth the Lord require of thee? But to do justly and to love mercy and to walk humbly with thy God. If you study the nation of Israel during the time period in which that was written, it was a lot like America today. Do justly, love mercy, and walk humbly with your God. That's what we need to do. And by the way, we do it by the power of the Spirit, and that's what revival is. It's us doing that. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to really take his word and implant it in our hearts. Father, we are first of all grateful that you've saved us. We don't stand righteous before you because of anything in us. It's all by your grace, and it's all by Christ's work of redemption in our behalf. Help us to be a people who are overwhelmed with gratitude and humility. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be a Christ-centered people. Help us to be people that are living healthy lives in light of the power of the gospel. That our position in Christ would be demonstrated by the practice of our lives. Father, there's a great opportunity in our land today for churches and for Christians to be so different than the worlds around us. We can have strength and stability. We can have a sound mind. We can have hope. We can have comfort. We can live lives that are above the chaos because our stability is rooted in you. I pray that you'll bless every person that has been able to hear this this morning. May you mightily, powerfully work both in us and through us as a result. Of your word being implanted in us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Our closing hymn this morning is hymn 527. The song is Revive Us Again. Revive Us Again. And I think we had a fairly prominent theme in our music this morning. A mighty fortress is our God. Eternal Father sung, strong to save, the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, a shelter in the time of storm, complete in thee Now let's ask God to revive us. Let's stand together. We're going to sing verses 1, 2, and 4 together of hymn 527 as our closing hymn this morning. And hallelujah, I 'm before we Has shown us our stable and standard. Hallelujah and the glory, hallelujah, amen. Hallelujah, and the glory. I hope that that really is the prayer of your heart. I'd like to ask if, Eric, you could close us in prayer. Good to see you this morning, Eric. I'm praying for your wife. She'll be in good health soon. Please close us in prayer. Thank you. Yeah, maybe you go home right with everything.