Let's all turn together back to the book of Acts, and we are in Acts chapter 18 this morning, and some of you are gonna go, hold on a second, I thought we uh are now going backwards, and actually what I'm gonna do is I'm going to look at a piece of a puzzle that fits between two church plants. One would be the church at Corinth and the other the church at Ephesus. And this little puzzle piece that connects those two churches is in fact a beautiful story of God's providential work in ordinary circumstances. And so I pray that this morning, as we read God's word, as we dig into this text of Scripture, our hearts will really be challenged to think about how God works in ordinary circumstances, because really that's where we live our lives. We live our lives in a lot of ordinary circumstances, and sometimes we fail to realize what God is able to do through those things. Let's go ahead and pick up in verse number one, and we will read down through verse 11. It says, after these things, Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth, and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla. Because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome. And came unto them, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them and wrought, for by their occupation they were tentmakers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. When they opposed themselves and blasphemed, he shook his raiment and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads unclean. From henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles. And he departed thence and entered into a certain man's house named Justice, one that worshipped God. His house joined hard to the synagogue. And Christmas, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house. And many of the Corinthians hearing believed and were baptized. Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision. Be not afraid, but speak. Hold not thy peace. For I am with thee. No man shall set on thee to hurt thee. For I have much people in this city. And he continued there a year and six months teaching the word of God among them. Please let's bow together and ask the Lord to really speak to our hearts through his word. Father, I pray that in these next few moments that you would quiet our hearts. Help us to see that a significant piece of the story between the birth of the church at Corinth. The birth of the church at Ephesus, and yes, even the birth of the church at Rome. A peace between all of those was the story of this couple, Aquila and Priscilla. And Father, I pray that as we think about this text of Scripture, we would recognize that the vast majority of Christians would find themselves in a position a lot like Aquill and Priscilla. And the vast majority of Christians can be used in the exact same way that you use this couple. One of strengthening believers, one of opening their home. one of discipling, one of giving the gospel in very ordinary daily contexts, people whose lives are disrupted by circumstances that are difficult. May we recognize that we have a lot to learn from this couple. And so I pray you'd teach us this morning. Help me to handle your word with clarity this morning. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The text in front of us is such an interesting one. I love it because it is an ordinary kind of passage of Scripture. There's not deep theology to expound, yet there is deep practical wisdom that is rooted in deep theology found in the text in front of us. There are a lot of incidental details that a lot of times we read them, we don't think twice about them, but in fact they are very significant details. So as we dig into this text this morning, we're going to see that God uses everything. even the often overlooked things to accomplish his work through us. You may be looking at your life and the truth is you feel like you're in a bit of a rut. Now maybe that rut is your own doing. Maybe it's something that has nothing to do with any decision that you've made. And you may get into this position of thinking that you say, you know There's no way God can use me because I don't see how in my position life I could ever go and be a missionary. I have no desire to be a pastor. I don't want to get up in front of people and teach and preach. I don't want to hear I don't want to deal with any of those things. I have good news for you. You don't have to be a pastor to be used of God. You don't have to be a missionary to be used of God. You don't ever have to get up in a public setting, open up the Bible and expound it for God to use you. This couple right here is a great example of how God uses ordinary people and ordinary circumstances to accomplish his purposes in our lives. And so as we dig into this text, I hope that what we'll take away is the simple fact that we must purpose to be faithful in the ordinary things. Now, as we get into this text, I want to begin by looking at two verses from probably my favorite book in the Bible, Ecclesiastes. And the reason I love Ecclesiastes is because it appears so dark, yet it's not. And the reason that it appears so dark is because it describes life as it is without God. And the reason that it's not just a dark book, but in fact it's such a deep book. is the fact that in every single one of those texts, at the bottom of all of this, is that consuming truth that God rules and is sovereign in this world. And there is an eternity, and our lives matter. And the little things that are going on on a daily basis, they are a part of God's purposes in our lives, for our lives, through our lives. Ecclesiastes 3. 1, listen to what it says. To everything there is a season and a time for every purpose under heaven. Season, time, every purpose. You know what that tells me? There's a God in heaven who governs our lives and takes chunks of our lives and he gives us seasons for a reason and he has a purpose in it. Where you sit right now in your life is not an accident. There is a purpose behind this season of your life. It will not last forever, but God is the one who is moving and orchestrating in your life through your life and these circumstances. Ecclesiastes 3. 11, he that is God has made everything beautiful in his time. Also he has set the world in their hearts so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end Again, we take these two passages and we set them side by side and we see words like season, time , purpose, good, all of those things are a part of how God works in this world. And so this morning we're going to see a classic example of it. So the first thing I want you to do is look down in your Bibles at verses 1 and 2. And there's a little phrase that is going to be our starting point here this morning. And that is the phrase, after these things. After these things. Now, whenever you see a little statement like that, kind of like a word like therefore, you need to ask the question, what has just happened? That makes the past connect to the present and then to the future. And the answer is God is working in the lives of people who are very frustrated with circumstance. In other words, the first thing we're going to see from God's Word is that His providence triumphs over life's frustrations. Now, when we talk about Acts chapter 18, which is a fascinating text. That text is built on at least three very frustrating circumstances that for the most part were not the result of decisions made by the frustrated people. And by the way, there are two there are two movements that are going on at the same time. One is in the life of a man named Aquila and his wife Priscilla, and the other other is in the life of the Apostle Paul and those who traveled with him. And so let me kind of work through some of those after the things that are a part of Acts chapter 18. The first thing is God disrupted Paul's ministry plan in Acts chapter 16. I know that we have said this multiple times. But it's important for us to recognize that Paul's desire was not to go to Corinth before he went to Ephesus, or to go to Philippi, or Berea, or Athens, or Thessalonica. That's not where Paul wanted to go Paul had a purpose. In fact, I love having missionaries in, and uh when missionaries come in they always tell you, here's my plan. This is who I'm gonna go work with, this is what we're gonna go do, this is where we're gonna plant ourselves. And they have all of these plans, and we do need to live life thinking about our future. But here's what every missionary learns. It never works the way you thought it would. The person that you thought you were going to work with, something happens. You you go to that city and then there's some little disruption and you end up in a different city and things do not work out the way that we intend them to. So that's not to say we shouldn't plan. And that's not to say we shouldn't think through issues. But what it is to say is this we hold our plans very gently. Because we serve a God who moves as he chooses. And we are to submit to his purposes. And that's exactly what we read in Acts chapter 16, verse 6. It says When they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia, and by the way, I have no idea if I said that right. When they went through those regions, they were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. God said, no, you can't go there. And then they assayed to go to Bithynia, but the spirit suffered them not. In fact, if we look at the entire section three times, God says no. When we get on our knees and pray, it's okay for God to say no. He has every right to say no. And we have no right to be angry at him when he says no. And sometimes when God says no, what we don't realize is what he's saying is not yet, but we don't know that at the time. And that's exactly what was going on with Paul. He wanted to go to that region, but God said, not yet. But he didn't explain that to him. And then we see that the Apostle Paul goes to a whole host of cities. But while Paul is going through this period in his life, There is another story that's going on that we see just a little bit about in these verses, and that is what we read about in verse number two. It says, then he found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla, because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome. I would say most Americans today don't know a whole lot about the debauchery of the Roman world, and maybe that's good But sometimes, for the sake of perspective, it's important for us to understand the kinds of people that were ruling during that time in the ancient world. Those emperors were very evil people. Human life had no value to these people. They had absolutely no problem throwing someone into a den of hungry lions and watching their bodies get ripped to shreds. They had no problem. They didn't even twinge. to see such terrible things. We think about crucifixion. It's one of the most horrible ways a person could die. And the reason that people were crucified by the Romans was to mock them and deride them so that literally for almost an entire day They would hang in agony, and it's not that they died from blood loss, it's that they literally suffocated when they finally broke their legs. And as people walked by and saw those bodies baking in the sun, they didn't think twice about how evil it was. And you know what? Evil people in power do evil things. And here is this man, Claudius, who says, I don't like the Jewish people being in my city, and so I'm just gonna kick them out and I don't care how it affects their life in any way. And so that is how Aquila and Priscilla leave Rome. They were thrown out. Can you imagine how humiliating, how frustrating? These people had no family, they had no friends, they had to just figure out how they're going to survive. And they just so happened to end up at Corinth. Back to the Apostle Paul. During the same time period, Paul travels across the sea, and then he goes into the region of Macedonia, and the very first place that he goes does not turn out well. He faces horrific injustice in Acts chapter 16, verse 37. It says, They beat us openly, uncondemned, being Romans, and have cast us into prison. By the way, what's really interesting about Paul at Philippi, he was a Roman citizen. He wasn't treated properly. And when they said, why don't you just go out quietly? He says, No, I'm not going to go out quietly. You got to come and get me. I have rights as a Roman citizen, and I'm going to make you eat crow, for lack of a better way to put it. And the Apostle Paul makes a point at Philippi that in fact they have taken advantage of his rights as a Roman citizen. But he had to leave the city very quickly. And what is this? It's total injustice. Then we look at some of these other cities, Thessalonica, Berea, Athens, what does Paul experience? He experienced these raging mobs. In Acts chapter 17, verse 5, the Jews which believed not moved with envy gathered a crowd, a company, and set all the city in an uproar, and they assaulted the house of Jason. Acts 17, verse 10, the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night unto Berea. But when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge of the Word of God, was being preached of Paul and Berea. They came thither also and stirred at the people, and then immediately the brethren sent away Paul. Now, if you're Paul, do you kind of wonder why God sent you away from Ephesus? And away from this region, you're like, hold on a second. You said, come over to Macedonia and help us. And I get thrown in prison. And then I gotta run for my life. And then the next city that I go, I'm there for three weeks. And then there's this uproar and this commotion, and I'm about to die, and I've got to flee to the next city. And then the people that were in that city, they hunt me down and they chase me, and then they drive me out of that city as well. And then Paul goes to Athens while he's waiting for his friends, and as he's preaching the word of God, it says, When they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked and said, We will hear thee again in this matter. So Paul departed from among them. Question. If that's your ministry experience, do you not maybe have some questions for God? Hey, I just want to reach people with the gospel, and the first place I go, I'm thrown in prison. The second place I go, I'm nearly beat to death. third place I go, the people that tried to beat me to death there, they follow me here, and I'm I I gotta run for my life and then I go to Ath or I go to Athens and the people mock me and I go, What are you doing, God? You ever been there? Paul was there. Each frustration was an important part of the story we read in Acts 18. Paul does not meet Aquila and Priscilla without Claudius kicking the Jews out of Rome. He doesn't meet Aquila and Priscilla when he does. If he doesn't change plans and then get driven out of every single one of those cities at the time that he was driven out of every single one of those cities And that is in no way saying that God was somehow going, all right, let's see what I can do with Claudius here. That's not what's going on here. God allows people to make really bad decisions sometimes. But it's not out of control. Because he's working and he's moving. And so these two little stories that these people, how in the world are they going to cross paths? Only by the providence of God. That's what happens. What does it tell us? That God works through the frustrations of our lives. Second thing we see is God's providence transforms ordinary work. This one is really interesting. Verse 3 It says, because he was of the same craft, he abode with them. When he says craft, what it means is they knew how to make tent. Okay? He didn't go to college for that. He didn't learn some special skill in a trade school. Paul learned how to work the hard way so that he didn't starve. And the truth is that Paul was attracted to this work at Corinth, and Aquila and Priscilla were attracted to this work at Corinth, and the reason they were attracted at that time to Corinth is because there was an annual event called the Isthmian Games. And so people are flocking there to Corinth and there in Corinth, they're meeting for all of these athletic games. It's kind of like their version of the Super Bowl. And so they just happened to cross paths because they're all Jewish. Similar backgrounds. They all are without family and friends because they've been kicked out of the last places that they've been. They're all trying to make ends meet, so they're working with their hands. They connect in a very ordinary way. Their friendship was not in any way extraordinary at this point. Same culture, same work, opportunities. You know, a lot of people, that's how they meet. A lot of people meet through very ordinary, very explainable circumstances. Sometimes those circumstances are good, sometimes they're bad, sometimes it's a real good blend of both. And as they are there, Paul is very opportunistic in the giving of the gospel. And I don't mean he's an opportunist in a bad way. What I mean is he's always looking to take advantage of opportunity to expound the gospel. He goes into the synagogues. He preaches the gospel in the synagogues. He goes into the public square. He preaches the gospel in the public square. He goes into people's homes and he preaches the gospel in people's homes. He preaches the gospel before public officials because he's on trial, okay? That's how he got an audience to preach in those places. He preaches the gospel while he's in prison. I mean he was chained to a Roman guard, and they had to change those Roman guards from time to time. And people had to bring him food. And so when Paul is interacting with these guards, they're like, why are you here? Paul is like, well, I'm glad you asked that question. Let me tell you why I'm here. And he begins to explain the gospel. Now when I use the word preach here, I don't want you to think that Paul got up and he like yelled at him or something like that. What I mean is He took the opportunity to tell them what the gospel is from Scripture. And it's not like he carried around his Lagos library on his uh on his phone or on his laptop. I don't know that he had a whole lot of books at his disposal. Paul knew the scriptures and he expounded the scriptures in every single context. But you know what's amazing? Out of all those places that I met , that I mentioned, the one that probably had the most long-term impact was what he did the most time doing, and that is work so he could eat. He preached the gospel in his daily work. By the way, the Bible never tells us when Aquila and Priscilla were converted. By the way, Scripture never tells us when most people were converted. Tell me when the disciples were converted. I'd like to see what you come up with. We know when the Apostle Paul was converted. We know when certain people at Pentecost and those places were converted, but there are lots of people we don't know when it happened. But what we do know is that Aquila and Priscilla were kicked out of Rome, not because they were in church. There wasn't a church at Rome. Not because they were practicing Christians. Christians were actually not being persecuted yet in Rome at that time. They were kicked out because they were Jewish. And that was ethnic, and that was religious, and that was communal. And what that tells me is more than likely they did not know the gospel when they met Paul. And so the question is, what about their interaction and the daily living of work? What became so impactful? What became so impactful is that Paul lived a gospel-centered life. Now, I don't know that the Apostle Paul would have sat down there and constantly tried to engage them in arguments. What I would assume that Paul did is he did his work and he did it well. And over the course of time, they have conversation after conversation after conversation. And as they literally do life together as co-workers, God used that to draw this couple to himself And as Paul is interacting with them in this very ordinary conversation, this very ordinary area of life, it becomes a very productive area of life because that moves us to the third thing. God's providence compounded ordinary work. Now we know that the Apostle Paul spent a year and six months, a year and a half there at Corinth. We know that because the text tells us that. But when the Apostle Paul leaves, the question is, who left with him and why did he take them with him? And how does that follow the rest of the story? Because the book of Acts is really the story about the advancing of the gospel from Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and then the uttermost parts of the world. Well, the answer to that question is in verse number 18. Look down at what it says. It says, then took his leave of the brethren. And he sailed since into Syria with him, what does your Bible say? Priscilla and Aquila. And then it says, and he came to Ephesus and he left them there. You say, well, hold on a second. Why did the Apostle Paul leave this couple there? The answer is we don't know. But what did they do in his absence? Now that answer we can give you. Because if we pick up in verse 24, he tells us. He says that as they are there in Ephesus, they meet a guy named Apollos. We know about him in the book of 1 Corinthians and 2 Corinthians. And it says, a certain Jew named Apollos, an eloquent man, mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus. This man was instructed in the way of the Lord, being fervent in spirit, and he spake and taught diligently. The things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John. Now, what that's telling you is that the Apostle Paul knows that people are sinners. The Apostle Paul uh Apollos knows that people are sinners. He knows that there's going to be a Messiah who comes. He knows that people need to repent and believe in the coming Messiah. But beyond that, he doesn't know anything else. He doesn't know that the Messiah came. He doesn't know that the Messiah died on the cross. He doesn't know that the Messiah rose from the dead. He doesn't understand that the Messiah has it established the one and only basis through which people are saved and reconciled to God through the death of Christ on the cross. He doesn't understand all that. He doesn't understand that when you repent and you believe, you are gloriously converted. And you become a new creature in Christ, and old things pass away, and all things become new, and the Holy Spirit comes and He indwells you, and now you live in a new position. He doesn't understand that. How do we know Because he says that it says he only knew the baptism of John. And when Aquil and Priscilla had heard They took him unto them and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly. And when he was come He helped them much, which had belief through grace, for he mightily convinced the Jews, showing by the scriptures that Jesus was Christ. Now there are a lot of things that we need to stop and just consider when we see this little interaction. The first thing I'll say is this. They had discernment. When they heard the message that Apollos was preaching, they understood he was a gifted man, he was eloquent, he knew a lot about Scripture, but they understood there was a deficiency in his preaching. A lot of Christians do not have enough discernment to go online and watch a YouTube video or TikTok or Facebook or Instagram or whatever and hear a sermon or hear a teaching and go, something's off there. There's a huge problem today with a lack of discernment. And discernment isn't something that's zapped into you. It's something that is developed Through studying the Word of God. And yes, what I say, interacting with more mature believers who have a fuller perspective of what's going on, and they can teach the Word of God. And there's lots and lots of questions and lots and lots of discussions. In fact, I would kind of use the illustration of when we were over uh serving in Ghana, and one of the men who's now a pastor, he was he was uh finishing up his medical education and when he he was a brand new Christian and I remember going to his office and sitting down and this guy just like peppered me with all kinds of questions. He'd be reading in his Bible and he's like, I read this passage and we'd go there and he's like, what is this talking about? Hey, I have a question about this and I have a question about that. And we got into so many discussions. He's like, in the sermon on Sunday, you said the following, and I just want to make sure that I understand what you're saying. Now I wasn't sitting down with him and saying, here's my agenda, here are the things I'm going to teach you today. It was more like, what's your questions? What are you reading? What have you noticed? What are you learning? And we would just have a conversation. That's really what it was. We would sit down and just walk through lots and lots of different issues. And what it did was it allowed him to learn. It challenged me. It made me have to hunt and get answers at times. It gave me an insight into how he was developing and his theological understanding and his ability to reason and all of those things, it was a very, very good time. Question. How many people in this room have a person you're doing that with? Either you're the one who's asking the questions or you're the one that's giving the answers. The fact is the health of the church rises and falls in those kinds of conversations. And so here is Aquila and Priscilla. They're having conversations with Paul, and that's shaping them. And they're working with him for hours and hours, days after day, and they're having all of these interactions. And their discernment is developing piece by piece so that when Paul is not in the picture, they're listening to Apollos and they hear what he says and they say, problem. Second thing is this. They actually had the ability to reason with him in a way that made sense. I think lots and lots of Christians, the fact is when we go to have these conversations, we are so combative. Even obnoxiously says sometimes. Like in our workplace context, it's like we've got to be confrontational with the gospel. We've got to drive home that point. The truth is that that we have to be cautious about how we push into these issues. If a person is not opening up to the gospel, the harder you push, the harder they get. And when a person is softening to the gospel because the Spirit of God is working in their heart, here's what happens. They ask question after question after question, and you give answer after answer after answer, and God is opening their heart and you can see it. And when a person is very gifted and they're very talented, a lot of times they'll think that others have something to teach them. And so to approach an individual like that is not easy. But they did. And they did it well. And he listened. That tells you something about the character of this couple. Where did that come from? Maybe part of its temperament, but I think a lot of it has to do with the interaction they had with the Apostle Paul. And then they're able to teach him, and what does he do? Apollos is the spokesman, not Aculan Priscilla. You know, many people, the most influential people in the lives of some pastors and missionaries are not necessarily their former pastors. One of the most influential people in my life, when I was a teenager and in college, was a wrestling coach. He was not a pastor. He never, to my knowledge, had any desire to be a pastor. He coached wrestling for decades and decades But he loved the Lord. And he told us stories about it, what it was like to go uh into Germany during the Cold War era at the Olympics. He told us stories about smuggling Bibles, and he told us stories about Olympic wrestlers that they competed with, that they became friends with, and conversations that they had. Pretty amazing stuff. And they used to say things like, you know, the wrestling community is kind of this unique niche community. And when you wrestle a guy and you've competed tough and strong, then you have a connection with that person. And it's so true. And because of that mutual interest of wrestling, you have connections with people that nobody else has. Because the truth is that's not the world they live in. Every person in this room has a world you live in that others don't. There are people that if I stepped into that world and I sat down with them and opened up a Bible and said, I want to tell you about Christ, they'd be like, I think I need to find another place. And then there'd be people that would be very open to have a conversation with me. They wouldn't be with you. And you say, well, why is that? I have no idea. That's why God plants us all in different places. That's why God picks us from all these different backgrounds. That's why God shapes us with all of these different influences. And the truth is that when we really become vibrant Christians and we rub shoulders with people in the places that God plants us, we can see God work through us. That's what Christianity does to transform society. Not a bunch of people living like hermits in the wilderness. But people who rub shoulders with their neighbors and their coworkers, and they really have a life impact because they live like Christians. And the distinctiveness of their character is so different than the world around them. And it's not a condescension. It's a strength and it's a humility and it's a love and it's a wisdom. And it's an understanding of the times. And everybody around them doesn't have that. And they go, I want that. That should be in true of all of us. And so these two people who who Paul leaves at Ephesus alone, they have a very impactful ministry because they take Apollos aside and they reason with him from the Word of God. And what does it say? He mightily convinced the Jews, showing by Scripture Jesus was Christ. What's also very interesting about this story is when we read. In the book of Romans, Romans chapter 16, a lot of people they skip over that. That's not the theological part of the book, right? That's not chapter eight, that's not chapter three, that's not chapter one. Chapter sixteen, that's like, greet this person and greet that person. Who cares about the greetings? I don't know them. They're all dead and gone. Don't do that. Listen to what it says in Romans 16. 3. Greet Priscilla and Aquila, my helpers in Christ Jesus. Who have for my life laid down their own necks, unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles likewise greet the church that is in their house. Oh man, there's a lot there. First of all, why are they back in Rome? Well, because the door opened up and they went back. How many people would be like, I got kicked out of that place and I'm never going back? I got too many horrible memories at Rome. I lost too much. I'm never going back to that city. Not a cool and Priscilla. You know that tells me they didn't get better. There's a lot of people because bitterness takes roots root in their heart, they cap their future. Not this couple He says all of the Gentiles, all the churches of the Gentiles give thanks for this couple. People knew them. They weren't missionaries. They weren't pastors. They're just normal people in the church. The church that's in their house. Likewise the church in their house. Isn't that an amazing thing? They've laid down their lives. I give thanks for them. They are my helpers. The truth is that those who are effective in communicating the Word of God, they need people who come up alongside of them and they hold their hands up. And they shoulder the burden. And by the way, ministry is a team thing. It's not an individual thing. The church is supposed to be a team effort. God didn't give us all the same gifts. He gave us different gifts because that's what he wanted. And this couple goes back to Rome, is involved in a church plant at Rome. Paul did not go to Rome and plant the church, and neither did Peter. To my knowledge. A culinary were involved in the church plant, though. And then we also know they ministered at Philippi, 1 Corinthians chapter 16. The churches of Age of Seleucia, Cool and Prisilla. Salute you much in the Lord with the church that is in their house. Paul wrote that from Philippi. Then we look at the end of Paul's life, 2 Timothy chapter 4, verse 19. Salute Priscinaquila and the household of Enephras. They're ministering at Ephesus. So what that's telling you is over fifteen years this couple is working in Rome and Ephesus. and Corinth at Philippi. They are personally encouraging Paul through their faithfulness. They're opening their home for young church plants. They are personally discipling and influencing. ministers in the early church. They are known to the Christians throughout Macedonia, Achai, Asia, and Rome. And that's without social media. That's without the internet. That's without people flying places, driving in cars. This is a world where everything moves slow. Yet they were known. Why? Because their lives were so interconnected with Paul's and the preaching of the gospel. God can use you that way, folks. It all started with ordinary work during a painful season of life, thirdly. Or excuse me, fourthly, God's providence uses all things to accomplish good things. What I see from this passage of Scripture is simply an illustration of a principle that's true in all of life. Romans 8. 28, all things were together for good to them that love God, to them were the called according to his purpose. I'll put it like this. If God could only use good things to accomplish good things, nothing good would happen. If God could only use good things to accomplish good things, nothing good would ever happen. Why is that? Because this is a flawed world. You couldn't raise good children. This couldn't be a good church. This couldn't be a good country. Why is that? Well, because we're all flawed parents We're all flawed members of this church. This is a flawed country. This is a flawed society. But the reality is this: God does good in the lives of every single one of our families, as imperfect as we are. As much as we mess up. God uses all kinds of institutions to accomplish his good purposes. God uses all kinds of decisions, all kinds of circumstances. All things work together for good to them who love God. To them were the called according to his purpose. And so many people want perfect circumstances and they think that's the only way they're going to get good. Guess what? Never happening. You will never have perfect circumstances in your life till you're dead and in glory. And then your decisions will be perfect because you'll be in glory. There's no such thing as perfection on this side of eternity. It doesn't happen. And so I notice what Paul says in Philippians 1. He says, I would have you understand, brethren, that the things that happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. My bonds in Christ are manifested in all the palace and in all other places. Many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. You know, Paul didn't sit there and say it's not just and not right that I'm in prison. And all these people, I've given so much to them, I've been willing to lay down my life. And look at how many of them have failed and how many have rejected the gospel, how many many people that I have discipled and mentored and poured my life into, how they have fallen by the wayside. And they're not doing what they should be doing. And he just gets so focused on all the failures and all the injustices. And he's an angry, bitter man in prison. Is that Paul? No. He says, all I can say is I'm thankful that all of it God used it to bring the gospel even to the palace. People in Caesar's household hear the truth and have embraced it because I'm in jail How many of us live our life that way? Hopefully not in jail. Okay. But the principle is simple. Whatever I'm dealing with, God can use it for good. But when you and I get bitter and we get angry, guess what we do? We cap it. And too many of us do it. Philippians 1. 15, he says, Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife, others of goodwill. One preaches Christ of contention, not sincerely supposing to add affliction to my bonds. What then, notwithstanding every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and therein do I rejoice, yea, and will rejoice. He says there are people sitting on the sidelines that are really glad I'm in jail. Because when I'm in jail, and they're not, people come to them. You know the story of Absalom? He sat in the gate. And while David is doing his work, he's like, oh, he's busy, man. Come and talk to me. I'll help you out. Hey, yeah, yeah, come here. I could be your your encouragement here. I mean it's sad, but it's true. There are a lot of people in life like that. There's a lot of people in the office where they work. They are working behind the scenes, manipulating trying to work their way into a position where they can undermine these people and they can bolster themselves and they can get what they want. There's people that do that in their families amongst their siblings. There's people that do that in every single context Might even add, even in Christian ministry. You know how many missionaries they sit on social media and they just like, I gotta post this. And I gotta post that and I gotta post this. I hope I gotta like there and I hope I get a like that. I hope I get a comment here and I hope I get a comment there. If I share it, How many people have seen it? Who cares But you know, a lot of people think that way. Well, I got more likes than him. I'm getting a further distribution than that person. Cares. You know what Paul said? All I could say is, thank God the gospel's going forward. Even if the people who are doing it aren't doing it for the right reasons. He was not in any way celebrating their folly. He wasn't saying it doesn't matter and it's okay. He says, I care more about what God does through it despite all that. You know, at the judgment seat of Christ, God will settle that. If we're doing th the right thing for the wrong reason, well then God will in his own way deal with that. But Paul says all things God uses for good. And I thank him for that. That is a huge part of this story. And there are so many little pieces. And if you go back and you just reflect on it. Think about it for a while. You'll pick out more and more of those scenarios where you say, God used that, and God used that. And that wasn't good. And yeah, that was a problem, but God used it. And that's all testimony to the to the grace of God, his providence, his power, his wisdom, his goodness. Not in any way a testimony to us. We mess it up all the time. So the question is, how do you apply a text like this? I mean, we've kind of applied it a lot already, but let me give you a couple of final thoughts of application. The first is this: we need to take comfort in how God works. He is in control. Now when I say that I don't mean like he's like this manipulator and we're like little This and that. I'm not saying that. What I'm saying is this. God takes everything. The heart of the kings is in the hands of the Lord as the rivers of water. He turns it whithersoever he will. God does that. He is in control. He rules. He reigns. He knows exactly what he's doing. You and I cannot predict where history is going. We know where it ends. We can't predict how long it takes. All the little ripples along the way, but what we do know is this we serve a God who rules, and we can take comfort in that. Despite all of our limitations, and we've all got them. Sometimes our limitations are own egos. Sometimes it's our weaknesses. Sometimes it's our past. Sometimes it's foolish decisions we've made. Sometimes it's the people around us. Sometimes it's the difficulty of a season. All those limitations, God is able to consistently accomplish his work, despite them and even through them. He never wastes what he permits He doesn't waste what he allows. He has a reason. The second phrase is: be faithful, be faithful in what you are given. Every person in this room is given a very unique stewardship. And some of you might say my stewardship is small and it's not very big. Not not not not very uh beautiful. Don't worry about your stewardship. By the way, over the course of our lives we we grow and we learn and we have opportunities that we didn't have when we were younger. Sometimes we lose opportunities and we get them later. That's the way God works. We need to be faithful today with what we're given. Don't worry about somebody else's race. Worry about your race. Cultivate redemptive relationships in every part of your life. The people that you work with should know that you're a Christian, not because you walked and said, I'm going to preach the gospel to everybody here on my first day of work. They should know you're a Christian because there's nobody who thinks and acts with such consistency and such strength and is so principled as you It's truth. And when they see it, they go, why are you such a principled person? Why did you handle that situation the way that you did? Why do you never say this and this and this and this? Why are you different? Well, I can tell you what Christ has done in my life. That can go a long way. You say, are they going to get saved then? Probably not. But you never know. And that might be the planting of the seed that leads to some watering and eventually God does a work. Cultivate redemptive relationships. Be ready for gospel engagement whenever you have opportunity. If you're being paid to work, then don't proselytize. But live in such a way that people would want to ask you questions. And live in such a way that you'd actually have a hearing when you open your mouth to give them the gospel. Because there are a lot of people that when they open their mouth, people go, yeah, I know them. And you know what? It's because of the way they live. Anticipate. Anticipate the power of the gospel. Anticipate the needs beyond your personal bubble. Anticipate God's blessings through the ordinary faithfulness of life. It is a lot easier to give to an organization that's buying shoes for kids in a far-off part of the world than to be a good neighbor. It really is. To love your children, to be a faithful spouse, to read your Bible regularly and have it actually impact your life. To speak up when the time comes and to be quiet when it's not there. To endure through difficulties. That's ordinary life. That's where real strength is. Anticipate God's ability to do more than you thought possible. The truth is you have no idea. How the investment of your life will compound itself in future generations. You have no idea. You don't invest now because you're envious of opportunity down there. You do it because it's right. But if you do it because it's right, God can do amazing things through it. Last thing I'll say is this, invest what you have. Take the time to learn. Take the time to teach. Let people into your life. You know, there are lots and lots of young people that have moms and dads who are Christians. who will take them to church. They genuinely care about them. But they do not have time to have the kinds of conversations they need to have to help their kids grow. They don't take the time when they discipline their children to actually work through why they did it, how to resolve it, and how down the road that's going to manifest itself if they don't deal with it properly. They don't take time to carefully answer their theological questions. They say, don't worry about that. That's not a good question. Every single one of us ought to be in a place where we can have heart-to-heart conversations with our kids. They feel very comfortable coming and talking to us about anything. And if they don't have that, we need to do a better job as parents to engage them while we have opportunity. The truth is that teaching our kids might involve learning from older parents. And by the way, you don't have to be a perfect parent to tell people what you learned. There is no perfect parent. Sometimes people have really stumbled actually have a lot to give when they admit they have messed up. We should never stop doing these things. Don't reach a time in life where you say, you know what? Thank God when I was in my 20s, I was really serving the Lord. And when I was in my 30s, I was too. Now I'm 55, 65, whatever, 85. And it's coasting time. Don't do that. To the day God takes you out of here, remember he's got you here for a reason. And so invest your life. Last thing I mentioned here is invest in those, lift up those who are investing wisely. There are certain people that God remarkably raises up, and you can't predict them. There are kids in our youth group right now. God's going to raise them up someday and God's going to really use them. You don't know which kids. It might be one of the quiet kids. It might be a kid that's That's really struggling right now. But God's going to work in their life. And at some point down the road, He's going to lift them up and He's going to put them in places that nobody anticipated. And the truth is that you have a unique opportunity right now to pour into the lives of those kids. Don't waste it. This passage is super practical, super simple. It's ordinary. But that's where real Christianity takes place. May God help us to live in a faithful and vibrant way. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we think about your word this morning. What an amazing story tucked between Corinth and Ephesus that actually manifested itself in many places for your glory. I pray that there would be someone here this morning, many people here this morning, that you would lift them up if they are discouraged, if they're weary, if they're tired, lift them up and strengthen them. I pray for those who maybe have pulled to the side and have begun to coast. Would you convict them that they need to get back into the work that you have for them? They need to pour their lives into those that are coming behind them. I pray for each of us in the areas where you have planted us. Help us to be faithful. Help us to be honest, help us to work hard, help us to be strong, help us to be vibrant, help us to be principled, help us to be loving, help us to be well equipped to engage in those conversations when they come. And I pray that in your providence you would open up many in the coming days. Use this church for your glory. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.