To turn with me to the 50th Psalm this morning, Psalm fifty, and the psalm that we're going to look at is a very interesting psalm because it's going to be a blend of several different concepts. The concept of God's grace. The concept of God's justice, the concept of God's power, the concept of God's ownership over everything, and also the concept of cultural religion. And the great danger of being a culturally religious person, but not being truly regenerate. So let's go ahead and pick up. In verse number one, we're going to read the entire psalm together, and then we'll bow for prayer and ask the Lord to really help us to understand this very important psalm. It says, The mighty God, even the Lord, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof. Out of Zion the perfection of beauty, God hath shined, our God shall come and shall not keep silence A fire shall devour before him. It shall be very tempestuous round about him. He shall call to the heavens from above and to the earth, that he may judge his people. Gather my saints together unto me, those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice, and the heavens shall declare his righteousness. For God is judge himself, Selah. Hear, O my people, I will speak, O Israel, and will testify against thee. I am God, even thy God. I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt offerings, to have been continually before me. I will take no bullock out of thy house, nor he goat out of thy folds. For every beast of the forest is mine, the cattle upon a thousand hills, I knew all the fowls of the mountains, and the wild beasts of the field are mine. If I were hungry, I would not tell thee. The world is mine, and the fullness thereof. Will I eat the flesh of bulls or drink the blood of goats? Offer unto God thanksgiving and pay thy vows unto the Most High Call upon me in the day of trouble. I will deliver thee. Thou shalt glorify me. But unto the wicked, God saith , What hast thou to do to declare my statutes? Or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth, seeing thou hatest instruction. And castest my words behind thee. When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentest with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers. Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit. Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother, thou slanderest thine own mother's son. These things hast thou done. And I kept silence. Thou thoughtest I was altogether such as one of thyself, but I will reprove thee and set them in order before thine eyes. Thou consider this. Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear ye in pieces, and there be none to deliver, whoso offereth praise glorifieth me. To him that ordereth his conversation aright will I show the salvation of God. What a really interesting text. Let's ask the Lord to help us to understand his word today. Lord, as we dig into this passage, this psalm. I pray that the Spirit of God would take your word and would open our understanding to the significance and the weight of these truths. Father, as I work through these verses, as I explain what the text is saying, I pray that you would take that service to this church and use it to strengthen us and instruct us and help us to understand your word well. Father, I pray that the Holy Spirit would take the word and press it into our hearts so that it would take root. Please move in our midst in a very profound and impactful way. I pray that as we leave this place this morning, our hearts would have been changed by the ministry of the Word, that our worship that has already been very sweet would be even sweeter as we think about the ministry of the Scriptures. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. The Psalm in front of us has a lot of concepts that are being developed. And so I'm going to do my best to try to take this psalm and just deal with the big picture. There are lots and lots of pieces that we could probably break down over several weeks if we really wanted to comprehend and grasp. what the psalmist is saying in these verses. But I'm going to summarize it for you in the following way. God's grace should be magnified in our minds as we soberly consider the severity of his justice against sin. What's very interesting about these verses is that he writes to two different audiences as the psalm is written. One audience would be those who are believers, they're truly regenerate Old Testament saints. They are sacrificing to God as they are supposed to. However, their heart is not fully engaged and their motives are not where they need to be before God. If we were to take this into the New Testament situation, it would be like saying there's a person who comes to church, they go through the motions, they're engaged on some level, but as they sit in the pew, the truth is they're just going through motions. They are believers. They have trusted in Christ as their Savior. Their salvation is secured in Him, but they are not a healthy Christian. They are not a vibrant Christian. They're not living consistent with the position that they have in Christ. The problem is not with God. The problem is with our own hearts. But then he steps back and he addresses a second group that he calls the wicked. And the wicked in this context is not the Gentiles that are out there who are involved in pagan idolatry, but rather this is an interesting group. This would be a group that is within the context of the covenant community in the Old Testament. These are people who were involved in the sacrificial system. They were going through the motions of Old Testament worship, but they were not doing it as believers. People were not saved in the Old Testament by giving sacrifice to God. They were saved the same way that you are saved and the same way that I'm saved. They were saved by faith alone and the finished work of Christ. And so when they offered those sacrifices to God, if they were believers, They understood that this sacrifice is a picture of redemption. And so they were with faith looking for the promise of redemption. There were people who did that. They were believers. So their faith was expressed in those sacrifices. Their faith was not something that they had by doing the sacrifice. But in that context It was very easy to just go with emotions. And in fact, the same thing could be said in the time we're living in today. Maybe not to the extent that would it would have been, say, 50 years ago. Fifty, seventy years ago, most people in America and most parts of the country, they went to church. They were associated with some kind of church organization, but just because they went to church or they'd been baptized or maybe they were on the membership role or they were involved in the choir or in some other thing. That involvement and that association is not what makes a person a Christian. A person is a believer or a Christian by faith alone in the finished work of Christ. And so we see these parallels between the Old Testament concept where there's a sacrificial system. There are all these festivals and occasions that people would have been expected to be a part of as a part of that community. And then we come into our modern context where we have people who are a part of the church, genuinely converted, and those who are just here or there, but not truly regenerate. That is the sense of the psalm in front of us. It is really emphasizing the great danger of being an unregenerate professing believer. So as we look at these verses, we will see that God offers salvation to anyone who will repent and believe And so with that in mind, let's work our way through this text and kind of get a sense of what he's saying, why he's saying it, and how to apply it. First thing I want to do this morning is I want to deal with a couple of background concepts that are really a big part of the text in front of us. The first thing I want to mention is the desperate human condition. It doesn't matter what part of the world a person lives in. It doesn't matter how much access a person's culture has to the Word of God. It does not matter if someone is rich or they are poor. The human heart has a serious, desperate problem. And the scripture is so very clear about this. It says in Jeremiah 17 that the heart of man is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked who can know it. That's my heart. That's your heart. No exceptions. Our heart is desperately wicked. And in Romans chapter 1, as Paul addresses The human condition he says that when man knew God, he did not glorify him as God, neither was thankful, but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and they changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man. Now why do I start in these two places? I start with these two verses to help us to understand something that the Bible teaches about humanity. All of us naturally have a diminished view of God's holiness. All of us naturally have a deficient view of God's greatness. All of us naturally have a selective view of God's justice. And so when it comes to something as pure as the gospel and as holy as the church and as sacred as Christian practice, the human heart can take a context where the gospel is expounded. And where people join as believers professing this gospel, where they go through the motions of real, genuine faith expression. And in that context, it is possible. For people to have a diminished view of God's holiness, a deficient view of his greatness, a selective view of his justice, and they can go through the motions of being a genuine believer, but it is not their true state. You say it could happen here? Well, of course it could. It could happen anywhere. It doesn't matter how clear the message is from the pulpit of a church, and there are always deficiencies. Even if we are constantly being exposed to truth, we can twist it and we can use it and we can be hypocrites. But there's this great danger that really is bound in this issue, and that is the danger of being religious but unregenerate Matthew 25. The most religious people in the first century were a people that Jesus more viciously opposed than any other group. in that time period. He was more aggressive towards the Pharisees than he was towards the Romans. Why is that? Because these people had access to the truth, but they twisted it and they put burdens on people, and in the midst of those burdens of tradition They were veiling people's minds to the truth of the gospel and ultimately leading people down a road of destruction that was built in religious tradition. Matthew 25. Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. You may clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within are full of extortion and excess. Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first which is within the cup and platter, and the outside of them may be clean also. You are like whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men 's bones and of all uncleanness. Even so you outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within are full of hypocrisy and iniquity. Why do I start here? Because all of us have the potential to take the truth, twist it, attach ourselves to it, and to do it in hypocrisy. You know what's amazing? Nobody knows but you and God. Not only no one knows but you and God, in fact, you may not realize it yourself. Because we have so convinced ourselves of a lie, we have gotten to this place where we are very comfortable in the lie. In fact, when people get to this place where they have convinced themselves That their deceptive thoughts are true, they come to a place where there's no way you can reason with them. And this psalm is going to appeal to that person. So let's work our way through the details of the psalm. First of all, we see the picture of a universal courtroom, and this is a fascinating picture. In verses 1 through 6, we see the statement, The mighty God, even the Lord hath spoken and called the earth from the rising of the sun into the going of the same. Out of Zion the perfection of beauty hath God shined, our God shall come and not keep silent, a fire a fire devours before him, it shall be very tempestuous roundabout. He will call to the heavens and above to the earth, that he may judge his people. Gather my saints together unto me, my chosen, those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice. Now, can you picture in your mind this courtroom where God is revealing his glory to these people? And he basically says, I'm calling to those who profess me as the Savior. Come out, you who say you are my people, you who say you believe, come and I'm going to set the record straight. That's terrifying. In fact, when we look at these verses, we see the judge in verse 1, it's the mighty God who has spoken. We see his audience. The earth from the rising of the sun into the going down of the same. That is another way of saying everything that is in heaven and earth is to come to this judgment court. He has the witnesses, verse 4. He shall call to the heavens from above, to the earth, that he may judge his people. What is his intent? The heavens will declare his righteousness for God is the judge himself It's a little bit difficult for us to understand this, but there are several places in the Old Testament where we see pictures that are a little bit like the one that we're seeing. And in those passages, we have the establishment of a covenant between God and his people. One of the most interesting of those examples is Abraham. You know the Abrahamic covenant in Genesis 15? God says, I'm going to make your descendants as the sands of the seashore and as the stars. Look up in heaven. Your descendants will be more than you can count. And then he establishes this covenant with Abraham. Abraham is to take these animals and he kills them and their blood is shed and he lines them up. And under most situations, the way that they would establish the covenant in those days is that both members of the covenant would establish the terms and their responsibilities and the judgments that would be a part of violating that covenant, and then together those parties would walk through those Killed animals, and you know what that pictured? That pictured that if you violate this covenant, you need to die like the animals did. That's really what it was. This is a very common practice in the Old Testament era, in the ancient Near East. And when those people would establish that covenant, they would appeal to someone who was higher than them, their God. If they were Jewish, it would be the God of Israel, Yahweh. But if they were pagans, it would be the gods of the nations. And so they basically were saying this if I break this covenant, let the gods do to me what has happened to these animals. Or if I break this covenant, may the God of heaven do to me what has been done to these animals. What's interesting about the situation with Abraham is that Abraham Did not walk through those. Why? Because God went through himself. And you know what that tells you? Even though Abraham failed, God remained faithful. It's an amazing story. But there's another picture that we see, and this is in Exodus chapter 19. And this is the conditional covenant that was given to the nation of Israel at Mount Sinai. Let me read to you what it says in Exodus 19. It says, It came to pass on the third day in the morning that there were thunders and lightnings and a thick cloud on the mountain. and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud, so all the people that were in the camp trembled. And Moses brought the people out of the camp to meet with God, and Mount Sinai was all together on a smoke because the Lord descended upon it in fire. And the smoke ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mountain quaked greatly. That's the second covenantal context that we see. in the Old Testament. And this is God establishing a conditional covenant with the nation of Israel at Mount Sinai. Do you not see the parallels? Fire on the mountain. The people were terrified. What is the point of this? The point of it is this. When God establishes a covenant, we need to recognize how great and how powerful and how holy and how righteous that God is. And so that's what we're looking at in in Psalm 50 verses 1 through 6. We see this establishment of a covenant. But then we see that there's a slight change in verses seven through fifteen. And that is where the psalmist talks on God's behalf about what we would call acceptable worship. If you look down in verse 7, we see his audience. He says, Hear, O my people. I am God, even thy God. So we know that this next little section is God speaking to his people. And so these are people who are, they belong to the Lord, but he has a contention with them. And the question is, what is that contention? The answer is in verse 7. I will testify against thee. And he states it both in the negative and the positive. He says it's not this, it's actually this. Notice in verse 8. He says, I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices. The problem with these people was not their willingness to go through the motions of worshiping God. During the Passover when they were supposed to take a lamb and kill it. and hold it until the 14th day. They were supposed to take it on the 10th and then kill it on the 14th, and they would sacrifice it to God and they would eat the Passover. The problem wasn't that they weren't doing that, that they had neglected that The problem wasn't that they weren't offering trespass offerings and all the different sacrifices that were a part of the sacrificial system. They were doing those things. God's contention with them had nothing to do with them going through the motions. of religious sacrifice. In fact, he makes the point. He's not saying this because he needs their their sacrifices. Verse 10, every beast of the forest is mine. The cattle on a thousand hills. You know that song He Owns the Cattle on a Thousand Hills? Here's the verse that it comes out of. His point is: I don't need your sacrifices. I'm not bringing this up because somehow I'm deficient. Like I need your money. I need the sacrifices that you're that you're laying down. That's not what God's doing. He doesn't need anything from these people. Verse 12 he says, If I were hungry, I would not tell thee. The world is mine and the fullness thereof. If it was even possible for God to get hungry, he wouldn't go to you and me and say, Can you help me out here? God's not a beggar. So his contention with the people has nothing to do with what they're doing, and it has nothing to do with God needing something or some deficiency in him. He states it positively, says this: the problem is in your motive. What you are doing is not with a pure heart, an intent. He said, I want your minds. I want your heart. The motive matters. In fact, there are three things that he mentions. He says, offer thanksgiving to God. Pay your vows to him. Call upon him when you are in need. Those three things that he states are very, very interesting because offering thanksgiving starts with a heart. Paying vow starts with a kind of heart. Calling upon him starts with a certain kind of heart. I'll tell you why a lot of people aren't thankful. It's because they're entitled. They think that God or somebody else owes them something. So if they were to get on their knees and thank God for something, they couldn't think of anything because they think everything they have they deserve. And so the reason that people are ungrateful is because when it comes down to the things that they have, they believe they're entitled to them. But when a person offers gratitude, guess what they're saying? I don't deserve anything. I don't deserve anything When we offer gratitude to God, it's another way of saying, God, everything I have comes from you, and I don't deserve it at all. It's like in James it says, every good gift and every perfect gift comes from above. Comes down from the Father of life, with whom is no variableness, neither a shadow of turning. Of his own will he begat us by the word of truth. So the point is this. Their problem was that they didn't offer thanksgiving to God because they were very entitled. Now, these are believers. The way he responds, the way he speaks to them, he's not suggesting that they aren't genuine believers in the Old Testament sense, but they were believers who were not living consistent with their position. Maybe some of us would fall in this exact category. We understand the gospel, we place our faith in Christ, but we are very entitled in our attitude. We are not thankful people. We're very disgruntled in our hearts. Why? Because we think God and society owes us something. And then we see that statement, pay your vows. Why do people not follow through with their commitments? Why does their word not mean anything? It's because their association is weak. If I'm a Christian and I give my word and I tell you I'm a Christian, guess what? People should recognize that I am committed to doing what I said. And so what he's doing is he's telling you, don't treat cheaply your association with me. By the way, that verse in the Ten Commandments where it says, do not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. He's not saying don't say the name of the Lord your God in vain. He says, don't take it in vain. Might not have noticed that. In other words, it's not about what you say, it's about how you're living in connection to your relationship to the God of heaven. And so taking the name of the Lord in vain was about treating cheaply your association, your identification with the God of heaven. Very interesting concept. Not to say that you couldn't say the name of the Lord in vain, most certainly you can, but that's really not the intent of that statement And then the third thing that he mentions is call upon me. Why do people call on the Lord? They call on the Lord when they recognize He is stronger than them, and they have need and they can't meet the need. So what's very interesting about offering thanksgiving, paying vows, and calling on the Lord These are all getting at the heart of a person's thinking. And the expression of that is in their gratitude or ingratitude. Or their willingness to follow through with their word or their unwillingness to follow through with their word. Or their willingness to call on him in time and the need. or to try to work it out in their own ways and through their own schemes. So his point is this, I want your heart, not just your practice. Does God have our hearts? Are we truly devoted in heart to the God who has saved us? Then we move to a third group, and that is in verses 16 through 21. And this is slightly different because this group is also part of the covenant community, but he does not describe them in the same way. If you notice in verse 7 he says, hear my people, I will testify against you. I am God, even your God. But when we come down to verse number 16, he says, but unto the wicked, God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statute? Now, when I was studying through this passage, the immediate place that my brain went was, he's talking about the Gentiles who are out there. That's the very first place that my mind my mind went. In fact, even when I was working through and I'm I'm writing down my notes and my thoughts and I'm thinking about this, that is where my brain went immediately But then I paused when I looked at it the second day and I said, well, hold on a second. He says, what hast thou to do to declare my statutes? Why has why shouldest thou take my covenant in thy mouth? All of a sudden I'm realizing something. This is not Gentiles. These are people that are a part of the Jewish community. These are people who are paying lip service. They say I believe God's laws. They're speaking God's laws. I'm a part of his covenant community. They're talking about their association with him. And so all of a sudden, as I started working my way through it, I realized something. He's talking about people who are playing the game, but they're not regenerate. And so his contention with them is this. What hast thou to declare my statutes? Or shouldest take my covenant into thy mouth? These people were not Gentiles who were ignorant of God's ways. They were members of God's covenant community going through the motions of true religion but unregenerate. These are people that they were they were circumcising their boys They were following the Jewish customs of law. They were living the weekly, the monthly patterns throughout the year. They're bringing their sacrifices. They were going through the motions because culturally they had to. But there was no faith in the heart. There was no trust and conviction that these things were pictures of something better to come. They were simply going through the motions. And this is a great danger in any every generation. In the Old Testament, it was a tremendous danger because you talk about a nation that was a theocracy. So if you are not following the customs, you were an outsider. Do you understand? So the peer pressure in Jewish society was to conform to the law in the covenant, not to transgress the law in the covenant. Very different than our situation today in the United States. I say it's 50-50 if you're a Christian. It might be held against you if you're a professing believer. If you're to go back 50, 7500 years ago and you're saying I'm not a Christian, that might have worked against you. Not the same today. It might actually cost you something in your workplace. And so it's a little bit difficult for us to truly wrap our minds around this. But in the Old Testament system, you have people they're following the rules and all the regulations, but they're spiritually dead During the time of Christ, this would have been the person who was a disciple following Jesus, learning his ways, but not believing in him as the Messiah. And there are lots of examples of this in the gospels of people who are following Christ. He makes a hard saying and they go away. And he says, Are you going to leave with them? And what does Peter say? He says, Well, where am I going to go? You have the words of life. Well, what about these other guys? They were disciples, right? They were disciples in name only, but not regenerate in the heart. And in our New Testament, that's a person who's a part of the church but not regenerate. I'll tell you the most dangerous scenario is when you have a person who grows up in the church. They go through the Sunday school, they go through the junior church, they they go through the youth period, and they're very, very comfortable in the setting. But there's never been a genuine repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Maybe even when they were a kid, they prayed a sinner's prayer because their brother did. And they got baptized because their brother did, or some other kid in the in the Sunday school got got baptized, and they just go through the motions. But the bottom line is this: the true faith Is completely misunderstood. And a person can go through a context very comfortable, but unregenerate, very, very dangerous. Could be even today there's someone in the church gathering, but that's you. I have no idea. My desire is not to make someone doubt their salvation if they're saved. But obviously, this text calls us to consider such a scenario. What is the evidence of their true condition? He hit several very specific things. Verse 17. Thou hatest instruction and castest my words behind me. There's pride. Now here's a guy who's going to go through the motions, but in the heart, they're like, I don't believe this at all. This is nonsense. This is a joke. You know, you start seeing this when kids get into junior high and high school. Or then they go to college. They're like, what happened to that kid? Why did they run off the deep end? They ran off the deep end because their heart was already there. Just now they can show you that. They have the freedom to do it. So pride is something, casting off instruction and the word behind them. He goes into their behavior. Verse 18, when you saw a thief That's when you consented. You've been partakers with adulterers, verse 18. Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother. Slander. Verse 21, I kept silence, but thou thought I was altogether such as one as thyself. And so here is this person. They're living a duplicitous life. They're following through with the motions, but the heart says no. And guess what? In their mind, they say, God isn't real. God doesn't care. If he did, he would have dealt with me and he has it. So I'm good. What does he say? You thought I was like you, but he's not. You know what's really interesting? It kind of nails it down. In Romans chapter 2, we see a parallel context where Paul is writing to the Jews. So in chapter 1, he talks about how all the Gentiles, even though they didn't have the law, they had conscience, and they're guilty. He goes to chapter 2. Listen to what he says. He says, Thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever there are that judgest, for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself Thou that judgest doest the same things, and w's sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commit such wickedness Thinkest thou this O man that judges them which do such things and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? Or do you despise the riches in goodness and forbearance and longsuffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? Guess what? If you go through Romans chapter 2, he's going to address all the same things that were mentioned here in Psalm 50. Why? Because he's talking about the same situation. Religious and unregenerate. You know what his point is? His point is this: if God calls out the believer who's living inconsistent. How much more concerned should the person be who's not a Christian, but is dwelling in the context of the church? First Peter four, the time has come that judgment must begin at the house of God, and if it first begin at us, what shall the end of them that obey not the gospel of God? It's a very sobering text. Because he said, if God would call out his own children, what does he have to say to the person that's been a hypocrite all those years? The sober warning in verse 22 is this, consider this, ye that forget God. Lest I tear you in pieces. That's a pretty shocking statement, to be very frank with you. And there be none to deliver. He says, you've forgotten God, you're in great danger, and there's nobody that can save you from that danger. So the question is this. Is that where he ends? The answer is no. You know what I love about the Bible? When the Bible speaks something very, very hard, it always brings a comfort right beside it. And this psalm does not end with the stinging note of consider lest I carry you and there be none to deliver. He brings a second peace into it. And we see this in verse 23. Now consider, whoso offereth praise glorifieth me to him that ordereth his conversation aright, will he see the salvation of God? He gives three very simple instructions to the person that this psalm hits right in the heart. The first word is the word consider. You know what the word consider means? Repent. It means you need to think about who you are. You need to think about where you sit. You need to think about the duplicity of your heart and the hypocrisy. And realize something. You need to come to terms with who you are before God. Consider repentance. The second As he reminds them that they can turn to him and offer praise. Whoso offereth praise glorifies me. You may be in this condition, but you don't have to stay in this condition. The intention of the psalm is not to call you out and tear you apart, leave you there. It's to call you to see the truth and then turn to God. And I love this next statement. To him that ordereth his conversation aright, he will see the salvation of God. You know what he's saying? If you will correct based on what I have said, then you will be a part of the first group. You say, what does he mean order his conversation? Right? What he's basically saying is this: Don't follow the rules and the rituals and the traditions as a hypocrite. Give your sacrifice with faith and humility in your hearts. Look to Jesus, the one who is coming. You will experience salvation. We can be saved from this terrible judgment. There is no person who has been a hypocrite for decades who cannot be saved. None. Sometimes a person gets to the place where they go, you know what? I've been living this life all these years. Nobody knows but me and God. And it's gone to the point where there's no way I could turn to him and accept his salvation because I have done this too long. And this text says, no, it's not true. You can be saved. So what at this point? Even though you are in a great danger, you can still turn to God while there is time. Let me highlight the ultimate truths that are laid out in this text. The first is this the reality of God's sovereignty and judgment are highlighted here. Revelation 20, verse 11, I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth fled away. There was found no place for them. God rules over everything and everyone, and one day all will stand before him. No exceptions to that. The second thing we see is the contrast between a true and a false worship. John 4. You worship you know not what. We know what we worship. The hour cometh and now is that the true worshipers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth. The Father seeketh such to worship him. God is a spirit. They that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. You know what's interesting about this difference between true and false religion? True worship starts with God's grace. A position that is 100% found in him. And the whole motive of true worship is selfless love for God. He did the work. I can say thank you. He loved me first, and that's why I love him. That's true true worship. False worship starts and ends with self. What are people gonna think? What do people see? What makes me feel good? What do I think God should accept? It's all about me, me, me, me, me. I write the rules. I determine what's right and wrong. I I want this to be about me. Even the extent of worshiping, quote unquote, to earn God's favor. It's all about me. True worship has nothing to do with you and me, it's all about Him. False worship is shaping, shapes the minds. False worship is shaped by human minds, not by God's perfect revelation. The third fact is the terror of God's pure justice. 2 Corinthians 5. 11. Knowing the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. No one can stand before God in his own righteousness. Our only hope comes from him. But here's what I think is the greatest and most important thing we can take away. The comfort of God's grace. What's interesting about Psalm 50 is there's a lot of harsh judgment speaking. But how does he end? An invitation. If you will order your praise aright, you will see the salvation of God. It's kind of interesting. That's where he ends. The whole psalm is very negative. Except for the last verse. Because that last verse says there's grace available. Romans 5. 20, where sin abounded, grace did much more abound. As sobering as God's justice is, how much sweeter his grace. Ephesians 2. 4, but God Who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us even when we were dead in sins, he hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace we are saved, and hath raised us together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith, not of yourselves. It is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. You might be sitting here this morning and you say, you know what? I'm the hypocrite. I don't want to tell anybody that, but it's true. God knows. I'm a cultural Christian. I don't I go through all of the rituals, but I'm not regenerate and I know it. What do I do? But God who is rich in mercy. By grace we are saved through faith, not of ourselves, the gift of God, not of works. Turn to Him today, right now, right here. Place your faith in Christ. He's inviting you to call to come to him, to call on the Lord, and to be saved from your sins. There is no day before you die that is too late. And there's also no guarantee of tomorrow. Isaiah 53, 12, He will divide the spoil with the strong because he poured out his soul unto death. was numbered with transgressors, and he bare the sins of many. Hebrews 9, once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. Christ was off once offered to bear the sins of many. That's available for you, friend. You say, well, I'm a Christian. Well, then remind yourself of this over and over and over again. Glory in it. Thank God for it. Remind yourself of his grace that is so rich and so free and so pure. And worship him as you should, with a pure heart. How do you apply these verses to the unregenerate cultural Christian? And I I pray there is not one in the room, but there could be. Or maybe on the live stream, it is possible to sit in the church and play the part of a true Christian but be unregenerate. God's justice should sober everybody If it were not for the cross, there would be no hope. No matter where you've been, no matter what you've done, no matter how long you have been in such a state, there's hope in Christ. So place your faith in him right now. You don't need to come and talk to me about it. I mean you can come and talk to me afterwards if you have any questions. I'd love to talk to you. But it says with the heart, one believes unto righteousness. With the mouth, confession is made into salvation. There in your heart. Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Turn to Him in repentance and in faith. Depend on the work of Christ. In your heart. Ask God to save you from your sins. You say, is there a special prayer? No, there's no special prayer. With a heart one believes. Trust Christ. And to the inconsistent Christian, which I think we all fall here at times. Our practice must reflect a healthy view of God. We must live like the people we are. The old man is dead. So let's reckon ourselves to be dead to sin and alive unto God. Let's not yield our members as instruments of righteousness unto sin, or as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but as instruments of righteousness unto God. We should be a thankful people. Because we're the recipients of his grace. Every morning you should get up and say, God, thank you for the gospel. Thank you for the cross. Thank you for the resurrection. Thank you for giving me the truth. Thank you for my position. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for your righteousness. Thank you that my sins are forgiven and I am cleansed and I'm righteous in Him. Every day we should do that. We should follow through with our commitments. Why? Because our word matters. We are new creatures in Christ. We call ourselves Christians. We belong to Him. Let's not treat cheaply. That association with our Savior. We should live with a humble dependence on Him, not just for our salvation, but also our daily strength, our growth, and our protection. Let's bow our hearts together and ask God to use his word to speak to us today. Father, I thank you for your word. My desire is that these truths would sink into our souls. If someone in our midst is struggling with assurance and they're truly saved, I pray that they'd come and talk to me. We could take a Bible and give them the clear promises of Scripture and remind them of what Christ has done for them and comfort their heart and the position they have. If someone is unregenerate and has lived a lie, I pray that today they would humble themselves in the presence of a holy God. They would acknowledge their sinfulness and their brokenness, but their righteousness is filthy rags, and they'll humbly trust the cross and the resurrection and the righteousness of Christ who died for them. And I pray that they would experience the sweetness of forgiveness and communion with God who has saved them. And Father, I pray for all who are believers here today. May we live consistent with the position we have in Christ. May we be a thankful people, an honest people, a holy people. May we be a people who are overwhelmed with gratitude to you. May we rest in you. I ask it in Christ's name. Amen.