Turn with me to the book of Luke. We are in Luke chapter 18 this morning, and the text that we're looking at is a very short text, but it is packed with very, very important truths. From God's word. And so this morning, as we dig into this text, we're going to see a very simple theme. God's grace. And our redemption. God's grace and our redemption. When we use the term grace, what we mean is that God has given to us Something that is very good because he is good, yet we are so unworthy. We use the term grace, that means that there is nothing in us that has earned this right. It is all the benevolence, the kindness, the goodness of God, his love that is moving him to treat us with such tremendous kindness. And when we use that term redemption, that means that there has literally been a price that has been paid so that we can be reconciled to God. And so those two terms, grace and redemption, are very, very important. for us to understand this morning. So let's go ahead and read in our Bibles, verses 31 down to verse 34. And as I read it, I hope that you'll read it along there in your copy of the Word of God. It says, then He took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man. shall be accomplished. For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated and spit on, and they shall scourge him and put him to death. And the third day he shall rise again. Listen carefully to the next statement. And they understood none. Did you catch that? They understood none of these things, and this saying was hid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really open our understanding to what Jesus is saying. And by the way, we have the great privilege of knowing what he meant because he did it. But they at this moment did not understand. They were confused. Let's ask the Lord to help us to understand this. Lord, as we read the Word of God , Father, I pray that the Spirit of God would take the Word of God and press it on our souls. As we think about this great work of redemption that the Lord Jesus Christ is talking about, here is death for our sins. His resurrection from the dead, his fulfillment of every promise , prophecy that was made in the Old Testament concerning the suffering and the triumph of the Son of Man, I pray that these truths would be understood this morning. I pray that the Spirit of God would illumine our eyes. That we would see them very clearly, that they would sink into our souls and that our hearts would be moved internally. That we would see the tremendous grace of God demonstrated in our redemption. And I pray that we would glory in our great Savior. So, Father, take the word and use it in our midst. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin by kind of reminding you where we've been. Now we are working our way through the book of Luke, and what's great about working our way through a book is that we're able to kind of see themes as they're they're developed over a period of verses and chapters. And so where we have been is there have been three things emphasized about the nature of salvation for people. The first of those things was the necessity of repentance. And what we mean by that It can really be encapsulated by the statement that was made by this very wealthy publican man who went into the temple and he felt the weight of his sin, and this is what he says. He says, God Be merciful to me a sinner. That is really what repentance is. It's recognizing that I cannot in any way earn my way to God. I am a sinner. I have broken God's laws. Anything that I can try to heap up and say, God, look at these things, take them, accept them. They're not acceptable. And so I come to this point where I realize my only hope is Christ. And that's what repentance is. It's when that sinner realizes I need God's mercy, I need Christ. Repentance. It's a complete change of how we look at ourselves. It's a complete change of how we look at sin. It's a complete change in how we look at Christ. It is God in His mercy opening our eyes to our absolute inability to come to Him through anything that we do. Repentance. The second thing that's been emphasized in this section of Scripture is the necessity of childlike faith. And when we talk about salvation, we are saved by grace through faith. And you say, well, what is faith? Faith is simply taking God at His Word. What He says He will do, I believe that in fact he will do it. What he says that he did, I believe that he has done it, and so I respond as depending on that thing. What he says he will do in the future, I'm accepting that. I am living as if that is true. And the way that he describes it in those verses is he says, unless you become as a little child, you cannot enter into the kingdom of God. And so repentance is, God be merciful to me, a sinner. Childlike faith is I recognize I have no basis in myself to come. I simply have one hope, that's Jesus, and I'm humbly trusting and what he did for me on the cross. The third thing that was emphasized is in that interaction between Christ and that man who says, Good master, what good thing can I do to inherit eternal life? And that is the necessity of a correct understanding of righteousness. The standard that God judges us by is not the standard that's in our own head. The standard that God judges us by is not the standard that we impose on other people. The standard that God judges us by is his perfect righteousness. He, the creator, is the standard. And so when Jesus hears these words from this man, he says, none is righteous. He says, how can you say these things? There is none righteous but God. You know the commandments. So so what is the point? He's like, if you want to be saved, number one, you have to come to a point of humility. Number two, you have to come to a point of trust. Number three, you have to come to a point where you realize His standard is the only standard that matters, not your standard. That is all really focused in on our response to the gospel. But let me tell you something: God doesn't save people because of repentance. God doesn't save people because of faith. God doesn't save people because they understand his standard is different than their standard. God saves because of Christ's work. In other words, you can repent all you want, you can believe all you want, you can elevate the standard of God's righteousness all you want. But if there's no cross. And there's no Savior . . and there's no resurrection. There is no salvation. There is no redemption. That's why the Bible says we are saved by grace through faith. There has to be a foundation that we trust in. And so what I love about this little passage that we're looking at this morning is this goes from how we respond to the gospel to the heart of the gospel itself. What is the object of our faith when we believe? What is the basis of our salvation? The answer to the first question is found in the statement. All things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. The object of our faith, when we trust, is in what God said he would do. All things written in the prophets. And we're going to talk about that in just a second. We're going to kind of expand that so we have the content, not just the statement. Okay, all things in the prophets, but what are those things? We'll talk about that. And the second is the actual basis of our salvation. He will be put to death, and the third day he will rise again. So that is what we are doing when we dig into this passage of Scripture. We are kind of continuing this flow where he talks about humbling oneself before God, trusting in the finished work of Christ, understanding God's righteous standard, and now here is the basis of our salvation, the object of our faith. I'll summarize it like this. God demonstrated his grace by zealously fulfilling all his redemptive promises. He wants us to rejoice in this merciful plan of redemption. And so if we're going to do that, we have to understand the text in front of us. So let's go ahead and jump in one piece at a time. The first truth I want you to notice from this text is all about God's faithfulness to his word. Listen to this statement in verse 31. Then he took unto him the twelve and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem. And all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. This is how I would sort of summarize what this statement means. Christ affirms that God's faithfulness to his redemptive promise reveals his grace. If God said he's going to do a thing, God's going to do the thing. And so he's emphasizing that in this statement here, that all things written of the prophets concerning the Son of Man will be accomplished. There are two verses that come to mind when I think about this statement. The first is in Matthew chapter 5, verse 18. We know this portion of the Word of God because this is the Sermon on the Mount. And listen carefully to what Jesus says in that sermon. He says, till heaven and earth pass. One jot or one tittle of the law shall in no wise pass till all be fulfilled. It's a really interesting statement. Till heaven and earth pass, not one jot or one tittle of the law shall pass away till all be fulfilled. You say, well, what does that mean? The simplest way I can put it is this. Everything that God has promised is going to come to pass exactly as he said it would. In fact, when we talk about a jot or we talk about a tittle, we're talking about a portion of a letter that distinguishes two letters in the Hebrew Old Testament. And so he's basically saying every single word matters because what those words are saying are communicating promises. That are pointing forward to a person. And this person is going to fulfill those things. And so it's absolutely impossible for God's word to fall flat. It's going to be fulfilled 100%. That's what he's saying. But then there's a second statement that comes to mind. This is not in the beginning of Christ's ministry, this is at the end of Christ's ministry. Listen to what it says in Luke 24, verse 26. Christ says, ought not the Christ to have suffered these things and to have entered into his glory and beginning at Moses? And all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. This is amazing. This is what Jesus is doing. At the beginning of his ministry, he says, I promise you, no promise in the Word of God concerning the Messiah is going to fall. It's all going to be fulfilled. And then after the cross and after the resurrection, you have these people that are walking on the road to Emmaus, and Christ comes alongside. He's walking with them. And they're just there they don't understand what's going on in Jerusalem. We thought this was the Messiah. He's died. It was a horrible thing. People are saying that he is risen. We don't know how to make sense of this. And as he's talking to them, he's like, what are you talking about? And they start telling him, you've never heard these things, you don't know what's going on. And here they are walking in the dark. And all of a sudden he starts explaining to them from the law from the prophets, all of these scriptures referring to the Messiah. And he says, well, these things had to take place. Because this passage of scripture said that the Messiah was going to do this, and this passage of Scripture said the Messiah is going to do this, and this passage said he's going to do this, and he just goes through all these places. Could you imagine what that would have been like? That would have been amazing. And they're like, oh. And then they realize they're talking to him. They're talking to the Messiah Himself, the one who fulfilled all these things. That is the sense of verse 31. Second question I want to the question I want to ask is, well, what are some of the things that he's talking about? The things that were fulfilled concerning himself. Two passages I want to mention. I mean, we could go to a lot of them, but two of them really, really stand out. The first one is in Daniel chapter 9, verse 26. Listen to what it says. After three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not from self. Now, if you were to dig into this promise here, what you would realize is that there are two things that are being taught in Daniel chapter 9, verse 26. One thing would be the timing of when Christ came into Jerusalem and was crucified and paid the penalty for our sins. It was a time-oriented fulfillment. But the second is the nature of what he would do. Notice the statement, Messiah will be cut off, but what? Not for himself. That means that when he dies, it's not going to be a death he deserved, it's a death that someone else deserved. Pretty interesting statement, isn't it? The other passage I want you to turn to is Isaiah 53. In fact, I'd encourage you to turn there because I'm going to reference several portions of it, and it will be very helpful for you. to see it for yourself as we look in Isaiah 53. Listen to some of these statements. The first one, Isaiah 53 verse number 3. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. Now, what is this passage of Scripture telling us about the Messiah? Well, it's telling us that when he comes, he's going to be rejected, and he's going to be mocked, and he's going to be treated unjustly. In fact, one of the reasons that many people rejected the Messiah, and even to this day still reject the Messiah is they say, I don't understand how a Savior could suffer that kind of humiliation, despised, rejected, acquainted with grief, a man of sorrows. But it had to be that way, because God promised it would. He would be rejected and mocked. Then we move forward to the next verse, verses 4, 5, and 6. Listen to what it says. Surely he hath borne our griefs. And carried our sorrows. He was wounded for, did you catch that word? For our transgressions. Hold on a second. Hold on a second. Wounded for my transgressions, what is that? That's called my sin placed on Christ. Him being punished in my place. How do you describe it any other way? Wounded for our transgressors, bruised for our iniquities. Do you see how this is a substitutionary death? Our transgressions placed on Christ, our iniquities placed on Christ. Isaiah 53, 6. All we like sheep have gone astray. We've turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. In fact, what Christ was doing was pictured every single time they took an offering up to the temple and they killed that offering, and that offering shed its blood, and it was burned as a sacrifice to God. That was a picture of the sacrifice of Christ. He would literally take our sins on himself, and he would be punished in our place. He would carry our humiliation and he would carry our sorrows. He would carry what we deserved on himself. Literally, he would bear our iniquities and endure our punishment. When you see what Jesus experienced on the cross, no, he didn't deserve any of it. We deserve it. Thirdly, verse 5, the chastisement, that's an interesting word, of our peace was upon him. Now, what is chastisement? Chastisement is punishment. When we use the word peace, that means that there is a brokenness between us and God. In fact, When the Bible talks about us as sinners, it says that we are by nature the children of wrath. We are under his judgment. We are under his condemnation. When the Bible talks about our relationship to God, it even uses terms like we're at enmity with God. And so here we are, we have separated ourselves from God. And there is a punishment that has to be mediated out in order for us to be brought to him. And guess what? Christ says, I will do it for you. He literally takes on himself the chastisement that provides peace between us and God. We don't provide that. He provides it in himself. You know the story of Abraham and Isaac and they're going up there to Mount Moriah? And and Isaac is with his dad and he says, Dad, I see fire and I see wood, but I see no sacrifice. And what does he say? God will provide himself a ram God will provide himself a sacrifice. And guess what? He did it. He provided himself a sacrifice. That's what Jesus did. He provided himself the sacrifice. We would be pun he would be punished in our place. This is at the heart of the gospel. You don't have a gospel if you don't believe this This is what the cross is all about. The cross wasn't a mistake. The cross was an absolute necessity. The cross demonstrated that the justice of God had to be mediated out on our sin debt. Then we move on to verses 10 and 11. It says it pleased the Lord to British him. Again, he's using the terminology. of of discipline here. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He has put him to grief when thou shalt make his soul. Listen to the statement. An offering for sin. He shall see his seed. He shall prolong his days. The pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. And you know what's really interesting about that statement? It's really hard to know when you see that statement, he shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. The question is, who's satisfied? You can really look at it on two levels. On one level, the Father who has poured out his judgment on the Son is satisfied. It is finished. And on the other side, the son looks at this terrible cup that he had to drink so we could be redeemed, and he says, I'm glad it's done. He has accepted it. Triumph. He's going to be satisfied. By his knowledge, my righteous servant will justify many. How? How's he going to? Because he's going to bear their iniquities. So when when Jesus talks about all the things that are talked about concerning the Son of Man, well this would be at least a portion of it. This would be the heart of it. And so when Christ is saying, if they had been reading the book of Isaiah and they had been listening very carefully every time it was expounded when they went into the synagogue They should have understood , that he would be rejected, he would bear iniquity, he would endure punishment, he would be punished in our place. God's wrath against our sin would be removed through the death of Christ upon the cross. In other words, they would understand God's grace is magnified through his faithfulness to his word Second thing I want you to notice is that Christ predicted the specific ways these prophecies would be fulfilled. Now And when we read the book of Isaiah, he says this is going to happen, but you've got to realize the book of Isaiah was written hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years before Christ was born, before Christ came and he taught and and and he talked about these events. And so here is Christ saying all of the stuff that was talked about It's going to be fulfilled, and here's how it's going to be fulfilled. Interesting statement, verses 32 and 33. It says, he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles. And shall be mocked and spitefully entreated and spitted on. They shall scourge him and put him to death. And the third day he shall rise again Christ predicted the specific ways that these prophecies would be fulfilled. And the idea was that when these disciples witnessed this, then they would go. That's what he's talking about. They get it. The light comes on. They understand the heart of what's saying. But here is the key statement that I don't want you to miss He shall be delivered unto the Gentiles. Question, who delivered Christ? You ever thought about that? Who delivered Christ? Let me give you a couple of passages in the scripture to chew on before I answer that question. Listen to John chapter 7, verse 30. Then they sought to take hold on him, but no man laid hands on him because his hour was not yet come. That's an interesting statement, isn't it? John 8 verse 20, these things spake Jesus in the treasury as he taught in the temple, and no man laid hands on him, for his hour had not yet come. John 13, 1. Now therefore the feast of the Passover, when Jesus knew that his hour had come, that he should depart out of this world unto his Father. having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end. Notice how it changed. In in those other passages it says, His hour had not come, his hour had not come. Knowing his hour had come. What's the difference? This was not mistake. This was not random chance. This was a sovereign God who had a timetable of redemption talked about all the way in the book of Daniel. And here it is falling into place exactly how he said it would occur. John chapter 17, verse 1 These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour has come. Glorify thy son, that thy son also may glorify thee. I'm going to go back. And answer the question by saying this. The Father delivered up the Son to the Gentiles. Listen to Acts chapter 2, verse 23. Him Being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain. Let me tell you something. If it was not the Father's will, this would have never happened. And if it was not the Father's timetable This would not have happened any other way. It happened when it did. It happened how it did for a purpose that was determined by the Father even before the foundation of the world. This is no mistake, folks. What does this show you? God is faithful to his word But it wasn't just the Father who delivered up the Son to the Gentiles. Listen to Luke chapter 23, verse 46. And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit. And having said this thus, he what? Gave up the ghost. You know who delivered himself? The Son did Takes you back to the garden, the garden of Gethsemane, and there is Christ. He is there in the garden, he's crying, Father, if it is possible, let this cup pass from me. Yet what does he say? Not my will. But yours be done. Do you see how both sides are there? The Father's will and the son 's submission to his will? He understands that statement. If it is possible, what does that tell you? It's not. It had to come this way. Christ had to pay for our sins. We don't get salvation just because God loves people and wants to boom throw it to everybody. We get salvation because Christ paid. The penalty for our sins. We are redeemed to God through the death of His Son. And we see this concept so explicitly predicted in Isaiah 53. 10. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. You see the will of the Father in that text. You see the will of the Son in that text. You see that it was not the Jews taking Jesus' death life from him. It was not the Gentiles taking Jesus' life from him. Those people were doing what they wanted to do, but it was the will of the Father to cause our redemption to come through such a way. What were the immediate effects? Well he says it. He would be mocked. He'd be spitefully entreated. He'd be spat upon. He would be scourged. He would be put to death. He would rise from the dead. Folks, our salvation could not come any other way. You say, well, what is the theological significance of this deliverance? Let me read to you a couple of scriptures so that they really hit home. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, he hath made him to be sin for us, who knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in him What does that mean? He took our sin. 1 Peter 3. 18, Christ also suffered once. for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit. What does that mean? The just one took the place of the unjust one. That's me, that's you. 1 Peter 2. 21, Christ also suffered for us who did no sin, neither was any guile found in his mouth who when he was reviled reviled not again. When he suffered, he threatened not, but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously, who his own self bore our sins in his own body on the tree. What does that mean? He suffered for us, bearing our sins in his own body. Galatians 3:13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, cursed of God is everyone that hangeth on a tree. Who punished the Son? The Father. When we think about this, we need to realize that our salvation, while it is free to us, was not free to Him. It was paid in full by the substitutionary death of the Lord Jesus Christ. Romans 5. 8, God commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. If when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by His life. What's the point? God 's grace has been magnified through the nature of his redemptive plan. You know, when we think about the cross, it's not a pretty sight But it's a necessity because sin before a holy God is that serious Truth number three, and this to me is the most staggering of all the things that have been said, perhaps, the disciples failed to comprehend what he was saying. Look at what it says in verse 34. And they understood none of these things. Like, what do you mean they didn't understand it? It was hid from them. Hold on a second. How is that even possible? Neither knew they the things which were spoken. In other words, when Jesus says these things, the disciples are like, what are you talking about? This is not something that you should do. Why is that? Because in their time , the prevailing theme of the way people fought of the Messiah was not die for my sins. but rather come and crush Rome. I mean that's the way they thought of Messiah. But Jesus had to come and die. He had to be that sin offering so that we could be reconciled to God. He was our peace offering that brings us to God. Three amazing statements. They understood none of these things. The saying was hid from them. Neither knew they the things which were spoken. And I want to just for a second dwell on how significant this is. The disciples enjoyed more access to Scripture than you and I can appreciate. How many of you have read through the Old Testament and had it preached week in and week out your entire life? How many of you have how y how many of you have memorized massive portions of the Old Testament? A lot of people say, I'm I'm a New Testament Christian, so I'm in the New Testament. I'm not I'm not memorizing the Old Testament. You get to you get to the book book of Leviticus and you're like, yeah, skip through that, skip through that, skip through that. Genesis, I'll let's talk about Joseph. We get to Acts, let's talk about them being delivered out of slavery into Egypt. But I don't want to get into all his other details But here are these people who who gave sacrifices all the time throughout the year. They had all these festive occasions. They had the scriptures open before them continually, and they didn't get it. They didn't understand what was being stated. It's absolutely stunning, but it's true. They had personally witnessed Christ's ministry for over three years. I mean, think about this. They got to see Jesus give sight to blind people. They got to see Jesus cast out devils. They got to see the confrontation between Christ and the religious leaders. They got to hear all of his teaching. They got to hear him expound Old Testament context concepts. They heard all of these things. They witnessed all these interactions. They knew about stories like Nicodemus and the woman at the well and and the ruler who comes to Jesus, what good thing can I do to inherit the kingdom? They heard all those things And let me add this. This is at least the third time in the book of Luke that this kind of an interaction is stated. For instance, in Luke 9. The Son of Man must suffer many things and be rejected of the elders and the chief priests and the scribes, and be slain and be raised the third day. Luke 17. He must suffer many things and be rejected of this generation. And now the text in front of us, they will scourge him, put him to death, and the third day shall rise again. You would think that the disciples would be like, I think I've heard this before. It's like you're sitting in the class and and and the teacher throws something out there and and everybody just look at them and they're like, Do you realize this is the third time I've asked you this question today? Are you guys paying attention? You know, that kind of a thing. They should have understood. But they didn't get it. The question is why? How is this even possible that people had so much access to the information, that people had witnessed all the things that they had witnessed, the people that heard all the teachings of Christ, the people that had heard three times at least. I'm going to die. I'm going to rise from the dead. I'm going to be delivered to the Gentiles. Why didn't they get it? It's because it's the mercy and grace of God that opens people's eyes to the truth. And it's like there were scales in their eyes. Now it wouldn't say that way. After the cross and after the resurrection, they would understand They would get it. It would all come together. It would all make sense. But it's because God, in his grace and his mercy, had to work through those circumstances and he had to open their eyes by his gracious work. And I want to remind you of something that's very important here. If God left you alone, you'd never be a Christian. If God didn't come to you, and God didn't bring his word to you, and God didn't convict you of sin and righteousness and judgment, you would never be a Christian. May I add another thing? The fact that you're here today, and the fact that you're hearing this, and the fact that there's something going on inside your heart that's like, what's going on? That's the mercy and grace of God. That's God having reached to you and drawing you to Himself through His Word. He does the work. The Spirit confronts us. John 16. 8. When he is come, he will reprove the world of sin and righteousness and judgment. You know what the Holy Spirit does? He says, you're a sinner. God's standard of righteousness is unattainable to you. He's going to judge you. Turn to Christ. That's what he does. He shines the light of the gospel into our hearts. 2 Corinthians 4, 6. God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness. hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God and the face of Jesus Christ. Here is kind of the picture here. Here is somebody who's stumbling in the darkness. A lot of hurt, a lot of pain, a lot of frustration, a lot of misery, and they don't even understand why it's like that And they don't understand that there's a God in heaven who made them, and a God in God in heaven who loves them and cares about them, and though they are separated from him because of sin, he has done everything possible that they can be brought into his presence He has done all the work necessary for them to be reconciled to him, but they don't see it. They don't understand it. It doesn't make sense. They're stumbling in the dark. And you know what God does? He shines the light of the gospel into their life. And all of a sudden, he draws their attention to the truth. He does it. They're not looking for him. It says, there's none that understands. There's none that seeks after God. He seeks them. He comes to them. He draws them to himself. And so the Spirit of God convicts of sin and righteousness and judgment. And the Spirit of God sheds light into the darkness of our hearts so that we can see something we did not have the ability to see before. James 1. 21, he implants the seed of the gospel into our hearts. He says, receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls. And just like somebody plants a seed in the dirt, and that seed begins to germinate, and there's life that comes from that soil. The gospel does that kind of a work in the heart of a person that God has driven his word into their souls. And I love this statement in 1 Thessalonians 1:5. Our gospel came not unto you with word only, but also in power, in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance. What is he saying? He causes the word to take effect in our hearts. Now, you know what's amazing? Those disciples heard all this stuff and saw none of it. On the other side of the cross, on the other side of the resurrection, they got it. And you could be sitting here this morning And literally you came here, or you could be listening on the live stream and you and you turn this on for whatever reason. Maybe somebody invited you, maybe you just happened to find it. On online, I don't know. I mean people follow from all kinds of interesting places. Sometimes they come across a video and they're like, they just get, you know, get drawn in. They start listening. Surprising, it could happen. That would be the mercy of God, I promise you. And all of a sudden, they start feeling this weight in their soul. They start realizing that that emptiness because they don't know Christ. Because they're living a life that is separated from God and isolated from Him. And all of a sudden they see He's my creator. He loves me. He desires to save me. And the lights come on. God draws them to himself. This is the work of God This is how God awakens the eyes of a sinner and draws him to himself. And I asked the question, what are you supposed to do if God's doing that? Repent and believe. Respond to the gospel. Trust in what he's done for you. God 's grace is magnified when blinded eyes are opened to the significance of the gospel. And so you know what each of these points do? They show us that God's grace is involved. God's grace gave us the word. God's grace accomplished what he promised. God's grace provided the redemptive plan, and God's grace accomplished the redemptive plan. And God's grace brings the gospel and God's grace opens our eyes. And he does it very mercifully and he does it very kindly. So the question is, how do we apply this in front of us today? Well, the application is God wants us to rejoice in his merciful plan of redemption. But not everybody here is. Not everybody rejoices in God's plan of redemption because some don't understand it. And you know what God's doing this morning? Let's turn the light on. He's showing you from the Word of God that you cannot come to God save through Christ. You could not come to God save through his righteousness. You could not come to God save through his death on the cross. You could not come to God save through his triumph over death in the resurrection. And all this is done so that you can be brought to God. And so God says, I want you to rejoice in the gospel. You've got to understand what's in front of you. You need to ponder these things. You need to consider the personal ramifications. You are the sinner who needs to be saved. You are the sinner Christ died for. You are the sinner who must turn to God and trust in what he did for you on that cross. Secondly, if you've come under this conviction of the Spirit, don't turn away from the work. He is drawing you. Humble yourself. Take God His word. Rest in Christ's work on the cross. Rest in his resurrection from the dead. Rejoice in what he's done for you. What does the scripture say in Romans chapter 10? It says, how can they call on him whom they've not believed? And how can they believe on him of whom they've not heard? How can they hear without a preacher? Faith comes by hearing, hearing by the word of God. And what's amazing is he says this: God has sent out his messengers. And that's why you're hearing the word, and that's why this is going on in your heart. That conviction is God's merciful work. Saying, turn to me. Trust in what I've done for you on the cross. If you cannot rejoice in this work because you've not understood it, ponder it. If you can't rejoice in this work because you've never trusted it, trust in it. And for the rest of us, we might need a renewed sense of gratitude and joy about this. You know, a lot of Christians, in their minds, the Christian life is I know that there's the cross and I know that there's a resurrection and that's all important. It's good to have unsaved people hear the gospel, but I'm a Christian. I don't need to hear this anymore. No, no, that's not true at all. We as God's people need to hear the gospel all the time. Because what does it do? It reminds us to ponder God's grace despite our sinfulness and our brokenness. Christians shouldn't be condescending, nasty, rude people. Christians shouldn't be proud people. Christians should be humble people. Why? Because it's the grace of God that gives us this position. We need to ponder this grace. We need to ponder his grace that promised what was absolutely improbable. We need to ponder the fact that he kept his word We need to ponder the fact that his grace is what delivered up Christ to bear our sins, to suffer our punishment, to remove our guilt. We need to ponder his grace that loves us even when we're unlovely and keeps us by the powerful hand of our Father forever. It's not our strength that holds our salvation. It's his. It's not our love that keeps our salvation. It's his. It's not our work that secures our salvation. It's his. Salvation is a gift. It's by grace, through faith. It's not of ourselves. It's the gift of God. It's not of works. Lest anyone should boast. Let's bow together for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we close in prayer, I'm just going to ask a simple question. I'm not going to call out anybody or ask you to come forward or anything like that. I just want to ask you, do you know for sure? When you die, you're going to stand before God and enter into eternity with Him. Have you placed your faith in Christ? Might be that this morning the Spirit of God is really working in your heart You wouldn't have known how to express that. You just knew something was going on in your heart. You felt this conviction and this need to trust Christ, and you didn't know how to describe it. If you don't know for sure you're saved and you'd like to speak with someone, I would be very happy to talk to you, or my wife, or another man, or another lady in the church. We'd love to talk to you. Point you to the scriptures and encourage you to trust Christ as your Savior. Do not leave this place if you're uncertain of your salvation. Come to us. Reach out to us. We want to talk to you. We want to be a help to you. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to take his word and really press it on our souls. Father, thank you for your word. You know the struggles in every heart You know believers that have really drifted away from a a genuine love for you and a sense of Comfort and security in you, joy , gratitude. I pray that this morning you would draw them closely to yourself and they would recognize what a great Savior you are. Father, maybe there are some who have heard this message this morning and in fact they've never trusted Christ. They don't know that comfort. They don't know that joy. They don't know that peace. They don't know the freedom that is available to them because they've never taken you at your word and trusted in Christ's sacrifice on their behalf. And so I pray that you would draw them to yourself And I pray that today would be the day of salvation, that they would repent and believe in the gospel. Father, as we leave this place, may our hearts be so richly warmed by the truths of Scripture. May we rejoice in you and glory in your goodness. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen