Good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our midweek study and uh prayer time and looking forward to what we're going to be doing this evening and we're going to start a new sermon series and it's going to be through the book of First Corinthians. And uh this evening the goal is to kind of tell the story of how The church at Corinth became a church, and so that's what we're going to be doing. We're going to talk a lot a lot about uh uh the background of the church and a little bit about the history of the area where that church was planted, and so I'm hoping that as we work our way through these details It'll help you to understand some things that will be practical as we work our way through the book of 1 Corinthians. And also I think that the thing things that we'll talk about this evening will be very encouraging to you, especially when we think about Missions Month. So let's be all together for prayer and then we will jump into the text in front of us. Father, we're so grateful for another opportunity to gather together as a church family. And I pray that tonight as we look into your word, that the Spirit of God would move in our hearts. and move in our midst. As we look at these texts, as we think about the truths that are in front of us, help these things to really stick in our hearts and help us to see the way that you're able to move and work in very difficult circumstances. And I pray that it would give us insight into the kind of God that you are, and it would give us a firm foundation that our feet would stand upon. Bless our time together of prayer. May it be very encouraging, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, the text in front of us is Acts chapter 18, and we're going to read verses 1 through 11 together tonight. And a lot of times when you start a sermon series, especially in an epistle, or if you were teaching a class through one of the epistles, there would be a lot of background information that's talked about. And that's kind of what I'm doing tonight, but I'm not going to do it in a lecture format at all. I want to tell it like a story. I want to move through the text that's in front of us. But I really want us to see what it tells us about how God works in very difficult and in dark places. And so let's go ahead and pick up in verse 1 of chapter 18. It says, after these things Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy. with his wife Priscilla, because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome. And he came and he came unto them, and because he was of the same craft he abode with them and and wrought, for by their occupation they were tent makers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. And when they opposed themselves and blasphemed, he shook his raiment and said unto them, Your blood be on your own heads. I am clean, from henceforth I will go into the Gentiles. And he departed thence and entered into a certain man's house named Justice. one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue. And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house And many of the Corinthians hearing believed and were baptized. Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision. Be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace, for I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee. For I have much people in this city And he continued there a year and six months teaching the word of God among them. Now the topic in front of us is God's providence and the Corinthian church. And if I was to ask you who planted the church at Corinth, you would say, well, it was the Apostle Paul. And if I was to ask you, well, how was he able to accomplish This church plant, you would say, well, it was by the work of the Spirit. And those two answers would be absolutely correct. However, while they are correct, they they are a very shallow understanding of how Paul by the Spirit's enabling was able to plant this church at Corinth. And I think a lot of times when we talk about the church at Corinth, we we really give it a very bad rap. We say if there's any church in the New Testament, we would not want to be like it would be the church at Corinth. And That's very true, okay? But one of the things that's fascinating about this church is that it really has a great story. God used this church in some interesting ways. And you're going to hopefully see some of that tonight. So, first of all, let me give you a summary of the text in front of us. And then tell you a little bit about the city where this church was planted. The birth of the church at Corinth is a powerful testimony to God's kind providence and some of history's darkest regions. God wants us to take great comfort in the way that he governs the ordinary course of life. Now every single city or every single church is planted in a community. And when you think about the community that you live in, that community is made up of people, and every single community has personality. So, I mean there is a unique personality in An Arundel County. So if you live in Pasadena , Or if you live in Columbia, I guess that's not technically Hornando County, or you live kind of where I live in Hanover, or if you live in Annapolis, or if you live in Crownsville, or you live in Severn, let me tell you, we're all in the same county But those communities are different, okay? The personalities of the people are different in those communities. Even the demographics in those communities are different And then if you were to talk about the the the state of Maryland, I mean Baltimore City, I mean you cut that one up, and there's some places in Baltimore City, it's like a totally different country than other parts of Baltimore City. Or if you're to go to Carroll County or you're to go to the Eastern Shore and then you go to Montgomery or Prince George's County. These are like totally different places. Well, whether we like to think about it or not, a church planted in a community is affected by the town that it's planted in. And the people that are in that church are people who are from that community. The Church of Corinth is no different. The church was in a city. And if we don't understand some things about the city, we won't appreciate some of what God did and really the power of the gospel in transforming the lives of the people there. So first of all, Corinth has a fascinating history and culture. And it's very unique if you compare Corinth to some of the other cities that were that were in that time period. About 200 years before the planting of the church at Corinth, there was a thriving population living on an isthmus here. They're basically two harbors, and so it was a very strategic location. So what would actually happen was they would bring ships to that location, the first port, they would carry goods across the isthmus where Corinth was. And then they would go to the other port and then they would send things out because it was it was safer for shipping. And so it was a thriving community, it was a wealthy and prosperous community, but it came under the ire of the Romans. And so about 200 years before what we're talking about here, the Romans came in and they completely wiped out the city. They laid siege on it, they destroyed it, and nobody lived there for a hundred years. And then a Roman governor who you know of, Julius Caesar, I say governor, that's probably the wrong word. Julius Caesar, very well-known person, said, you know what, we should rebuild that city. And so he decided to make this a cosmopolitan city. And it was a special city because people from all over the Roman Empire, they called it a colony, they sent people there. And there was a massive concentration of people who were very business oriented. They were extremely prosperous, extremely wealthy. And by the time that the city had been built and people were inhabiting the city, it was probably the most beautiful city. in the Roman Empire in that region at that time. People were pretty proud of that. And so this city provided lots of opportunities for people. to leave their culture, to leave their generational roots, to leave the ethical norms of the regions that they were from, and to live an independent, affluent life in a very uniquely Corinthian way. I'll give you an example of a city like that in the United States. Las Vegas, Nevada. A lot of people that live in Las Vegas, Nevada. They weren't born and raised in Las Vegas. Now there are people that were born and raised in Las Vegas, but most of the people, if you were to just go out and knock on people's doors and introduce yourself to people, And get to know them, you would find out that a huge portion of those people did not come to that city by birth. They're not a part of a culture that has deep roots They came for a reason, probably when they were in their twenties, a lot of them. Or maybe it was a job-related issue. And so when you have a city that's like that. Where people are extremely wealthy. And because they're extremely wealthy, they have a lot of leisure. And people are coming to leave their roots. And to come to a place where nobody knows them, you can only imagine how licentious this city of Corinth became. It was known for freedom in every sense of the concept. It was very hedonistic, especially in its religious practices. And there's a lot of political maneuvering in the city. And what's interesting about this concept of the political maneuvering in the city and the affluence and the ease, all of this is leading to the kinds of problems that we read about that are addressed in 1 Corinthians. So you think about the divisions between the rich and the poor. Guess what? There's a reason that that was a problem in Corinth It was a part of the culture of the city. There was a reason that there was so much immorality that Paul had to directly address to the Corinthians. Why? Because it was a very licentious city. He had to talk about issues like what do you do with meat offered unto idols and some of these other practices that say they seem so foreign to us. We can't even imagine such a situation. Why does he bring these things up? Well, because that's the way the city was It was also a city that was known for its athletic prowess. And we we think of the Olympic Games. Well, they had something called the Isthmian Games that would have taken place in that region on a regular basis. And so if I was to summarize it, the city of Corinth was modern America , you say, is that fair? I think it is. I really do. In fact, if you just think about the political discussion today and the positions that are being debated, we're a very licentious time in history, aren't we? Very affluent. I mean people worship football. Let's just be honest. I mean that is like not just the national pastime. That's the national Religion. More people watch football on Sunday than go to church. I guarantee it. By massive numbers. The reason I bring this up is to say this. We go to the book of 1 Corinthians, we work our way through those various passages, the things that Paul addresses. We need them. We need them desperately. Human nature is no different today than it was at that time. And so the first thing I'd like us to do this evening is I'd like us to look at the birth of the church and how its birth is a powerful testimony to God's gracious hand of providence. Now in order to do that, we actually have to go all the way back to chapter 16. And I'm not going to work my way through the text because we would literally be here for hours to work our way through these texts. So I've tried to just summarize it so you can kind of get the basic storyline to appreciate why this is such a powerful example, testimony to the gracious hand of God's providence at work. The story starts in Acts chapter 16 and verses 6 through 10. And here is Paul. He is at a location called Troaz, and this is at the top of Asia Minor, where we have modern-day Turkey. And Paul's desire was to go down to Asia. Now, when he says Asia in the text, we're thinking like China or India. But that is not what is in Paul's mind when he wants to go to Asia. He wants to go to modern-day Turkey. And there is a city that is very prominent in this region called Ephesus. And he's eventually going to get there, but it's going to take him probably close to two years before he actually goes to the city. But in Paul's mind, that's the place that he wants to go to minister. But in Acts chapter 16, we pick up this story with God disrupting Paul's plan. Here's what it says in Acts 16, 6. Now When they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia, they were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. Now, this is an odd thing, is it not? Doesn't God want people to be saved? Yes, he does. It's his desire. Don't people have to hear the gospel in order to get saved? The answer is yes, they do. So why is God saying to this man Paul who is ready to preach the gospel, you can't go there? Well, at that moment you don't know. But by the end of the story you will know because, well, I don't want to get there too soon. He's forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. And after this They were come to Mysia, then they essayed to go to Bethanya, but the spirit suffered them not. They passed by Mysia and came down to Troaz, and a vision appeared to Paul in the night. And there stood a man of Macedonia. Now Macedonia is the region where we have like modern-day Greece. Okay? So he's in Turkey. And he's at the strait between there, between Turkey and Greece, there in Troaz, and he has this vision, the Macedonian vision. And it says that the man stood and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. After he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavored. To go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel unto them. Now, before we get to the church at Corinth, the reason that Paul goes to Corinth It's because of this series of providential interventions, some through miraculous means and some through ordinary means, but in no way less or more the hand of God working. Paul gets the Corinth at the time that he does with the people that he does in God's perfect timing. Second thing we see is that this disruption was one of the most significant moments in church history. Now, when you're living through something that God is doing, a lot of times you you don't have the ability to see it. You really don't The way that God works when it comes to the moment-by-moment things that we experience, for the most part, are extremely ordinary. We don't have the ability to see them. God hasn't given us that insight. And then as things work their way out, as God is working in our lives through circumstances, it's amazing how you look back and you see the hand of God working here and here and here and all the way through those different things. Well, that's what we're going to see in this particular situation. God's intervention at Troaz, the Macedonian vision, is something that's going to lead to a lot of impact on church history. You may not realize this, but at least half of your New Testament is connected directly to that decision That the Spirit of God said, you may not go into Asia. You've got to go into Macedonia. You say, how in the world is that the case? Well, you'll see in a minute. So the first stop that they make is in the town of Philippi. I think I have a picture up there, and I'm not going to be able to read it, but what I want you to notice is there's a ring of cities there. Those ring of cities are the cities that he's going to hit one by one by one. The first of those cities that he's going to come to is the city of Philippi. And we read about this in Acts chapter 16. And by the way, I love the story of the planting and the starting of the church at Philippi, but we're not going to get into all the details tonight. But what I want to do is I want to just give you kind of an overview. And you read about this in verses 12 through 40. This was one of only two places in the book of Acts where Paul is persecuted by Gentiles. It's kind of interesting. In fact, that is a theme that is going to be presented in the book of Luke. Most of the time, when Paul went and preached the gospel and he goes into the synagogue, The disruption in the city is going to come from the Jewish the Jewish people in the synagogue who rejected the gospel. But this situation will be different. And the reason that it's different is because the people's trade is going to be disrupted by the preaching of the gospel And that makes them very angry. And because of that, they're going to go after Paul. And now the trade that is being disrupted is these people have a woman who is able to foretell the future. At least that is what they are saying she's able to do. And as she sees them, she follows him and she says, These are servants of the Most High God. And then Paul turns around and he rebukes her and he frees her from this demon oppression and she becomes like a normal person and she becomes a believer. And all of a sudden these guys go, Well, like this guy Paul. He has disrupted our lives. And so there's a massive mob. And what ultimately happens is they are thrown into prison. And Paul is a Roman citizen, and he waits for the right moment and he says, how can you touch me being a Roman without any just cause? Interesting. The Gentiles threw him into the prison unjustly. He's a Roman citizen, and he has the right to stand in court and defend himself, and they know that they're in trouble. But this is also the story where we hear the story of the Philippian jailer who is converted and then his family is converted. In fact, Philippi is a great story. But after this event of the mob and all those things, guess what he does? He leaves. But he does not leave with everyone that he brought. If you look carefully in the text, you'll notice Luke is the person that God uses to write this particular book, Acts. He talks about we, we, we, and then he says, they. Why? Because Luke stayed in Philippi. Some even believe that Luke learned his trade as a doctor. His study was there at Philippi, and he loved the city of Philippi. But there's a reason that Paul would have left someone like Luke at Philippi. It's because there's this small group of Christians that have been converted, and guess what? They need someone to disciple them They need someone to work with them. They need someone to minister to them. And so Paul leaves, and the next place he goes is Thessalonica. Now Thessalonica is a hundred miles from Philippi. Sounds like a lot. I mean they walked on foot, but that's basically a three days journey. And so he goes to Philippi in Acts chapter 17, or to Thessalonica, in Acts chapter 17, verses 1 through 10, we see the story of what takes place at Thessalonica. In this city, he spends three weeks preaching the gospel in the synagogue. And this is Paul's typical practice. He would go into the synagogue because These people have the Old Testament. He would preach the gospel to them from the Old Testament, compelling them to see that Christ is Messiah, Jesus of Nazareth. Died, he rose from the dead. He is the one who was promised in the Old Testament. Repent and believe. That's what he's doing. But what do they do? They reject him. And when the Jews in that synagogue reject the gospel, he turns his focus from that focus to the Gentiles who were there in that community. And as we read through the text, it's only ten verses. But we see that there are many Gentiles who are converted during that short time that Paul is there. But guess what happens as Paul is ministering to these Gentiles, now brand new Christians. The people in the synagogue who rejected the gospel were furious that Paul has this audience amongst Gentiles And they stir up an uproar in the city, and the officials intervene to basically preserve his life. And once the matter is settled, the young church sends Paul's team to Berea. And Berea is about a day's journey away. I think it was something like 45 miles or something like that. I don't remember off the top of my head. But there in Berea, chapter 17, verses 11 through 15, and it's just a very short statement about this. The Bereans were diligent students of the Word. They readily received it. They didn't just take for granted that what Paul was saying was true. They studied diligently the things that were in the Word of God to see if those things were true. They were more noble is how the text states it. But unfortunately, the same mob that created all this uproar back in Thessalonica hears that Paul is now ministering in Berea, and guess what they do? They come to get him. So they take a full day's journey to go find Paul and they want to kill him. They want to beat him. They create this massive uproar. There and as they travel down to this place, the new church in Berea senses the urgency of the matter, and you know what they do? They send Paul away to another place. Very familiar place in the land of Greece, and that is the city of Athens. As Paul is fleeing to Athens, he leaves two people Who are going to stay there and help those Christians in Thessalonica. Kind of like what he did with Luke, right? These are brand new Christians. At the at the shortest, they're there probably four or five weeks, maybe a little bit longer, we don't really know. But he leaves Timothy and Silas there in Berea to help the new church, and his plan is to go to Athens, and then they will eventually join him there in Athens. And so Paul goes to Athens. You say, well, this is like a lot of detail. Like what's the point? I hope you'll see the point when we get there. In Athens, Paul waits for Timothy and Silas to meet him, but they're delays. And as Paul is looking at what's going on in the city, his heart is deeply moved. In fact, when you read the text, It says his heart was deeply moved when he saw the idolatry of the city. He couldn't stand to see this without actually confronting it. And so what does he do? He preaches this famous servant sermon at Mars Hill about the unknown God that they worship in ignorance. And he says, I declare this God to you. He is the God who made the world and everything in it And he commands all men everywhere to repent because he has established a day in which he will judge the world by Jesus Christ. And what happens when Paul preaches that? Most of the people mock him and scorn him. Some of the people say, ah, we'll hear this later. It just mentions a couple of believers. It says that there are a couple of ladies and a couple of men who are converted. And we don't have any example in the New Testament that says a church was planted at Athens. Now, that doesn't mean that one wasn't, but we don't really hear anything more about it. And so what does Paul do? He sees that there's not much of a response here in Athens, and he moves on to the next place. He's going to Corinth. And this is where our story is going to pick up. Before we get into what happens at Corinth, I want you to notice a few important things from this history. And it was a very condensed history that we talked about. The first is this, in each of these places Paul preached the gospel and witnessed both conversions and persecution. In every single location. Actually, Athens, he wasn't persecuted, but he was mocked. But in these other places, the reason that he leaves is because though people are converted, there is a mob in the city that creates an uproar. We also see that he never spent extended time in any one of these locations. Because the persecution came too quickly. Thirdly, we see in each of these locations there was a church established, save the one, Athens. And when Paul left those cities, he left members of his team. Paul leaves Silas, Paul leaves Timothy, Paul leaves Luke, he leaves people in these cities. Why? They need leadership. They need more than just the gospel. They need to be discipled. They need to be taught all things that He has commanded them. Next, we see that each city mentioned becomes a prominent church in the first century. Now go back in your head and think about some of the churches that are mentioned. Philippi, Thessalonica. Corinth. Those are some very well-known uh churches in the New Testament. Why? Because there were Books that were written to them, epistles that were written to them. Two and to the two to the Corinthians. We know that actually Paul wrote more than two letters to the Corinthians, but two that were scripture. Two letters to the Thessalonians. He writes a letter to those who are at Philippi. But there are other churches that are going to be impacted by the timing of what takes place. And that's because of what we'll read about next. So the second truth I want you to notice is this. The growth of the church is a testimony to his gracious hand of providence. Now, pick up in your Bibles, Acts chapter 18, verse number one. I want us to work our way through the text and just hit the highlights of what's here. It says in Acts chapter 18 verse 1, after these things Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth. And then listen carefully to the next thing that it states. And he found a certain Jew named Aquilah. Born in Pontius, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because that Claudius had commanded all the Jews to depart from Rome. Now I have taken time in the past to actually preach on the story of Aquila and Priscilla, and I'm not going to go into great detail there. But that interaction was completely an act of God's providence, but it was through a very ordinary set of circumstances. They're Jewish, he's Jewish. The Isth being games are going on and so they become tent makers. And as tent makers, what are they doing? They're feeding themselves or taking care of themselves. They're creating these temporary structures because as people come to these games in massive numbers, they need a place to stay. And so Paul gets to know this couple, and by the end of their interaction, Paul is actually going to leave Corinth with them. He's going to go to Ephesus. He's going to leave them in Ephesus. They're eventually going to be influential in a man named Apollos ' salvation, if you want to call it that. He knows the story of John, but he doesn't know about Jesus. And they lay out the gospel to him and they help him to have a clear understanding. And God mightily uses Apollos And then Aquila and Priscilla end up going back to Rome and the church is meeting in their house. They were very likely involved in the church plan at Rome. And then we also see them at Ephesus because when Paul writes to Timothy, he says, greet Aquila and Priscilla, who are there at Ephesus with you. So this couple is involved in all of these church plants. And the reason that they're there at Corinth is because they got kicked out of Rome. And the reason that they meet is because they have the same occupation. They're making tents. What is this? This is the hand of God at work They were of the same craft and they abode and wrought, for by their occupation they were tent makers. So that's the first thing I want you to notice, is how God causes this couple, Aquil and Priscilla, to meet Paul, just making tents together. Don't discount your ordinary work, folks. You do not know how God will work through those ordinary means. Secondly, he preaches in the synagogue, and this is what Paul did basically everywhere that he goes Except Philippi, because there wasn't a synagogue. They're just meeting by the riverside. There were not enough Jews in that town. But when he comes to Corinth, there is a large enough Jewish population. That there is a synagogue. And so it says in verse number four, he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath. And persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, remember he left them back before he went to Athens. He left them in Berea. When Silas and Timothy were come back from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in his spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. And when they opposed themselves and blasphemed, he shook his raiment and said unto them, Your blood be on your own heads. Now what's interesting, and I I I get in my head this this picture. Here is Paul. First time he shows up in the synagogue And he gets up and he's, you know, he begins to open up the scriptures and he begins to preach and to teach. They're like, who is this guy and what is he saying? This is not what we hear every week when we gather on Shabbat. This is not what we hear. And then he comes back the next week. And they're like, what's going on with this guy? And he comes back another week. And then all of a sudden, guess what happens? Some of the people that are attending that synagogue When he says Jews and Greeks, he's talking about Hellinest the Jews, okay? These people who are gathered together, some of them are accepting what he's saying. And the rulers are going, what's going on? In fact, interestingly, as we read through the text, one of the rulers of the synagogue becomes a believer. Another ruler of the synagogue ends up creating an insurrection. That's the word that he uses. But as he's preaching in the synagogue, a confrontation is beginning to develop. Some people are embracing the gospel. Jesus is the Christ. the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecies, and others are rejecting him. And it's boiling, it's coming to a head. And so what does Paul do? He says, if you're going to revile me and the method that I preach Your blood's on your own heads, man. I'm out of here. I'm going to go talk to the Gentiles. That's basically what he's saying. And by the way, this is something Paul did in every single city that he went to. You could even make the argument this is what Jesus did during his earthly ministry. We could see a very distinct time where it goes from the Gentile focus or the Jewish focus to the Gentile focus. when they blaspheme the Holy Spirit and they say he's doing this by the power of Satan. So he's preaching in the synagogue. And then we see that he turns to the Jews, or from the Jews to the Gentiles. In verses 6 through 8 it says, He shook his raiment and said unto them, Your blood be on your own heads, I am clean, from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles. And he departed since, entered into a certain house, named a man's house named Justice, one that worshipped God. whose house joined hard to the synagogue. I'm going to assume that this is probably a Hellenistic Jew. That's just my guess, but I don't know that for certain. And it says that Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house, and many of the Corinthians hearing believed and were baptized. Now at this moment, it's an exciting story. But I want you to think about the history of all the places that he's been. Paul has traveled hundreds of miles on foot. He was in Philippi, he was in Thessalonica, he was in Berea. He's moving his way. He ends up in Athens. Now he's in Corinth. He's been in all these various locations. And what has happened every single time he's been in the city? He's been thrown out. Kind of looks like it's about to happen here too, doesn't it? But, in fact, this time will be different. In the same way that God sent a vision to him at Tereaz and said, don't go down into Asia. But go over to Macedonia in the same way God intervened in this situation. Now let me just make a statement here. You and I aren't apostles And God doesn't guide us in this way, all right? In fact, most of the ways that Paul was guided when he went, I mean his decision to leave a certain city had nothing to do with God giving him an a vision and he felt peace in his heart. I'm gonna go do this. I mean, he did it because he was running for his life. Because that little group of believers said, You gotta get out of here, you're gonna be killed. That's how God worked in those situations. But this is different. God is going to very specifically intervene and tell him, you plant yourself here. It's very interesting how the text words this It says in verse number nine, then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision. Be not afraid. I mean, Paul did not appear to be the afraid type of person, but he's human, right? Be not afraid, but speak boldly and hold not thy peace. Be not afraid. What an amazing statement. But the next statement is what's even more interesting. He says, for I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee, for I have much people in this city. Now, do you understand what he's saying? You can't leave. Because there are people who are going to be converted and you have to preach the gospel to them. Now in every single place that he's gone, he had to run for his life. In this situation, God says, nobody is going to touch you. These are my people. Now they're not yet saved, okay? I mean, they gotta hear the gospel. They gotta repent and believe. But they're gonna hear it. And they're gonna be saved. And so what does this show you? God's hand is involved in all of these things. This is not like some random thing like, well, it's really neat how things worked out in Corinth. You know, what great luck. How about the providence of God? And so then we see in the next couple of verses how God protects him. And this is really fascinating. In verses 12 through 17, God, through the Roman ProCouncil, is going to protect. Paul. Through a pagan ruler. In verse number 12 it says, when Gallio , Galio, who was the deputy of Achai , The Jews made insurrection with one accord against Paul and brought him to the judgment seat, saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God contrary to The law. Now that would not be the law of Corinth, but that would be the law of the Jews in the synagogue, okay? He persuades people contrary to our law. And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Galeo said unto the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews, reason would that I should bear with you. But If it be a question of words and names and of your law, look ye to it. I will be no judge of such matters. You know what he's saying? You're not going to get any help from me. I'm not going to touch this guy. Now, there's something that's being communicated. This guy knows that these problems come up from time to time. You almost get the sense that He's tired of these kinds of disputes. And he's like, I'm not putting up with this kind of stuff. I'm not going to settle your dispute. I'm not going to throw him in prison. I'm not going to use Roman law to back your laws. Not doing it. So he's off the hook. Leave him alone. That's really what he's saying. And then he drave them from the judgment seat. Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him. Now that's pretty interesting Now who do you think Sophanes is? I mean he's the ruler of the synagogue. He's either they had multiple elders who were involved, one of them is converted, he's one of the other ones, and so essentially these guys work together, now they're rivals. I don't know But they're making a point. You know what their point is? You tried to drag Paul in front of us and have us use our laws to judge him. You bring him back, it's gonna be worse than what you just got. They beat the ruler of the synagogue who brought Paul to them. They were trying to establish a message. Now what is this? God's providence protecting this man. He's doing exactly what he said he was gonna do. And he didn't tell him this is how I'm gonna do it But you know, you gotta wonder if Paul went home that day and he's like, you know, God's got my back, man. I guess I'm okay. I can I can be bold and do what I'm supposed to do. That's the way God works. It's a pretty awesome story. I say story. It's what happened. It's history Well, after about a year and a half, Paul ends up leaving Corinth for Ephesus. In verse 18, it says, And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then took his leave of the brethren. And sailed thence into Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila. Now, we're not going to get in this tonight, but Aquila and Priscilla go with him to Ephesus. He's there a very short time. And out of all of the churches that are talked about in the New Testament, probably Ephesus is the most strengthened type of church. In fact, when we go to this uh the book of Revelation and we see all those different churches that are mentioned, the seven churches, they're all in a ring from Ephesus. I don't think that that's a mistake. I mean, obviously not a mistake, but there's a reason that those churches are in a ring from Ephesus. It's because probably the Ephesian church planted all those churches. There's a reason that's the very first one that's mentioned. The Apostle John was an elder in this church for a very long time. So the third thing I want to mention is this. Its function in the church, in church history, is a testimony to God's gracious providence. So we see the founding of the church, we see the growth of the church, and we see the peace that it has in church history. God providentially guided these men. I think of Proverbs 20, verse 24. I remember teaching this to my kids not long ago in family worship, and it says, Man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man understand his own way? Isn't that an interesting statement? You don't even realize what God's doing in and through your life. The things that we think are small and we take them for granted, we do not realize how the hand of God is at work. And that's exactly what we see in the text in front of us. The way he built these churches is remarkable on so many levels. I think about the movement of Paul. Nearly every movement was directly connected to a disappointment outside of the control of those men. The timing. Paul wanted to go to Ephesus, but it was not the right time because a team needed to be assembled and churches needed to be established. Aquil and Priscilla weren't going to be left at Ephesus until they were converted and part of Paul's team. Timing really matters. God knows what he's doing. Most of our New Testament is directly linked back to this period. The book of Philippians, 1 and 2 Thessalonians, 1 and 2 Corinthians, Ephesians. The book of Revelation, think about the seven churches that are mentioned. First and second Timothy, because that was written to uh Timothy at Ephesus. First, second third John. These are letters that are written to uh to believers at Ephesus, the Gospel of John, Romans, because of Aquila and Priscilla going back to Rome and being involved in that church plan. All of those books of the New Testament. Could be attributed back, practically speaking, to the Macedonian vision. Do not go to Asia, go to Macedonia. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? Do you ever get frustrated with God because of things that He doesn't let you do? Do you ever get frustrated with God because of things that seem like they're falling apart in your life? Do you ever get frustrated with God because your plans don't work out? He's got a reason for it. I'm not here to tell you that I know all the reasons, but I am here to tell you he has a reason. And you've got to learn how to trust him. We have no right to look at we don't see God with our eyes. To look up into heaven and say, God, you're being unfair to me. You're being unjust. You're not right to do what you've done. You don't understand what you're doing. How foolish. The Apostle Paul had no idea. His plan to go to Ephesus was too soon. And God delayed him. I even think about the production. In each situation, they experience persecution and justice, and God's intervention through city officials, yet, conversions in young churches are being established. They did not go to these cities because they had this grand plan to reach all of Macedonia. They went to those cities because they were running for their lives. And they stayed in those cities a short time because people wanted to kill them. And they left members of their group because somebody needed to help these young Christians. Its struggles provide an enduring witness for us today. Now we're going to get into this a lot in 1 Corinthians, but despite all the influence and instruction of the church, they had all kinds of problems. Paul spent more time, at least we read the book of Acts, it appears he spent more time at this church, Corinthian, Corinth, Church of Corinth, than any other church. Yet they're the most troubled church when we read our New Testament. Paul was not a failing minister of the gospel, folks. Churches are filled with imperfect people. And even the most healthy and vibrant churches, they have problems. And no pastor is perfect, and no church member is perfect, and no deacon is perfect, and the the reality is That God works through imperfect people. He accomplishes his purposes. It's all his glory. He used the failures in Corinth to teach the church in every generation. The things we're going to talk about over the next year-ish, I'll use that phrase, year-ish. Yeah, ish maybe. Yeah. Anyway, the things that we'll be talking about as we work our way through the book of 1 Corinthians, verse by verse, chapter by chapter. These things are for our learning. And if it had not been for those problems and God addressing them at that time, we would not have that for us today. He used its story to demonstrate the miracle of the gospel. I think of that passage in 1 Corinthians where he says, And such were some of you, but you are washed and sanctified and justified in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ. God used the story of the church to motivate us to labor tirelessly in his work. 2 Corinthians is Paul defending his ministry to these people. And he basically says this: check yourself, are you a Christian or not? If you're truly a Christian, my message is true, and my ministry is sound. Now, why did Paul have to do that Because they didn't like him very much. They bickered with him and they argued with him. They said, oh, he's really tough in his letters, but when you see him in person, he's weak. Well, we learned all those things from the church at Corinth. How do you apply this? Some final thoughts. First of all, there is no place too dark for the gospel to penetrate. That would even include here, okay? This country, this time, this community. God accomplishes his work through all kinds of situations. Frustrations and setbacks do not stop the work that he is doing. This work is not accomplished through perfect plans. It's not like God's people sit back and they're like, I'm gonna lay out this master plan and God's just gonna make it work out. You know what really happens? People have all these plans and then it all just falls apart. As God does the work in his own way, in his own time, through his own means, and he just reminds us we're not in charge. Just be faithful. Just do the word to the best of your ability. You don't have the power to save anybody. You don't have the power to make anybody believe. Let me handle what you can't. Just be faithful. That's what he says. His providence superintends the ordinary and the extraordinary. It superintends both persecutions and divine interventions. The other thing that really stands out to me is that young Christians need to be discipled. There's a reason he left Luke. There's a reason he left Timothy and Silas. Paul loved these people. They loved him. He loved working with them. He left them so that they could do the work in his absence. No church is perfect even without standing leadership. And by the way, every church has flawed leadership. And every church has problems. And so to the best of our ability, we go back to the Word, we dig into the text of Scripture, we submit to the authority of Scripture, and God does the work despite us. It's a lot we learned tonight, isn't there? Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to really meditate on these things. Our Father, thank you for the word. Thank you for this powerful story of how you brought the gospel to a very dark and corrupt city. A city that was a lot like the time we live in today. So much licentiousness, so much pride, so much bickering, so much ease, so much mismanagement of focus. And yet you did a great work there. May we learn from these things, and may the thing that sticks in our minds more than anything else be that you are a sovereign God. who is far wiser than we are, and who will accomplish your work through whatever means you choose, no matter what we encounter. May we trust you 100% in all these areas and we ask it in Christ's name.