Let's take our Bibles and turn together to the book of Acts. And we are in Acts chapter 18 this morning. Acts chapter 18. And uh you'll notice that I have a swollen side to my faith. I did not have my uh wisdom teeth pulled out. And I did not get in a fight with anybody. I got stung in the face by a ground hornet. So uh I'll feel better in a couple of days, I hope. But I'm really thankful for the opportunity to dig into this text of Scripture with you this morning as we focus in on such a very important topic. And that is the fact that we are the light of the world. We are a city that is set on a hill And the reality is that who we are as God's people is something that we cannot conceal. We can attempt to conceal it, but the reality is if we are true Christians If we are a healthy, vibrant body of believers, then we are very different than the world around us. And not only are we very different than the world around us, but in fact God uses us to go into the darkness. and to draw people to himself. And as we think about missions, really what is missions? Missions is taking the gospel from where it is known to the place where it is not known. And it is taking the gospel across cultural barriers to other parts of the world. But the truth is, even when we talk about missions, we should never forget the fact that in our own nation, even in our own county, there's a great need for God to do a tremendous work. And so my prayer is that we won't just have a heart that's stirred for things going on in other parts of the world and say, well, we should pray for those who take the gospel to the othermost parts of the world, but we ourselves should be burdened about reaching our own community here. Being a healthy and vibrant church. In fact, raising up a generation of young people, even from this church, who'll be well equipped to be men and women who are leaders in the church down the road, maybe people that are even sent out of this church, people that are leadership in other churches. We pray that God will do his work not just outside these walls, but even within our own hearts. And so that is my prayer this week. Let's go ahead and read Acts chapter 18. We're going to pick up in verse 1. We'll look at these verses, pray, and then dig into our first sermon focused on how God is reaching into the darkness through the light of the gospel. Acts 18. 1. After these things, Paul departed from Athens, came to Corinth, and found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontius, lately come from Italy with his wife Priscilla, because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome. And came unto them, and because he was of the same craft, he abode with them and rocked, for by their occupation they were tentmakers. And he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks. And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the Spirit and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. When they opposed themselves and blasphemed, he shook his raiment and said unto them, Your blood be on your own heads. I am clean. From henceforth I will go into the Gentiles And he departed thence and entered into a certain man's house named Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue. And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house. And many of the Corinthians hearing believed and were baptized. Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision. Be not afraid. But speak, hold not thy peace, for I am with thee. No man shall set on thee to hurt thee, for I have much people in this city. And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to really bless our time in his word this morning. Lord, I pray that you would take this text of Scripture And I pray that you will cause it to sink into our hearts. I pray that the Holy Spirit, who indwells every single believer in this room. We'll have a keen understanding of this text as the Spirit of God presses it down into our hearts. I pray that the Holy Spirit would move in our midst. I pray that we would be gripped by truth. If we are timid, I pray that we would be made bold and strong because of what we have seen from your word this morning. If we are complacent, I pray that you would plow up that fallow ground that's become hardened. And I pray that it would be softened and made tender. Father, if we are burdens to reach the nations, I pray that you would put in our heart ideas for how we can personally at this moment in our life engage In the work that you're doing around the world. I pray that our heart this morning would be revived by the Spirit of God's work through the Word in our midst. I pray this would be a very sweet time of worship. May we be changed by the Word of God today. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a very interesting one because what it is is really the beginning of a story on how God moved and worked in a community, the city of Corinth. Now the city of Corinth was a very evil city, and it was a culture that was known for its debauchery. In fact, out of all of the different churches that we read about in the New Testament This church is the one that seems to always be on the bad side of the story because they were a very troubled church. And can you imagine what it would have been like If you were a member of the church at Corinth and you get a letter from the Apostle Paul and he just blasts you because of some of the things that you are permitting. and doing in the church, it would be a really stunning thing to think about, or then to realize that for thousands of years of church history Your story as a church is going to be a teaching mechanism for lots and lots of different generations of Christians and lots and lots of different cultures. God is going to use, yes, the deficiencies, the rebellion, the failures of your church. But the truth is that the the planting of the church at Corinth is actually a fascinating story. of God's providence. A lot of times when we read these little details like after these things Paul departed from Athens, we fail to realize that after these things is telling a really interesting story. And that's what history History is all about. is When you live through history, you don't realize the significance of the moment that you're living through. A lot of times we get frustrated, we think that there's nothing moving, but what we don't realize is that God in his providence is doing things that we can't see And after the time that we look back, a lot of times we'll see his clear hand at work. That's what's going on in these verses when we see the phrase, after these things, Paul departed from Athens and came to Corinth. So the first thing I want to do here is I want to give you just a summary of what we're going to look at and give you some information about the church at Corinth and the city that this church was planted in. So I'll summarize the text this way. The birth of the church at Corinth is a powerful testimony to God's kind providence and the power of the gospel to penetrate deep spiritual darkness. Do you believe that God can take the gospel to any city, any culture? Any region and that message can radically transform the hearts of the people in that place. Do you believe that? The question is, do you believe God can do it here? Do you believe that God is going to do it in the places where these missionaries, some of them have not been to the the field, some of them have been on the field, some of them have been on the field many, many years, and now they're at a different season of life and God is still using them. Do you believe that the same gospel that we preach here this morning can be taken to any city, any region, any culture, any people group, and it can radically transform the hearts of those people. Well the answer should be, yeah, I do believe that. And then the question is, how does God do that? Well, he does it through very ordinary means. And we're going to see that as it's laid out here. In fact, sometimes those ordinary means are not beautiful, they're not easy, they're challenging situations, but God works through all the messiness of this world to accomplish his purposes. And so as we dig into this story and we dig into this text, I hope that we will see the need for great comfort and the way that God governs the ordinary course of our lives. So let me give you some information about the church at Corinth and the city that this church was founded in. In fact, the story of Corinth It's a fascinating story. You can go on YouTube, you can read history books, you can find out about the history of Corinth. But Corinth had a very long history in that region because it was in a very strategic location between two seas In fact, it was an ancient city, and about two hundred years before the time of Paul, the city fell on hard times because it got on the wrong side of the Romans. Lots and lots of cities fell on hard times when they got on the wrong side of the Romans. And the Romans absolutely destroyed the city. In fact, not only did they destroy it, but it was not inhabited for about a hundred years. And then during the time of Julius Caesar, very well known Roman, it was rebuilt. And Julius Caesar, when he rebuilt that city, wanted it to be one of those seven wonders of the world kind of cities. He wanted it to be state of the art. He wanted people to come in. He wanted it to be a Roman colony. And because of that It became a very cosmopolitan city. Lots and lots of opportunities for people to make money. Lots of opportunities for people to escape their cultures and all the troubles that were going on in those regions and kind of do things their own way in a new place. And so what that meant was that it became a city that was very, very hedonistic. It was a thoroughly pagan city. It was an ambitious city. It was a wealthy city. It was a city that had freedom in every sense of the word freedom. The good senses and the bad senses. There was lots and lots of political move maneuvering and shrewdness there. People knew how to navigate the political world that they were in. And it is also a center of athletics. In fact, the Isthmian Games were some competitions that they had at that city that drew large groups of people in on a regular basis. In fact, that is how Paul sustained himself. When it says that Paul was a tent maker, he was literally making tents for the people that would flood into this region. During the Isthmian Games, kind of like sometimes we rebuild cities so we can have the Olympics, that's the kind of stuff that they were doing. And so what that tells you is that Corinth was a place Where people did not have a culture, but they had a unique to themselves Corinthian kind of culture. And people were all about making money. And people are all about their freedoms. And people are all about maneuvering. And you know what? The people are just like the people are today in our own country. And not just our country. All over the world, you go to a cosmopolitan center, you will find very similar circumstances. It's amazing. How you can remove yourself by 2,000 years and because human human heart hasn't changed at all, you have the same kind of root issues going on in the city. This was not the kind of place that you would think would be a great place to start a church. Be like going to Las Vegas, Nevada. Start a church there. You say, well that's like the sin city. Hell there's people that need Christ there, right? And God's doing work in cities like that. And there are all kinds of cities all around the world that had similar situations, and God is working in those places. Well, let me tell you about the birth of this church. In fact, we're going to pick up in chapter 16 because you have to look at several chapters of information to kind of appreciate the text in front of us. The first thing I want you to notice under the birth of the church is in Acts chapter 16, Paul had his plans disrupted by God, and it completely changed the course of his ministry at that particular moment. In Acts chapter 16, verse 6, it says this. Now, when they had gone through Phrygia and the region of Galatia They were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia. Now, by the way, Asia is not like China, India here. Asia would be Asia Minor. So basically what's happening is the Apostle Paul is looking at the various cities that are there in Asia Minor, and he goes, out of all those cities, that's the one right there that I want to go to. In fact, I think Ephesus This was the one that he was really wanting to focus his attention on. Why? Because of its prominence in the region. But God tells him, no, don't go to that particular region. I have something else for you. Now is God interrupting his plans because God doesn't want people to get saved at Ephesus? The answer is, well, no, that's not why he's saved. doing that. There's a story that's going to have to unfold before Paul eventually gets to Ephesus. And God knows how that story needs to unfold. And that that story of God saying no to him then at that moment and going to a different region than he had initially intended. In fact, almost our entire New Testament is connected to that one decision. I'm going to show you that in just a little bit. And so after this they went, they were come to Mysia, and there they assayed to go to Bithynia, but the Spirit suffered them not to go. Again, a second time. They passed by Mysia and came down to Trilas. And a vision appeared to Paul in the night. And there stood a man of Macedonia and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia and help us. After he'd seen the vision, immediately we endeavored to go into Macedonia. And I love this next statement, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us to preach the gospel unto them. Three times God says, don't go there, go here. And by the way, God does not govern in our lives through visions and dreams, but he does interrupt our plans. And he did this with the Apostle Paul because this was such a key moment and the story of Paul's missionary endeavors. So what was the significance of this disruption? Well, in Acts 16, verses 12 through 40, we read the story of Paul going to a place called Philippi. This is the first place that he stops. In fact, when when Paul goes to Philippi , There's not even a a synagogue for him to go to because the Jewish community was so small. And there, when Paul goes, he is beaten and he em and he is imprisoned without any trial. In fact We see that in those verses. This is one of only two places when Paul is traveling where the persecution comes predominantly from a Gentile mob as opposed to a Jewish mob. And the reason is because that city was primarily a Gentile rather than Jewish and Gentile community. After a very short stay, there are people who are saved. We know the story of the Philippian jailer. What must I do to be saved? He says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ. Thou shalt be saved in thy whole house. He preaches the gospel. People are saved. They're baptized, and then he goes to the next place. That's when I go. This is about 100 miles away, so it probably took him a couple of days journey to get to this place. Let's say going 25, 30 miles per day. And in Acts chapter 17, we see this story. In this city, he spends three weeks preaching in the synagogue. Now, this is different than Philippi. When the Jews in that synagogue rejected the gospel, he focuses in on the Gentiles. And many Gentiles were converted in a very short time. Remember, we only know for certain that he was there three weeks. It could have been a little longer, but probably not much. But once the Jews in that city hear that the gospel is gone to the Gentiles, they create a massive uproar. And the city officials had to intervene to preserve his life. And once the matter was settled, what do these believers at Thessalonica do? They say, Paul, you've got to get out of here. Because you're gonna get killed. And by the way, they were right. He would have been killed if the opportunity arose. And so he goes to Berea. We know the story of Berea. In Acts 17, 11 through 15, Paul and his team experience great blessings in Berea, but also challenges The Bereans were diligent students of the word. They readily received it. We know the story of these people. But unfortunately, the same mob that came to chase him out of Thessalonica follows them all the way to Berea. And they basically chase him out of Berea as well. And so the church senses the urgency of the matter and they send him away to Athens. And as Paul is fleeing to Athens, in fact, he is separated from Timothy and Silas. at Berea, and there at Athens he waits for them. And that moves us to that last little statement that we read in chapter 18. After these things, Paul departed from Athens. This is what happens at Athens in Acts 17, verses 16 through 34. He preaches at Mars Hill. Hardly anyone responds. Most of the people mock him. A few women respond positively, but Paul realizes that he needs to move on to the next thing. And so what does he do? He crosses over to Corinth. And there he waits for his friends. Now, what do we learn from that brief, very brief history? Couple of things here. Paul preached the gospel and he witnessed conversions in every single place that he went. But you know what Paul also experienced? He experienced persecution. He was hated. He was mocked. He was derided. In fact, the people had so much animosity towards the Apostle Paul. that they would literally follow him to the next place when he was fleeing the one city. But what do we see here? We see this messy mix of God's work and man's misery. And you know that's how mist that's how ministry always is. That's how ministry is in the local church setting. That's how ministry is when it comes to local uh to planting churches. That that's how ministry works when you have church revitalizations. That's what missionaries experience. You have this combination of the miserable choices of people and the glorious power of the gospel. And so you see the blessings and you also see the challenges. What I love about the book of Acts is he just he gives it all to us because that's how life is. He never spent extended time in any one of those locations. Why? Is it because he didn't like spending time with people? Is it because he was unwilling to give them himself? The answer is no. It's because he would have been killed if he had stayed there much longer than he did And so in all of those situations, Paul is preaching, he's running, he's preaching, he's running. In each location, a church was established. He left members of his team to help ground those new churches. That is the story of this entire section. You know what's also very interesting about the section? Each city mentioned became a prominent church in the first century. That's how God works. So that is the introduction to the birth of the church at Corinth. How did this church actually come to life and then begin to grow? Second thing I want you to notice is that how the church actually grew. And so let's look down in our Bibles at Acts chapter 18, and we're going to work our way through the verses that we find here. As we get those details, and I want you to really take notice for the way the Apostle Paul is motivated, how he's willing to endure, how he is submissive to the Lord's will, how there is opposition, but how God overcomes that opposition by his power. First of all, Acts 18 verses 1 through 3. Paul meets Aquillan Priscilla at Corinth. Now I'm not going to break this down deeply today. But later on in Missions Month, we're going to look at the relationship that Paul had with Aquilan Priscilla. Because it is a fascinating story. But this is where the beginning of the church starts. It says, after these things, Paul departed from Athens. He came to Corinth and found a certain Jew named Aquila and Impontius, lightly come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla. Why were those people at Corinth? The answer is that Claudius commanded the Jews to depart from Rome. They were kicked out of Rome. So you could say that these were people that were running from a government that wanted to kill them. They were refugees, for lack of a better way to put it. And they're trying to survive there in court. And so here is Paul, he is a Jew. Here are these two people, they are Jews. We don't know if these two people are believers yet, but they are there together, they're working, they have similar cultures, and through the midst of that, they're able to survive. Paul's able to get the gospel into Corinth, and he strikes up a friendship with this couple that's going to carry on throughout the rest of his ministry. It says he came unto them because they're of the same craft, he abode in their wrought their for their occupation, they were tent makers. But Paul wasn't just going to stay there to survive. Paul knows that the only way a church is started is if the gospel is preached. And so we see in verse number four how Paul handles this issue of starting a church. It says in verse number four, he reasoned in the synagogue every Sabbath. Now this is really important. Paul's preaching was not just an emotional appeal. He didn't just get up there and say, give your life to Jesus. You need to become a Christian. He reasoned with these people. He opens up the Old Testament and he says the scriptures that you read in this location every single week. Someone gets up and they read it and they expound it. I'm going to show you that these scriptures, they teach you about Christ. And so he is reasoning with them. He's laying out arguments before them. He's compelling them to embrace the gospel. And as he is persuading these Jews and these Greeks, what we see is that some embrace, but many reject. And it says that Paul was pressed in his spirit, and he testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ. How does a church get started? A person with a passion and a burden to see soul saved is willing to step into a dark region. And they're going to be patient with people, and they're going to work with them, and they're going to reason with them from the Word of God, pointing them to the finished work of Christ. That's how churches are started. And it shows us that he endured because his spirit was moved as he heard their questions, as he heard their arguments. As they saw their responses, as he saw what was going on around him in that city, Paul's heart was deeply burdened. And by the way, his heart was burdened in every place he went. But there was something very different about this place. God was going to cause him to drive the state down for a longer period of time in this place because God had a massive work he was going to do at Corinth. I continue on. After the Jews in the synagogue reject the gospel, Paul turns his ministry to a new group within the city. The people that didn't have access to the Old Testament. The people that came from pagan backgrounds. The people who lived very hedonistic lives. the people who are entangled in all of the difficulties of that city. Paul turned from the synagogue where people had the truth, but we're not embracing it. To the Gentiles all around, the down and outers, the ones that people would think would never get saved. And this is what it says. Verse number six. He shook his raiment and said unto them, Your blood is on your heads, I am clean henceforth, I will go to the Gentiles. And he departed thence and entered into a certain man's house named Justice. One of the worshippers, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue. And Christmas, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house. And many of the Corinthians hearing, believed, and were baptized. Now, this is an exciting moment in this church's history. Because this church is now beginning to take form. You have people who have placed their faith in Christ. You have people who have been baptized. You have people who have Jewish backgrounds, you have people who have Gentile backgrounds, and the question is, is Paul going to get driven out of this city like he has at other places? Or is the Apostle Paul going to continue to do that work? The answer is he's going to continue to do the work. But why will he do it? The same way that God intervenes to send him away from Ephesus , In the same way, God is going to intervene to plant him down there at Corinth to do this work. Listen to what it says in verse number nine. Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision. Be not afraid. Sounds like our song, does it? Be not afraid, but speak and hold not thy peace. For I am with thee, and no man shall stead on thee to hurt thee. By the way, this is an interesting statement. Paul is going to go through a lot of turmoil in Corinth, but that turmoil is not going to stop him from doing the work. That turmoil is not going to keep him from being able to be effective in that work. And so you can see this blend of the struggles of ministry and the blessings. He says, I have much people in this city. And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the Word of God among them. Now at this point you and I might go, oh, I bet this church is not going to have any more problems, is it? The church is going to be vibrant, the church is going to grow, there's not going to be any persecution. But in fact, when God's doing a work, Satan is as well. And so we see in verse number 12, God is intervening to to protect him in the city, even in the midst of a very difficult and tumultuous period. Look down in your Bible at verse number 12. It says, when Galileo was the deputy of Achai, the Jews made insurrection against Paul and brought him to the judgment seat, saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law. Galileo said unto the Jews, If it be a question of words and names, and of your law, look ye to it I'll be no judge of such matters. He drove them from the judgment seat. Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue. They beat him before the judgment seat, and Gallio cared not for any of these things. I'll put it in another way. When these people were there pleading with Gallio to intervene and to kick Paul out of the city, Paul basically Gallio says, I'm not a Jew. I don't care about your laws. If he's not disrupting our city, if he's not breaking our laws, he can do whatever he wants. Go ahead, guys, leave him alone. And as soon as they go out onto the streets, there are people that take these guys and they beat them. And Galileo's like, I'm I'm not interested in seeing what's going on there. I'm just going to ignore that. That's basically what happened here. But what is this? This is God providentially intervening through Gallio, the Roman proconsul, so that Paul is able to continue working in that region. Another amazing thing to think about, that's the way that God works. And then after this in verse number 18, Paul leaves Corinth for Ephesus on his way to Jerusalem. After this, he tarried there yet a good while, then took his leave of the brethren, sailed into Syria. And with him Priscilla and Aquila. Now that's the story. We've seen kind of like the the history leading up to the plant of the church, some details that are recorded for us in the book of Acts about what actually took place in that year and a half that Paul is ministering. But what is the long-term significance of what we have just talked about in these verses? Because that's really where the story, I think, becomes very interesting. It's not just about living through history, but it's about stepping back and learning from history. It's about learning how to navigate life today because of what we have learned from what has happened in the past. What was the significance of this church? Well, the first thing I want to mention here is that most of our New Testament is directly linked back to this period Let me give you an example. Book of Philippians. Why did Paul plant a church in Philippi? Because of the Macedonian vision that said, don't go to Ephesus, come over to Macedonia and help us. We go to 1 and 2 Thessalonians, two books that were written to the Thessalonican church. How did the Apostle Paul get to the church at Thessalonica or establish that church? Well, the way that he established that church was that he was running for his life from another city. Or then we come to 1 and 2 Corinthians. Why did Paul go to Corinth? At the time that he did. Why did he have this group of people working with him? It's because of how God worked. Even the book of Ephesians. The seven churches in the book of Revelation that are mentioned, they're all connected back to the church at Ephesus. But Paul's work at Ephesus happened when it did with the people that were part of this team when they were, because he met them on the way before he got to Corinth. 1 2 Timothy were written to the Ephesians. 1 2 3 John written to the Ephesians. The Gospel of John written to believers at Ephesus. Even the Book of Romans through Aquila and Priscilla, we could make a direct link back from every single one of those books to churches that are a direct result of how God worked in this story. The timing is very significant. The players are very significant. God did all of it for a reason, the way that He did. So what's the point? God providentially guided all these people. Proverbs 20, verse 24. Man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man understand his own way? Think about that in your own life. Think about situations that you've encountered, how God has intervened through very ordinary, normal circumstances, yet that was clearly his hand. It's part of what made you who you are today. It's part of what put you where you are today. It's part of what gave you opportunities that you could have never ever dreamed. It's what kept you from things that you wanted to do that you shouldn't have done. God's providence. is being clearly displayed in these verses. But here's what it really demonstrates. The care and the power of God. That's what these verses teach us. When we look at this story, the history leading up to it, the birth of it, the growth of it, the significance of it, all of this shows you God's power and God's care. Like the movement of events. Every movement was directly connected to a disappointment outside of their control. Why did Paul leave those cities? Because he got run out. He got run out, not ran out. My bad guys. Movement. Why? God intervenes. Timing Paul wanted to go to Ephesus, but it was not the right time because a team needed to be assembled and churches needed to be established. By the way, there would have been no Timothy being sent to Ephesus. If Paul didn't meet Timothy and see him be converted long before the story of Ephesus, you see the timing really matters. And then we see the protection. In each situation, they experience persecution, injustice , God's intervention through ordinary means. That's what's significant about the story. So it leads me to a final question. How do you apply what we see in these verses? How do we go from just knowing about what happened to learning, internalizing, and applying? Let me give you some final thoughts here that I think will be helpful The first is this, there is no place that is too dark for the gospel to penetrate. The reason Paul wanted to go to Ephesus was because of its prominence in a region. When Paul went into Corinth, I don't think Paul went, man, this looks like a great place to start a church. Look at all these people who are hungry and thirsting after righteousness. Look at all these people whose lives are so well ordered. Look at all these God fearers. No, he goes, Look at all these pagans Look at all these people who are hedonistic. They're filled with pride. They're using the system for their own gains. They're all about money and they're all about power and prestige. These are the last people that need the gospel, that I think would hear the gospel. Yet what did God do? He raised up light in the darkness. We think this is the worst time in history. I tell you it's not. I promise you, this is not the darkest moment in history. You go back and you read history. World War II, World War I, the Soviet era. Roman, Greek, you just go back and you start reading some of the stuff and you go, oh, I'm glad I don't live during that time I'm not trying to diminish in any way the time the times we live in, but I'm trying to tell you something. God works in all times of history. We think we're observing something that is absolutely impossible. The gospel could never penetrate that field, but you don't know what God's doing. The gospel has the power to transform lives wherever it's preached. And so that's the first thing I want us to think about. The second is this: God accomplishes his work through all kinds of situations. Frustrations, setbacks, they don't stop what God's doing in the world. In fact, if we look back over the course of our lives, If we were expecting to have perfect circumstances at every single juncture in our life, then nobody in this room could experience God's blessings because that's not the way life works. We're going to look back and we're going to see problems, mistakes, grievances, injustices, times where we needed to apologize, times where others should have, and they didn't. I mean, we just go through the whole story And guess what? God works in spite of all that. His hands just continue his work. He works despite the imperfections of his servants and their plans. The Apostle Paul thought he had a good idea, and you know what? God stopped his idea. idea. He had a burden and he had a vision and God said, nope, we're going to do this. I'll bring you there eventually. And God does that at times. We need to recognize that he works despite the most intense obstacles you can imagine. The fact that the gospel could take root in the Roman world is an absolutely stunning thing to consider. If you were to read about the intense barbaric persecutions that Christians endured in the Roman world, it will blow your mind that the gospel could take root in such a region. When you think about how backward the disciples were after Christ's death on the cross, and how timid and fearful they were, you go, how in the world could those men Take the gospel to the uttermost parts of the world. And the answer is it's only because God is a God who works despite intense obstacles. That's the God we serve. His providence superintends both the ordinary and the extraordinary. He turns persecutions into catlass for good. He doesn't make evil good. He uses it for good. He intervenes at critical moments in people's lives. Paul says, I want to go here. He says, No. He says, Let me tell you a second time. No, let me tell you a third time. No. And Paul's like, okay, I get it. I get it. I'm going to go to a different place. But then he ends up there again later on. Isn't that amazing? Paul's desire was accomplished, but not in the timeframe that he anticipated He intervenes. We need to recognize that God works through people who purpose to be involved in what he's doing. When people sit on the sidelines, well, they may be observers, but they're not going to be engaged in the work. And God is in the uh He's in the business of calling volunteers. He says, do you want to be involved in what I'm doing? Then step in and say, yes, I'm willing. Lord, I'll do it. And what was Paul? He was a willing servant. We need to learn to trust him in what he's doing outside of our control. But here's the last thing I want to leave you with that I think is so important. He works through people who are committed, people who are servants, people who are willing to suffer, and people who will persevere. Each of those statements is important. That word committed. Somebody makes a decision, they say, you know what? I'm all in. I don't know what that means. I don't know where that's going to take me. That might just mean I'm going to be all in right here. It might mean I'm gonna be all in somewhere else down the road. It might mean I'm gonna be all in here for a while, and I'm gonna be all in over here for a while, and and God's just gonna move around in our lives. But wherever I am, whatever he's got me doing, I'm fully committed to his purposes. important. Could you say honestly that you're committed? I'm not trying to call anybody into missions today. I'm just encouraging you to be committed where you are. And if God wants you to put you in another place, that's great. Let Him do it. But be all in here. The second is the word servant. Far too many Christians do not want to serve. They want to lead. serve. They want to be seen, they want to be known, they want people to talk about them. They want to be influencers rather than servants of Christ. And the bottom line is, God calls people to serve him. And some of those people who serve him, he in his mercy lifts them up and puts them in places that they never anticipated. I look at the story of King David during the good parts of his life. How did King David become King David? God put him there And Saul did everything in his power to keep David from that, and God did not permit it. And the fact is, God wants us to be committed, and he wants us to be servants. The third thing is willing to suffer. Now I didn't say desiring to suffer. I don't think anybody in this room should desire to suffer. I mean if that's you, okay, but I'd encourage you not to think that way. This world can offer a lot of suffering, I can tell you that. Like a bee thing right there, right? A very small thing in light of eternity, but But willing to suffer, that's different. Whatever the circumstances that I will encounter, I will be willing to submit to what God is doing in those circumstances. And lots of Christians are not willing to do that. I'm good with God as long as He gives me what I want. And that's not how God works in this world. He works through people who say, whatever I must go through, I will do it. And the last word is the word persevere. You know, perseverance is not a word connected to ability. There are people who persevere who are not very strong, but they don't quit. There's people who persevere, they're not very talented and gifted, but they don't give up. There's people who persevere that the reality is they fell a lot along the way. But they got back up. Perseverance is a character quality. A lot of people don't have it. Perseverance means I'm not going to quit. It means I'm going to do what's right. I'm going to get back up when I fall down. I'm going to learn those lessons. I'm going to submit to what God's doing. These are the kinds of people God works through. And the question is, how do we know that? Well, because that's what Paul was. My question is, are we willing to be that kind of a person? Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, as we think about your word this morning, may we be absolutely in awe of your great work. You took the gospel into Corinth. You interrupted lots of plans. There were so many hardships along the way. Yet Paul submitted to your ways. Paul was humble, he persevered, he embraced with a full commitment whatever was in front of him. And I pray that you would help us to be those kinds of Christians. People that are willing, people that are committed, people that are servants, people that are humble, people that are persevering. God, put in our hearts a fire. To do whatever you have called us to do, to the very best of our ability for all the days that you give us, and may we glory in the kind things you do through us. I pray that you would use this missions month over the next five weeks to be some of the sweetest services in our church. That our hearts would be knit together, that we would be fully committed to what you have for us, and that we'll rejoice in what you do through us. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.