Turn with me to First Corinthians again tonight, and we are in chapter three, and we're looking at verses sixteen through twenty-one tonight. And I have to tell you that when I look at the section that we're dealing with, um I have a really hard time knowing where to like actually put the division And sometimes when we're reading and we look at chapter divisions, we just assume that that was put in the inspired text and they were not. Those are put in by editors. uh many years down the road and sometimes those chapter divisions are very helpful and sometimes they uh make things a little bit confusing and so um really if you're gonna deal with the thought that is here you're gonna go into chapter four but Just for the sake of what we're looking at tonight, we'll stop in verse 21, but I'm going to admit it's a little bit of an awkward area to stop because it's kind of in the middle of a thought. But let's go ahead and read the text together. 1 Corinthians chapter 3 verses 16 through 21. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God? And that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy. For the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are. Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seem to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness to God. For it is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. And again, the Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain. Therefore, let no man glory in men. For all things are yours. Now as we look at this passage of scripture, we are kind of continuing in this line of thought that we were dealing with the last several weeks. And what Paul is basically addressing is how we're supposed to look. at people in ministry and how we're supposed to look at ministry itself. And so he talks about the fact that the cross is foolishness to the world. He talks about the fact that God chooses people that do not seem impressive to the world and he uses them. And Paul uh so eloquently says, and just consider yourselves for just a moment. Consider your background, consider your testimony, consider what you were saved out of. If you think that God chooses the best of the best, you're clearly wrong. Just see what God has done in your life. You're an example, a testimony of God's grace And then he gets into some other issues, how a Christian ministry is like building a building, it's like doing farming work. And then last week, actually the last two weeks, we talked about the judgment seat of Christ. And helping us understand that when it comes to how we do the work of ministry, we need to have in the forefront of our minds, I am doing this. In a way that I want to be faithful, found faithful on that day when I stand before Christ at his judgment seat. And so this kind of continues into that thought to where he's now going to pick up with a concept of how the church is God 's temple. Now, some of you might be sitting here going, well, hold on a second. I've always been taught that We the believers, as individuals, are the temple of the Holy Spirit. And you would be absolutely correct in that. But this passage does not address that particular concept. This is actually talking in a corporate context. And so it would actually be accurate to say that as individuals, the Holy Spirit indwells us. And then when we talk about the gathering of the body, the local church, we would say that we as a body are the temple of the Holy Spirit as well. That is the sense of what we see in the passage in front of us. And you can't really see this in our English translation like you would if you were reading a Greek text, but you can see what is plural and what is singular, and actually technically the yee is there to indicate that, but a lot of people today don't really kind of know the these and the thou's and the e's and all that kind of stuff. But that is in the background of this. He is talking in a collective sense. So let me give you a summary for what's in front of us, and then I'd like us to work our way through what Paul says so that we understand it. We think about how those who are actually hearing this being read to them, how they would have kind of processed what Paul was saying, how Paul applies it, and then we want to get to our own application. um from what Paul says here. So summary statement. This passage comforts the church. By reminding it that God defends it from those who would creep in and undermine its purity. Now You might say, hold on a second. He says, if a man defiles the temple of God, God will destroy him. How's that a comfort? Well, you'll find out in a second. It is a comfort if you are the church and someone is creeping in and they are trying to undermine the work that God is doing. And God fights against them because of what they're doing. That's a good thing. That's a comforting thing, and that's the sense of what's here God wants us to understand the value of the church and then to relate properly to it. So part number one, Paul used rhetorical questions to make the people consider. You know, there's a lot of different ways that you can teach people. One of the things that you can do, and this is maybe the way a lot of you have been taught over the years, this is uh probably reflects a lot of my education, is that you have a teacher that gets up and they lecture and you just you just write down copious notes or You pretend like you're writing down copious notes, and then you go to somebody who's really good at writing down copious notes, and you sit down with them and you work together to get something that you can go back over. Anyone kind of like that? You had to go get some help from someone. I was kind of like that, trying to keep up with that. Or sometimes I just I'm just gonna listen and whatever I absorb, I absorb. But the idea is we we learn all these dates, we learn all these facts, we're memorizing all of this information. That would be one way that you can teach. Another way that you can teach is that you ask questions and you are the one who controls the questions that are asked And the reason that you control the questions that are asked is because you want to lead people as they are engaged in what you're saying, as they're thinking about what you're saying. to come to the right conclusions. You know, the questions you ask have a lot to do with the outcomes you end up at. So, you know, sometimes when a person asks a question, their their their intent is not to uh to keep the train moving in the right direction is to take the train off the tracks, right? So as a teacher, you pose the questions to get the people thinking that are in your class so that they will be engaged and they'll be thinking alongside of you and then you come in and when they answer the question boom then you give the explanation This is why it's like that. Or can you explain why you think it's that way? And you have to be very skilled in what you're doing in a situation like that, or it'll get off the rails. Another way that you could teach is what Christ did He would give a parable. And the point of that parable was to illustrate something, but in a somewhat veiled way. And so when someone is listening to this parable, they may not have entirely understood what Jesus is saying And so in their mind, almost like if somebody gives you a riddle and you're trying to figure it out, and then you're like, all right, I give up. Just tell me the answer to the riddle, and then they tell you, and you're just like, oh man I can't believe I didn't know that. I feel like, ah, I can't believe this. That's what a parable was supposed to do. You're sitting there and you're trying to figure it out and then you find I give up tell me and he tells you and you're like oh and then you don't forget it because you were embarrassed you couldn't figure it out it just drives the point home So what this shows you is that there are lots and lots of different ways that you can teach. Not just giving a bunch of facts or asking a bunch of questions, sometimes illustrations that get people to think. So of those analogies, those we could say teaching approaches, what does Paul do here? He asks questions. In fact, he asks rhetorical questions. He's not expecting them to be like, okay, hold on, Paul, here's my answer. He's asking them a question because he's teaching them through that question, a rhetorical question. Notice what he says in verse 16. Know ye not that ye are the temple of God and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? Now Paul wasn't like long pause. Did you know that? And they're like No, I didn't know that. Well, yeah, it's true. No, that wasn't the sense. He's like, I'm asking you this question because I'm assuming that you know this, because you've been taught this And so I'm asking you the question to make you think about it. In fact, Paul uses about 10 different examples in 1 Corinthians of rhetorical questions. I'm not going to hammer them all out, but I want to give you a couple of them just so you can get the sense of what Paul's doing here. For instance, in chapter 5, verse 6, he says, Know ye not? That a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? Now what is leaven? See that's a rhetorical question right there. Leaven is something that is in that dough makes it rise. I guess it's like is it bacteria or Yeast, yeah, we'll call it yeast, not bacteria, right? Uh for your gut health, right? So anyway, um that yeast causes it to rise And so he says, listen, if you put yeast in the dough, it's going to rise. In the same way that we understand this, he says, you can't ignore sin in the church. If you've got something that is there and it is objectively known and you just refuse to address it, it will not go away. It will get worse. It will be a problem that you have to address down the road. You can't delay. So he asked this rhetorical question because he's saying you cannot ignore sin in the church. It's got to be addressed. Or second example. 1 Corinthians 16, 2. Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Now some people wrongly believe that it's that it is wrong for a Christian to ever use the the legal system. Like this is a forbidding to uh go to court with somebody at some point. That's not true, okay? The thing that he is addressing is how unthinkable it is that a believer would use the legal system to destroy his brother. That's really what he's forbidding. And so here's this person is my brother in Christ. I've got an issue with them. And instead of us just working it out interpersonally or asking another brother or sister, a matured Christian or matured Christians to sit down with us and help us work through the issue. Instead, I'm going to go to the legal process. I can destroy this person. I can use the system to hurt them, to ruin their reputation. To get out of them something that maybe I couldn't get out of them if I was to just have an interpersonal interaction. And so that's what he's addressing. But the point is he asks the question because he wants them to realize it is unthinkable for the Christian To use the legal system to abuse one another. It's unthinkable. How could you ever consider doing that? They were doing it. That's why he addresses it. Third example. 1 Corinthians 6 19, he says, What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, in your not your own? Interestingly. This passage is talking about how you as an individual are the temple, whereas the text we're looking at tonight in 1 Corinthians 3 is talking about how we as a body are the temple. Both of those things are Are true. And the implication of the principle we're talking about tonight is actually quite different than the implication of what he uses in chapter 6. But his point is that Christians do not have the right to use their bodies for sinful purposes. If you are a Christian, then you belong to God. And so there are certain things that you do not have the right as a Christian to do them You don't have the right. Does that mean that God always stops you from doing those things? No, it doesn't mean that at all. But you do not have the right. You belong to God. And so that's the point of 1 Corinthians 6, verse 19. So what is the purpose of these these questions? Three words I want you to remember here. The first word is the word emphasis. The idea is pay attention to what I'm about to say. I'm asking you a question because I want you to think, because I want to drive home a point emphatically so that you don't forget it. That's what he's saying. Secondly, the word reflection. Think about the implications of what you know to be true. You know, it's great to have facts in our heads, but if we do not have the ability to take those facts to process them and break them down in a very practical way and then to apply those facts, then we really have a problem. It's like a person who sits down to bake a cake. They have all the ingredients to bake the cake, but they don't have the skill set to put them all together. Okay? So what's the value of trying to bake a cake if you don't understand how to do it? And so what he's wanting them to do is he's wanting them to pause and he's wanting them to think as he's emphasizing this. He's saying, consider the fact that if this is true. their implications. The fact that you belong to God means you do not have the right to do certain things as a Christian. The fact that that is your brother or your sister in Christ means that you do not have the right to use legal system to destroy your brother or your sister in Christ. That's the sense of what he's saying. Reflection. Think about implication. In fact, we would really do well as Christians to not just read the Bible, but to reflect on it a lot. Sometimes we use the word meditation. Reflect. Third word is self-evident. You should already understand this, but you're not taking action on it. So when Paul asks these questions, He's kinda somebody might say, oh, he's being condescending. I mean He Paul actually was pretty good about um sometimes being uh Pretty harsh in some of his uh his statements there, but he's saying, you know better. You know better. It's like it's like, let's just say you're not dealing with one of your little little guys, you're dealing with a teenager. And they do something that's like, this is a stated rule. It's been a stated rule for a very, very long time. We've dealt with this many, many times. And they do something, you sit them down, you're like, You understand you're not supposed to do that, right? And they're like, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well then why did you do that? Why did you do that? I don't know. You do know, you do know. And we're going to get to the bottom of how that you do know, okay? But this is what Paul's doing. He's saying, you know better. You know these things. It's self-evident. So that's why he uses the questions. And in this particular context, he's saying this: God loves his church and defends it against those who would attempt to corrupt it. He wants them to consider the importance of the church. He wants them to understand God's relationship to that body. And he wants them to consider the practical ramifications of these facts. That is what Paul is driving at when he asks that question. Do you not know that you are the temple of God? Second thing I want to address tonight is that we need to consider how his audience would have processed what he was teaching. You know, we're removed by uh a lot of a lot of history from these these these time this time period. And so if we don't stop and ask the question, how would this church have processed that it's possible that we're going to miss certain things? I'm not going to say we're going to miss it all. I'm not going to say that you have to sit down and go, oh, how did the gr how did people in Corinth look at the the concept of a temple? And how did the Jewish people look at the p concept of a temple? And and without thinking about that, maybe you will get some sense of what Paul is saying. But if you really wanted to think home the way that it was intended when it was written. Then you've got to put yourself in the shoes of the people that are receiving this letter and say, what would Paul have anticipated or expected or wanted them to be thinking when they heard this? And so when we see this verse, verse 16, ye are the temple of God, and the Spirit of God dwelleth in you, I want you to think about how these people would have processed it. First of all, the the church at Corinth was um it was kind of a mixed church when it when it came to Jews and Gentiles. So you had Romans, citizens You had people of of of Greek background. You had people who were Hellenistic. That means they were ethnically Jewish, but they were not practicing Judaism in the the real and right way. And then you had people that were saved out of Judaism there in the church. at at Corinth. And so when Paul makes the statement, you are the temple of the Holy Ghost, if someone came from a Roman or a Greek background, in their mind there are certain things that would have popped into their head going Temple. This is what I'm thinking. And if somebody was Jewish and they lived uh there around Jerusalem and they knew what it was like to go up to the temple and to be involved in all of these festive occasions, and they were very strictly following the Old Testament law the way that they were supposed to. When he says, you're the temple of the living God, boom, something pops into their head For instance, when the Greeks thought about temples, especially those in Corinth, they were thinking of these impressive structures. Built to display beauty, the skill of man. Man's ability to create incredibly ornate And beautiful things. Think about these massive columns. Some of these temples that were built were like the length of a football field. These were huge places. And they were communicating this concept of wow, like transcendence. And so in the minds of the people, if you lived in Ephesus, There were temples in Ephesus. You thought about this. You live in Corinth? Temples in Corinth. You think about that. If you live in Rome, temples in Rome. You think about this. And so when he says that you are the temple of the living God, they're like, like that? In fact, this would have been the centerpiece of some of these cities. When you thought of Athens, one of the first things that would have popped into your head if you were an ancient person living in that time would be the temple there. Or if you were from court, same thing. Ephesus, same thing. All of society was identified by that structure and what was taking place inside of that structure. It was the focal point of community gatherings. It was the place where festive occasions took place. And so that's what pops in the mind of these people. But then you think about the Jews. Now, you've got to realize that by this time, we're talking about a second temple, but that second temple didn't look like it did when it was first built Okay? So when they when the when the exiles came back and they rebuilt the temple, it didn't look like it did during the time of Herod because Herod had this massive structure that he built. In fact, I tried to do a little bit of research. I don't know if I'm 100% right on this, but the size of the outer court of the Temple Mount would have been something like 36 acres. That's pretty crazy to think about. So I was like, you know, compare that to a to a football stadium. So the Ravens football stadium doesn't cover 36 acres. Okay, it doesn't. uh Michigan or Clemson or one of these college universities. Their football stadiums don't cover that much space. You'd you'd be talking about all the places where people are parking. That is a massive, massive area And this is like the pride and the joy of the people. Think about when Jesus is walking and they're like, look at these massive columns, and he says, yeah, one stone is not going to be left. without being overturned. And they're like, impossible. He's like, it's gonna happen. It's gonna be completely destroyed. And so this is a sense of pride. Beautiful. In the minds of the people, it represented the presence of God, the center of community But when we think about temple language in the Bible, what should come to our minds? I want to give you a couple of scriptures to notice tonight. The first one is this: 2 Chronicles chapter 5, verse 13. This is the location. Where God is going to meet with his people, and it is going to have an everlasting significance. Now in 2 Chronicles chapter 5 We're going to read what happened when Solomon was dedicating the temple. Listen to what it says. It says, it came even to pass As the trumpeters and the singers were at one, to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking and thanking The Lord, when they lifted up their voices with the trumpets and the cymbals and the instruments of music, and praised the Lord, saying, For he is good, his mercy endureth forever, that then the house was filled with a cloud Even the house of the Lord, so that the priest could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud For the glory of the Lord. This is this is this is amazing. The glory of the Lord filled the house of God. Then said Solomon, the Lord hath said, that he would dwell in the thick darkness, but I have built a house of habitation for thee, a place for thy dwelling for ever. The king s turned his face and blessed the whole congregation, and all the congregation of Israel stood and he said, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel who hath with his hands fulfilled that which he spake with his mouth to my father David. Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the land of Egypt, I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build an house in, that my name might be there. Neither chose I any man to be ruler over my people Israel, but I chose Jerusalem that my name might be there. And by the way, we could read the entire chapter, but if you think about it, if you are a faithful believer from a Jewish background at this point in history. When you hear the word temple in your mind, you're thinking of Solomon. And you're thinking about the glory of the Lord entering that place. And you're thinking about this location where God's presence dwells. And it is the center of all of our culture. That's what you thought of. Then you think of Hebrews chapter 9, verse 6 to 12. Listen to these verses. It talks about the sacredness of this. But also the temporary nature of it. This is very important. Now, when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, establishing the service of God. But in the second Went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself And for the heirs of the people. The Holy Ghost is signifying that the way into the holy the holiest of all was not yet made manifest while as the first tabernacle was yet standing. Which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices that could not make him that did service perfect as pertaining to conscience. Which did only in meats and drinks and diverse washings and carnal ordinances impose on them until the time of Reformation But Christ being come and high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building. Neither by the blood of bulls, or goats, and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. So when people thought about the temple, they thought about this place where God's presence dwells, and they and this is the word that would have probably come, not this English word, but the word that would come to mind is This is very exclusive. I can't go to this place. I can't go into the holy place. Only the high priest can go into the holiest of holies He can only go once a year. He cannot just go any way that he wants. And so when someone thought about God's presence in this place , There was a sacredness there. And there was probably even a sense of fear. And a sense of awe and a sense of I don't have the right. And I don't have the ability. I'm not worthy to go into this place. But then listen to this statement in 1 Peter 2, verse 5. He says, Ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. And holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. So here's the point. A biblical understanding of the temple is this. God's presence dwelt in that place, and only the high priest could go into that location with the blood of an animal for himself. And for the sins of the people, one time a year. But Christ goes in once and for all, and he finishes it all. He fulfills that picture. And now you don't go up to the temple, you are the temple. That's crazy to think about. We are the temple of the Spirit of God. As individuals and corporately as a body. And so when we gather together as a church, that's a really serious thing. This is not a flippant thing. Like we really shouldn't come to church with this like casual attitude like, yeah, yeah, I'm doing whatever I feel like doing. Like we're the we're the place where God's presence dwells. We should come to church with a seriousness of mind. The gathering of the body is such a sacred thing. Third thing I want you to notice is that he wanted the church to move from doctrine, understanding the concept, to practice, how you live. And this is where a lot of the heart of this text is. A couple of things that we see here. First truth in this section is that God defends his temple. Notice the statement he says, if any man defile the temple of God, him shall God, what's the next word? Destroy. If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy. For the temple of God is holy. Now, that little phrase, if any man, seems like a no-qualified statement, does it not? That's what it looks like to me. And then we see this statement, defile the temple, and then the second statement, he shall destroy this person. You know what's really interesting though, if you were to look at this in the Greek text, you'd find out that the word defile and destroy is actually the exact same Greek term I know that they're translated differently and that and some of you might go, well that's kind of weird, I wonder why they did that. I don't know, I'm not in their head, but But what I can tell you is it's the same Greek term that is used in both places. You could almost you could almost say it like this. You destroy God's temple, he's gonna destroy you. That's what he's saying. You go and undermine what God is doing. That is a dangerous thing to do. And I think what actually is trying to be communicated in the way that they translated this, again, I can't go into their mind. But that word, defile and destroy, has the sense of corrupt, to destroy, or to waste. And so if you're reading that and you're not paying attention, like let's say you're not using strongness and chordance or blue letter Bible or something like that, the weakness of that is you don't realize you're dealing with the same Greek term. The strength is you realize some of the sense of what he means by corrupt, destroy, or waste. They're interpreting it as defiling the temple. And interestingly, there's a lot of passages where this term is used in the New Testament, but there are three examples that I think are really pertinent, and they kind of give you a sense of what I think Paul is communicating here. The first example is in 2 Corinthians 11, verse 3. Listen to the text, and you'll see the word in the text. I fear lest by any means as the serpent beguiled Eve through his sub subtlety So your mind should be corrupted, there's the word, from the simplicity that is in Christ. So here is Eve, and Satan comes to her And he plants in her thinking doubts about what God has said, doubts about God's character, doubts about whether God will actually do something. So here is Satan coming to her and trying to undermine what God has said. That's a pretty interesting example, is it not? Second one that I that I noticed was in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 22. He says, put off concerning the former conversation, the old man, which is corrupt according to deceitful lust. There's that word again, corrupt. And so the idea is that before you became a Christian, your nature was fallen. It was corrupted. It was not right. And he says, don't allow that former way of thinking, the corrupted way of thinking, to be something that you put back on in your life. You see that sense again. Third example. I think this one's actually what really hammers out what he is saying here. Jude 1, verse 10. There's no Jude 2. These speak evil of those which they know not, but what they know naturally as brute beasts and those things they corrupt. themselves. Now who is he talking about here? He's talking about false teachers. He's talking about being very cautious, earnestly contend for the faith. Be aware there are there are false teachers that will creep in unaware. And so what I think that Paul is actually saying here is he's not talking about believers in the church who are, let's say, not living consistent with their position. He's talking about people who come into the congregation And they're not believers, they're false teachers, and they're working to undermine the truths that are being laid out in the church itself. And they're corrupting what God is doing. God is saying he will deal very strongly with people who are doing such a thing. And you know what? There are examples in the book of Acts of people who I think would would have met that exact criteria In fact, Apostle Paul, when he's talking to Timothy at the end of his life, he says, let me tell you about a couple people you better watch out for. They've done me a lot of harm. They've created a lot of grace for me. Be wary of them. What's the point? The point is God deals with those who attack his church. That's the point. So the point is actually to comfort us, to say, hey, God's looking out for his people. God is protecting his people. God is going to defend the truth. He's going to raise up people. He's going to raise up circumstances. He's going to work in a way that deals with those who undermine what is true and right. Next phrase, for the temple of God is holy. God's church is set apart to him as his peculiar treasure. I think of Titus 2. 14, who gave himself for us. That he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify into himself a peculiar people. Word peculiar is not supposed to mean a bunch of weirdos. The idea is we are unique, we are special, we are called out. to him. That's what holiness is. Holiness isn't just a negative thing. I stop, I don't do those things. I'm called out from those things to something positive, to God Himself. Or 1 Peter chapter 2, verse 9, you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood. There's that word again, a peculiar people that you should show forth the praises of him who hath called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. Second truth. You and I, we are his temple. Verses 16 and 17. Ye are the temple of God. The Spirit of God dwelleth in you. He says, which temple ye are? Important statements. You are. He dwells in you. You are his temple. That is a fact. May not feel like it is sometimes. It might be might be like, I guess God got a bad deal when he got us, right? But you know what? We are his people. And he dwells in our midst. It's a collective concept. I say it like this. All y'all are his temple. I know that's not the way we probably say it, right? But but the idea is that as a body, we are his temple. I think about statements like in Matthew 18, he says, where two or three are gathered, there I'm in the midst. And by the way, that's not like a prayer meeting as much as he's actually talking about church discipline Where the church gathers together, they have weighed a situation, and they're going to have to take a very difficult action because a brother or a sister is unrepentant, they've been approached. the right way and they've rejected that and they're going to take action and God says, I am literally in their midst when that decision goes down. Pretty amazing to think about. A very sobering thing to think about. Revelation 1. He talks about how he's in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. And those golden candlesticks. are references to the churches that he writes to that are there in Asia Minor, Ephesus and all the way around to Laodicea. And so the idea is that God dwells amongst his people. He wants us to have a heightened awareness of how important this is and how each individual in the church matters. 1 Corinthians 12, 12, as the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. 1 Corinthians 12, 27, ye are the body of Christ and members in particular. Ephesians 4. 25. Putting away lying, speak every man the truth to his neighbor. We are members one of another. He wants us to recognize how serious and how sacred this body is. The last truth I want to mention here that he's emphasizing is that he will take a tax on what he loves very seriously. Think about that passage in Ephesians 5. And this is sobering for us as husbands, right? Husbands, love your wife as Christ loved the church And gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself, a glorious church not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but I should be holy and without blame before him in love. What's the point of that passage? Well, it's to tell you that we're supposed to love our wife, and it's to tell you that the example is how Christ loves us. And you don't get a higher example than that. And so if God loves his church, guess what? He defends it. He fights for it. There are times that God is actually going to step in for the good of a vulnerable people, and he will protect them, and he will push against those who assault the truth. And so we should take great comfort in this. You know, sometimes we look at what's going on in our society and we're like, oh man, the culture's moving the wrong direction and and and we see the negative flow and and and we're like, you know, everything's falling apart and I get it, okay. There's a lot of corruption in the world, but the question is this. Does God not have the power to preserve his church? He says, I will preserve my church. That's what he says he's going to do. The gates of hell can't prevail against it. He's going to build it. He's going to preserve it. From one generation to the next. And so the sense of this text is to bring us comfort in the fact that God rules and reigns and protects his people. So what's the application? Don't allow the world's wisdom that is undermining what God is doing in the church to have anything to do with you. That's the point of verses 18 through 2021. I'm not going to really break them down much, especially with the time. But he says, Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool. that he may be wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. It is written, He taketh the wise in his own craftiness. Again, the Lord knows the thoughts of the wise that they are vain that they are vain. Therefore let no man glory in men, for all things are yours. He says, look God fights against those who fight against the church. The world has a wisdom that's very alluring to us. Reject it. And he quotes from the book of Job actually here. He takes the wise in his own craftiness. We have a cat now. Watching cats and watching dogs is something, you know? Like dogs are like they're happy and they're just like stumbling around and this cat is just like like the most agile athletic creature. I mean it can like jump on stuff and and the dog, you know, he comes in the room and he's just like looking around and and the cat, as soon as that cat sees that dog come around the corner, she just like tenses up and she's like inching and you're like What in the world? Like the dog didn't do anything to the cat. And that cat's just like ready to jump on him. Guess what? And sometimes does. I'll put it like that. You know, as crazy as it sounds There's people that live their lives like that. They're looking to exploit people in circumstances all around them. And you know what? And you know what? They think they're smart when they do it. And you know what this text says? God's going to take them in their own craftiness. While they're sneaking and lurking and trying to manipulate and do all these things, God's going to say, You're not smarter than me. I'm going to take care of the problem. That second example, he says, he knows their thoughts. They are vain. Nobody can hide anything from God. And so you say, why does Paul say this at the end? He says, but the reason is he's basically saying, listen, if God is protecting his church, From that mentality, why would you as a Christian allow that to become a part of the way you think? Don't do it. So how do we apply it? Let me give you some final application thoughts. First, this passage comforts the church by reminding it that God defends it from those who would creep in and undermine its purity. Second, this passage affirms God's deep love for the church and his desire to commune with his people. And that really should comfort us. God really wants to be with us, he loves us. It provides a warning to people within the church to not adopt the wisdom, and maybe we can put that in quotes, the false wisdom of this world, which is trying to creep in and undermine the purity of the church. Fourthly, the church cannot afford to become worldly in its thinking. You know what worldliness really is? It's not a style. It's a mindset. It's of disposition of the heart. It's people that think like non-Christians That the wisdom that guides their thoughts, their values, the things that they live for, the things that they love, the things that they hate, it's not shaped by the Bible, it's not shaped by eternity, it's not shaped by their Position in Christ It's shaped by an entirely fleshly mindset. The church cannot afford for this to become a part of it. And lastly, we should love God's church and be fiercely committed to the work God is doing through it in our generation. I am so thankful for the work that God is doing here. And this is just one place, all over this country. All over the world, there are congregations, all flawed, all have their worts, their ups, and their downs, but God's building his church and he's using them. And we need to be involved in what God's doing. And we need to be committed to it. And we need to pray for the Church of God. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, I thank you for this text of Scripture. I thank you for what it reminds us of. Father, help us to be a people who love you, who are in awe that you would actually call us out unto yourself. You would redeem us and cleanse us from our sins. You would make us your possession. You would secure for us an eternal inheritance. We become your temple. You dwell in us. And as members of the body, you dwell in our midst. As we assemble together, there's something so sweet and so sacred. so beautiful about the assembly of your church. And so help us to really take this to heart tonight, and help us to think correctly about it. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.