I'd like to welcome you to our service and especially I'd like to warmly welcome all of our mothers and wish you all a very special Mother's Day. Hope that uh each of you We do have a special uh gift for all of our ladies after the service. So it's not just for the moms, all of our all all of our ladies When you're heading out, please stop by the desk there and they'll be passing those out. So I hope that you'll be able to be encouraged by that. And also I wanted to draw your uh attention to a couple of announcements that we have. First of all, this is the week that we go to the Baltimore Rescue Mission, so Please do let us know if you're planning to ride with us. The van leaves at 6. 30 and we do a lady service first and then the men's service will be after that. Also this week we have a busy week with our senior luncheon. That will be at noon on Thursday. We also have a college and career fellowship at our house at 7 p. m. on Friday night. And then men we have our breakfast that we do each uh month and we have visitation afterwards. So guys, please do sign up for that. I don't think we have a lot of guys signed up because we've got that up a little bit late, but uh take a moment to step by there in front of the office and sign up so that we can have a good count of how much food we have to have prepared for that And then on the 26th, that would be the Memorial Day weekend. We have a special hymn sing fellowship after uh it'll be the evening service. Basically, we'll we'll just be taking our favorite hymns. And uh we do a little bit of that on Sunday nights already, but that'll be an opportunity to have the majority of our time be just focused on Picking our favorite hymns. Obviously it's Memorial Day weekend, so it'll be a time where we can really fellowship and we can remember those who have paid the ultimate price so that we can have the freedoms that we enjoy. Also it'll be a cookout, so please do sign up for items. They're on that sheet. And it's kind of a potluck and a cookout combined, so there'll be a lot of meat, but we we need some other stuff as well. So want to make you aware of those things. If you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we hope that you'll feel very warmly welcomed. And if you'd like us to reach out to you during the week, take a moment to fill out a connection card, visitor card, put that in the box in the back, and we'll make sure that we reach out to you. Also good to have the students from Arizona with us this morning. for your senior trips. So welcome guys. Pastor Josh is going to open the service with our opening scripture. Our opening scripture reading is going to be found in Ruth 4, starting with verse 14. And the women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord, which hath not left thee this day without a kingsman. At his name may it be famous in Israel And he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life, and a nourisher of thine old age, for thy daughter-in-law, which loveth thee Which is better to thee than seven sons, hath borne him. And Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse unto it. And the women, her neighbors, gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to Naomi, and they called the name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. David. Now, these are the generations of Pharise. Pharise begot Hezron, and Hezron begot Ram, and Ram begot Abinadab And Aminadab begot Nashan, and Nashan begot Solomon, and Solman begot Boaz, and Boaz begot Obed, and Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse. Begat David. Our focus of worship today is on God's grace in life's most difficult circumstances. Please let's all bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service. It'll be a very rich and Christ-centered time together. Father, thank you so much for the text in front of us and the passage of scripture that we'll examine this morning. I pray that as we see your rich grace that was demonstrated in some very troubling and difficult circumstances. That you would take the Word of God and you would minister to our hearts in a very practical and a very personal way. Father, I thank you for each of the ladies here this evening. I thank you for those who have labored sacrificially. Both in the bringing of children into the world, the caring of children, those who are involved in shaping the lives of our children. We thank you for our moms. We thank you for our grandmoms. We thank you for even some of them being great grandmothers. I pray that you will bless these ladies, that today would be a day that uh would be a day of of encouragement for them. Father, as we open up the Word of God, please speak to our hearts. As we sing these hymns of praise to you, I pray that we would think about the rich truths that we are expressing in song. And I pray that we would be encouraged by them. And I pray that as folks are here visiting, I pray that they would feel very warmly welcomed. that we would be an encouragement and a blessing to them as well. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Good. Morning Acre Baptist Church, esteemed guests. Thank you for joining us this morning. Both live here in person and on live stream. Good to see each and every one. Before we get started on our singing, I would like to have all the mothers present with us. Please stand. All the mothers. Don't be shy. I'm not going to bite. Alright, very good. Now, for those that are remaining sitting. Those of you that your mothers have passed away or are no longer with us, please stand No, keep standing, ladies. I want everybody. Stay standing. I want to see everybody standing. Okay. Now for those that are remain seated that still have mothers, please stand. That should be everybody, okay? It was by design. Okay, very good. Now we can see. Alright, a little jocularity there going on. Don't hold it against me. I thought that was a pretty good dad joke, right? Okay, I thought that was okay. Alright. Page 38, or follow along on the screen, how great thou art. And on the last verse, I want to sing that a cappella, please instruments. Page 38, How Great Thou Art, all four verses. Read I was wrong. I believe we were ever. I was making some baby all, but go shall my law I will break thou break thou Booger. All right. We have to turn page 101 right away. Wow, that was that was tingling. All the way my savior leads me, page 101. Oh, sing out It's transcribe that flower and loop room. Back to page fourteen. Page fourteen in the middle, or continue following along on the screen. 14. Worthy of praise. Amen. Amen. For the second reading, we're going back to the book of Ruth. This time we're going to the beginning of the book. Pastor Josh read you the end. We're going to back up chapter one of Ruth. First, first, first five verses. Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife, Naomi, and the name of his two sons, Melon and Kilion. Ephraithes of Bethlehem, Judah, and they came into the country of Moab and continued there. And Elimelech, Naomi 's husband, died. And she was left, and her two sons. And they took them wives of the women of Moab. The name of one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth. And they dwelled there about ten years. And Malon and Kilion died also, both of them. And the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. All right, for our next song. We're going to, I'm not going to make you go through the same exercise, but I need you to all understand. We're going to turn to page 130 or follow along. And at the end of the second verse, at the end of the second chorus, we're going to do our meet and greet. Okay? So at the end of the second verse, we're going to. Turn around and say hello, greetings, happy Mother's Day, all that good stuff to each and every one. Well, okay. Turn around and your peers, you don't have to go around and say happy Mother's Day to each and every mother. Just pick out a couple of your favorites. Okay, page one hundred and thirty. The love of God. The love of God. For guilt instead , fellow with care, God gave his son to win , and then we try to inside. So then you look for the week to have the home. Shall have that way and we 're going. Shall we come in shall we? Greet one another. Okay, start making your way back to your seat. Here we go, version three. All right, now we're going to need our blue book for the next song, page 151 in the blue book, or follow along on our screen with me. Page 151, all three verses of I Run to Christ, and we'll sing the third verse, a cappello again, please. Questions, I do cry when I see The most wheel, thus great spell , the roar I wonder what I was got , and I 'm sure He worthy by shall be Please miss it. Before the road, I am always My neighbor is braven on his hands, my neighbor's brave on his heart. I know that while he says, No time can make me sleep on. No time can make me blessed. When Satan tells me to disturb and tells me of love Love your word of word I love to no well into all my Because the same guy, my sinful soul is not in vain, for God will just have his life. Look on him and hard on me, to look on him and hard on me. My perfect fatless life has death, the greatest. Hobble I am, the king of glory and of grace, my presence of my kind, my presence was. Christ on heart, with Christmas in your hand, I know, my presence of mine. And our time was by four, why did they With Christ my Savior and my heart. With Christ my Savior and my God. With Christ my Savior. Oh God. Okay, well our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back with the help of a parent. And the rest of you would like to invite you to take your Bible, all turn together to the book of Ruth. We're in Ruth chapter 1 this morning, and I 'm going to do something that I hope doesn't scare you, but I'm going to preach an entire book of the Bible in one sermon. But do not worry, on Mother's Day, I am aware of time, and we will move very quickly through these texts of Scripture But I think for us to appreciate what's in front of us, we've actually got to get the entire story. And this morning I realized, well, I say when I was putting together the Order Service, I really wrestled with Do I start at the beginning of the book or do I start at the end of the book? When we open up our our scripture reading in the morning, and I said, you know, let's do the end of the book so that we start out with a very positive note. But You have to go through a lot of history in order to get to the end of the book. So we're going to begin in Ruth chapter 1, verse 1. We're going to read this. We're going to give you a summary statement And a little bit of a synopsis of what's going on in the book of Ruth, and then we're going to dig into a lot of what I hope will be very encouraging and helpful truths for you this morning. Ruth chapter 1, verse number 1. Now, it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled. But there was a famine in the land, and a certain man of Bethlehem Judah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife, Naomi, and the name of his two sons, Melon and Chileon, Ephraithes of Bethlehem, Judah. They came into the country of Moab and continued there. And Elimelech, Naomi 's husband, died. And she was left, and her two sons. And they took them wives of the women of Moab. The name of the one was Orpad , the name of the other Ruth. And they dwelled there about ten years. And Melon and Kleon died also, both of them, and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. This is an amazing text of Scripture. If this is all we had, what we would be reading is one of the great tragedies In a the life of a person who would have been obscure and forgotten in human history. The fact is there are lots and lots of people in history that have had stories that are kind of like this. I know that on Mother's Day It's not just a day of happiness. It's also sometimes a day that's very hard. It's a day that's very troubling. If you have lost a mother recently or a grandmother recently, this could be a very, very difficult day for you. There are some that would have loved to have been mothers and you never raise your own children. There are some who you wish your children were here and they're not There are some who, as you look at life, there's been a lot of pain and a lot of heartache, and Mother's Day reminds you of that And the fact is that the passage in front of us is a passage that shows us the dark side of living in a fallen world, but it also shows you God's grace. And God's power and God's goodness. And how God is able to take some of the most tragic and most painful and most frustrating circumstances of life And he's able to take those little pieces and he's able to put them together in such a way that what you see by the end of the story is in fact it is a great testimony to the power and the grace of God. And that's what the book of Ruth is. It's one of those stories. And so whether you're a mother or not, my prayer is that as we look at the life of this mother, Naomi, and all of her heartache and all of her trouble, God would minister to our souls. Ruth teaches that God tenderly cares for his people despite painful hardships by demonstrating his rich grace through little details that work together to accomplish His grand purposes. That is what this book is all about. And as we read through these verses and as we consider this entire story, I think what God wants us to take away from this Is that our sense of who he is, his goodness and his wisdom needs to be renewed and restored if it's been lost. It needs to be clarified and brought back into focus if in fact we have lost our appreciation for how good God is and how wise he is. So I want to begin with some introductory thoughts about the flow of the book of Ruth. It is a fascinating story. It starts out with a faithless decision, leaving the house of bread, that is what Bethlehem means, in search of bread in a foreign land. Starts out in verse number one, it came to pass in the days of the judges, a very tumultuous time in Israel's history, that there was a famine in the land. We're not talking about your grass guide in your front yard. We're talking about people starving. We're talking about people who did not have the ability to put food on their table. We're talking about people that were suffering and experiencing tremendous heartache. At that period of time, a man leaves the house of bread, Bethlehem, to find bread in Moab. One of the things we know is that because of what was going on, it's an indication that Israel was living through a time of rebellion against God, and God was allowing them to experience heartache. It says he went and he sojourned in the country of Moab. And then we see that that decision culminated in some unforeseen compromises that led to a lot more heartache than what had already been experienced. In verse number two, it says they came to the country And continued there. And Elimelech, Naomi 's husband, died, and she was left, and her two sons, and they took wives of the women of Moab, and they dwelled there about ten years, and Melon and Kileon died. Both of them, the woman was left. of her two sons and her husband. It's not a very positive story at this point, is it? And that heartache led to a root of bitterness that affected lots of people, not just one individual. And in verse number 12 of chapter 1 through 15, this is what Naomi says. She says Turn, my daughters, go your way. It grieveth me much for your sake that the hand of the Lord has gone out against me. Behold, thy sister-in-law has gone back unto her people and under her gods. Return after thy sister-in-law. When she comes back in verse number 20, she says to the ladies, Do not call me Naomi. Call me Mara, for the Lord, the Almighty, hath dealt bitterly with me. I went out full, and the Lord brought me home again empty. This is not a very positive story right now. Despite unnecessary compromises, painful circumstances in Naomi's bitterness God was faithful. In verse 16, it says, Ruth said, entreat me not to leave thee or to return from following after thee. Where thou goest, I will go. Where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God. Now we're going to develop this a little bit more in just a couple of moments, but this is one of the most amazing moments in all of history. When this woman Ruth said, I'm not going back to my father's house, and I'm not going back to my father's gods, I'm willing to go to the land of Israel with my widowed mother-in-law, with absolutely no hope of remarrying because no one wants to marry a Gentile from Moab. She said, I'm going to be with your God and your people. This is one of the most important moments in all history. You'll see it in a few minutes. And then we see that God's grace moved in this story to cause them to return to the house of bread, Bethlehem, from the land of affliction during the barley harvest. Chapter 1, verse 22, it says, So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabite is her daughter-in-law with her. They came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest, and Naomi had a kinsman of her husband. Of her husband's a mighty man of wealth of the family of Elimelech. His name was Boaz. And then by the end of the story, God has provided a loving husband for Ruth. a nourisher of Naomi in her old age, and has preserved his redemptive plan through the birth of King David's grandfather. It says in chapter 4 verse 14, the women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord, which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman. And that his name may be famous in Israel, he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life and a nourisher of thine old age. And they called his name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. That is the story of the book of Ruth. A woman who goes into a foreign land, not because she chose to, not because she wanted to, but because of her husband's decision a woman who lost her husband, a woman who lost her two children, a woman whose sons married foreign women who are idolaters. And a woman who comes back to the land of Israel in absolute destitution. She has no land to go back to. She has no man to take care of the land. Her daughter-in-law has no prospects of marriage. She is a broken and bitter and miserable woman. But that's not how the story ended. And the reason that the story ends the way that it does has nothing to do with Naomi 's greatness and has nothing to do with Ruth's greatness. It has everything to do with the grace and the power and the goodness of God. And that's what we're going to see this morning. So truth number one, and the word I want you to remember as we look at this section is the word perspective. I think a lot of help for us in the Christian life is we need to look at life with a balanced perspective that understands the good and the bad, God's grace and his mercy, and also the difficult consequences of sinful choices. We're going to see it all at the beginning of this passage of Scripture. And in we when we look at this passage, we're going to see that some of life's greatest hardships They're not our faults. Do you know that? Now, I didn't say all of life's greatest hardships are not our fault. I am very much of the opinion that a massive number of troubles that we experience in life are the direct result of us sowing to the flesh and reaping corruption. and us making very unwise decisions and experiencing the long-term consequences of those very foolish choices. But that is not the only way people suffer in life. In fact, this story shows us a woman who suffered. It really wasn't her fault. In verse number one, it says, it came to pass in those days. When the judges ruled, there was a famine in the land, and a certain man went and sojourned in the country of Moab, he and his wife and his two sons. Now question. Did Naomi have anything to do with the nation being in a chaotic circumstance because it was the time of the judges where everyone did right in their own eyes? Does she have anything to do with that? No, she didn't. Did she tell her husband, hey, we should go to Moab and get bread because there's a famine in the land. It never indicates that she did that. There are at least five major hardships that Naomi experienced that are laid out in these first five verses that are a direct result not of her decisions, but of other people's decisions. She lived in a chaotic time, the time of the judges, verse number one. Her husband made a foolish decision in verse number one to go into the land of Moab, and the truth is that everybody in her family was affected by his choice. We have no idea what kind of conversations went on between them, but the text clearly said he made the choice to take them into the land. She lost him in a foreign land, verses two to three. It came to pass. In that as they came into the country of Moab and continued there, that Elimelech, Naomi 's husband, died. And notice how the text says, she was left And her two sons. It's indicating the fact that she's already feeling vulnerability. Her husband is gone. And then in verse number four, what do we see next? Her boys didn't say, hey mom, let's go back to Israel. We are of marriageable age and we need to marry. Women who serve the Lord true, the true God of Israel. That's not what they did. They went and took wives from the Moabites. I have no idea how she took that. The fact is that we know in the text later on that these women were were idolaters. They were worshiping the gods of their fathers. And more than likely, when we think about all the stories in the Old Testament during these times That is how a family would get sucked into idolatry. They would marry a foreigner who was an idolater, and when they married that foreigner who was an idolater, guess what? It brought idolatry into the family and it became a part of their family culture This is why the Bible forbids Christians from marrying non-Christians. It's a very simple thing. Do not be unequally yoked together with unbelievers, because your family is going to be shaped by one of those people not being a Christian. And the simple fact is that when her boys made that decision, never indicates that she approved of it. Never indicates that she blessed it. She had to live with it. But her troubles got even worse. Because in verse number five, she loses these boys as well. And she's now left a helpless widow in a foreign land. It says in verse 5, and Melon Echileon died, also both of them, and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband. The truth is, when we read the Old Testament, one of the things that we see is that Israel was God's covenanted people, and in the Mosaic Law, there were laws built into their system for the defense and the protection of fatherless and widows and foreigners. Why? Because they were vulnerable people. But understand that their neighbor civilizations did not have such laws and protections for foreigners. She is feeling the weight of the choices of her husband and the choices of her culture. And could we say the tough hand of God's providence? She lost her husband, she lost her boys. The second truth though that we're going to see, and this is the word I want you to remember, while we we remember the word perspective, the second word I want you to remember is the word comfort. What's that word? Oh, come on. Let's hear it again. What's the word? Comfort. What was the first word? Oh, good, okay. Perspective and comfort. So This word comfort will remind us that God never abandons us in these painful seasons. Now, I did not say that we never feel abandoned by God in these circumstances. I said God never abandons us in these circumstances. Sometimes our view and our perspective and our feelings, they're not consistent with the way things actually are. And so this woman, Naomi, does not see God as her comforter and a father to her and someone who's caring for her and someone who loves her and is nourishing her and looking out for her in her vulnerability. She does not see God that way at all. But he is. He's not changed. He is the same God, the same character from the beginning of the story to the end of the story. He's the same, but she doesn't see it that way. Look down with me in verse number six. It says, Then she arose with her daughter-in-law, daughters-in-law, that she might return from the country of Moab, for she had heard in the country of Moab. how the Lord had visited his people in giving them bread. Now, she was physically and emotionally isolated in Moab. And it's stated several different ways so that we can see it. In verse number five, She literally had no one. Melon and Kileon died, both of them. The woman was left of her two sons and her husband. There are no Jewish people A part of her family, she doesn't have an inheritance that she can take care of. She's vulnerable. She's isolated. And verses 8 and 9, we see that she is consumed with what she missed the most. And by the way, this is a very common thing. You know, what what makes Mother's Day hard for someone who's lost their mother or their grandmother? Well what makes it hard is you remember that loss on that day. What makes Christmas What makes some of the holidays that are that are some of the most wonderful times in our lives so hard when someone has passed away? It reminds us of their absence. And this woman is living, being consumed with what she missed the most. And you know how we see that? Look in verse 8. She says, the Lord deal kindly with you, and the Lord grant you that ye may find rest, each of you, in the house of her what? Her husband. Why did she say that? Because she didn't have one. That's why she said that. In other words, her mind is you need to go back to your people and go back to your father's household and you need to marry someone who is Moabite so that you have someone to defend you. And to protect you and to look out for you. And you can raise children with that person, your spouse. I don't have a husband. I don't want that to happen to you. That's what she's saying. She is consumed with what she has lost. And then in verse 13, she laments her pain and saw God as one who is harshen against her. In verse 13, it says It grieveth me much for your sakes that the hand of the Lord is gone against me. Did you catch that? She's saying, I am so sad that God has done this to me and it's affected you. That's what she's saying. Now, does that seem like a woman who has confidence that God loves her and he's looking out for her? No. And before we start getting down on Naomi and start being harsh with her in our attitude, let's just be frank. We'd probably feel the same way if we were in her shoes. She was physically and emotionally isolated. And though she was truly isolated and could not see the evidence of God's grace, we see the very first evidence of God's grace in verse number six. Look at down what it says in your Bible. And she heard from the country of Moab how the Lord had visited his people. Now question, is she Jewish? Yes. Are these her people? Yes. Is he her God? Yes. But how does she see it? I heard God's taking care of them. And you know why that's the first example of God's grace? Because that's what turned her eyes to say, maybe I should go back home. That's what it was. That's what made her say, Maybe I should go back home. She wasn't thinking correctly at the time She saw God as her enemy. She saw God as cruel and harsh. And how he had dealt with her very difficult in a very difficult way. But God allows her to hear How he's taking care. You know it's interesting. You ask, well, how does she hear this? Well maybe some of the Moabites said, Hey, have you heard what's going on in Israel? Those people over there. Doesn't say your people. It says those people. But this is the first example of God's grace. And let me tell you something. When God begins demonstrating his grace in our lives, we don't see it at the beginning. We don't see it. Sometimes God's first step of grace toward us is something that's very harsh. Something that we don't understand at all Something that it makes us recognize our weakness, our vulnerability, or it gives us this little glimmer of hope. This is the first example of God's grace being demonstrated here. And by the way, God's grace went on before, but this is the first one you see. Third truth. The word I want us to remember is the word affection. What was the first word? Perspective. Perspective. Well, my wife got that. Good. Alright, what was the second word? Huh? Comfort. All right. Third word is affection. Affection. God is full of grace. Now, the book of Ruth is about God's grace more than any other concept. It really is But you do not appreciate God's grace. You don't understand God's grace if everything in your life goes smoothly and you never see a bump on the road. You just won't experience it. You won't understand it. You won't appreciate it. We see in verse number 14 it says they lifted up their voice and they wept again and Orpa kissed her mother-in-law, but Ruse clave unto her. Did you see that? But ruse Clave unto her. While Orpah loved her mother-in-law and said, I love you dearly and I'm going to weep as I go back to my father's house and go back to my father's gods. And I find a Moabite man to marry me, and my life goes on. I'm going to miss you. I'm going to remember you dearly, but I'm going back. Bruce said, not a chance. Ruth said, I'm not going back. She grabbed a hold of her mother-in-law and said, You will not, you will not leave me. She was she was saying, I will not go back. That phrase but Ruth Clave unto her is one of the most significant moments in biblical history. You say, hold on a second. What do you mean one of the most significant moments in the history of Scripture? I mean like what does this have to do with the rest of the Bible? Oh, it has a lot to do with it, and you're going to see this in just a moment But when Ruth says, No, I'm not going back, and she grabbed a hold of her mother-in-law and said, Where you go, I will go, and your people will be my people and your God will be my God. When she said that, what she did not realize Is that she was at a crossroads that was going to ultimately put her in a piece of redemptive history. And all she knew was, I love my mother-in-law, and I can't leave her. That's all she knew. Naomi was broken and vulnerable, but Ruth's choice to cleave to her would completely turn the course of history. Naomi was a bitter woman who saw God as a cruel enemy, making her life miserable at every turn. But Ruth's choice to cleave to her would begin a process of rekindling her faith in God's good hand. It would lead to the uprooting of Naomi 's bitterness. It would restore joy to her barren spirit She didn't know that. All she knew is I feel bad for Ruth. She needs to go back. She's not going to have a good life with me, but I can't I can't get her to turn. So she's going to come with me. Alright, fine. Alright, Ruth, let's go. That's what the moment felt like. There 's a lot more in the balances than these ladies realized. The greatest significance of this moment goes beyond Ruth Naomi and the time of the judges. Her future redemption and eternal inheritance were all hanging in the balances when Ruth claved to her mother-in-law. Now some of you think that was a that was that was definitely a preacher overspeak right there. No, it's not. It's absolutely not. The bottom line is when you take the lineage of Christ and you trace it down through David, there is no David if there's no Ruth. You got that? No David if there's no Ruth. And there's no Ruth if she went back to Moab. This is a big deal. And the fact is, as they were living through it, they had absolutely no idea it was in the balances. God did, though And God is working through these people's lives. God's gracious hand and the details of this story become more apparent with each detail from this point on in the book. Now There is so much that we could digest in this book. I would encourage you to go home today and uh read the entire book. I really would. In the light of what you're hearing this morning, go back and read the book. And if you follow anchored in the word, it won't be this week, but it'll be the following week, you'll have the opportunity to get it broken down a little bit more as well. But I want you to catch some of these details. There's more than what I'm going to share with you, but these are really significant. The first one is this. Ruth purposed to stay with Naomi despite Naomi 's Protest in verse 15. She said, Look, your sister-in-law has gone back to her people unto her gods. Return after thy sister-in-law. And Rue said, Entreat me not. Do not tell me to go back Don't push me away. I'm not going to leave you. That's what she's saying. Entreat me not to leave thee or return from following thee. For whither thou goest, I will go. Where thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be my people. That's an amazing statement. And thy God, my God. Did you catch that? Everything that's going to flow from here on is hinging on that statement. There's a reason that David was a man after God's own heart in the time of the judges. Because most of the people living in his time were not meant after God's own heart. Where did that godly heritage come from? Right there. Right there. This woman, who is a pagan idolater, says, your people will be my people and your God's going to be my God. And when we are when we're introduced to Boaz, we see that Boaz, he's a great man. God brings these two people together. The second thing is the timing of their return to Bethlehem was perfect. Verse 22, it says, So Naomi returned and Ruth the Moabitus, and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of the barley harvest. Now think of it this way. If they came at the wrong time, where were they going to get food from? Ever thought about that? I mean they didn't go to the local grocery store. store. I mean the way that they were able to eat every day is Ruth would go to a field and she would pick up the scraps that fell behind the guys that were working and she would bundle it up and she would take it home and They would survive off of that. The timing was perfect. Verse number two, God raised up Boaz, a man of outstanding character. I love the way this is stated. And Naomi had a kinsman of her husbands. A mighty man of wealth, a f of the family of Elimenech, and his name was Boaz. You know in Proverbs 31 where it talks about the virtuous woman, okay? Well, when he talks about Boaz being a mighty man of wealth, that is actually the male equivalent to the statement of being a virtuous woman. This is a person who is strong. This is a person who is wise. This is a person who is ambitious. This is a person who works hard. This is a person who makes decisions that God's hand of blessing is upon them. That's the kind of guy That is introduced to us in chapter 2, verse 1. Ruth 's random choice to enter into Boaz field was no accident. I use the word random. Notice it's in quotes. At least it's supposed to be. I don't know if it is in the notes, but I can't read it from here But it was not, it was random from her perspective, but she went into that field and God knew who she needed to meet. And as she's working, the guy said, Who is that? They said, Oh, that's that's Naomi 's daughter-in-law. She's Moabite. She's not she's not Jewish. No, she's not. And look how she works. Have you heard about how you she she's a widow. She's a young widow. Oh yeah, I've heard about that. Man, look at she she works harder than these other ladies. What's going on? She they they noticed her. She was a person who was motivated. She thought and acted different than the other ladies that were working in that field In verse number three, it says, She went and came and gleaned in the field after the reapers, and her hap was to light on a part of the field belonging to Boaz, who was of the kindred of Elimelech. Her hap. God's providence. That's what it was. God's working. Every detail that came together in this section was a powerful witness to God's grace. Bless kindness to Ruth is described in chapter two, verse seven. Do not go and glean in another field. Have I not charged the young men that they shall not touch thee? When thou art thirst, go unto the vessel and drink of that which the young men have drawn. He's looking out for her. He's protecting her. He's defending her. He's the kind of person that she'd want to marry. That's the truth And verse number twenty, her appeal to the Jewish custom of kinsman redemption was something that Naomi had to teach her about. Naomi said unto her daughter-in-law, Blessed be He of the Lord who hath not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead. Naomi said unto her, the man is near of kin unto thee, one of our next kinmen. Now why does that matter? Because she's going to explain to her how you go to him and say, I want you to redeem me so that we can raise a son in my deceased husband's name. That's what she's doing. His willingness to take quick action on her request. Chapter 2, verse 12, The Lord recompense thy work, and a full reward be given to thee of the Lord God of Israel. And I love this statement. Under whose Wings that are come to trust. That's a great statement. She's come to be with God's people. She's coming to follow God's ways. She's wanting to be a part of these people. Your people, my people, your God, my God. That's what we're seeing there He says, There's a kinsman that is nearer than I. Tarry this night, and it shall be in the morning that if he will perform unto thee the part of the kinsman well, but if he will not do the part of the kinsman unto thee, then will I do the part of the kinsman to thee. And then, verse number six of chapter four, what do we see? We see that Boaz is very wise about how he approaches this man. He knows how to deal with a person like him. And this is what the kinsman says when he presents the opportunity that he didn't want to take. He says, the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself lest I listen to this. Mar mine own inheritance. Redeem thou my right to thyself. I cannot redeem it. Do you realize that what that man believed was marring of his inheritance was God saying, Here's a little piece I'm going to put into the redemptive plan right there. This man said, I don't want to touch this. I don't want anything to do with it. I like my life. I don't want to marry a Moabite. I don't want to ruin my name and my reputation. But I said, I'll do it. That's what he did. And then in chapter 4, verse 13, we see Ruth's conception of a son. This is interesting how the text states it. It says, the Lord gave her conception, and she bare a son. She didn't bear a daughter. She wasn't barren. God gave her a child. Such an important piece of the redemptive story. This child preserved the most significant inheritance in human history. Chapter 4, verse 14. And the woman said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman, that his name might be famous in Israel. He shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life and a nourisher of thine old age. They called his name Obed. He is the father of Jesse, the father of David. The last word I want you to remember today is the word hope. God's ways are far higher than what we perceive in the moment that we are living through. In verse 14, it says, The women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the Lord which hath not left thee this day without kinsmen. He shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life and a nourisher of thine own age. Amazing statement God 's redemptive providence is stunning. This statement was one of the most uplifting things Naomi could have ever heard. Blessed be thou of the Lord, he hath not left thee without a kinsman. The second part is a messianic prophecy that these women probably didn't have any clue what was being stated His name will be famous in Israel. Why is it that this man's name would be famous in Israel? Because every time the lineage of Christ is written down His name is mentioned. He's an important person, seemingly an obscure person. Why in the world would these ladies even say this? They said it because God knew what he was doing. The third part is such a rich statement about both the immediate and future significance of this moment. He shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life and a nourisher of thine old age. In that moment, but let's think about it this way. Because of this action and God's work, there's redemption. Not just about comfort today. Eternal comfort. When we examine God's plan of redemption, we see this story and every piece of it is an inescapable piece of the story. He was working behind the scenes despite all the pain and all the suffering to keep his plan of redemption intact. A Redeemer came through the line of Riz Child. Isn't that an amazing thing? His compassion is also overwhelmingly comforting. Psalm 68 says, sing unto God, sing praise to his name. He is a father of the fatherless. A judge of the widows. That means he vindicates them. Is God in his holy habitation? God setteth the solitary in families, he bringeth out those which are bound with chains. Is that not what he did with this woman? It's exactly what he did. He did it for Naomi. He did it for Ruth. He loved these women and he was kind to them. Remind you of what we talked about last week in Psalm 40. He says, I waited patiently for the Lord. He inclined into me and heard my cry. He brought me up out of a horrible fit pit, set my feet. upon a rock and established my goings. He had put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many, O Lord, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done. If I would declare them and speak of them, they're more than can be numbered. You see why the book of Ruth is an amazing book? Say, well, Pastor, what do you take away from that? Here's what I take away from it. Life can be relentlessly painful and leave us broken and feeling like there's no hope. And when we feel isolated and hopeless, we need to remember something. God hasn't left us. Might be somebody here this morning, you feel like God has left you. How you feel is not what is true. You understand that? You say, well, I feel it deeply. I feel it personally. I understand that. Maybe I don't understand that. But how you feel and who he is is not the same. Don't let your feelings shape who you think God is. Let the word of God shape your perspective of Him. He is full of grace and he works meticulously behind the scenes to accomplish his loving purposes in our lives. Can you read the book of Ruth? And come away saying it's all a bunch of accidents? Just flipping a coin? If you can, you're not looking at the word objectively. God moved and worked. And in no way diminished the weight. I mean, Ruth's decision was her choice. And there are reasons she did what she did, but there's a bigger piece to it than she didn't understand, and that is God's redemptive plan. He can restore our joy and strength even when we have been severely broken by life. And that's exactly what he did in these verses. He can bring good out of the most difficult circumstances. And so my challenge to you is a very simple one this morning. Let's have a renewed sense of how good and wise God is. There might be somebody here this morning that the truth is you've never understood the depths of God's goodness and love because you've never understood that He has provided redemption for you. I use that word redemption. I talk about the significance of the story. The fact is, there is a cross and there's an empty tomb. One, because God promised it would happen, and two, because he caused it to happen. And this is part of how he brought it to pass. And there's an empty tomb, and there's a cross with a savior being nailed to that cross. Purchasing our redemption so that we who are sinners could be redeemed to holy and righteous God. Our sin debt could be removed, we could be forgiven, cleansed, declared God's child by faith alone in Him And so if there's somebody in this room this morning that's never turned to Christ, trusted in what He's done for you, let the story of Ruth remind you that God took that kind of care so that you could have the potential to be saved. And he loves you. And he's calling you to turn to him and to trust in him as your Savior. There might be a Christian here this morning who you have forgotten God's goodness. And I want to invite you to remind yourself again of it. Let's bow for prayer. Before we pray, if there's anyone in our midst who doesn't know for sure that they're saved, they've trusted Christ, please. Do not, do not hesitate to reach out to me. If you're a lady, I'll connect you with another lady. She could take a Bible, show you how to be saved. If you're a man, I'll sit down with you. Take a Bible, show you how you can be saved. Don't leave this place. Without having a confidence that you have trusted Christ and you are his child. There might be someone here that needs to reach out because you're beaten down in life and you're weird and you're discouraged. And you need to reach out and get help. Please don't hesitate to do that. After a sermon like this, God may be nudging you to reach out. So don't don't sit on the side. Do it. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, thank you for the word. May it minister richly to every person here I thank you for our moms. We have some wonderful godly mothers in this room, wonderful godly grandmothers and even great-grandmothers. And these ladies have made immense sacrifices for their children, for their families, for their grandchildren. They have labored in ways that we cannot even begin to recount. They have made great sacrifices. And Father, we thank you for the way that you have worked in their lives so that they would have the love and the compassion in their heart that you have given them to care for their children. And the way that they have, and the wisdom that you have endued them with, as they've been in the Word of God. Father, if this is a day of struggle for someone, I pray that you will comfort them And may this passage of Scripture about Ruth and Naomi be something that gives them hope and encouragement and comforts them. I pray that you would be glorified through your word as it has been given. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's all turn our hymn books to hymn 156. How Can it be? 156. How can it be? We're going to sing each of the verses. Let's stand together, please. Just think about how great God's love and his work is in our lives. Let's remember together. Here we go. Oh, see if you're at my eyes evil. So wonders of thy until thou have the activation down as name. And yes, if they thou honestly my heart right now, have get in me, have get in me. Oh now it 's me and the cross heart of the born crown. And you the price are equal by trouble and so road and And the I shall bring one for me and make How can I make me? How can I make me? Let's see the last Al capella, there we go. How can it be? How can it be whatever and free from my subway to death? Just you me all divine how can you how can it Is it God good? I can ask you if Brother Scott will close us in prayer. And uh ladies, please remember to pick up your gift. It's just a small gift, but uh be a Mother's Day. We hope that you uh have been appreciated. I hope that your kids will Rise up and call you blessed, because that is the right thing to do. Go ahead Heavenly Father, you are truly wonderful and powerful and able to work in any situation to bring about your glory. We thank you for that, for your love. your steadfastness in our lives. Thank you for this challenge today. We thank you for the mothers who work so tirelessly and so hard for all of us. And Just thank you, Lord, that you bless us through the lives that you've given in Jesus' name. Amen