We have a couple of actually the only announcement that we have this morning is that we do have a business meeting after the evening service. And so if you have not seen the items that are posted on the business meeting agenda, take a moment to look at that. It's pretty brief. Basically, we're just voting on two items. But please take a moment to look at that and hope that you'll be able to make it tonight. Pastor Josh will open our service with our scripture reading. And we will start with verse one. Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money, come ye, buy, and eat. Yea, come and buy wine and milk without money and without price. Wherefore do you spend money for that which is not bread? And your labor for that which satisfieth not Hearken diligently unto me, and eat that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in fatness. Incline your ear and come unto me. Hear, and your soul shall live, and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David. Behold, I have given him for a witness to the people, a leader and commander to the people. Behold. Thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not, and nations that knew not thee shall run unto thee because of the Lord thy God, and for the Holy One of Israel For he hath glorified thee. Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts. And let him return unto the Lord, and he will have mercy upon him, and to our God he will abundantly pardon For my thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways, my ways, saith the Lord. 4, as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. Our focus of worship today is for us to humbly rejoice in God's gracious persistence. I'd like to invite you all as we pray to think about the things that are going on in our nation, things that are going on in our church. And let's really lay these things, our burdens, before the Lord. And let's remember that He hears our prayer and He's going to work in every single one of these situations. So please let's bow together for prayer. Father, as we come together this morning, we ask that you'd help us to remind ourselves of several rich truths. Father, we're reminded that you are a God who is in control. You work. In the affairs of mankind. We are reminded that you lift up and you put down. We're reminded that the king's heart is in your hands. And so, Father, as we come before you, I pray that we would recognize that not only do you desire to do these things, But in fact, you are able. And so, Father, we ask that you'd help us this morning as a congregation to remember our great need. To grow, our need for wisdom, our need for consistency in our walk with you. And Father, I pray that you would even use the things that are presented from your word this morning to to be tools that you use to strengthen us, to give us wisdom and mature us as your people. We pray for our families. Thank you for every family that you've brought into this congregation. And Father, I pray that you would provide protection and wisdom. I pray that as moms and dads are shaping the next generation of young people, that you would help them to do it with great skill and wisdom and persistence. And Father, I pray that we as parents and grandparents and those who are examples would point these young people to Christ in a way that really demonstrates the power and the beauty of your ways. And Father, I pray for our community. I pray for our nation. I pray that there would be a movement in your people where there is health and there is vitality in the Church of God. is truly influencing their communities in a way that points people to Christ. Father, I pray that you would help us to have peace and stability in our land and help us as your people when we have opportunity to point people to the hope that lies within us in meekness and fear. And Father, we pray for this service. We recognize that the Holy Spirit Is indwelling every believer in this room. And so we pray that as the word of God is preached and as these hymns are sung, that we would give careful attention to the ministry of the word, that the Spirit of God would move in our midst and in our hearts in a very profound way. Father, I pray that you would give us insight into the intent of the text of Scripture that are before us. I pray that you would convict us where that's what we need. I pray that you would uplift us and encourage us if we are weary and weighed down. Father, we pray that this service would be a time of Christ-centered, gospel-centered preaching and singing and scripture reading. May all that is done bring glory to you. Alright, well tonight's gonna be or this morning's gonna be a little different because we uh don't have our song leaders, so you're stuck with me. But uh yeah, we are this is uh Number four out of three. So anyway, we're going to go ahead and sing our hymns together. And I really want to encourage you that as we sing these hymns, let us think about the tremendous truths that we are expressing in song. And let's do it from the heart with passion. So the first hymn we're going to sing is from 537. It's Jesus Says, let's stand together, please. We're going to sing. This hymn of praise to God. On the heavens on your side , we will never be the same , walking on the side, we will deliver. Jesus Speaker Seeds Are you there? Jesus said to be honest into the world with the power force speaking time for Jesus Good singing. You may be seated. Second hymn we're going to sing is hymn 343, Springs of Living Water, and we're going to be reminded. That a truly Christ-centered life is a life that is going to be vibrant and it's going to be filled with life. And so he is the source of that like three hundred and forty-three, let's sing together, springs of living water. Good singing. The next song is 336. My hope is in the Lord. 336 is going to ask you to stand together. And notice that there's a progression here. We are reminded that Jesus saves, and we celebrate that. We're reminded that he is the source of living water. And now we're going to be reminded that our hope is rooted in him alone. And we're going to sing that. with great joy as we think about that. So let's sing it out. 336, my hope is in the Lord. And isn't that an awesome song? You may be seated. And let's all turn together to our second scripture reading. And this is found in Luke chapter 14. And in fact, this is going to be the text that we will be looking at. for our sermon this morning. Luke chapter 14, we're looking at verses 15 down to verse 24. And when one of them that sat at meat with him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. And said he unto him, A certain man had a great supper and bade many. Sent his servants at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come. For all things are now ready. And they all, with one consent, began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground I must needs go and see it. I pray thee, have me excused. Another said, I have bought I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them. I pray thee, have me excused. Another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. So that servant came and showed his Lord these things. The master of the house, being angry, said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and the lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind. The servant said, Lord, it is done, as thou hast commanded. And yet there is room. The Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in at my house may be filled. For I say unto you that none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of this word, and let's reflect on these things during the operatory Is that the captain? Please let's turn for our next hymn to hymn 155, Wonderful Grace of Jesus. And really this entire service is going to be about celebrating the grace of Jesus And after the second verse, between the second and the third, we'll take a moment to give you an opportunity to greet those around you. So please do that. Let's stand together. We're going to sing 155. Wonderful grace of Jesus. Bring those around you. Okay. When we have the last video, one thing was Great job singing, and you may be seated. As we turn to our final hymn this morning, and that is from our blue books. Hymn 192, complete and Z. And I'd like us to sing an a cappella on the third verse, and then the instruments will come back in on the fourth verse as we reflect on the fact that we are complete in him, and there is nothing in us That gives us such a position. It is all the grace of God, his righteousness, his work, and we're going to sing about that. So let's really sing this song out. 192 complete and date. I must have meant I lose the meeting. And going Come in thee , no worse of sin, thy wing has fallen, thy window beyond. For me and glory I who shall be come sleep and be multiplied And no good thing to be denied, Since thou my worship war to me, I ask no more conclusion thee. Yes, if I can rock, thy one has fallen for me. And glory God you shall be. You see your friend before I get us a table. Beautiful singing. Thank you so much. So , you know, we're going to have to do that. Who else commands all the hosts of heaven? Who else can make every king bow down? Who else can restart in darkest trace? Holy are holy God What other beauty demands such brazen? What other splendor outshines the sun? What other majesty rose with us Only our Holy God Come and behold him, thou na behold me. Cry and sing holy forever, Holy God. Come and worship the holy God. Lord of the glory consumes like fire. What other power can raise by the name remains undefeated? Only a holy God behold him the one in only cry. Holy forever, a holy God. Come and worship a holy God. So could I do me on now I say Who else would offer his only son? Who else invites me to call him father? Only the Holy God, only my holy God Come and behold him the one man. Forever, a holy God. Come and worship the holy God. Come and behold him the morning only. Cry out, sing holy, forever, a holy God. Come and worship the holy God. Come and worship the home we go. Okay, our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back with the help of a parent. The rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Luke chapter 14. Luke chapter 14, we're looking at verses 15 through 24 as we mentioned earlier in our service. I'm going to read the text one more time just to kind of remind ourselves of what's in front of us. And then what we're going to do is we're going to dig into the topic of the text, the drive of the text, and that is this comparison and this contrast between God's grace And mankind's folly, God's grace and mankind's folly. Here's what the scriptures say. And when one of them that sat down at meet with him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. Then said he unto him, A certain man had a great supper, and bade many And sent his servants at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come, for all things are now ready. And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I've bought a piece of ground, I must go and see it. I pray thee, have me excused. Another said, I have brought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them. I pray thee, have me excused Another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come. I'll just mention this. He didn't ask to be excused. He just said I can't come. I just thought that was interesting, but I'll just put that there anyway. So that servant came and showed his Lord these things. And the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and the lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind. The servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room. The Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges and compel them to come in. that my house may be filled. For I say unto you, none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper. Let's ask the Lord to help us understand these truths that will be laid before us this morning. Our Father, as we think about this word before us. I pray that you'd help us to have sensitive hearts to what it says. Help us to consider the rich implications that flow out of this passage. And whatever a person's situation is. Who is in this room or maybe listening on the live stream, maybe someone will come across this sermon years from now. I have no idea. I pray that you would take the Word of God and press it on our hearts and help us to understand these very important truths. We pray for the Spirit to move in our midst and in our hearts. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us could be summarized in the following very simple way. This parable magnifies the greatness of God's grace. and his persistent extension of it against the backdrop of the tragic, irreversible rejection of that grace. So what we see is a contrast here. We see a contrast of God's hand extended, and it is very persistent, and it is very kind and it is very good. In fact, his grace is being magnified. And then we see the casual kinds of excuses that people give for why they are ultimately rejecting this extension of God's grace. And ultimately what it is is it's a warning for us to not presume against the grace of God. If there's someone in our midst this morning, I hope that as the passage is laid before you, if you do not know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, as you see this, you'll say, He is a merciful God. He's a patient God. He's a persistent God. And I've been pushing against this for maybe years. It's time for me to turn. It's time for me to repent and believe. It's time for me to accept this offer of salvation. that has come to me so many times and I have casually pushed it to the side. So in order for us to see that, we're going to begin with this simple fact from the text. God's grace alone makes people citizens of his kingdom. God's grace alone makes people citizens of his kingdom. Now notice what he says in verse As Luke is writing these verses, he says, When one of them that sat at meat with him heard these things, he said , Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God. Now this observer's interpretation of what Jesus has been saying, blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God, is a good it is a good and it is a correct interpretation of what Jesus is saying. However, because of the kind of parable that Jesus gives after that statement, it tells us that even though the man was saying the right thing, he didn't necessarily understand the implications and the richness of what he was saying. And this is something that's actually fairly common when we come to a church context. There are many people that they have learned the Christian lingo. They've learned terms like Repent, believe, grace, faith, and they talk about regeneration and justification and sanctification, and they they can use those terms But they don't understand. I mean it's not hit their heart the rich truths that they're talking about. And think of that song we just sang a little bit ago. Yea, justified, O blessed thought. And sanctified, salvation wrought. Thy blood hath parted and bought for me. Glorified I too shall be. I mean, we sang that. Like how many of us is kind of like saying it like, didn't even think about it? Well, this man is saying the right thing, but he doesn't get it. He doesn't understand the implication. And so Jesus is going to give a parable. That's gonna like hit him right between the eyes. He didn't say, hey, you don't know what you're talking about, but it's exactly what he did. He gives this parable to say, you don't really get what you're saying And so this observer correctly understands the immense value and the privilege of being a citizen of the kingdom. But Christ's parable reveals that while his statement is true, he lacked understanding. of the significance of these words. So that should lead us to a question. How is a person saved? And what gives them the right To enter into the kingdom of God. And to put it in the simplest terms that I can, I'm going to say it this way: we are saved by grace alone. We are saved by grace alone. Someone might say, well, what do you mean by that? Well I'm going to give you some scripture that I hope gives you not what I mean by that, but what the Bible means by this statement, we are saved by grace alone. The first passage I want to draw your attention to is Acts 15, 11. Here's what it says. It says, we believe that through the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, we shall be saved. Grace. Ephesians 2. 5, he says, when we were dead in sins, he hath quickened us together with Christ, by grace we are saved. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, he says, By grace ye are saved through faith. And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. 2 Timothy 1. 9 , it says, he has saved us and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works. but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began. Now, did you catch what every single one of those passages said? It said we are saved by grace. It did not say we are saved through grace. It says we're saved by grace. You say, why does that matter? Well it matters because one viewpoint would be that salvation is all 100% the work of God, that is, saved by grace. And another view would be say through grace, meaning I cooperate with God to earn my salvation. That second view could not be further from what the Bible has to say. If in your mind you say, you know, the way that I become a Christian is I come to church, I give, I tithe, I read the Bible, I pray. I do good things, I turn over a new leaf in my life, and through the grace of God, a little at a time, I earn my way to God so that I can present to him all of these things that I have done for him. If that's the way you see salvation, you don't understand biblical salvation. We are not saved through grace. We are saved by grace Through faith. And they make it even clearer, he says, it's not of ourselves. It's a gift. It's not of works, lest any man should boast. I'll explain it like this. Grace alone is the basis of our salvation. We are not saved through something that we give to God We are not saved through something that we do for God. We are not saved through something that we promise to God. We're not saved because of who we are in any way. So it doesn't matter what what what you do for work, it doesn't matter how long you've been associated with any church, this church, it doesn't matter what you call yourself, uh, oh I'm a Christian, you know how many Americans say, well, I'm a I'm a Christian. They have no idea what that means, but They just say, I'm a Christian. We are not saved because of who we are. We're not saved because we're Americans. Or Westerners, or rich, or affluent, or any of those things. We're not saved because of what we know. We're saved by grace alone. We're not even saved because of the strength of our faith in Christ. God doesn't say, well, I'm going to save you because your faith is really strong. When a person trusts Christ as their Savior, They trust him with simple, childlike faith. And another way to put that is they simply release whatever they've been holding on to and they sit in the chair of Jesus and they say it's Jesus alone. His death on the cross, his resurrection, triumph over death, his righteousness imputed to me, it is all his work None of my own work. Whatever I'm holding on to and saying, God, look at this, look at this, look at this. Take this, take this. I promise this. All that stuff is irrelevant. It's filthy racks. We're not redeemed through anything that we give to God, anything we do for God. We're redeemed by what He did for us. We do not in any way deserve to be saved. If anybody in this room says, Well, I'm just I'm really proud to be a Christian You don't get it. You do not get it. You say, well, that's a little proud. Not as proud as a statement, I deserve to be a Christian. Because none of us do. It's all the free grace of God based entirely in his work for us. In fact, it's interesting. We look at the last statement, 2 Timothy 1 9, it says it's according to his own purpose and grace which was given us. In Christ Jesus. In other words, the grace is all in the person of Christ. When I place my faith in him Everything comes through him, his work, his righteousness, his power over death. It's all him. I just receive it by faith alone It's a gift received and we trust in what He's done for us. Another text, 1 Peter 1, verse 18, he says, Ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. I'll put it in like real simple modern-day English here. I would say this, you don't get saved because you give God money. You don't get saved because of what you do for God, and you don't get saved because of some tradition mom and dad gave you. You get saved by the precious blood of Christ. As of a lamb without blemish and without spot. A little bit later we're going to have a baptism. Four people are getting baptized. Nobody's getting baptized to wash away their sins. That was taken care of 2,000 years ago at the cross. It was all the work of Jesus. Their baptism is simply a picture. It's a public statement. I've embraced the gospel. I want people to know that. I'm a new creature in Christ. I want to live for Jesus. And this is the picture that everyone can look at and say, okay, you have chosen to believe Christ and you stand righteous in him. It's through the precious blood of Christ that's talking about grace. And by the way, that word grace is important. It means God didn't have to do what he did for us. He wasn't obligated to do it for us. He did it because he's good. Because of his immense love. He even loved us when we were against him. Later on in this passage, we're going to deal with that, but I'm going to cap it for just a moment to look at our second truth. Many privileged people foolishly reject his gracious invitation. Let me say it again. Many privileged people foolishly reject his gracious invitation. When I use the word privilege, what I mean is they have access to the truth. Lots and lots of people have heard the gospel, they've heard preaching on the gospel, they've read books about the gospel, they have a parent who gave them the gospel, and they just push it to the side. Many people would fall into this category. I hope no one in this room this morning, but I'd be foolish to think that it's not at least possible that there could be someone in our midst this morning. Or most certainly, listening on the live stream, you've heard the gospel and heard the gospel and you've heard the gospel and you've pushed it away in lots of different ways, but essentially it's the same. It's a no. Verses 16 to 18 it says this. Then said he unto him, A certain man had a great supper and bade many. Interestingly, he's using that that wedding language again. A certain man had a great supper, and he bade many. And he sent his servants at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come, for all things are now ready. And they all, with one consent, began to make excuse. Now this is important for us to understand. When we think about weddings in our current cultural situation, you know, people get engaged and then they plan the wedding and they send out invitations. And people are supposed to respond and say, I'm coming to your wedding. And it's set on a certain day. And on that day, people who have set aside time on their schedule They come to the church. They go to do all the things that happen at those wedding ceremonies. But that's not the way they did it in the ancient world at the time that he's talking about. The way that it worked was a person was going to get married. They were betrothed, okay? And in the eyes of their culture, they were essentially considered legally bound in marriage. Now they were not yet Uh if physically married, they were not living together, but they were obligated through what they call the betrothal period And during that time, the young man would get everything ready for the wedding feast. And it was no small task. It wasn't like They had a five-minute ceremony, a 20-minute ceremony, a 30-minute ceremony, and then they had a little meal, and then everybody goes home. It wasn't like that. There were days of feasting. It was a big time in that community. And so they would send out invitations to let everybody know who was invited to come to this event, but they didn't know when it was going to happen. And then that time comes. They're ready. And he says, go call all the guests. And all of a sudden, all these people who were invited said, eh , I'm not going to be able to come today. I'm not going to be able to make it. What's interesting about the way it's written is it says, they all with one consent began to make excuse. It didn't say they all made a bunch of excuses. It says they all with one consent made excuse. In other words, from Christ's perspective as he gives this parable, They're all in the same position, though there were unique things about their excuses that they gave. For instance, one person said, I bought land. Can I be excused from this? One person said, I've bought some animals and I need to go out and I need to see how strong they are. Can I be excused? One person said, I just got married. I'm not coming. That's what he said. What does Jesus say? They all said the same thing. The answer is no. And what's interesting about this is not everybody rejects the gospel the same way You know, some people say, you know, I am too smart to believe such a message. That's what some people say. I'm too smart for that. Some people say I'm a really good guy and uh if there really is a judgment and there really is a God then I'm just gonna take my chances because I live a pretty good life and whoever he is, he'll he'll be okay with me on that day. I'll take my chances, see what happens Some people say, I don't believe in an afterlife. I think it's nonsense. I think it's rubbish. I'm not going to listen to this. And they walk away. Some people say, that's too easy. Certainly God's got to have me do something for him. And I'm going to do this, I'm going to do this, and I'm going to try to do the best that I can. I'm going to keep my list. And if I do these things, he'll most certainly accept me. Some people say, I got a lot of life ahead of me, so I'm going to live today for me and I'll take care of this later. There's lots and lots of different ways that people say no. But guess what? Same answer. And interestingly, the way that Jesus tells the parable is he viewed all of them the same way. All of them the same way. Like sometimes we're given the gospel, we say, well, you know, that person they kind of like casually said no, and that person like very abruptly and very Angrily said no. So this one's a little softer, this one's a little harder, but Jesus says they're all nose. It's that simple. They're all nose. God must be our highest priority. And that's really what he's communicating here. Anything that comes between us and God is a misplaced priority. And the fact is that in the eyes of some people, the things that they said may have been legitimate reasons to not come to such a wedding. But as Christ gives the parable, it's very clear. He says none of them are legitimate. They're all those, and they're all a problem. Luke 14, 26. If any man come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sister, yea, even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. Now don't get in your head that Jesus says we're supposed to hate all our family members. He's talking about priority. He's talking about a situation when your dad looks you in the eye and he says, it's either me or Jesus, and you say, well, if that's the case, it's Jesus. So how could you do that? He's my highest priority. Or a mother, or a grandmother, or one of your children, or whatever the situation. And nobody wants to be in these situations. We don't invite ourselves into these situations, but we find ourselves sometimes in such situations. And so the bottom line is he has to be our highest priority. Everything else falls short. There is nothing that reaches the level of I'm going to give allegiance to you instead of Jesus, and it's okay. Or Luke 14, 33. Whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple. Again, this is an issue of priority. God is saying that there are times that we're in a position where we've got to choose between something that makes us feel good and something that's going to give us a temporary advance. Or something that's going to make us feel good in the eyes of another person, and we have to prioritize Christ. And that's what he's saying. And so we see that second principle. Truth number three. God's grace confounds our human expectations. This is interesting. God's grace confounds our human expectations. Verses 21 to 23, he says some fascinating things here. And by the way, this is not being said in a vacuum Because Jesus, just before he says this, he tells the people how they're supposed to relate to other people. So this is actually him kind of building in a parable on something he just stated in a parable. It talks about the way that God builds his kingdom. Notice what he says. He says, go out quickly into the streets and the lanes of the city and bring in hither the poor. And the maimed, and the halt, and the blinds. The servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded. Yet there's room. The Lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges and compel them that to come in, that my house may be filled. This is a fascinating statement. So if you have a wedding, when you invite people to the wedding, you have what you call a guest list. I mean it's it's true, right? I mean Uh a lot of times uh parents will look at their kids and they'll say, all right, well, here are the people we want to be at the wedding and now it's your turn to pick yours and you say, well, you know, we we have more than you had and they kind of work out some agreement of some sort and sometimes a little contentious, you know, it can happen. But the bottom line is if you're gonna be paying for a meal, you gotta kind of cut short. How many people are there? It's just practical, right? If you have a location, a venue where you're going to have a wedding, there's only so many people you can have in. So you choose deliberately who's invited and who's not. And it's not that you have animosity towards someone who's not invited. I mean, it could be, but not necessarily, right? But you know, we we s we are selective in that because we're prioritizing people based on a relationship to them. But the way that Jesus talks about the kingdom is different. Because Jesus didn't just prioritize one group of people and say, you're the only people that I'm going to invite. He invited everybody. And the people that he mentioned in this text, they are the kind of people that you wouldn't have invited to your wedding. I mean, when I remember when we lived overseas in our community, there were certain people That they really were crippled and and you would see them sitting on the side of the road and they would be begging for for money. And you see them every single day. And those people had families. They had maybe they had siblings. They had parents. They might have aunts and uncles. But I never saw them hanging out with family members. They were kind of like, you know, pushed to the side. There's a reason for that. It's because people didn't value them the same way. And the fact is that's not a just overseas problem. That's a that's a here problem too. We got that problem everywhere because the human heart's the same everywhere you go. And what this parable does is it's written in a very specific way to address a very specific problem. And it reminds us that Jesus purposely ministered to the most marginalized people of his day. Let me give you a couple of examples. In John 4, verse 9, it says, Then said the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou being a Jew hastest drink of me, which Emma, listen to this, woman of Samaria, for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans. Why does she say that? Because that's the way it was. First of all, why are you talking to me? I'm a woman. I mean in their culture that was really the case. And not only are why are you talking to me I'm a woman, why are you talking to me a woman from Samaria, and there's a lot of difficulties between us and you. That's what she's saying. In fact, John records that that detail to really emphasize the fact that when Christ went to Samaria He went there specifically to talk to this woman. And the fact is that she was someone who had a lot of problems in life, a lot of heartaches in life. She had made a lot of bad decisions and she hadn't been treated very well by a lot of different people. Jesus went, sat down with her. Or John 4, 27. Upon this came his disciples and marveled that he talked with the woman, yet no man said, Why seekest Uh what seeketh thou or why talkest thou to her? It's kind of interesting as the disciples see Jesus talking to this woman, they're all thinking the same thing. This is a little weird. I'm I'm feeling a little uncomfortable. I don't like what I'm seeing, but I don't want to be the first one that says, hey, what are you doing, Jesus? I guarantee you Peter was singing it And he was probably right on the edge of saying it too, but they didn't say anything. Why are those details mentioned? Because it tells us something about the way that Jesus ministered. Or we can look at Matthew 19, 13 to 14. Then there were brought unto him little children that he should put his hands on them and pray. And the disciples rebuked them, but Jesus said, Suffer or allow the little children, forbid them not to come unto me, for of such is the kingdom of heaven Now, when we have uh potluck fellowships in the back, uh sometimes we go back there and there's a lot of kids running around. I mean a lot of kids running around. And when we see all those little kids running around sometimes they're dropping food and And they're a little bit loud and there's a lot of stuff going on back there. But these are kids who have moms and dads who we all are doing it, you know, with our own problems, but we're doing the best we can to try to raise these kids right. And so they might drop their food on the floor, but mom's kind of there helping them pick up the mess. Or they might be loud and dad's like, hey, you need to calm it down. Okay, so we're trying to calm them down. But the the simple fact is that these little kids were just kids on the street And they're coming to Jesus. And his disciples were like, He doesn't have time for you guys. Back off, guys. He doesn't need to talk to you. And Jesus says, No, no, no, no, no. Let them come. them come. What's he saying? He didn't value children less than adults. Catch that? He didn't value children less than adults. A lot of societies certainly do, including our own. But Jesus ministered to the kids. Matthew 8. 1. When he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him. Behold, there was a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. And Jesus put forth his hand and touched him. Whoa, did you catch that? He put forth his hand and touched him, saying, I will be thou clean, and immediately his leprosy was cleansed. Now I didn't give you the context here, but Jesus had just had some very intense ministry. And immediately after that intense ministry, he goes up into the mountains to be alone, okay? So he can pray and rest. And as soon as he comes down, these are the people that meet him. It was a lot of people. And one of those people is a leper. And the leper, I mean, we don't know what he looked like, but the fact that he was a leper meant he had a disease that was fatal in their society. And the fact that he was a leper meant that he was ostracized in society. And the fact that he was a leper meant there was nobody in their right mind that would have touched him. And Jesus could have said, I will be thou clean. Go on. He could have done that. He touched him. What does it show you? It shows you Christ is compassionate. He's far more compassionate than we are. He's compassionate. But I want to give you one more. Luke chapter 15, verse 1. It says, then drew near unto him all the publicans and the sinners To hear him. And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners and eateth with them. Now, to put ourselves back into the first century, a publican was somebody who basically abused his authority and his access to the Roman government to extort his brothers and sisters. A lot of us don't like paying tax. Probably nobody here really likes to pay taxes, let's just be honest. But the fact is that if the people that were coming to you to take the taxes were known to be thieves, and you knew the houses that they lived in. And you knew how easy life was for these people, and the fact that they could ruin your life if you told them, no, I think you're cheating me. And not to mention the government that they were serving was like an occupying government. I don't think you liked them very much. I wouldn't have. For sure. And then we use the word sinners like everybody's a sinner, but some people are notoriously known to be sinners. Like everybody knows what they're involved in. And those are the people Jesus sat down with. So what's the point? The point is Christ ministers to everybody. He went out of his way to confront those prejudices that were in the minds of the people. Matthew 15, Jesus went Fence and departed into the coast of Tyre and Sidon, a woman of Canaan came out from the coast and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, Lord, thou son of David, my daughter is grievously vexed with the devil. And he answered her not a word. The disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away. She crieth after us. He answered and said, I'm not sent, but to the lost sheep of the house of Israel. Now at this point you're going, that doesn't seem very nice. He's actually setting the disciples up, believe it or not. Because they're going, yeah, you tell him. He had time for you. You're a Gentile. And then he says, she worshipped him. Lord, help me. He answered and said, it's not me to take the children's bread to cast it to the dogs. And the disciples are going, uh-huh. And he goes, she says, truth, Lord, yet the dogs eat the crumbs which fall from the master's table. And then Jesus says, Great is thy faith. Be it unto thee as thou wilt. Guess what? Pin drop. The disciples went, Whoa, he just set us up. What's Jesus doing? He's making a point that even though this woman is a Gentile and though she is not a part of the Jewish people, he has time for her. And after that, we see great multitudes of lame and blind and dumb and maimed coming to Jesus and He's healing them. And it says, I have compassion on the multitudes. Folks, this is our Savior. The question is, do we think like Him? This has always been God's plan. I think that the reason that Jesus gives this teaching here is because he's actually touching on something that this Jewish Pharisee needed to understand. The gospel was also for Gentiles. And when Jesus talks about the lame and the blind and all these people, he's actually, I believe, hitting at the fact that the Jewish people rejecting so much opportunity. And he was going to go to people that they scorned. That's what he was doing. And Ephesians chapter 2, I want you to listen to what it says, because this is this amazing text of scripture. I could probably preach a series of sermons out of this text. He says, remember that in times past you were Gentiles in the flesh, called uncircumcision by them which are called circumcision. At that time you were without Christ, aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope without God in the world. That's who they were. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometime were far off, are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. That an amazing statement. Our peace. peace. He hath both one he hath he hath made both one and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us, abolishing in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments condemned in ordinances. To make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross. Having slain the enity thereby, he came and preached peace to you who were far off, and to them which were nigh. Through him we both have access by one spirit unto the Father. Now, therefore, we are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellow citizens with the saints of the household of God. That's a pretty awesome text, isn't it? You know what he's saying? Jesus calls all kinds of people to himself. Truth number four. Those who reject God's grace will face his wrath. In verses 21 and following it says, Then the master of the house, being angry, said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and the lanes of the city and bring in hither the poor and the maimed and the halt and the blind. The last thing he says is this. I say unto you that none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper. Now what is the point of what Jesus is saying? Everything he has said in these verses is about grace, grace, grace, grace, grace. This is something we should never forget. There comes a point where you will face wrath if you reject grace. You say, when is that? It's different for every person. You don't know the day or the hour that God will say, that was your last. But it's going to happen to all of us. And until that day, we have opportunity to respond to the grace that has been given in Christ. But if we reject it, we will face his wrath. We need to see that God is a God who is both merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. He is compassionate, he is full of grace, he is merciful, but he's also just. And his justice cannot be compromised Now there might be somebody here going, well, I thought that God's wrath was poured out on Christ on the cross. So I guess there's no more wrath for Him to pour out. Well, if you're in Christ, that's true. But if you're not in Christ, you are going to face God's wrath. The Son's wrath. What happened on that cross? In Matthew chapter 27 it says this, from the sixth hour There was darkness over the land until the ninth. About the ninth hour, Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, Lama Sabakhtanai, this is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? John 19 it says, after this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scriptures might be fulfilled, said, I thirst. There was a vessel full of vinegar. They filled a sponge with vinegar and put it upon Hyssop and put it to his mouth. And when Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished. He bowed his head and gave up the ghost. What was finished? What was going on those three hours of darkness? What was going on as he hung on that cross? When he says he knew that all things were completed that had been foretold, what does that mean? Here's what it means. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, He hath made him to be sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him The Father took all his wrath against our sin. He poured it out on Christ. In fact, it happened that way because in Isaiah 53 it said it would please the Lord to bruise him. He would put him to grief, that he would make his soul an offering for sin. He will see his seed, prolong his days, the pledge of the Lord will prosper in his hand, he'll see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. He says, By his knowledge my righteous servants shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. What happened on the cross? God's wrath against sin was poured out on Christ. But the question is, what's going to happen in the end? What's going to happen in the end is all those who said no are going to stand before God and face his wrath forever. In fact, the wrath of the Son will be poured out on those who reject his offer of salvation. I think of Psalm 2. He says, why do the heathen rage? He says, kiss the son lest he be angry. John 5. 22, it says, the father judges no man. He has committed all judgment unto the Son. Revelation 20, verse 12. He says, I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God, and the books were opened. Another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged out of the things written in the books according to their works. They were judged every man according to their works, and whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast in the lake of fire. Here's the very simple fact. As long as you hear this message, God's grace is extended. But one day will be your last. And if you say no and you say no and you say no and you say no and you say no that last time, you will stand before Christ on that day. And this is the authority of Scripture. This isn't, oh, you're a Baptist preacher. That's what you people believe. I mean, this is the Bible, folks. This is God's word. It's what he says. You will face the wrath of the Son because you rejected his gracious offer. And there is no one in this room that on that day will have the right to say, God, it's your fault, not mine. Nobody. You say, why is that? Because you had opportunity. Nobody on that day will be able to say, well, it's your fault, not mine. He said you had opportunity. You had more opportunities than you were entitled. And he said, No. So, how should we respond to this? A couple simple words I don't want you to forget. The first word is the word gratitude. We should be grateful that this is the character of God who created all things. I'm thankful that God is patient. I'm also thankful that he's just. I'm thankful that he's holy, that he's righteous, that he's good. Folks, if this wasn't God's character, he'd still be God. You ever thought about that? Some people say, well, if God was like this, I wouldn't love him. I wouldn't like him. I'd hate him. Well, if he's God, then he is who he is. But he's actually good. He's very kind. He is very merciful. He is very patient, but he is just. You know why a lot of people reject God? Because they hate him. That's a simple fact. They hate him. Because he's not who they want him to be. We should be grateful. When mankind knew God, they didn't glorify him as God. They were unthankful in their hearts. That's what the Bible says. Second word is the word worship. He is worthy of our praise, so let's praise him. I mean, we've already kind of done this, but we're going to close in in uh with a hymn as well. Let's praise him. This is the God we serve. Third word is the world hu word humility. Do not presume against God's grace. Be sobered by these things. Every time God gives us an opportunity, our heart is going to do something. It's going to say yes or no. And when you say yes, you're submitting. When you say no, you know what you're doing? Hardening. Hardening. Why does God give opportunities to people whose hearts are becoming harder and harder towards Him? Grace? Compassion? Maybe because of people who are praying for them? But there does come a day that you cross the line. Humility. The last word is the word trust. If you've not accepted his offer of salvation, one question, what keeps you from doing that? If you don't know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, I pray you won't leave this place without turning to Him. With a repentant and humbled heart, placing your faith in the one who died for your sins, rose from the dead, and says, All can come. All who are thirsty come. By grace, you are saved through faith. Not of yourselves, gift of God. Not of works, lest any man should boast. Let's bow for prayer. Before I close in prayer, I'm asked the simple question. Please keep your eyes closed, heads bowed. Is there someone here that would say Pastor, I've never trusted Christ as my Savior. I don't know him as my Savior. And I need to talk to somebody. Is there anyone like that? Just quietly raise up your hand. I'm not going to call you out. Or make a note. I'm just gonna in my mind see that so I can speak with you. You say I'm not raising my hand, but I need to. Okay, no worries. At the end of the service, come by and let me know. You want to speak? Send me an email, whatever. Reach out. Please don't hesitate. You might be following the live stream. Send us an email in the office. We'll be very, very happy to speak with you. Do not hesitate to reach out And if you are a Christian today, thank God for it. Love Him, delight in Him, glory in Him, submit to Him. He's a great God. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the word. Thank you for this text. Press it deeply on our souls. Help us not to get over the glory and the weight of Christ's sacrifice. And I thank you for those who will be getting baptized in the next few. Minutes. I pray that as they follow the Lord and believers' baptism and they publicly state that in fact they've trusted Christ, I pray that that would encourage them and all who are here. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.