Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning service. And if you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you and hope you received a welcome packet. And if you'd like us to reach out to you during the week, we'd love to connect with you, answer any questions you may have about church, just find out how we can be an encouragement to you. And so if you'd like to do that, take a moment to fill out one of those connection cards, either in front of you in the pew or in that welcome packet, put it in a little box in the back, and we will make sure that we reach out to you uh this next week. This is also a very special Sunday because uh today we are going to have a special presentation for our kids ministry that we have on Wednesday nights during the school year we have something called Tiny Trackers and Truth Trackers. And uh a good number of young people who've been involved in that this year and then in the summer we have something called Anchor Adventure Club. It's a little bit different but uh it's a great time for the kids. And so Brother Braxton come on up and uh do your presentation. And And then we'll get our service started after that. Let's go down to that. Let's go. Let's get out of the way. Step one on the first step, go all the way down. Jack. Okay , check it out. Step one on the first step, go all the way down. Jasper. Jack. There we go. We're gonna have to step down here. Keep scamming, David, keep scanning, keep scanning, keep scanning. Lead me in my truth and teach me, for thou art the God of my foundation. Psalm 255 We are leaving the way that we are we are weak to a lot of people. Lord Jesus live in the rest of the year. What are you going? Are you like to live? Shall we tell us to be more happy? We are keeping away the fruit of the wine every day. Everyone could in the line. All right. Good morning. As they're stepping down, just give a little head uh the pastor told a little bit of information there. That first verse they sung they said was Psalm 25. 5. That is our theme verse for True Trackers. And that actually tied in very beautifully into this year as um kind of give you a little insight that True Trackers at our church is our Wednesday night children's ministry during the school year for ages three through sixth grade when children memorize scripture, they listen to a lesson, they're we play some games afterwards and we have a snack kind of there at the end. During the summer we have Inker Adventure Club, which has a lot is very, very similar, but is just not as I'm gonna use as structured and as much memorization or it's just guided a little differently to as Many of you are aware that when your children are home over the summer, schedules change and it's much more flexible. But each year we do learn six um doctrines, and this year they learned salvation, God's creation, the the Bible, growing spiritually, the world, and the church. future which are on the back screen behind me just kind of to see what all we're doing. But as we begin there are several people I like to think as we begin this uh as they could not we could not get This to happen for leading the tiny trackers, Rachel and Joanna and Letha, you guys have done a great job this year. I know it could not have happened without you guys working with all the little ones and the patience you have. And then for those that were assisting me for the scripture spies , our song leader, Justin, our game leader Nathan was always very both of them were very faithful at all times helping out. Anytime assisting with the young ladies was my wife, Danielle, thank you. And to help relieve the load for me at different times during the year, I was very thankful for what Eric Hudgins was able to help out with and just step in whenever necessary. Whenever we have the awards, there's going to be kind of a few different that you will see each of the kids have. First, there is a participation certificate. Those that participated, we have a certificate for them just to see that these were part of it this year. The next thing is there is going to be a pin. On the uh they'll have a pin and that pin signifies memorization and doing memorization of anywhere between three and seven verses depending on the doctrine. And they were able to say those to us each week as necessary. And then you'll see many of them with medals. Medals were that they went above and beyond. They did not just memorize one doctrine or a few doctrines. They memorized all of the verses for every doctrine, all 30 verses, and they did their doc their devotions every single week. There were a few that did above that. And at that time, oh at this time we'll have the tiny trackers come forth. The tiny trackers was Jasmine Beneter, Charles Betts. Jack Longwell And parents, if you're concerned to get photos, after we will be going to the Narthex State group photos, and if you want some individual there, that would be the time to do that. David Peterson, Liesel Peterson Lydia Porchet. Eugene Snow Torin Ulrich and Valor Ulrich. And that was our youngest group. They were the three to five year olds, or three to as they're transitioning into first grade. Then we have Scripture Spies, which would have been our third, our first through third graders. We have Jacqueline Betts. Carmen Carbone Grayson Gardner, Keith Hudgens, Blair Peterson Evangeline Peterson. Sage Peterson Adeline Porsche, Caleb Porsche Century Ulrich and Gideon Bentola. And then we have our faith force, which is the oldest group, which would have been their fourth through sixth graders, and they and the sixth graders will transition into the teen group in the next couple weeks. Xavier Gardner, Logan Hudgens, Daniel Linder , Grayson Longwell. Nathaniel Porsche. Maya Snow and Lucia Ventola There are also a special recognition when they transition from scripture spies into Faith Force and Faith Force into the older group. is what we call a spudazo word. Spoudazo is the Greek term for having to study diligently and be diligent in their studies of each year. And that means they would have had to complete three books. So this year was our Green Doctrine. They have a red and blue doctrine, and that means they completed their entire books, got a medal each year for that year. So first scripture spies, there were two ladies that did all of the verses and all the devotions in both in all three of the red, blue, and green books. And that was Blair Peterson and Adeline Porchet. And then for Faith Force there was one young man who stuck it out and was faithful and he did all the same, but for the Faith Force. They had a Faith Force has harder verses, so there's a little there's definitely some difference there, but Nathaniel Porsche did all three years Thank you. All of your work moms and dads. The truth is when your kids memorize stuff, it's uh It's not just a testimony to them, it's a testimony to you because they probably wouldn't do it if you didn't make them do it. And it's uh probably a testimony to a lot of moms. to be very honest about that. And so thank you for your faithfulness and working with your kids. A big thank you to all those who uh contributed and helped in the program. It's a lot of work and um We're thankful for that. What we're most thankful for is the fact that the Word of God is getting into the hearts of our children and that they are studying God's Word and uh all these tools are settling into their hearts and as they grow and mature God's going to use those tools. things in their lives. So we're so very thankful for that. I'd like to invite you to turn with me to Isaiah 35 for opening scripture reading. Isaiah 35 and here's what The scriptures say, The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them The desert shall rejoice and bloom as the rose. It shall blossom abundantly and rejoice even with joy and singing The glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon. They shall see the glory of the Lord and the excellency of our God. Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees. Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not. Behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompense. He will come and save you. And the eyes of the blind shall be opened, the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped, then shall the lame leap as in heart, and the tongue of the dumb sing For in the wilderness shall waters break out in streams in the desert, and the parched ground shall become a pool The thirsty land springs of water, and the habitations of dragons where they lay shall be grass with reeds and rushes, and in highway shall be there, and a way it shall be called the way of holiness The unclean shall not pass over it, but it shall be for those, the wayfaring men, though fools, shall not err therein. No lion shall be there, nor ravenous beast shall go thereupon. It shall not be found there, but the redeemed shall walk there, and the ransomed of the Lord shall return, and come to Zion with songs. of everlasting joy upon their heads, they shall obtain joy and gladness and sorrow in sign shall flee away. This is going to be realized one day in a land that is filled with unbelievable tension and bloodshed. God is going to fulfill his word. He's going to establish his people. And this is the word of the Lord. I want to remind you of that today. Well, this morning as we focus our worship, we're going to focus on how compassionate God is on people who are infirmed. Talks about blind, he talks about deaf, he talks about lame. God loves those people. And we're going to see an example of that this morning as we turn to Luke chapter 13. Let's bow for a word of prayer and ask God to bless our service. Father, thank you for your word. As it's laid before us, I pray that you will speak to our hearts. Open our understanding, help us to recognize the richness of these wonderful truths. Help me to expound it with clarity in a simple manner that you can use in the lives of each person here. Thank you for the work of these children, their parents. and those who have been working with them throughout the year. Father, I pray that this service will uplift each person who is here, whether in person or on the live stream, and I pray that we would see you glorified Fight in our midst. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church, esteemed guests. Thank you for joining us live and on live stream. We're going to start off the morning's song service. We're going to turn to page 81. Please stand with me. After all that, stretch out your legs, stretch your lungs, make a joyful noise unto the Lord, as we sing all four verses of a mighty fortress. Is our God. If we did our own great God , God , in the world , would not write it. And the whole We will not be Lord God. For God is to make sure God with the whole world that we're gonna do. Good and strong, we'll turn to page 84. And now we'll sing all four verses of Eternal Father. Strong to save I was standing on the way , I wouldn't let the way. I love the dynamics of that song. Start off song and it builds each verse. Oh, it's just really nice. Okay, we're going to turn to page 109 in our hymnals or continue to follow along with it. Page one hundred and nine Great is thy faithfulness. I am called my day or a girl. I wouldn't take it out of the body, I'm bringing it down to my. And all my God. Amen. For that meeting. The second scripture reading will go to the book of Luke. Book of Luke, chapter 13, and we'll read verses 10 through 17. Luke 13, starting in verse 10. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath. And behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years. and was bowed together, and in and could in no wise lift up herself. And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto him, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. And he laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God. And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to work, in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the Sabbath day. The Lord then answered him and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the Sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall, and lead him away to watering And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day? And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed, and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Continuing on with our songs, we're going to turn to page hundred and forty-three. 143. God is so good. God is so good, I stand amazed. in his presence. Page one hundred and forty three. All four verses. Sing out. I 'm doing well and so even ice cream, but I'm not good. Pay lot is good. Gotta stand up and besides at the end of this verse and of course we're gonna do the shake hands at the end of this end of verse two At the end of the or turn around and greet one another. Here we go. Okay, make your way back to the sea. Join me on the fourth floor of fourth first. All right, we're making standing for Read your blue book, page 151. Page 151 in the blue book, or follow along on the screen, of course. Page 151. I run to Christ. Sing him. And on the third verse, we'll go a cappello. Ask the musicians to bow out. I wrote a price I can let my door in. I am right to try with all my kids. And my story is never me I try to hunt nationals. I wrote you right with my wine. I forgot, keep me looking and breath A repression while the repression Worthy of all my thing. You are baby. All every neighbor, you are born. They run the train of my wing. Why be a notion? Worthy of reverence, worthy of dear , worthy of love. Variva Bamaya G For the good you are writing. What a creature you are walking. Baby Spain , you are walking. We are an old brother going with the daughter. A great song. Children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back for their classes. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Luke, chapter 13. We're in Luke chapter 13 this morning. And the title of the text that we're going to look at this morning, or the title of our message, Is God's compassion and dead religion's rotting fruits? God's compassion and dead religion's rotting fruits. I'd like to I invite you to look at verses 10 through 17 together with me. I'm going to read it, and we'll bow for a word of prayer and then dig into this very important passage of scripture. Here's what it says. And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath. And behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity. Eighteen years. was bound together and come in no wise and could in no wise lift up herself. And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him. He said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity. He laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God. And the rulers of the synagogue answered with indignation because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath day And said unto the people, There are six months in which are six days in which men ought to work. In them, therefore, come and be healed, not on the Sabbath day. The Lord then answered him and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the Sabbath day loose his ox from the stall and lead him away to watering? Not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the Sabbath day? When he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed. And the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him. Father, as we think about your word, I pray that you would open our understanding. Help us to be gripped by this moment in the ministry of Christ. An extremely confrontational moment. One that if we had sat in a service where such a thing would have taken place, we would have been very troubled by what we witnessed. And I thank you for the compassion of Christ demonstrated in this passage, the wisdom of Christ demonstrated in this passage. And his willingness to publicly rebuke and shame an arrogant, self-righteous leader. Father, may we be humbled as we look at the text. May we be strengthened as we consider these truths, and may you be glorified through it in Christ's name Amen. Passage in front of us is a fascinating text. I don't know if you've ever sat in a church service before where it was disrupted. But that's exactly what happened in these verses. Literally there's this person that is there, comes into the synagogue, and they're doing their normal worship in in those days they would have had the reading of scriptures so one of the older men would have come and opened up a scroll and sat down and began to read the scriptures and there would have been exhortation, there would be the singing of psalms, there would be prayer It would be a very serious-minded time of worship. It would be a lot like what we do here. Actually, probably even more serious-minded than what we experience in our own context. And Jesus sees this woman sitting down, and this woman, when she comes into the synagogue, is a woman who is bowed down, she can't look up. She's a very troubled person. Scripture doesn't explain all the troubles, but what it does do is it explains why she had this problem. And she'd been like this for 18 years. I would assume that every person in the synagogue knew this woman. They knew her name. They knew they had seen her walking and stumbling through the streets, coming into the synagogue on the Sabbath day. They knew the situation that this woman was in. And they had grown callous toward her disposition that whole time. And we see that because of what's stated here. And then when Jesus sees this woman, he walks over to her, calls her out, and he says , Be healed. Be healed. He walks over and he touches her, and she's healed right there in front of all his people. And the guy who's in charge of the synagogue, he stands up and he addresses everybody in this room and he says, What you just witnessed here was absolutely wrong. This man has no right to heal someone on the Sabbath day. This is a day of rest. You have six days in the week that you can work and do all the things that you do. If she wanted to be healed, she could be healed on another day, not today. And everybody's like, whoo, what's going on? And then Jesus, in front of all these people, says, You're a hypocrite. Whoo! Like he got real quiet in that room, you know what I mean? Everybody's like, hey, this guy is like he did something remarkable and now he's like, there's quite the confrontation here. And he begins to explain why the guy's a hypocrite. And it was dead silent. The guy sat down and he knew it was true. That's the text in front of us this morning. I'd summarize it this way. Christ's compassionate healing of an infirmed woman on the Sabbath provided a necessary rebuke to the Pharisees' dead religion and the rotting fruit that it produced. As we work our way through this passage, we'll see that God wants us to see that dead religion is rotten, and we need to embrace the real, genuine vibrancy of faith in Christ. I want to begin by first of all looking at the flow of this passage because you really will not appreciate beyond what we just did by thinking about putting ourselves in the room at the time. We really don't appreciate the kind of tension that is building between Jesus and the religious leaders, but it was a very serious contention. And so in verse chapter 11, we see that Christ heals a man who is mute. And in those verses, we see that the reason the man was mute was because He was actually possessed by a demon, and Jesus is able to heal this man and cast out the demon. And there are two facts that emerge from that confrontation. One is he has the authority over the kingdom of darkness. And two, those who rejected what they saw had absolutely no hope to be able to receive the message because It was such a visible sign that demonstrated Jesus' authority, Jesus' person, and the validation of his person, and the validation of his authority. as the Spirit of God empowers him to be able to cast out this demon and heal this man. We hear this this passage is basically the unpardonable sin or the blasphemy against the Spirit. And we read, we dealt with that passage quite a long time ago. And then as you move your way through chapter 11, you come to verses 37 to 54, and you see that Jesus goes into a Pharisee's home And he's an invited guest, and he deliberately chooses not to participate in the traditions of the elders. He literally confronted their hypocrisy and the oppressive nature of their system when he took this action. He knew exactly how it was going to be responsible. and he did it to bring to a head the need for the confrontation. It's a pretty amazing thing to think about. Jesus was in no way being gentle in this passage. He is being very direct, he's being very confrontational, and there's a reason for that. It's because there is a building rejection of Christ amongst the religious leaders that are around there, and he has to confront the false teaching of that time. He says in verse 42 of chapter 11, he says, you ignore the most important issues. He says you tithe mint and roux and all manner of herbs and you pass over judgment and a love for God. That's pretty stinging, is it not? And then he goes on in verse 46, he says, that you take these burdens that nobody can bear, and you place them on people's shoulders, and you weigh them down, and he puts it this way, he says You laid heavy burdens, grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers. You tell other people to do something they can't do, and then you don't even do it yourself. Wow. And then verses fifty-three and fifty-four, these people were angry and they wanted to kill Jesus. It says the Pharisees began to urge him vehemently to provoke him to speak of many things, laying wait for him, and seeking to catch something out of his mouth that they might accuse him. So what this tells you is that when Jesus heals this woman on the Sabbath , He's looking to make a point there, and so is the guy that confronted him. There's actually tension building on both sides of this issue. And he wanted it to be done in a public manner so that the religious hypocrisy of their day could be exposed in a public way. Then in chapter twelve we see that he goes on and he teaches what we would call a a polemic exposing the hypocrisy of the leaders. And in verses 1 through 21, we see this statement over and over and over again. He says, Beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy. And he says, Woe to those who do this, and woe to those who do this, and woe to those who do this. And he lays out every single one of those issues directed at the people that were the leaders in the synagogues of their day. He exhorted the people to understand the times they were living in and prepare for the day of Christ in chapter 12, 22 to 59. He warned the people to be sobered that They needed to be repentant before God as they considered the tragedies around them. He says, except ye repent, ye will all likewise perish. And then he gives this parable of a fig tree. He says, There's a certain guy who had this fig tree, and for three years he comes to get figs, and there's no figs, and he says, I'm just going to cut the tree down, it's wasting space. And the guy that's taking care of the farm for him says, no, no, no, don't do that. Give it a little more time. He says, I'll dig around it, I'll I'll fertilize it, and I'll take care of it. And if you come back next year and there's no fruit, fine. Cut it down. But give it a little more time. And what Jesus is basically saying to all those people is that this is your system. Your system is a barren fig tree. And I'm giving you a little bit more time. And that sets the stage for what we read this morning. This succession of events was building to a confrontation that was very public on the Sabbath day in the place of worship between Jesus and those who led the worship in the synagogue. And so the second thing I want you to notice this morning is we need to understand a couple of important concepts in these verses before we move into the application side. So the first concept I want to address is this suffering and Satan's power. We know in verses 10 and 11 and verse 16 that there was a woman who had a really bad problem. And this is what it says. It says he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the Sabbath, and behold, a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years was bowed together and would in no wise lift up herself. So we know that this lady is is weighed down and she's been like this for eighteen years. Now to put this in perspective, eighteen years ago, I was in seminary, okay? That's in fact actually eighteen years ago I was I think it was my last year I wrestled in in grad school. All right. So that's a long time ago. 18 years ago. Where were you 18 years ago? What were you doing 18 years ago? Imagine if from that time till now you had this physical infirmity where you couldn't look up. You were bowed down. Everywhere you went, people looked at you and went, What happened to that guy? What's wrong with that? What's wrong with her? Hey, why can't you stand up straight? Can you work a job? Aren't you kind of a burden to your family? And they and they and they look at you and they say, you got these problems. And here's what happens. When people first see someone who's got physical issues, they feel compassionate, but after a while, you know what they start getting callous toward these people They start, instead of looking at them with compassion, they look at them with disdain. Probably when this woman came into that sa on on the Sabbath day into the synagogue, there were some people that are saying, Why do we let this woman come? sit in our worship and disrupt everybody because she makes us feel uncomfortable. But what's very interesting is in verse 16 he explains why she has the problem. Here's what it says. Satan hath bound this woman for 18 years. What does that mean? Well, that means that there was more to her situation than just a physical problem. We don't have it all figured out and how it works out, but Satan has caused this problem for this woman And so in verse 11, we see a problem. In verse 16, we see the source of a problem. And this leads us to a question: well, what kind of power and authority does Satan have in this world? Because obviously in this situation, he had the ability to cause this woman for 18 years to have a physical weakness that she struggled with Day in and day out. And by the way, this is not the only place in the New Testament where we see this kind of language. We know that there's a real satanic realm. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 11, put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. He says, we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against Principalities. That means that there is a formal arrangement of jurisdiction, that's what he's talking about, and against the powers and rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. And so what he's basically saying is this, there is a side to the world that you can't see, but you see its effects, and it is a realm of darkness. And this realm of darkness has touched this woman's life. And the reason that she has this physical problem is because of Satan's bondage. We know that currently Satan, while he has authority, has limited authority. Limited sovereignty is the word I'd use. And we see that because there are lots and lots of places in Scripture that it is clear that if he wants to oppress a person or go after a person or trouble a person, He's got to give permission and it comes with limitations. And we see a lot of examples of this in the New Testament, but I'll give you just a few. We see the story of Job where he is tempted by Satan, and it says in verse one chapter 12, chapter 1, verse 12, he says All that he hath is in thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thy hand. In other words, God let Satan go after Job with limits. In chapter 2, verse 6, it says, he's in thine hand, but save his life. Again, permission with limits. Now that might trouble us. You mean God allows Satan to go after his people sometimes? Yes, he does. That's what the Bible says. Does that make God cold and callous and hard? No, it doesn't. He knows that when he does this, he has a purpose. And we'll get into this in just a moment. But he allowed Satan to even to tempt Peter with certain limits. Luke chapter 22, he says. Satan hath desired that he might have you and sift you as wheat. I've prayed for you. Thy faith fail not. In other words, he wants to do it, and I let him do it. But I didn't abandon you in it. Or in Revelation chapter 20, it says that Satan will be allowed to tempt the nations with limits. Again, he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the devil. And bound him a thousand years that he should deceive the nations no more. Well, I mean, if he's not going to be able to do it for a while, then he's doing it now. Right? That's what he's saying. And then after that, he'll be loosed for a little season. What does this show you? Satan is answerable to God. And because Satan is answerable to God, he can only go as far as God permits. 1 Corinthians 10, verse 13, this is a fascinating one. It says God is faithful who will not suffer, or he'll not allow you to be tempted above that you're able to. He doesn't say he won't allow you to be tempted He says he puts limitations on how far it can go. And he says, but he will with the temptation also make a way of escape so that you may be able to bear it. Now this is important. When God permits a thing, he has a purpose intent for the thing. And he provides all the tools that we need. to process the situation correctly and to engage the situation correctly and to grow and mature in the situation correctly and all of those tools are found in him. That's what he's saying. I'll also add this caveat. We know that not all suffering is directly caused by Satan. Just because we have examples in the Bible where it says that he is involved doesn't mean he is involved always. And I'll give you an example, Romans chapter 5, verse 12. Why is there death in the world? Is it because of Satan? The answer is no, it's because of Adam. By one man, sin entered the world. Satan is not a man. It's Adam. And death by sin, and death passed on all men for that all have sinned. John chapter 9, verses 2 to 3. There were some people that asked Jesus, why is this man blind? And he says, Well, neither have this man sinned nor his parents, but that the works of God should be manifest in him. So what it appears to be in the situation is not that Satan has caused this. But that God has allowed this through some other means for a purpose that is bigger than we understand in the moment, most certainly more than these disciples did. And then in John 11, verse 4, this sickness is not unto death but for the glory of God, the story of Lazarus. Lazarus dies and is buried, and he's risen from the dead. And so what Jesus is saying is The purpose of this situation is not so that Lazarus dies and go to heaven, and that's the end of the story. It's so that he dies and is raised to life, and I'm demonstrating I'm the resurrection of life. That's the purpose. In fact, a lot of our troubles are a direct result of our very bad choices. James 1, every man is tempted when he's drawn away of his own lust. And enticed. You cannot say, well, it's my wife's fault. It's my husband's fault. It's my son's fault. It's my daughter's fault. It's the Devil's fall, he made me do it You did it because you were drawn away of your own lust. You were enticed by what was in your own heart. You say, well, who put it there? It's in you because it's a part of you. Galatians 6, 7. A man soweth, as whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. He that soweth to his flesh shall the flesh reap corruption. What's the point? The point is this. There's a real devil, there's a real kingdom of darkness, and he really affects people's lives. But he's answerable to God, and he's limited in what he can do, and God will always permit something for a good purpose. And God always provides the tools that we need at that moment so that we can triumph and overcome. Second concept I want to mention is this: God's compassion and authority. And this is a really predominant piece of what we're reading this morning. It says, when Jesus saw her, he called to her and said to her, Woman, thou art loose from thine infirmities. He laid his hands on her, and immediately she was made straight and glorified God. Now there are three statements that should draw our attention. We should think about as we read this. The first is, he saw her, okay? He was aware of what was going on. He's not discontented or disconnected from people's troubles. He's a God who sees. We may not feel like he sees our situation, but he does. Before he heals her, before he approaches her, he sees her first. In Exodus 3. 7, it says, I have seen the affliction of my people, and I've heard their cries, I know their sorrows. That's God speaking about the nation of Israel in bondage in Egypt. Psalm 38, we read this recently. I preached through this just the other week. David said, I'm troubled, I'm bowed down greatly, I go mourning all the day long. And then he says, Lord, all my desire is before thee. My groaning is not hid from thee. You see what I'm going through. Hebrews 4. 15, we have not a high priest which cannot be touched with the feelings of our infirmities. What does that mean? He sees he's compassionate. But not only do we see that he saw the woman, it says that he spoke to her. She didn't speak to him. She didn't say, Sir, I know you can heal me. Will you do it? She didn't do that. He spoke to her. And when we are in our trouble, the fact is that I think God moves to us way quicker than we move to him. I see, I think I know that. I know that because that's what the scripture teaches. I know that's because of what I've seen in other people's lives. I know that because of my own life. When we are struggling, you know what we do? We say, God, you go over there. I'm going to work this out myself. That's what we do. But what does God do? He moves to her, he approaches her. She didn't come to him and say, Have mercy on me, I know who you are. She didn't say that. He spoke to her. And then he healed her. To put it very simply, God is not Satan's peer. God's in charge. God is the true ruler of this universe. Not Satan. Any authority that Satan has is a limited sphere of authority. He's answerable to God. And what's amazing is in the book of Luke, there are several situations where we see this principle being illustrated. For instance, in chapter 4. When Jesus meets this man who is demon-possessed, this is what he says, they say, let us alone. What have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? Art thou come to destroy us? What are they saying? We're answerable to you. If you decide you're done with us, we're done. And we can't do anything about it. Luke chapter 8, the same thing. They besought him that he would not command them to go out into the deep. They said, Could you send us to another place? And he sends them to the pigs of uh to the pigs and they go into the river or not into the river. They go into the sea and we know that story. But what do we see in those? We see the illustration that they are afraid of him They're answerable to him. They're pleading with him. They're not peers. They're not equals. They're answerable to him. And so we see that God sees and God moves. The third concept, and this is also a really big piece of the story. Dead religion and its rotting fruits. In verse 14 it says, And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation because that Jesus had healed on the Sabbath, and said unto the people , There are six days in which men ought to work. In them therefore come and be healed and not on the Sabbath day. Now, I rather than just Reading that, I would encourage you to, you know, if you possibly do this, some of our younger people can do this easier than than others, but in your mind, put yourself in that synagogue, okay? And Jesus heals this woman. Everybody's like, we've seen this woman come through here for 18 years every single Sabbath day. She looks the exact same. And now she's standing upright and she's fine. And everybody's like, this is wild. And then this guy gets up, instead of going, isn't this a wonderful miracle we've seen today? Let's praise God what he's done. He's loved live it. He's just boiling. And he gets up and he looks at Jesus. He looks at those people and he says, aren't there six days in a week you can work? Everybody's like, yeah, um today's Sabbath day, we're supposed to rest. Well come and get healed on those days, not today. Everybody's like Ooh. That's a little bit awkward, right? Is Jesus going to say anything? You better believe he said something. The fact is there is this deep divide between what we would call genuine belief, the genuine faith And the faith of the people that did not know the Lord. I'll put it like this. There's a deep divide between real Christianity and every religious system known to man. You say, well, every religious system has unique beliefs about this or that, how many gods there are, what they're called, how you get to them. You know what they all have in common? It's what you do. That's what they all have in common. You could change the name of the God that they serve, or how many gods they serve, or what the process is, what the rules are of their faith system. But at the very core of it, it is one simple word. Do, do, do. You do this, and you do this, and you do this. And guess what? Either one, you become very arrogant because you did it. Or you're crushed because you can't. And you know what's amazing? We see those responses play out in all of these interactions with Christ. Either people are arrogant. Or they are just crushed. And Jesus says, you are hypocrites. He said that to the religious leaders. You put these heavy burdens on people, you don't touch them, and you crush them. You see those two sides? Because when it's all about me and it's all about all about what I do and I'm building my credentials, either I am full of myself because I'm better than everybody else. Or I realize I fall short and I'm miserable because I think I have no hope. The gospel is about a person named Jesus, not Joel. Or whoever you are in this room, it's not about you. You say, well, it is about me because I'm getting saved. It's for you, but it's not about you. The gospel is for you. It's about Christ. It's about God taking on flesh. and going to the cross and being nailed on the cross and the wrath that is against our sin being poured out on him because our sin has been laid on his shoulders. The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. His soul became an offering for sin. He will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. That's not the religions of the world. The religions are the world of the world say, what are you doing for God? What are you doing for God? What did you do for God? What are you gonna do for God? Build up your credentials, the gospel says, look what he did for you. And he promised it for thousands of years That's a huge difference, is it not? It's about Christ, it's about his work. It's about saving grace alone. It's about faith in him. Faith isn't a work we do for God. You know what faith is? It's me letting go of whatever's in my hand and I'm trusting in what he did. That's what it's God saves us by grace alone through faith alone in Christ. There might be somebody in the room this morning. You know what? In your system of thought, it's do this, do this, do this, do this, do this. And I tell you, you may not have gotten to the level of these people, but you have the same system of thought. And the same system of belief. You may not be the one who is bearing heavy burdens on someone else or who is full of yourself believing you've arrived, but the fact is your system is leading you to one of those two ends. This message when embraced radically transforms people. You get saved, you know what you become a new creature in Christ. And old things pass away, all things become new. You don't do it to yourself. He saves you. He gives you new life. You hath he quickened who were dead and trespasses and sins. In times past you walked. According to the course of this world, every substitute, no matter its form, is powerless to transform sinners. It's powerless to save. And you know why Jesus was so swift to rebuke this man? Not because he was insulted. It's because the gospel is on the line. That's a serious matter. You get a lot of things in life wrong, but you get the gospel wrong. You'll suffer for eternity And if you teach people wrong, you have led them down a road of destruction. First century Judaism had so much right. They had the law, they had the prophets, they had the scriptures, but they did not understand Messiah. When they went to Isaiah, they didn't understand Isaiah 53. They didn't understand this suffering substitute who becomes an offering for sin. Who can justify many because he bore their iniquities? They don't see it. And they had built onto the system so many rules and so many regulations that the people were crushed, and whatever truth was seen in the system was covered by all the rules and all of the trappings. The fruit produced in that system is dead and rotting, and you see it illustrated in these verses. It says the rulers answered him with indignation. Why did they do that? Because they were proud people. You know why people lash out in anger? Because they're boiling inside. You know why they're boiling inside? Because they're proud. It's true. It's simple. It's that simple. This is how I want it to be. This is how I expect it to be. This is how this person's supposed to deal with me. This is how God's supposed to deal with me. And I got this undercurrent of entitlement. And then I blow up at people when things don't work the way I want them to. And these people, they had this system that gave them power and authority and influence. And they were respected. Jesus was disrupting it. It was not just harsh, but it was blind. Jesus healed this woman and they couldn't see the significance of it. Could they heal this woman? No, she'd come there for 18 years. They never even showed compassion on the woman. Jesus, he heals her. They don't see the significance. Why is that? Because they're blind. They cannot see the significance of the moment because their religious pride and self-righteousness and hypocrisy has taken away their ability to see the clear message. You know what's amazing? The person who is bound by Satan in this story, more than anyone else, was not the woman who for 18 years was stooped down It was the man who confronted Jesus. He wasn't stooped down. He was upright. But his soul was dead Spiritually, he was dead and separated from God and he couldn't see it. She left that place not just physically whole, but liberated that man. Continued in his state. And thirdly, it was completely irrational. He says there are six days in which men ought to work. Come and be healed on those days. Now, this is what Jesus does. The fourth concept I want you to notice is this. God's wisdom when he deals with these kinds of people. The Lord then answered and said, Thou hypocrite! On the Sabbath, do you not loose your animals and water them? This woman, a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan has bound these eighteen years, and is loose from this bond on the Sabbath day? Why do you have a problem with that? Basically, this is what he's saying. You care more for your animals than you do this woman. That's what he's saying. And guess what? Everybody got it Everybody got it. Why why did it get so quiet? Because everybody realized what Jesus said was true. Every single one of them took their animals out. They gave them food, they gave them water. If their animal fell in a ditch, they'd get the animal out. And nobody said, You violated the Sabbath day. You're working on the Sabbath day, you disobeyed God. Nobody would say that. Why? Because it wasn't. You're taking care of an animal. And Jesus says, I'm taking care of Abraham's daughter. Why do you have a problem with that? That's what he's saying. In other words, we see the harshness, we see the blindness, and we see the absolute lack of clear thinking. And it's all the fruit of this dead religion. He confronted their hypocrisy, he confronted the hardness of their hearts toward her dignity, and he exposed the root of her bondage with his authority to heal. So that leads me to my final question. How do you apply a passage like this? I mean, it'd be kind of awkward if somebody came in here and we had a confrontation like that, you know, in a morning service. That'd be kind of wild, right? It'd be really wild. Or somebody was healed. Pretty wild. So, what do you take away from this? Well, let me give you a couple of thoughts as we close. First of all, this we need to think correctly about our troubles. God rules over all things, including our greatest troubles. Now, when I say he rules, I don't mean he said that I'm saying he's trying to make your life miserable. I'm saying he rules. He's in charge. Satan's answerable to him, he governs. You say, well does that mean I don't have choices? No, your choices matter. But he is in charge. He is never the source of evil, but he does permit evil to accomplish good. That is exactly what it says. Where he says the trying of our faith is to produce patience. Let patience have her perfect work. God uses things that are hard to accomplish things that are good. We must trust him to limit what we cannot handle and deliver us and strengthen us through what he permits. If God has allowed you to encounter some hardship He has given you everything that you need to get through it. You say, I don't feel as if he does. I understand that. I've been there many times. You've been there many times But the word of God is clear. He will not permit us to be tempted above we're able, but he will with the temptation also make a way of escape that we may be able to bear it. So we need to think correctly about that issue. Secondly, we need to think correctly about God in our troubles. And we've really hammered this in Psalm 38. He will never permit suffering without a ready supply of grace and a way to escape. He's never hardened toward us in our troubles. He comes to us when we need him the most. Thirdly, we need to think correctly about Our religion. Now when I use the word religion, I know we're Baptists, we feel a little uncomfortable with that word, alright? I mean James did say pure religion and undefiled before God and the Fatherless is Father is this. And he talks about that. But the bottom line is there's two systems of thought. Do it, it's done. I mean, it's that simple. Christ or me. Or another way to put it is law or gospel. Here's the law. Do it, do it, do it. Here's the gospel. He did it. It's done. Which of those two really is your worldview? If you say, well, it's me and Jesus working it out together, the scripture says, if righteousness can come by the law, then Christ has died in vain. Do you understand the implication of saying it's me and him working it out? No, it's you doing it for yourself and saying, I didn't need the cross. The fruit of genuine faith in Christ is spiritual transformation. The fruit of dead religion is cold, proud hypocrisy that crushes people with unsustainable burdens. Lastly, we need to think correctly about how God handles proud people. He confronts them in his mercy. He confronts the foundation of their worldview. He confronts their pride and the brokenness of how they view others. And so my encouragement as we close is may God help us to see the rottenness of dead religion and embrace the vibrancy of genuine faith in Christ. I hope that when I talk about the gospel, you know exactly what I'm talking about, and that is your one and only plea before the throne room of God. Christ did it. I've embraced it. It's done. If you do not know for certain that when you die you're going to heaven, please do not leave this place. Without reaching out and saying, Pastor, can you show me what this gospel thing is all about? And might I add, we as a redeemed people can think a lot like them too. It's inconsistent with our doctrine, it's inconsistent with our with what we believe and embrace, but we can do it too. That's why the book of Galatians is written. Because a person who has been saved can start taking the old mindset back into their life and living like someone who doesn't understand them. things. May God help us to walk by faith, trusting in His grace, and living the life of the position that we have in Christ. Let's bow for prayer. Before we close in prayer, I'm going to ask one simple question. Is there somebody here this morning that would say, Pastor, I 'm not I'm not sure that I'm saved? I'm not sure. If I was to die today, I don't know for sure I'd go to heaven. This message has made me concerned about whether or not I understand the gospel. Is there anybody that would just quietly nobody else is looking but me? Would you raise your hand and say that's me, Pastor? I need to reach out to you. Anybody like that? I'll give you a second. I'm looking around. You may say I'd never raise my hand. Fine. Come and talk to me. I'd be glad to take a Bible and show you how to be saved. If it's right after the service, if it's later this week, if it's over the phone, doesn't matter. We have lots of different ways we can connect. And so please do not hesitate to do that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for your word. The richness of this passage. Help us as your people. To live and act as people who understand the gospel, that we understand that this work has been done. And we stand in it and we rejoice in it until one day we see you face to face. Use your word to strengthen us as your people in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's take our hymn books out and turn to hymn four hundred and eighty-three. Closing hymn we're going to sing is like a river glorious. 483 like a river glorious. And as I said, please, if you need to speak with me, don't hesitate. If you're visiting with us and you'd like to reach out, don't hesitate. Come and speak with me. Want to be an encouragement anyway That I can. 483. Let's stand together and we'll sing like a river glorious. My God given us is God earthing peace over all the joyous in his hiding. I don't need one, my name has been raised, a man is a very good. We came up in both they could draw me I have Only true A beh. Great song for us to close out our morning worship with. Hope that you'll be able to come back tonight. And service will be very important, so please don't miss that. And during our missions moment, I'm going to give an important update that you may want to be aware of. But I'm not gonna do on the live stream so please do come tonight if you'd like to get that update. Um I'd like to ask if Pastor Josh to close us in prayer. He didn't get to do the opening like normal because we were trying to streamline after the kids' class. But uh please close us in prayer and uh hope to see many of you tonight. Father, we truly are thankful for you being the ruler over all things, and how we can come before you dependent upon your grace and your strength. And it is not of ourselves that we can accomplish really anything. And we can look at people, become callous. We can watch you work. We can swallow our own pride and recognize that our ways are not your ways. We thank you once again for Christ and what he has done for us through his grace. And by faith we can trust in him. By faith we can live for him each and every day that you grant unto us. Dismiss us, bring us back safely tonight, and we thank you once again for Christ and what he's done for us and the fact that we can have access to you through him. And it is through his glorious and precious name we do pray. Amen.