Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to our final Anchored in the Word of Morning Reflection, and I hope that you've had a wonderful week. I hope that this passage of Scripture has been an encouragement to you. And as we get ready to go into the weekend, I pray that you will be encouraged by not just the things that you've heard, but the things that you're going to hear this weekend. And if you're a part of our church family, I want to remind you that this Sunday we're going to have our Christmas cantata and the choir will be doing several specials. A couple of other groups will be doing specials. The cantata itself is going to be focused on Zecharias, Elizabeth, and John the Baptist, and some of the greatest statements. in the New Testament about the incarnation. So I hope that you will join us in person if possible and maybe bring somebody with you because I think that you'll find it to be very encouraging, very Christ-centered. great opportunity for someone to hear the gospel. I'm going to read the text one more time and then I'd like to share with you just some final thoughts about what we've looked at this week. Here's what it says Matthew chapter 1 verse 1 The book of the genealogy or the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. Abraham begat Isaac, and Isaac begat Jacob, and Jacob begat Judas and his brethren. And Judas begat Ferris and Zarah of Tamar, and Pharis begat Eshram, and Eshram begat Aram. Aram begat Aminadab, and Aminadab begat Nassan, and Asan begat Solomon. Solomon begat Boaz of Rehab and Re or Rahab and Rahab, and Boaz begat Obed of Ruth Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David the king, and David the king begat Solomon of her that had been the wife of Urias. Then in verse 16 it says, And Jacob begat Joseph, the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ. So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations, and from David until the carrying away into Babylon are fourteen generations, and from the carrying away into Babylon unto Christ are fourteen generations Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise, when as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost Then Joseph, her husband, being a just man, not willing to make her public example, was minded to put her away privily. But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take into thee Mary thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost. And she shall be called, Uh she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name Jesus. He shall save his people from their sins Now all this was done that it might be fulfilled, which is spoken of the Lord by the Prophet, saying, Behold, a virgin shall be with child shall bring forth a son. They shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted, is God with us. Now, when I read these verses and I think about what they are driving to, it reminds me of Romans 5. 8. It says, God commendeth His love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. As we read the stories of those different people that are mentioned in that passage, And we think about the significance of the lives that they lived, we recognize that God sent his son to die for sinners. And more than anything, it takes the love of God and it presents it to us and it says, this is a love that is worth celebrating and glorying in. And so that's where I want to start with this. God's grace was overwhelmingly displayed by both the big picture of what he was accomplishing through history. And even those little details, how he dealt with those people in those individual stories, how he was persistent and patient and kind and worked through their, worked through them and in them. We also see that God's love is overwhelmingly displayed as his benevolence on people whose lives were filled with misery. They were wretched creatures. And as are we, wretched creatures. We are sinners. We are people who violate God's laws. We live uh in rebellion against him and yet he continues to demonstrate a love that is full of grace and that we see in this these passages scripture. The third thing is that God's sovereign power was overwhelmingly displayed in his ability to manage such complicated situations. When we look at all the details, if we had the ability to process all of it, we would have to conclude that what God did was best and what God did is good and what God accomplished serves to glorify him immensely. So I want to encourage you, let's marvel in God's goodness as we think on this passage. The gospel is his story. It's not our story. It's a story that has significance on our lives, but it's not about what we do for God. It's about what He did for us. And the gospel is a beautiful story because it reminds us repeatedly that God's ways are good, and that God sent his son into the world to redeem us because he loves us. It reminds us that he is honest when he says, I will do it, he does it. He is wise, he knows the best way to accomplish it. His power is infinite. His patience is something that is overwhelmingly consistent. He is good. And so it reminds us that this is the way that God works. And so I want to encourage you, as we think about all of these things that we've processed throughout the week, we need to trust God, not just for our salvation. But we need to trust him unreservedly with the details of our lives. Details that sometimes are overwhelming and frustrating and discouraging and complicated. We can trust him. We can rest in his sovereign purposes. What God is doing is bigger than what we understand in the moment. And so let's glory in his ways. And let's glory in who he is. And let's glory in what we have because of what he's done for us. Lord willing, we'll see many of you this coming weekend. And uh looking forward to a great Sunday. Have a good rest of your day and have a good weekend. And Lord willing, we'll meet again. Bye now.