All right, well good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our midweek study and looking forward to getting in the Word of God. Wow, it's like really Everybody's on this side this evening, so there's a few of you over here, but it's like really heavy over here. But anyway, good to see everybody tonight. Hope that you have had a good start to your week. And I hope that the time in the Word of God will be encouraging tonight, and our time together in prayer will be a tremendous blessing as well. Let's bow for prayer, and then we will dig into the scriptures again tonight. Lord, we are so grateful for the privilege that we have tonight to gather together. And we are so grateful for the position that we enjoy in Christ. We're thankful for the forgiveness of sins. We're thankful that we are righteous in Christ, that we are saints, and I pray that you would help us to live consistent with the position that we have. Father, as we look at this passage, I pray that we would think correctly about you and that we'd recognize how critically important it is that we think correctly about God and his character and that that translates into how we approach you. And so I pray that tonight you would speak to our hearts, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Matthew 7 is where we are again tonight. And we're looking at verses 7 through 11. And I felt a little funny where I was going to pick up tonight. I was going to start uh with the word or and I thought that's a really weird place to start if we're going to be looking at a passage. So I want to go back to verse number seven because it's kind of the entire section of thought that Jesus is addressing. But we are going to really zero in on the last couple verses. So here's what it says. Matthew chapter 7, verse 7. Ask and it shall be given you. Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened. Or, what man is there of you whom his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? Now, the passage in front of us is continuing a thought that we have been developing for several weeks, and that is the issue of getting wisdom from God. And in order for us to get wisdom from God, we we need to recognize that, in fact, He's willing to give it. We need to recognize the fact that we need it. And we need to follow what he lays out in his word as to how we are to approach him. So we solve the words ask and seek And knock, and we saw the affirmations. If you ask, it will be given to you. And if you seek, it will be found. And if you knock, Then the door will be opened to you. So we have that affirmation. But we're going to kind of build on that by looking at the last little part of what Jesus says here, and that is the statement, or if he asks If a man say to you, or what man is there of you whom if his son asks bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? So that's really we're going to zero our attention in tonight. So first of all, let's look at a summary statement for this passage and then work our way through some very simple but important truths that we find in the text. I'd summarize it this way. And that's what he means when he says, if you being evil, okay, if flawed people, people who have hearts that are sinful and self-centered , if we who are flawed people are generous, and protective of our children. How much more is a perfect God who is infinitely good, generous, and protective of his children? Doesn't that kind of make sense? If we who are self-centered, we who are sinful people, we who don't always see things the right way, if we love our children, if we give them good things If we don't try to trick them and cheat them and we actually take care of them, if we are inclined to that, how much more would a God who is infinitely holy and wise and good, how much more Would he take care of his children? That's what we're looking at this evening. So let's let's go ahead and break it down piece by piece. The first truth that we see here is that we should expect good things Because we know that God is good. Verse number 11. If ye then being evil know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more Shall your heavenly father, which or your father which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him. Now, if you remember back over the Sermon on the Mount, you will notice that this emphasis on the goodness of God is something that is repeated over and over and over and over and over again. And I want you to notice a couple of these examples. For instance, look back in chapter 5, verse 44. He says, love your enemies, bless them that bless you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them that despitefully use you and persecute you. Now, he could have just stopped and said, because that's what good people do. Or he could have said, because you need to be a compassionate and kind person. But he goes beyond that. He says that you may be the children of your father which is in heaven. For he maketh his son to rise on the evil and on the good, and he sendeth his reign on the just and on the unjust. Now, I remember when we dealt with this passage, we said it's not teaching you how to become a Christian, but what it is telling you is how someone can recognize that in fact you're a Christian. So when a person has placed their faith in Christ and now they are alive in Christ and they have the Holy Spirit indwelling them, there is this new principle of life in them that they did not have before they became a Christian. And so that new nature is created after the God who gave them that life. And so he's saying, if you want people to believe you're a Christian. If you want people to identify you as one of God's people, guess what? . . You need to live like, in fact, your father. And so he gives an example. So what's the emphasis? Well, the emphasis is on the incredible goodness And the extravagance of God's grace and God's mercy. Well then go forward a couple more verses. Matthew 5, verse 48. He says, Be ye therefore perfect, even as your father which is in heaven is perfect. The idea is that if your father is a perfect father, then you're supposed to reflect him. I mean being like Jesus is what? Being godly, walking in c consistency with the position that we have. So we're called to reflect on the perfection of our God. Matthew 6, verses 7 and 8. When ye pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard of their much speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him. Now what is Jesus emphasizing here? He's saying People that don't know God, people who have a mindset that is wrong and flawed about God's character, the way that they approach Him is they think, If I repeat something over and over and over and over and over and over again, at some point I can twist his arm and I can manipulate him and I can get him to give me what I want him to give me. He says, that's not the way God is. He knows what you need. Just ask him. And because he's good, he's going to give you what you need. That's his point. Again, God is good. Then we go to verses 25 and 26 of chapter 6. He says Take no thought for your life. And another way to put that is, don't be anxious about the necessities of life. God will take care of you. He says, what you shall eat, what you shall drink, nor yet for your body what you shall put on. And then he says, remember this. Behold the fowls of the air, they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feedeth them. And then the next statement's important. Are you not much better than they? I mean, you have value to God. And so again, what is he doing? He is reminding us of the goodness of God. Matthew 6, verse 30, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast in the oven, shall he not much more clothe you? O ye of little faith? What's he saying? Remember, God is good. And then Matthew 6. 32, your heavenly father knoweth that ye have need of all these things. So as you can see, as Jesus is working his way through the Sermon on the Mount, he is reminding people over and over and over and over and over again that God is good. And the question is why? Why does he do that? Maybe one of the most obvious things we could say is because people don't believe God's good. Because people forget that God is good. It's because people need to be reminded of this. But there's another component to that. It's because how we view God is the centerpiece of our worldview. It is the most significant, important piece of that entire system of thinking. How I view myself, if it's going to be correct, has to start with the right view of God. And how I view my circumstances, if it's going to be right, has to start with a right view of God and how everything is working out in life. It's got to start with a right view of God. If my view of God is twisted and it's not consistent with the reality of who he is, I'm going to have a massive problem in my worldview. And sadly, a lot of Christians have a massive problem in their worldview. Sometimes it's because we as pastors don't do a good job teaching it. Sometimes it's because our emphasis is in balance. It's not that we aren't saying the right things, but maybe we sometimes say the right things a little bit too softly or not enough and there's not a consistency. Maybe it's an emphasis issue, but The fact is that we need to do a better job in thinking about this issue. So I want to talk about two ways that we get out of balance on this particular issue. The first is this. We could have a diminished view of God's holiness and his hatred for sin. When I think about God, if I'm to think about him correctly, I have to begin with this understanding that he is holy. That he is righteous, that he is just, that he hates sin. In fact, when we read through the Bible If we have a very domesticated view of God and we view him as just this like gentle giant in the sky or this grandfatherly figure who just He just kind of gives us the candy when we ask for it, you know, that kind of a thing. Not that any grandparents are like that or anything like that, you know, a little bit spoiling of the kids. But when our view of God is that he's just this gentle giant, he's benevolent, he's he's kind, he has no rugged sight at all, he kind of overlooks our sin. He knows that we're, you know, we're Fallible people. If that's where we start, we have a huge problem. We have to begin by understanding God hates sin, period. He hates sin. And when I say God hates sin, I am in no way going to diminish the grace of God. You do not understand the grace of God if you don't understand the holiness of God. You do not understand the mercy of God if you do not understand his intense hatred for sin When the Bible talks about showing mercy or showing grace, it is not suggesting that somehow justice is ignored. Justice is served. That's why there's a gospel. That's why there's a cross. That's why Christ's suffering on the cross was so intense and so difficult. It's because God hates sin. And we see God's intense hatred for sin in what the way Jesus was dealt with on the cross. I mean, do remember that every time A person under the old system brought a sacrifice, they watched that animal die and have its blood shed, and they saw it be burned as a sacrifice. And they saw that visible reminder that sin has consequence. We don't have that in our system because We are on the other side of the cross. When we come to the Lord's table, we're reminded of his death till he comes. But I will tell you, when we do the Lord's table, we don't have as visible a reminder as someone who went up to the temple, and they could smell the sacrifice being burned. They could see the blood on the altar, and they could hear the cries of the animal. They understood sin is serious. And so in Romans chapter 3, verse 18, it says this. This is the way that people are by nature. There is no fear of God before their eyes. People are not terrified of God. They should be. Now, we as Christians, I'm going to make the argument, should not be terrified of God. We should reverence Him. We should have this huge weight of respect and honor. But if there was no cross, we should be terrified of God. Because his justice is extremely severe and appropriate and measured. It is absolutely the way it should be. Let's remember that hell is real. The lake of fire is eternal. That's not like a Christian myth. That's what the Bible teaches. And so when it says there's no fear of God before their eyes, I mean that's the way the world looks at God. And I hate to say it, but there's a lot of Christians that don't fear God very much either when it comes to understanding how holy he is. He then goes on to say this. Now we know that whatsoever things the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God. What is the purpose of the law? It's to drive home the point in your conscience that you fall short and that you're in big trouble unless God does something for you. And there's nowhere for you to turn save Jesus. That's the purpose of the law. It is to remove every single piece of confidence that you have in your flesh, in your righteousness, in your goodness, in your ability to perform good for God. It is to remove all of that. And so, if you want to have a right view of God, start with his holiness and his righteousness and his justice. But then there's a second piece. And that is that we can also have a short-sighted view of his grace and his goodness. Now, again, if you want to understand God's grace and God's goodness, you've got to set it right beside his wrath. And his holiness and his righteousness and his intense hatred for sin. Because you will not experience the full weight of that grace if you diminish your understanding of his holiness. This verse in the Bible should be the most comforting verse you've ever read in your life. Romans 8:1. There is therefore now no condemnation of them which are in Christ Jesus. If you can read that and not think much about it, there's a big problem. Now, no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. In other words, when God looks at the sinful believer, he sees him as not guilty. Why? Because it's settled. It's been dealt with at the cross. And then he goes on to say this in verse 31. He says, now What shall we say then to these things? If God before us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? I also think of Ephesians 4, where Paul prays, For this cause I bow my knee that he would grant to you according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love may be able to, listen to this, comprehend with all the saints what is the breath. And the length and the depth and the height, and to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge. Why do I start here? Everything else that Jesus is going to say is built on knowing who God is, understanding his intense hatred for sin, his holiness, his righteousness. And understanding that in Christ I've received his grace and I am saved by grace through faith. And that that is a secured position and that I will never fully grasp the incredible weight of God's love for me. But as I live the Christian life, I'm going to grow a little bit more each day, hopefully, in my comprehension of that concept. And it is something I'll never fully exhaust. And you say, well, when I get to heaven, I'll know it fully. No, you won't. You absolutely will not. You will continue to grow. You say for eternity? Correct. For eternity. The second truth that I want you to notice here is that because he is good, he would never give us a worthless substitute. In verse number nine, I know I'm kind of like I started at 11, I'm going back, but I feel like I had to start with that first statement because it really encompasses everything that Jesus is saying. And it really captures a consistent stream of thought throughout the sermon. But here's what it says in verse 9. What man is there of you whom if his son asks bread, will he give him a stone? Now, I uh I've seen little kids do something like this before. Playing with their dog. They got the dog food out, you know? Like Give the dog a piece of dog food and you chews on it. Apply another little piece. Give him another piece of dog food and you chews on it. And they pull out a stone and they give it to the dog and it crunches like, ah ha ha ha ha. Anybody ever seen a kid do that? Anybody ever been that kid? I hope not. Jesus said, Would you do that to your kid Not if you're a good parent, you wouldn't. Not if you love your child, you wouldn't. If you love your dog, you wouldn't do that. His point is this. Bread is a staple food and it is essential to sustain life. If we ask God for an essential, he will not give us a worthless substitute He's not going to say, I know you're hungry and I know you need bread. Let me give you a rock to chew on. He would never do that. Why? Because he's not trying to trick you. He cares about you. He loves you. Such a simple illustration, but so profound. He would never do this because he is good. And I think it's important for us not to miss this because we have to hear this. Oftentimes we approach God with a skeptical view of his goodness and how practical he is. You say, well, how do you know that? Well, I know that because I I've listened to Christians pray. I know what it's like to get on my own knees and have a situation. And and as I as I as I bow before God and I fold my hands and I ask him in prayer. In the back of my mind I go, Are you really going to do what's best here? You say, well you're a pastor, you'd never think that. That's not true. We're all made of the same stuff The fact is that there are times that we get on our knees and we ask God and we really wonder if God is as good as good as the Bible says and as practical as the Bible says, and if he's really going to take advanta uh take advantage of us or if he's really going to do what we've asked him to do and take care of us. We have this in the back of our mind. Reminds me of Jeremiah 2. I've read this passage several times. And it really captures this. In Jeremiah 2. 13, he says, My people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living water, and have hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water. They forsook me, and then they hewed out broken cisterns. Why do people do that? Well, they do that because they don't actually believe God's goods. Deep down in their core, they think that they can provide a substitute that will do a better job than God will. And so Jesus' teaching is so very simple. If you're a good dad who's still a sinner, and your son asks you for a piece of bread, you would never give him a sin. Why do you think God would do that? That's what he's saying. Third truth. Because he is good, he would never give us something that will ultimately harm us. In verse number 10 he says, if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? Now, there's a difference between uh a a stone and a serpent. A stone can't feed you, but it doesn't kill you. Okay. I guess if it fell on you, it could uh it could kill you. But a s a serpent, if you give a a a child a snake, what's that serpent gonna do? It's going to bite you. And so Jesus' point is a little bit different with the second analogy. The first is he's not going to give you a cheap substitute. The second is he's not going to give you something that's going to hurt you. Fish is also a staple food, essential to sustain life. If we ask him for an essential, he will not give us something that would harm us. He would never do this because he is good. Why do we need to hear this? We need to hear this because many times when we approach him, we are skeptical of his goodness. Our attitude towards God is that he will not give us something that we need here. He might do something that's not good for us. And the reason for that is something that I wanted to mention in Hebrews chapter 12. So if you have your Bible, turn there for just a moment. I want to talk about this issue of chastening. Now we talk about chastening in the Bible. Chastening is the entire training process. And if you think about it this way, when God gives you life, when you become a Christian, the Holy Spirit indwells you. You are completely saved on the judicial side. Okay? You're not going to be more righteous than Christ a thousand years from now. A million years from now, five years from now, that the position you have in Christ is not based on your righteousness, is not based on your your progress into Christ's likeness as you grow. That has nothing to do with it. It is all about imputed righteousness. So when God sees you, he sees you as righteous now, and he sees you as righteous forever. That's the legal side, the judicial side, the positional side. He can call you a saint because you are set apart to himself and you're not going to be more or less of a saint no matter how your day goes. And it's important for us to remember that. But there's another side to the Christian experience that goes outside of the positional and that goes into the practical. A lot of times we talk about sanctification, but what we're really meaning by that is a Christian grows into Christ's likeness. They mature, they become more like Christ in the way they think and the way they live. And that's something that God values more than how we feel today. Did you catch that? You know, in the same way that as a parent, there are some mornings that I gotta go into my kid's room. And this time of the year, it's you know still dark, kind of early. And I say, hey guys, you gotta get up right now. You gotta get your day going This is when you have your first assignment. This is the time. You have such and such an amount of time. You gotta do it. And they just roll over and say, I don't want to get out of bed. I'm gonna say, I don't care if you want to get out of bed or not. You're gonna get out of bed. So you're a crowd, harsh father. Well they had to catch a bus. They'd miss the bus every single day. Just because they're homeschooled doesn't mean they just lay in bed for hours, right? No, so sometimes when that child is tired and they don't want to get up and they don't feel like it as a dad, I just gotta say it doesn't matter how you feel about it. This is your job, this is your duty, you gotta do it. And sometimes they sit in a class and they say, Dad, this is a really hard class. Or mom, this is a really hard class. And she'll say, Well, you missed that problem. You need to go back over it and fix it. Oh, but I can't. You absolutely can, you absolutely will. And you're not gonna do this until that's done. And they're like, what unusual punishment. No, it's called training, okay? And things happen over the course of the day where we have to sit down with our kids and we have to have conversations with them that are going to force them to do things that step outside their comfort zones. Step outside of how they're feeling in the moment, overcome those tired and anxious thoughts, and do their duty. Now, when I do that, I don't take any delight in my son being tired when he gets his day start or my daughter being tired when they get their day start. I don't like sit back and go, I really like seeing you suffer No, I don't like to do that, okay? And my wife doesn't either. But I am more concerned with what they are becoming than how they feel in that moment. Because you know what I'm thinking about? I'm thinking about someday they're gonna be a dad. Someday they're gonna be a mom. Someday they're gonna work for a boss. Someday they're g have a responsibility. Some can some days they're gonna be on their own And if they do not develop character qualities right now that need to be developed, they will become irresponsible adults. They will not know how to function in life. They will not be able to keep down a job. They will not have a strong marriage. They will not raise their children well. They will not take care of their bodies. They will be very irresponsible. And so I do not want that to happen. And so because I love them, I look at them today and I say, how you feel right now in the big picture is very small. Now, I can still have compassion toward them and still tell them no. I can still have compassion and love in my heart for them and feel bad for them in that moment, but still go There's a big picture here that I don't want to lose sight of. Now, what is the whole point of Hebrews chapter 12? Hebrews chapter 12 says, we know that dads do this. God does it too That's his whole point. Listen to what it says. Hebrews 12, 6 says, Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. And here's what's interesting about this. It doesn't say he scourges them so that he can receive them. He scourges them because he receives them. They belong to him already. He deals with them as his children because they are his children. That is his point. He says, if ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. Later on, he says, He for our prophet does this so that we might be partakers of his holiness. He wants us to actually reflect the character of our Savior. That's what he wants. And so the process isn't always easy. He then says this. He says, No chasting for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterwards, it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness. unto them which are exercised thereby. So he's saying there's a process. You've got to go through the process. There is labor. There is discipline. Discipline is something that involves Repeated behavior that you might have a coach or a parent or a boss that kind of keeps you on track and keeps you moving forward. That's what God does with us. But the next statement is really important to not miss. He says, wherefore, lift up the hands that hang down, and the feeble knees and make straight. the paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way, let it rather be healed. Why did he say that? To me it's it's kind of simple. He said it because they're tired. And he said it because they're weary. And he said it because they're discouraged. And so what the writer of Hebrews is saying is he's saying God has this big picture view of what he's doing in your life. But in the moment, because of how you feel and you're missing what he's doing, you're discouraged and you're frustrated and you're angry. And in your head, he's not good. Now you might not say, oh, I don't believe God's good. Like you might not go that far, but you don't feel in the depths of your soul, God is so good to me right now. You're not thinking that. So I remind you of that statement, whom he loves. If you endure, no chastening for the present seems to be joyous but grievous. Lift up the hands which hang down. This is why Jesus has to say these things in that sermon. And this is why this is repeated all throughout Scripture over and over and over again. God is good. Even if you don't feel that he's good in the moment, he's still good. Because he thinks big picture. He doesn't think, oh, how are you going to feel in this mode? He's thinking big picture. What am I accomplishing in the big picture? Truth number four. We should view him as better than any human example. We should view him as better than any human example. Verse 11 says, how much more Shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him? The way that Jesus is framing this teaching is in the form of a question. And he's saying, if this is true, and these are people who are sinners and inconsistent, how much more shall a good and perfect and righteous father do? That's what he's saying. When you compare these things, the very best example you will ever see in life will fall short. It will fall short. And so a couple of preliminary observations out of this report. The first is this there is no goodness without God. No goodness without God. There is no basis for us to call a thing good or evil without a divine standard. You know, when somebody says, Well, I think that God is not as righteous as me. Or I don't like the God of the Bible, I judge him, I go, by what standard? Where did that come from? Like, like Since when did you become like the ruler and the sustainator of all of the universe? You who is going to live on this planet for 50 or 70 or 80 or 90 years? Since when did you become the standard? How arrogant is that? Yet, a lot of people say I judge God by my standard. There is no basis to call a thing good or evil without a divine standard. The people we know and our difficult experiences Excuse me, I skipped the one. Those who do good do it because God has worked it in them and is working through them. I'm going to develop these a little bit in just a second. And the people we know and our difficult experiences can make a hindrance, can become a hindrance to our view of God. I know that when we talk about certain things in the Bible Somebody is saying, but yeah, you know the family I grew up in, I don't understand a God who can allow this kind of a thing to happen in my family or you don't know that the the season of life that I live through here or you know think about somebody who lives through a war. Could you imagine somebody growing up in Ukraine right now? In the Dongbask region? And seeing all the terrible atrocities. Like that kid's going to have a hard time in his mind wrapping his mind around the goodness of God. Why? Because he's seen some very harsh realities. And so it's important for us to recognize that these are things that are factors. But let me break this down a little bit. Anything that is good inside of a human conscience, it comes from God. Romans 2. When the Gentiles which have not the law of God do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law are a law unto themselves. Which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience bearing witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or also excusing one another. Where does that sense of right and wrong come from? Why is it that people understand that lying and stealing and cheating and murder are wrong? Well, it's because their conscience tells them that. Where did that come from? God? I mean if we were just animals, then why would you call it murder? I mean when when an one animal kills another animal, you know, out on out on the African safari, like I mean like Who cares? I mean it I mean it might not look pretty but I mean we're not gonna say that that animal needs to go to prison because they took the life of another animal or the death sentence or something like that. We would never think in those terms. An animal killing another animal, what does it matter? But we think it's wrong when humans kill humans, right? Why is that? Because we're not animals. We're image bearers And so anything good in the conscience of a person, it is a reminder that they're made in the image of God. He stamped it in them. And anything good we experience in this world, it comes from the hand of God. James 1 17, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights. With whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. Matthew 5, 44, He maketh his Son to rise on the evil and on the good, and he sendeth his reign on the just and on the unjust. And so when we see things in life that are good, guess what? They come from God. And our practical development into Christ's likeness, it is entirely from God. I think about 1 John, he really deals with this concept quite a bit. In 1 John 2, he talks about how God removes his wrath from us. He says, if a man sinned, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not ours only, but the sins of the whole world. What is propitiation? The appeasement of the wrath of God against our sin. When Christ was nailed to the cross, God said, I accept it. Appeasement of wrath. He removed it. And then the person begins to grow into Christ's likeness. And in 1 John 4 he talks about this. He says, beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God. He is the source Everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He is the one that cultivates this in the lives of people. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. And this was manifested the love of God toward us. God sent his son into the world that we might live through him. Here in his love, not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. What do these verses tell us? Well, they tell us that God takes a person who is a sinner and separated from him, and he draws him to himself, and he forgives him and he cleanses him and he declares him righteous. And then that new creature in Christ begins to grow into Christ's likeness through the work of the Holy Spirit in that person's heart. Literally, the love of God that has been given to him is something that is channeled through him and it's something we grow in and we mature in. And love at its best, 1 John 4, 16. God is love. He that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God and God in him. Herein is our love made perfect. No fear in love. Perfect love casteth out fear. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. We love him because he first loved us. Now why do I bring all this up? I bring all this up to simply say this. If you have a human example of someone who actually does a good job loving. It is all because of God's work in them. It's all because of God's work in them. It's because of God's work in their conscience. It's because of God's work in them having gotten saved and then them growing into Christ's likeness, the Holy Spirit working in the heart. Anybody that loves and is a good example is doing it because God has worked in them. And you will never see a perfect example on this side of eternity. Save Jesus. None. So how do we apply the passage? Let me give you some final thoughts In James chapter 1, we get a good simple application. Here's what he says. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally. And abradeth not, and it shall be given him. Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like the wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. Let not that man think he shall receive anything of the Lord A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. How do you apply this text? The elements are right here in James chapter 1. The first thing is this: remind yourself that God is generous. Why does he use the word liberally? Because God is a generous God. And so when I come into his presence, I need to remember he's a generous God. The second thing, remind yourself that God does not disdain you. You know how many people feel in their I mean I'm talking Christian people come to church, read their Bible. But deep down in their heart, they believe that God has disdain for them. You say, where did that come from? Not from the scripture, not from a healthy conscience, not from a biblical worldview It came from somewhere outside of that. It could be that they're reminded of their past sins. It could be that they're really emphasized, they're really focused on their personal struggles that they deal with. It could be because of the way another Christian has related to them. It could be because they feel very insecure about something in their life. But in their mind, when they think about God, they say, God has this disdain for me. I have good news for you. That's not true. He doesn't have disdain for you. He loves you dearly. That's why it says he abrade not. He doesn't look at you and go, pfft, what's your problem? Would you just grow up? That's not how God is. He says, Yes, I want to give you wisdom. Yes, I love you dearly. He does not abrade us. So remind yourself that he's generous and remind yourself that he doesn't disdain you. And number three. Purpose to not drift from a healthy view of God. Now just because you're sitting here right now tonight and you say, Okay, I know this is true and I've reminded myself of it, doesn't mean like it sticks and you never, you know, have to worry about this again. I mean I really wish that was the case. But just because you've read through the Bible one time doesn't mean that now you like know everything there is in the Bible. Or just because you've memorized a passage of scripture doesn't mean like, okay, now I have the whole thing figured out Just because you're thinking right about an issue in a moment does not mean you will continue to think right about that issue moment by moment by moment. You need to purpose to continually remind yourself of these things and not to drift from a healthy view of God. And that's why in the first in the James 1 passage he says that we are to ask in faith nothing wavering. Because when we are wrestling with an issue and we are bringing it to the Lord in prayer, and there is a season whereby we continue to bring this request to God. There'll be days that we vacillate on this side and days that we vacillate on that side. And as we vacillate back and forth, what happens is we waver. Our thing about God is getting knocked off course based on circumstances or things that we hear or our own emotions. Don't waver. Fourthly , purpose to not allow yourself to develop a divided heart. He says that a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. That word double-minded means that he has two souls. It's like the person has a part of him that says, I believe and I'm trusting God and I purpose to walk with him, and there's another side of them that's like totally different. And I doubt God. And I don't know if I want to live for Him. And what happens is this person goes here, and then they go here, and they waver back and forth and back and forth. And he says, Would you make up your mind and stay the course? That's what he wants us to be. Don't be double-minded. So purpose to not allow yourself to develop a double-minded heart. Remind yourself that the best example you will ever witness points to a better example and fall short of that example. I don't want you to miss what I just said. Remind yourself that the best example you will ever witness points you to a better example. And always fall short of that example. Who is the better example? It's Christ. Do you have a Christian that you admire? It might be one of your parents. It might be an older man in the church or an older lady in the church or it might be a person who invested in your life when you were a very young Christian. Or it might be somebody you don't know them very well. That's why you admire them. If you knew them better, you'd admire them less than you do. Maybe it's a missionary, maybe it's a pastor, I don't know. And you think of that person, you say, that person is so faithful, they are so diligent, they are so committed, and they are not a perfect example. And there can be some times that they're going to let you down. Your faith is not in them. Don't let your faith be in the You read the the examples of the great people of the Bible. I I have been struck by how bad an example David is, not how good he is, as I study the life of David. I mean there's some great examples of David and his finest, but there's some really bad ones. And what do these examples do? They always say the best you get is when a person is following the Lord, but that person is following the Lord. They're not the example. They're not the standard. Even Paul said, follow me as I follow Christ. And so let's always keep our eyes on Christ. He is the standard. Let a healthy understanding of God's goodness drive you into his presence. Let a healthy understanding of his goodness support an unwavering conviction that he will work in the best way possible. May God's goodness shape our expectations when we approach Him in prayer. That's what we should take away from the text. Let's bow for prayer tonight. Our Father, as we reflect on these words from Christ's teaching, and as we think about the words of James, we think about all these other texts put together. I pray that we would have this very firm and abiding conviction that you are a good God. You love us. You care for us. You would never give us a cheap substitute. You would never give us something that will harm us. And Father, even when we go through the struggles of life, help us to have the perspective that recognizes that what you are accomplishing in us is far more important than how we feel in the momentary times of life. Help us to to to have a life that is built on a solidly biblical worldview of Christ. God's goodness. I ask that as we spend time together in prayer tonight, you would really comfort us and encourage us and help us to bring these requests into your presence with the firm conviction you will work in the absolute best way possible. And so we ask these things in Christ's name, Amen.