Let's all turn together to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 19 this morning, and I have to tell you that this passage of scripture I kind of struggled with when I should actually preach this sermon because this is the triumphal entry. uh into Jerusalem and this is typically something that we would look at on Palm Sunday, but we are also going verse by verse and chapter by chapter through the book of Luke. And so I'm doing Palm Sunday on uh not Palm Sunday, but uh and unfortunately when we come to Palm Sunday, I will not preach a Palm Sunday sermon. Um however it will be um a sermon focused on the week. of uh Christ's death and resurrection. So I know that's going to kind of mess things up a little bit, but um we're just gonna go with it. And uh hopefully the passage of scripture that we look at this morning will in fact really challenge and encourage us in the Lord. Luke chapter 19, and we'll begin reading in verse 28. It says, when he had thus spoken, he went before ascending up to Jerusalem. It came to pass when he was come nigh to Bethphag and Bethany at the mount called the Mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples saying, Go ye into the village over against you. and to which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied, whereupon yet never a man sat. Loose him, bring him thither. And if any man ask you why do you lose him, thus shall ye say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him. And they that were sent went their way and found even as he had said unto them And as they were loosing the colt, the owner thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt? He was not an American, I'm sure. And they said, The Lord hath need of him, and they brought him to Jesus, and cast their garments upon the colt. And they set Jesus thereon. As he went, they spread their clothes in the way, and when he was come nigh, even now at the descent , of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty things that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. Some of the Pharisees from the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. And he answered and said unto them, I tell you, that if these should hold their peace, The stones would immediately cry out. Please let's bow together for a moment of prayer as we ask the Lord to speak to our hearts through this text of Scripture this morning. Our Father, as we open up your word, I pray that you would give us a very clear and a very powerful understanding of what you were doing in this text As we think about this descent from the Mount of Olives and ascent up towards Jerusalem, the purpose of all of the things that were coming together at that moment in history. I pray that we would have a firm understanding that in fact you used everything in this story to accomplish your purpose of redemption through Christ. All kinds of prophetic commands and statements from the Old Testament given thousands of years before this event were coming to a head, and this event that we're reading about this morning. And so I pray that as we work our way through the details of this text, that you would give us a firm understanding of your ways That we would glory in your ways, that we would submit ourselves to you, that we would rest in your care and in your power and in your goodness. And I pray that you would speak mightily in our hearts. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Well, I'd like to begin this morning before we actually jump into the topic at hand. And I want you to kind of take your mind to a time. For some of you, it's the time you're living through right now. And for some of you, it's a time that was a long time ago. And that was taking a family trip. with small children. Anybody remember those days what it was like to travel with your kids? I was talking to someone the other day and I mentioned how uh our kids get would get car sick when they were very little and so we would we would be descending a mountain. I remember we were up at uh up in Vermont and Smuggler's Notch and we were coming from one side of the mountain down through the notch which is very very windy and every time we came down into the valley which there was a church that we were we were visiting during that time One of our children threw up in the car every single time we went up into the mountain and came down to the mountain. And in fact, it was not an easy time because that was something we dealt with over and over and over again Traveling with small children can be a challenge. And one of the biggest challenges is this thing called attention span. Daddy, are we there yet? No. When are we going to get there? I actually told one of my children, believe it or not, to count To 600. And I said, when you get to 600, then do it again. And then do it again. And do it again. And after counting to 600 ten times, we will be there. Can I tell you? She did it. And actually, we pretty much got there when she finished. But the whole point of that little exercise was I was trying to divert attention to something different. And the reason is because small children have a difficulty with attention span. Journeys take time, and little kids don't understand that. But as we get older, we know where we're going, we know how long it takes, we know all the landmarks along the way. I'm not going to say traveling maybe gets easier for some people, but at least we have a bigger perspective of where we're going. Well, I want you to realize that when we come to this passage of scripture, believe it or not, we're coming to the culmination of a journey. And that journey is a journey that has taken several thousand years to come to. And the reason I say that is because we are coming to a point, the next ch five chapters And the book of Luke are going to focus on events that took place on the final week of Christ's ministry. And this is the most consequential period of Christ's ministry and the most consequential moment in all of human history because this is when Christ will go to the cross and he'll pay our sin debt and because of his sacrifice and because of his resurrection, we can be accepted by God. We can be forgiven and we can be cleansed and we can be declared righteous. And all of those promises for thousands of years come to a head in these five little chapters in Luke. So let me summarize what we're going to look at this morning in this way. Luke's narration of Christ's triumphal entry into Jerusalem highlighted God's masterful, meticulous care, which weave together numerous ordinary events going back thousands of years to secure our redemption. All of the little details we're going to talk about that if you are sitting in a Sunday school class with children and you talk about them, you know, we often don't think about the significance of those little events and why they were so important to the storyline of what God is actually doing. It's about God taking little things and weaving them together to accomplish the greatest event in all of history. It's about God's providence. And so God wants us to glory in his ways and rest in his unfailing promises. And so with that in mind, I'd like us to go up Down and back up again as we work our way to Jerusalem for the triumphal entry. And so that's actually how the message is going to go. First of all, we're going to look at the ascent up to Jerusalem in verses 28 through verse 34. Now remember that as Jesus is going up to Jerusalem, he's coming from Jericho. And so he's traveling about 18 miles by foot from Jericho. up to the Mount of Olives. He's at the foot of the Mount of Olives, and there are two little towns that are mentioned. One of them is Bethany, a place where He spent a lot of time and there in that little town, he's going to send his disciples on a very simple mission, and I want us to see that. So look down in verse 28, it says this And when he had thus spoken, he went before, ascending up to Jerusalem, and it came to pass when he was come nigh to Bethfij and Bethany at the mount called the Mountain of Olives. He sent two of his disciples saying, Go ye into the village over against you, and in that which and into which at your entering ye shall find a cult tied. Wherefore yet never man sat, loose him and bring him hither. And if any man ask you why do you lose him, thus you shall say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him. And they that were sent went their way, and found even as he had said unto them, and as they were loosing the colt, the owner thereof said unto them, Why loose you the colt? And they said, The Lord hath need of him Now, very, very simple mission, and I know as we think about this as uh modern Americans, we sit down and we go, you know, somebody just walked into my yard and just stole my car? I'm like, what are we talking about here, right? Well in this situation you have An understanding in those days that if someone who was very important, okay, this could be a political dignitary or perhaps in And during this time they were under the Roman occupation. If a Roman soldier came and said, I need this from you, they pretty much had to let him use it. And so it's telling you something about the way that the owner of the cult thought when the disciples said the master, the Lord, needs this animal. It's also kind of interesting that the animal that's mentioned is a cult that has never been ridden. I'm going to come to that in just a second. But notice the two little parts of their mission. Number one Verse 30, go into the village in which you enter, find a colt tied, whereon never a man sat, loose him, bring him hither. Verse 31. If a man ask you why do you lose him, thus you shall you say, Because the Lord hath need of him. Very simple mess, very simple mission. But there's a lot more that is behind this than just go get an animal, bring him, we're going to take him down to Jerusalem. I want you to understand just a little bit more the significance of those two very simple commands. There is something big going on in Jerusalem, and there's a reason that the disciples are coming up to Jerusalem at this time. It's to celebrate the Passover. And it's not just to celebrate the Passover, but in fact, not just a celebration, but a fulfilling of the Passover is actually on the table at this moment. Christ is literally going to die as the sin-bearing substitute that was pictured in the Passover lamp. He is literally going to die as the Passover lamb so that this picture that has been practiced by the Jewish people for well over a thousand years We're talking going back 1,500 years. This illustration is going to culminate with this moment in history. Notice Daniel 9, 24. It says, Messiah shall be cut off, but not for himself. To finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness That was written by Daniel hundreds and hundreds of years before it would be fulfilled in Christ. Or Isaiah 53 verses 4 through 12, he says, Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows He was wounded for, that word for is going to be mentioned a lot here, for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was upon him. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. My righteous servant shall justify many for he shall bear their iniquities. He hath poured out his soul unto death and was numbered with the transgressors. and bear the sins of many and made intercession for the transgressors. Now if we were to stop and work our way through every single one of those statements, what we should see is that Jesus would die for our sins. That's exactly what he's doing. And what Jesus was doing when he dies for our sins is he is completing a picture that every single time a person offered sacrifice, whether they understood it or not, Whether they came and they offered it by faith or not, that picture was there. That an animal died so that their sins could be forgiven. And that animal was a picture of the once and for all sacrifice of the Lord Jesus Christ. He would die in this way because he is the Lamb of God. We go to John chapter 1, verse 29. John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and he said, Behold the Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the world. That's what Jesus was coming to do. And in Luke chapter 22, when Jesus is celebrating the Passover with his disciples, it's very interesting what he says. Listen carefully to the wording in verses 15 and following. He says, with desire I have desired. Another way to put that is, I have a passionate desire, an earnest desire, to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. He says, I will not anymore eat thereof until it be, listen to this word, fulfilled in the kingdom of God. The Passover would be fulfilled. Amazing statement. I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. And he took bread and gave thanks and brake it and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you. This do in remembrance of me. Likewise he took the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the New Testament. Word means covenant. in my blood, which is shed for you. And surely the Son of Man goeth as it was determined. But woe unto the man by whom he is betrayed. You want to talk about some amazing statements there? It was determined. We talk about fulfillment. The bread pictures my body broken for you. This juice pictures the blood that is shed for you. I'm not going to drink it again until this is fulfilled in my kingdom. I am earnestly desiring to do this before I suffer. Lots of amazing statements. Why are these being made? Because that's why he came to fulfill Passover. But there's another second piece that's very interesting here that is bound up in the simple statement, go get this donkey, bring it to me, if somebody asks you a question, tell them the Lord needs them, and then we're going to go into Jerusalem. The second part is that the triumphal entry. Well, something that was predicted by the prophet Zechariah. An unridden donkey would transport the King of Glory into Jerusalem. Zechariah 9. 9 says this, Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout, O daughter of Jerusalem, Behold, thy king cometh unto thee. He is just, having salvation, lowly, riding upon an ass and upon a colt. the foal of an ass. Four important little details in what Jesus is saying here. The first is this, he's Israel's true king. Your king comes. The only king that is truly qualified to do what Jesus is going to do is him. Number two He is coming as the just one with salvation in his hands. He says, just in having salvation. Now this is interesting. It is by his going down the mountain and up into Jerusalem, and what he is about to do there in Jerusalem on the cross, that salvation can be offered to people. His justice and righteousness is what makes him acceptable to actually offer himself as such a sacrifice. As it says, the just was offered for the unjust to bring us to God. He became sin for us, so he knew no sin, so that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. So literally Christ is going up as the just one to offer salvation through his sacrifice. Amazing statements. Third statement is he's coming in humility. He's coming lowly. He's not coming to triumph and establish his kingdom. He's coming in humility to establish a basis to bring people into his kingdom. And the people didn't get that. We talked about this last week. They didn't understand that in fact there's an order to God's timetable. And before you have the kingdom, you have the cross and you have the resurrection. They didn't get it. And fourthly, he's riding on a previously unridden donkey. Find a colt tied whereon yet never a man sat. I've got to ask you a question. Do donkeys like to be ridden? The answer to your question is no. They don't. Would you like to be the first one to try to get a donkey? To give you the chance to write it. The answer would be no. But that's exactly what Jesus told them to do Wouldn't have made a lot of sense to them, but that's what he did. And there's a reason that he did that because there is prophecy in the balance. What is the explanation of all these things? I think Philippians chapter 2 really encapsulates this well. It says this. Being in the form of God, he made himself of no reputation. He took upon himself the form of a servant. Was made in the likeness of men, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. That is what Jesus is doing as he comes to Jerusalem. So Jesus goes up to the base of the Mount of Olives and he sends these disciples into Bethany and Bethphage and he says, come back with a donkey. Second thing I want you to notice this morning is him coming down from the mountain. Now, if you were to actually take the trip from Jericho down to Jerusalem, or up to Jerusalem, you would go up to the Mount of Olives. And then you'd come down from the Mount of Olives, and then you go down into this valley called the Kidron Valley, and then you'd come up from the valley and into Jerusalem through the eastern gate. And if you were coming down from the Mount of Olives, you would actually see the whole city right there in front of you. You could see the beautiful temple. Well, when it was there, I'll use that phrase. When it was there, you could see that beautiful t temple. The very same temple that was built by Zerobel and was still in a building process under Herod. And as you came down that mountain, there were some things that happened that were predicted before that I wanted you to take note of. In verses 35 through 38, notice what the text says. And they brought him to Jesus, and they cast their garments upon the colt, and they sat Jesus thereon, and as he went they spread their clothes in the way. And when he was come nigh, even now the descent Notice that, down into the Kidron Valley, the descent of the mount of the Mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice. for all the mighty works that he had done, that they had seen, saying, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven. Glory in the highest. Now, as you read the different accounts of Jesus coming down from the Mount of Olives, down into the Kidron Valley, and then up into Jerusalem, there will be certain details that some of the evangelists will mention and others will not. And so I will mention a couple of details from some of the other accounts so that we understand a little bit of the picture. I'm not here to give you the whole story. Every single detail is important if you want to understand it. But Luke doesn't give you all the details. One of the details he doesn't mention is that there were two donkeys that went. A detail that Luke records that others did not is the statement, if they would not speak, the very rocks would cry out. It's an amazing statement. But as he comes down, I want you to notice there is a triumphant welcome. Verses 35. They cast their garments upon the cult. And they set Jesus there on. Verse 37, at the descent of the mountain of olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works they had seen. Verse 38, Blessed be the king that cometh in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven and glory in the highest. Now, can you imagine if you were one of those disciples coming down the mountain with Jesus Now, as they're going up to Jerusalem, they don't understand what's really about to happen. Jesus says, I'm going to go to Jerusalem. I'm going to be delivered into the hands of evil men. They're going to crucify me. I'm going to rise from the dead. This has to happen. And it says the disciples didn't get it. They didn't understand. They believe that he's about to throw out over the Romans. He's going to establish his presence there, and they're going to reign with him. How do we know that? Because they were arguing about who was going to sit where in the kingdom. There was a lot of discussion, a lot of debate, as Jesus carries the heaviness in his heart of going to the cross and all that that entails, that the weight and of the agony of the cross. The disciples argue about who is greatest in this kingdom. And I can only imagine that as they come down that mountain, they're like, it's gonna happen. We're going to step into this city and he's going to establish his rule. In fact, can you imagine how excited they got when he goes into the temple and he overturns the money changers? And he throws them out and they're like, ah, it's really gonna happen now. They were wrong. They were so wrong. But I want you to understand the significance of that welcome, hopefully a little more than you did when you came in here this morning. There's tremendous significance to the actions taken by the people as Christ comes down that mountain. And there are two passages of scripture in the Old Testament You I'm sure you've read them if if you read through the Bible, you know, cover to cover, you've read these passages, but you've probably not really thought about them in the light of the event that's taking place right here. The first is an event that took place a thousand years earlier than this event. David was about to die. And as David is coming to the end of his life, there was a power struggle within the kingdom. And David doesn't have the strength. as an old and dying man to establish things the way that that he that he that he needed to. And so here is his son Adonijah who just happened to be the younger brother of Absalom who had led an insurrection against David. And Adonijah and Joab and one of the pe the priests got together and they were going to establish Adonijah as the king there in Jerusalem. That wasn't God's plan. That wasn't David's plan. David's plan, which was also God's plan, was to actually establish Solomon to be the next king. And so here we are, a thousand years before, Solomon is brought down that mountain that mountainside from the Mount of Olives. through the Kidron Valley and up into Jerusalem. And I want you to listen to how David brought him into the city. Interesting. In 1 Kings 1:33, it says, The king also said unto them, Take with you servants of your Lord, and cause Solomon, my son, to ride on mine own mule. and bring him down to Gihon. You say, well, what's Gihon? It's Kidron Valley. That's a little stream that went through the Kidron Valley. So literally here we are a thousand years earlier. King David has his son riding on a on a donkey down this mountain into the Kidron Valley and up into the city. And why was he doing it? Because there was a lot of instability going on in the city. His own son is working with his own Joab, this is the guy that had been his friend throughout all these years, his nephew nonetheless. And they're arguing about who's going to be the king, and David saying, the one riding the donkey, he is going to be the next king. We have a second event in 2 Kings chapter 9 verses 12 through 13. Now this is when the kingdom is divided. And it was a very low moment in the northern kingdom. Not that the uh northern kingdom ever really had a high moment. But this would be after Ahab was dead. And as soon as Ahab dies, guess who is waiting in the wings to assert her authority? Jezebel. And as Jezebel is working to assert authority, God raises up a man named Jehu , a very not a perfect guy for sure. He raises up Jehu. He sends the prophet Elisha to Jehu and he says, anoint him and tell him he is going to be king there in the northern kingdom and send him into the city. And by the way, take out Jezebel and all those who are with her. That's also a part of the storyline. But in 2 Kings chapter 9, verses 12 through 13, listen to what it says. Thus saith the Lord, I have anointed thee king over Israel. Then they hasted and took every man his garment, put it under him on the top of the stairs, and blew his trumpet, saying, Jehu is king. And so you have these two pictures from Israel's history of Solomon coming down from the Mount of Olives through the Kidron Valley, riding on David's donkey, and it was their way of saying, he's the rightful king. He needs to be accepted as the king. And then you have this picture of God anointing this man Jehu, who's going to take back the kingdom from wicked Jezebel. And as he comes into the city, they say, This is the Lord's anointed. This is the rightful king. And they take these outer garments and they throw them down in the road and they walk through on those garments saying, he's the rightful king. That's what was happening in this picture. Christ is coming down, the rightful king, to a city that is rejecting him ultimately, where he will be crucified, but he's the rightful king. Second thing I want you to notice about the significance is the location. In 1 Samuel 15, this is the location where David fled from Absalom. As Absalom was taking over the kingdom, he flees through that eastern gate, down into Kidron Valley, up the Mount of Olives, and he runs for his life and all those who were faithful to him. And after the war was over, guess what he did? He came back through that means as the rightful king to establish himself because God had anointed him to be king. And then at the end of David's life, this is just a few years later, in 1 Kings chapter 1, we have David and Solomon. Very similar circumstances, yet it's not David coming in as the king, it's David's son Solomon coming as The son of David, who is the rightful heir to the throne. Then we have the passage in front of us, Luke chapter 19. Where Christ is coming by this route into the city that is being run by corrupt religious leaders who are desecrating the temple, and he would come into that temple and he would overthrow those money changers and say, Don't make the Lord's house a den of thieves. By the way, it's going to be significant a fourth time. Because in Zechariah 14, at Christ's second coming, that's how he's going to come into Jerusalem again. It says this in Zechariah 14 verse 4, His feet shall stand in that day on the Mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem, on the east, and the Mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst thereof, toward the east and toward the west. And there shall be a great valley, and half of the mountains shall remove toward the north and half towards the south. And Christ will come into Jerusalem again, not to be crucified, but to reign. This is a very significant location. It's also significant because of the words that were spoken by these people. Listen to what they say. Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the Lord. This is a direct quote from Psalm 118 And we read from that psalm as we opened our service this morning, because this is what they are quoting from. Now I'm not going to read the whole thing, but I want you to kind of understand the significance of Psalm 118. Psalm 118 is a salvation-oriented psalm. It's a prediction of how God is going to establish a basis of reconciliation between Him and sinful humanity. And these people, as they cried, Hosanna, blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord, wanted salvation. But they wanted it now, and they wanted it on their own terms, and they wanted it in a way that did not involve a cross and the resurrection. They simply wanted to enter a kingdom without God's means. And so as they are crying out, Hosanna, blessed is he that comes in the name of the Lord, they understood who the Savior was, but they didn't understand how he was going to do it. And that's where the problem ultimately lay. In the Psalm we see that Christ would be rejected. The stone which the builders refused has become the head of the stone, corner. But this rejection would be the central component of God's plan. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. That this salvation would only be possible through this act, save now, after the rejection. That this act would be a substitutionary, sacrificial death. He says, bind the sacrifice. So these people, as they are crying out, save us, they got the guy right, but they didn't have the timing right. And they didn't understand the means through which he would do it. And that's where the true tragedy of the text lies. The third thing I want you to notice. It's him coming up into the city. Now you say, hold on a second. I thought you said he went up and then he went down and now he's going up again. Well, because that's how it works. Alright, you're going up to Jerusalem, you come to the Mount of Olives, and then you come down from the Mount of Olives into the Kidron Valley, and then back up into Jerusalem So we have the storyline of him going up and them getting the donkey. And then they're coming down and the people are saying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. And then as he comes up into the city We see more response. Look down in your Bibles at verse 39. It says, And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples. He answered and said unto them, I tell you. If these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out. That's an amazing statement. This is a senseless rebuke. If you know who Jesus is. But if you've rejected him, that makes sense. First we see the word master. And someone might say, well, it seems like they're giving him respect. Well, you'll know by the next statement that they're not. But that word master really could simply be talking about a traveling teacher. They didn't use the term Lord curios. Or rabbi, like you would think of as a master teacher who has this authority, but they're looking at him as simply this itinerant preacher. Who is coming into Jerusalem and all these people are worshiping him? And they say, you have no right to accept this kind of worship and admiration. You're just an ordinary teacher. Rebuke thy disciples. Their attitude toward him revealed that they had categorically rejected him as Messiah. They wanted him to validate their view by rebuking his disciples. And you know what he said? If I did this, even the rocks would speak. It's an amazing statement. He said, You can't stop this kind of praise because it's right. Now amazingly, when Jesus says this, a lot of the people say it didn't understand. They were saying the right thing, but they didn't get it. Some of them did, but many did not. But the significance of this rebuke is that their attitude really represented the overall attitude of the people towards Christ Literally within just a few days' time, you're going to have Jesus coming down from the mountain in all this triumph, and then you're going to have a raging mob saying, Crucify Him. Crucify Him. Their attitude was consistent throughout their history. In Acts chapter 7, this is what Stephen says as he's about to die as a martyr. He says, ye stiff-necked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, you do always resist the Holy Ghost as your fathers did, so do ye. Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? They have slain them which showed before of the coming of the just one, of whom you have been now the betrayers and murderers. That was a very common and prevalent attitude amongst the people. In fact, we really see it in two statements that were made when Christ was there before Pilate. Listen to Matthew 27. When Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, but that rather a tumult was made, he took water and he washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person. See ye to it. Then answered the people and said, listen to this. This is shocking. His blood be on us and our children. That's stunning, isn't it? You want to talk about cold, callous, arrogant. His blood's on us and our children. And you know what? That entire generation was judged. All those that held fast to that attitude is blood be honest in our children, it was. What they didn't realize is he was going to the cross for them. He's going to the cross so that they could be redeemed to God. By the way, the Apostle Paul was one who said that kind of thing, his blood be on us and our children. And he viciously persecuted the church of God. And what does he say? I am the least of all the apostles because I persecuted the church. But I did it in ignorance. It's amazing is even as the people said this at Pentecost many people were converted by the grace of God. Second statement that really stands out is in John 19, verse 15. They cried out, saying, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priest answered, We have no king but Caesar. So why is this significant? It's significant because though the king was coming, the king was despised. And rejected. A man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. I'd like us to try to digest what we've just read. The thing that really stands out to me as I read this passage of scripture, and there's lots of things that stand out to me, but this is one of the most interesting things that I thought about this week. God uses ordinary means to accomplish his purposes. If you go back in your mind and ask yourself how many ordinary things did God use to do this, you'd be amazed at how many will come to mind. He used the disciples to go into Bethany and find a donkey that had never been ridden. It's interesting. None of the account, only the Matthew account mentions two donkeys. In fact, somebody asked me about this this week. And as you look at commentators, some commentators will say that perhaps there were two donkeys because one was mama And that's the only reason that the one donkey allowed them to actually put someone on top of them. Because here's this donkey with Jesus riding his shoulders. And here's Mama red and right beside, so that that that donkey was comforted. It actually may very well be the explanation of what was going on there. But here are these beasts of burdens, these animals. They do not have minds that think and understand the significance of that moment, yet God used them. He used the donkey's owner. The donkey's owner could have said, there's no way you're going to take my animal. He said, All right, he's yours. You coming back with him anytime soon? That's what he did He uses religious leaders. You say, well, hold on a second. They hated Jesus, yep. And that's ultimately why he went to the cross. Why did he go to the cross? It was wicked men who said, Crucify him, we have no king but Caesar, his blood be on us and our children. And through their rejection of Christ, the stone which the builders rejected, he became the chief cornerstone. This is the day the Lord has made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. Bind up the sacrifice on the altar. The hatred of these men, even that was a tool that God used. He used Israel's history to emphasize the significance of these events. Literally thousands of years of history, there are prophecies that came at very distinct times throughout the Old Testament. Why? To point to this moment. Secondly, despite a mixed response, God used everything and everyone to accomplish his redemptive purpose. He identified the Messiah through these details. People who were reading the Old Testament and who lived through that moment could have said, that's exactly what Zechariah was talking about. They could have known who he is by what they lived through and witnessed. He established redemption through their rejection. The cross accomplished something. Redemption. By his sacrifice, we are redeemed to God. There's no other way, only through the cross. The wisdom of the cross is foolishness to the world. But to we who are saved, it's the power and wisdom of God. He acted on firm grounds to judge the generation who rejected him. When they said, His blood be on us and our children, he said, All right, so be it. He used this moment to point forward to an ultimate fulfillment of all things. Interestingly, he's going to come again. The same route. Not to establish redemption, but to establish rule. So how do we apply a text like this? Let me give you. Some very simple thoughts to close. The first is this to those who are unbelieving. And I don't I don't know what's going on in your heart right now as you sit here. Or what's going on in your heart as you're listening, maybe on the live stream. You may say I'm not a Christian. I'm just investigating Christianity. It's very interesting to me. I'm kind of put out with the secular viewpoint that I'm seeing so prevalent in our society today. And so I'm just purely curious. I want to know a little bit more about this Bible and this gospel and this cross and this resurrection to you who may be in such a position, you must accept his person. He is God in flesh. You cannot become a Christian unless you accept who Jesus is. Jesus says, unless you believe that I am he, you will die in your sins. Emmanuel, God with us. Second, you have to rest in the cross. Our sin debt has been paid in full. What does Paul say? I glory in nothing save the cross of Jesus Christ. There was nothing else in all this world that gave him delight and glory other than the cross of Christ. Why? Because it is that cross that established reconciliation. Paul didn't have anything to do with the cross. Actually, I don't know if I'd say that. Paul was one who said, crucify him. Paul's sins were laid on Christ. Yours and mine were as well. But the cross was his act, not ours. And so we're reminded that if we want to become a Christian, we must rest in his work on the cross. And thirdly, we must submit to his rule, there is no other king. Not Caesar, Christ. So, to those who may not know the Lord as your Savior, I encourage you, turn to Him. Trust in His work. Trust in His death on the cross, His resurrection, His perfect righteousness. Submit to His rule. Turn to the Lord and trust in Him. Secondly, to the believer, who is probably the vast majority of those who are listening to this, I want to challenge you to glory in God's meticulous care. Despite mixed responses, God uses everything and everyone to accomplish his redemptive purposes. That's not something I fully understand. But that's what he does. We need to rest in his meticulous care. Glory is worship, rest. It's taking him at his word and trusting him. It's not just expressing in words, it's trusting in actions He confirms his word so we can rest in those promises. He never loses in the end, so don't resist what he's doing. He uses all things, even the little things, to accomplish his purposes, so rejoice in the ordinary providences of life. He triumphs over evil, even turning the schemes of the wicked against themselves. Trust him when life seems unjust, overwhelming, beyond a good end. I don't know what's going on today in your life, but the truth is you may feel that what you are living through is beyond God's ability to work through. And I'm going to tell you, you are believing a lie if you embrace that. Don't embrace lies. Embrace the truth. God has purposes that are bigger than we understand sometimes. His purpose is to mature us. His purpose is to teach us. His purpose is to grow us into Christ's likeness. His purpose is to prepare us for future areas of service. His purpose is to draw us near to himself. His purpose is to wean off our love for this world. His purpose is to humble our arrogant attitudes toward him and others. His purposes are intact. Thirdly, wait patiently as he works his purposes. I want to remind you of some very simple thoughts. Thousands of years of history led to this event. And thousands of years of history stand between this event and us today. Do you realize 2,000 years before Christ's death, Abraham lived? And God said, I'm going to make of you a great nation. I'm going to bless those who bless you, curse those who curse you, and through you, all the nations of the earth will be blessed, and I'll make you a blessing. 2,200 years before Christ's death. Christ's death is closer to us than it was to Abraham A thousand years before Christ's death is when David lived, and David was given some wonderful promises. He says, You're going to have a descendant who's going to sit on your throne, who's going to rule and reign every Forever. A thousand years came and went, and here comes Jesus. Seven hundred years before the death of Christ lived a man named Isaiah. He penned that famous chapter, Isaiah 53. It wasn't chapter 53 to him, okay, but he penned that portion of Isaiah. It talks about the suffering Messiah bearing our sins on himself, dying as an offering for sin. Celebrating the agony of his soul, knowing what it accomplished, 700 years before. 500 years before the death of Christ, Zechariah wrote about donkeys going into Jerusalem being ridden by the Messiah. We're living 2,000 years after Christ's death and resurrection. What's the point? The point is this. Just because God moves slow to us doesn't mean he isn't moving. When you're on that trip driving with your kids and they say, are we there yet? And you're like, you just said that for the 15th time in the last 12 minutes. Could you be a little more patient? What does God think of our squirming? He's a very merciful God. You've got to wonder if in his mind he goes, why can't you just trust me? Why can't you just be patient? Why can't you just do what I've told you to do with the time I've given you? I close with this final text. 2 Peter 3, verse 8. Beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing. That one day is with the Lord as a thousand years and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slack concerning his promise as some men count slackness. But is long-suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. The day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. I want to remind you that we're not even a week removed from Abraham in the eyes of God. Just trust him with what he's given you. Be faithful. Endure seeing him who's invisible. May God help us to learn these very simple lessons about how he masterfully works. Through events like this one. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for its power. We thank you for all these testimonies of your faithfulness. We're reminded that you care about little things, things that to us seem almost insignificant. Simple things like riding an animal that's never been ridden. Simple things like laying cloth on a road for a king to triumph and walk through it. Things like a psalm that talks about rejection and redemption all at the same time. Father, help us to realize that your ways are pure and perfect and righteous and good. And I pray that you will help us to be a patient people. who are faithful as we endure the challenges of life, resting in those very basic and unshakable promises that you've given us. You know every heart, you know every burden. May you minister richly to the great needs in this room today. We ask it in Christ's name, amen.