Luke chapter 19, we're looking at verses 41 through 44 together this morning. We've been working our way through the book of Luke, and uh this is a big sermon because it's sermon 100 in our sermon series. And I hope that as we've been working our way through the book of Luke, it's been a help to you. It's been a challenge. What we're looking at this morning is something that we desperately need. To let the Lord drive into our hearts. And so let's see what the Word of God says this morning. It says this, and when he was come near, he beheld the city. And wept over it, saying, if thou hast known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace. But now they are hid from thine eyes. For the day shall come upon thee that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, encompass thee round, and keep thee in on every side. And shall lay thee even to the ground. And thy children within thee, they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another. Because Thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. Let's bow together for a word of prayer as we think about how Christ is processing. What's about to happen on that final week before his crucifixion? Father, as we think about the truths of this scripture, I pray that it would really get a hold of our hearts. Father, help us not to leave this place in a cold or callous condition. But help us to leave this service with a tremendous burden in our heart for the lost souls all around us. As we think about the fact that one day those who have rejected the gospel will face the wrath of God. And how they can escape that wrath through Christ. I pray that our hearts would be tender as we consider the plight of the world around us. And then Father, as we think about the love of our Savior for the lost , may we realize to a much greater degree today how much He loves his children. And may our hearts be warned by these truths. Convicted if necessary. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us, I'd like to summarize the following way. Despite Christ's full awareness of the horrible events that would transpire in Jerusalem's future, he lamented the severity. of their future destruction. Now when I when I say the horrible things that are in their future, there is a near term and there is a far term. And we're really going to get into that this morning. But as we think about this passage, Jesus is thinking about the cross And he's thinking about the crowds and he's thinking about what they're going to say, things like, his blood be on us and on our children. And he knows that those words will come back to haunt that generation. Or a group of people that said, we serve no king but Caesar, he knew that those words would come back to haunt that generation. Christ is moved with brokenness of heart as he considers the arrogance and the future destruction of an entire generation of people That were in that city on that Passover, who were going to say, take him away, crucify him. As we read this passage of Scripture, what I hope that we will see is that God wants us to understand the mind of Christ. And He wants us to have this mind ourselves. And where we end up at the end of this sermon, It's going to be a very simple text that simply says this, let that mind which is in Christ Jesus be in you. And so with that in mind, we need to understand the content of the text if we're going to get to that point. And so we're going to look at this in several parts. The first part is really going to kind of give you a little bit of a sense of where this fits in the movement of the narrative of Christ's ministry going up to Jerusalem. And yes, or last Sunday We talked about Christ going up to Jerusalem from the Trans Jordan, he's coming up from Jericho, and he comes to the Mount of Olives, and then he comes down from the Mount of Olives and down into the Kidron Valley, and there there's this triumphal entry. He's riding on a donkey and all the people are saying, save us, save us. Have Zayah Zahee comes in the name of the Lord. And as Jesus comes up into the city through the eastern gate, there he meets those religious leaders who are in charge of the city, at least religiously and many ways you could say politically as well. They had an arrangement with Rome. And they said, you need to tell your disciples to stop. And Jesus says, if they stopped, the rocks would cry out. What's going on in the details of this as Christ laments? The condition of the city. Well, what I want to do is just remind you, there's been a series of conflicts. We've been working our way through Luke, so we've seen them one by one. And we need to kind of understand the layout of the week that's about to unfold in front of Christ. And I know that there are some that would maybe debate with the way that I'm laying this out. My goal is not that you agree with me 100% on how I'm going to lay out the crucifixion week. But that you would understand the flow of the details because this is what is weighing on the heart of Christ. He understands what's about to happen. He knows everything that is going to happen. during this week and he's feeling the weight of it as he goes up into the city. So on Sunday we see that he enters the city from the Mount of Olives in a triumphal entry. That's Luke chapter 19, 29 to 40. And then as he is coming back up from the Kidron Valley, he enters into the temple. And what's interesting about it is he doesn't do anything but observe what is there. In fact, only Mark records this in Mark chapter 11. And then after Jesus sees what's going on in the city, he's had that confrontation with the religious leaders who have come to him and said, make the disciples be quiet. He goes back up to Bethany. And he spends the night there. And then on Monday, he comes back down and then up into Jerusalem. And there's something heavy on Christ's heart. How do we know that? Well, as he enters into the city, in Matthew 21, it talks about how he comes through and he sees a fig tree, and the fig tree had no fruit. And Jesus cursed the fig tree and it withered and you go, what in the world was that all about? Jesus is essentially saying by that action, that is the city's state right now. This is a city that should be fruitful because their king is coming into the city and they don't see it They are hardened. They are callous toward him. They are a fruitless fig tree. And he cursed the fig tree as a symbolic reference to the state of the nation. They were going to face judgment. And then he goes back up into that temple. And this time he doesn't just observe, he overthrows the money changers. Can you imagine as those religious leaders who just told Jesus, you didn't tell your disciples to kind of chill out? They're watching Jesus go into the temple and throw over these money changes and say, get out of here! You have desecrated the temple. This is my father's house. And those same people, they are blueing inside. They are so angry at what Jesus is saying and doing. On Tuesday, he confronted these religious leaders, or excuse me, this these religious leaders come to him. So as Jesus went went up back into Bethany and he thought about what he saw in the temple on Monday as he comes back in. Well, those people who were in the in the in the temple on that day that Jesus throws out the money changers, they went home and they thought about it. Do you think about some of the conversations they had in their homes that I can't believe he'd do this. They were just boiling angry. As soon as they see him walk into that temple, they're right up in his face. They say, what right do you have to do what you just did? By what authority do you say the things that you do? Do you do the things that you do? What right do you have to do that? This is getting very confrontational. And this is the Passover week in Jerusalem is filled with people. Probably hundreds of thousands of people are packed into this ancient city to celebrate the Passover. And during this confrontation, Jesus looks at the temple that they're in. He says, you see this temple? It's going to be gone. Not one stone's going to be left. And they're like, what is your problem? What is Jesus talking about? He's talking about the destruction of a city that's going to take place. And that's the end of Tuesday. And then on Wednesday, Judas goes to those very religious leaders who were boiling angry at Christ. And he said, I would like to make a deal with you. What will it take for me to give him to you? And they work something out. Why did he do that? Because Judas was disillusioned with who Christ was. And he didn't believe on him as the other disciples. And so on Wednesday, he agrees to deliver Christ into their hands. On Thursday, Jesus celebrates the Passover with his disciples, and this is a fascinating text in Luke chapter 22. We see that Christ takes what has been something that they have celebrated for over a thousand years as a people. And as they celebrate the Passover, Jesus says, take this cup and drink it. This will remind you of my blood that's going to be shed to establish a new covenant. And they go, what's that? He says, take this bread and and break it. My body is going to be broken for you. He says, I will not celebrate this again until it has been fulfilled. Amazing statements. Why is that? Because Jesus is the bread of life. And Jesus is the Passover lamb. And Jesus is the fulfillment of all of those prophecies that have been made all throughout the Old Testament. And he celebrates the Passover and establishes the Lord's table. And then his disciples go up to the Garden of Gethsemane where Jesus says, Watch and pray lest you enter into temptation. And there that night. Christ is taken because he's been betrayed by Judas. But it's not really because he's been betrayed by Judas, it's because he's delivered of himself. Because that's why he came. He came to die. And then we come to Friday. When we talk about Friday, realize that Friday didn't start when we think of Friday morning. But all through the night, Jesus stood before several mock, and I say mock trials. He is questioned by Annas, that's the father-in-law of Tecaiaphas. He was the guy who had the real political power in the city, but he was not functioning as the high priest. And then from Annas, he goes to Caiaphas, who is the functioning high priest. And there Caiaphas and the rest of the Sanhedrin condemn Christ to death. But they don't have the power to commit condemn him to death, so they deliver him up to the Roman governor Pilate. And as Pilate questions Christ, he realizes this guy's innocent. He hasn't done anything worthy of death. These people hate him, they loathe him. They have no right to have him be executed. And he says, I don't find any fault with him. But he feels the pressure, so he goes, you know what? Jesus is not from Jerusalem. He's actually from Galilee. And I know someone in Galilee who is the proper governor of that region, so I'm going to send him over to Herod Antipas. And Herod Antipas is going to ask him questions. Herod Antipas was very excited about this opportunity to talk to Christ. But after a while, they both realize he's an innocent man. There's no reason to kill him. And so he sends them back to Pilate. And their Pilate ultimately will condemn him to death. Why? Because of fear. He absolutely knew that Christ had done nothing wrong. He knew that these Jewish leaders hated him. Despised him, and he caved. Then he's crucified, and ultimately he is buried by Joseph of Arimathea, one of the Sanhedrin members, who disagreed with the decision to deliver Christ to Pilate That's the storyline. And the question is, why does that matter? Well, it matters because all of this is weighing very heavily on Christ And Luke chapter 18, verse 31, it says, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem. All things that are written of the prophets concerning the Son of Man shall be accomplished. Last week we saw this contrast between real disciples, opportunistic people in a crowd, and hardened skeptics. Today we're going to see how Christ in his heart responded to all of these people. So we move to our second part. And that is the elements of this lament that Christ gives in these verses. This is a very short text. Usually as we're working our way through Luke, we kind of deal with larger texts of scripture. But this is a short text, but it is very powerful. It is very profound. I hope we don't miss anything here. So I want to break it down into parts. First of all, I want you to notice the heart of Christ and how it is deeply moved with grief over the city. It says he beheld the city and he wept over it. Now, what does it mean that Jesus wept? Does it mean you like shed a tear? You know, sometimes we we hear a song and it moves us a little bit, or we hear some news that's uh it's very sad and We weep, you know, our key, we tear up just a little bit. It's not like we we veil uncontrollably or anything like that. But we're moved in our hearts. Is that what we're talking about? Or we're talking about something different. Well, the word that's used here is actually mentioned twice in John chapter 11. Listen to what it says. As well as when Jesus saw her weeping, this is the story of when Lazarus has died. This is just a few days before the events that we're talking about here. So Lazarus dies, and then he is resurrected, and then right before the Passover week, Jesus goes up to Bethany. He spends time in their house and he meets with Lazarus. So he really loves these people. This is at Lazarus' tomb. It says Jesus saw her weeping. And the Jews also weeping, which came with her, and he groaned in his spirit, and his spirit was trouble Now that word weeping there isn't like shedding a little tear. We're talking about people who are lamenting the death of someone they love very much. In fact, I would be frank about it. I would say as Americans, we probably don't feel very comfortable expressing this level of grief in our hearts over the death of someone or a very difficult circumstance. We do not want people to see us so in such an uncontrollable state of weeping. But that's the sense of what is going on here. They are crying because there's great pain. And Jesus groaned, that's a different word, and Jesus was troubled. Different word. Then in chapter 11, verse 35, it says Jesus wept. That's actually a different term than the term that was used here. And that's not the term that's used here in Luke chapter 19. But it kind of has more the idea of shedding a tear. So as you see these people, they're weeping uncontrollably, they're lamenting the death of a brother, a family member, Jesus comes and he's moved in his heart, his his spirit is troubled, and he sheds a tear for these people. But when we come back to Luke chapter 19, as Jesus looks at the city, it's not the tear. It's not the groan. It's the weeping of someone who has lost a person they love dearly. Isn't that interesting? The disciples probably sat there and said, what are you doing, Christ? Why are you crying over a city? It's because his heart was moved. Second thing we see is that he lamented the tragedy of their unbelief. He said, if Thou hast that word if is huge. They didn't have to face the judgment that would most certainly come. If they had embraced him, if they had trusted in the gospel. If they hadn't turned and said, His blood be on us and our children, they would not have to have faced such a thing. Interestingly, when Peter is preaching at Pentecost, he says, You have crucified the Lord of glory. And they said, What are we going to do? And he said Repent, be baptized, and remove yourself from this untoward generation. Interesting words. You know what he's saying? You still can escape the judgment Embrace the Messiah. Trust him as your Savior. Be baptized. Identify with the body of believers in Jerusalem. And you'll escape this judgment. I'm going to come back to that just a little bit later in the sermon because that's exactly what happened in AD 70. Just hold that thought in your mind. They did not have to experience this horrible misery. Third thing we see is that he lamented their misplaced confidence. He said, the things which belong unto thy peace, these were people who were very concerned with geopolitical power. And you see that there was a lot of political maneuvering within the Sanhedrin as they associated with the kings and the governors who are part of the Roman rule. They had a system in place and they were very concerned about keeping their position. In fact, one of the reasons that they wanted to kill Jesus is they said he disrupts the political order in the city. We cannot permit this. In fact, Caiaphas even says it's expedient that one dies for the nation. When when Caiaphas says this in his head, he's saying, we gotta let this man die so that we can keep order. But what he was really saying, he's gonna die for the people. Redemption. But he didn't understand that So at this moment, the Sanhedrin had a lot of power, religious power, political power, and Rome was even building their temple. This is the same temple that was built by Zerubbabel hundreds of years earlier, and this is the temple that replaced what was destroyed in Solomon's, uh Solomon's temple destroyed in 586. And so the people really love this temple. They had this outer wall. It took decades for them to build this section. And it's still being constructed. And by the way, for another 30 years they'd still be working on that structure before it was destroyed. And this stability was going to change radic radically. Two years after the this that the the building was finished in 8064 Two years later, there was a Jewish revolt in Caesarea Philippi, which began the war of the Jews, which ultimately led to the complete destruction of Jerusalem. And the absolute slaughter of hundreds of thousands of people on the Passover. These people were trusting in freedom fighters. They wanted someone to overthrow Rome. That's not why Christ came. He came to die. They needed to think theologically. These are the scriptures that explain how the people should have thought rather than how they thought Romans 5. 8. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. If when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, they wanted power. They needed forgiveness. They wanted to have peace in the political order. They needed peace with God. And they didn't get it. Ephesians 2. 12, ye were without Christ, aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, strangers from the covenant promises. having no hope without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus, ye who sometime were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. That's what they needed. Colossians 1 22 and 21, you who were sometime alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled in the body of his flesh through death. to present you holy and unblameable and rep unreprovable in the sight of God. And here's the truth. Nothing has changed for 2,000 years. I love peace and order in my country. And we need to pray for kings and all who are in authority so that we can lead a quiet and peaceful life in all godliness. But the question is why? Because God desires to save people. And the gospel goes forward freely when Christians have the freedom to take it. God uses persecution. God uses the suffering of his church. And God can work through all kinds of situations. But the fact is what we should be most concerned about. Is that people are reconciled to God through the gospel? And these people didn't get it. All they wanted was power. They wanted power. They were no different than any other worldly person who has ever been in such a position. And that's why Christ lamented. Fourthly, he lamented the hardness of their hearts. He says, but now they are hid from thine eyes. This is very interesting. They had had so much opportunity to hear the truth. And here's what happened. Every time a person comes in access with the truth, comes in contact with the truth, there is an internal response to truth. And as people come in contact with truth, either they are softened to it , they're hardened to it. And there can come a point when God says, I will give you what you want, and you will never turn back. That's what Romans 1 is talking about. For this cause, God gave them over to a reprobate mind. In Matthew chapter 13, verse 15, it says, This people's heart is waxed gross. Their ears are dull of hearing, their eyes have they closed, lest at any time They should see with their eyes, hear with their ears, should understand with their hearts, and should be converted, and I should heal them. As these people saw witness after witness after witness to who Christ is. And they hear his teaching and they hear how he takes the prophecies of the Old Testament and applies them to himself. They said no. They said no. They said no. And finally, their heart was so hardened. They had absolutely no ability to understand, to see, to perceive, to embrace what was so obvious. Matthew 23, verse 37, Jesus said, O Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets and stonest them that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens? under her wings, and you would not. His heart is moved. Fifthly, don't worry, there's not twenty of them. He lamented the terror of their impending judgment It says, The days shall come upon thee that thine enemies shall cast a trench unto thee, about thee, encompass thee round, and keep thee on every side. And shall lay thee even to the ground, and thy children within thee, and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another. Now this is very interesting. Throughout Israel's history, this is very reminiscent of a time that had taken place 600 years before. In fact, the way that Jesus is speaking is very similar to things that were stated by prophets during the time right before the destruction of Jerusalem the first time. When the Babylonians laid siege on the city and they choked out all resources and basically the people in the city died by starvation? And if they didn't die by starvation, they were so weakened that when the Babylonians came in, they were powerless to stop them. And as they came into that city, they sacked the city, they destroyed the walls, they destroyed the temple, they burned all of the gates into the city, they took everything that they wanted. And before those days, this is what the prophet said. Isaiah 48, 18, O that thou hast hearkened unto my commandments, then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea. Jeremiah 13, 17, my soul shall weep in secret places for your pride, and mine eyes shall weep sore and run down with tears because the Lord's flock is carried away captive. Jeremiah 14, 7, let mine eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them not cease. My people is broken with a breach, with a very grievous blow. There was historic precedent for the exact things that Jesus said in this particular text. It was not the first time that this group of people living in that city with walls and with a temple were in danger of judgment. Not the first time. 600 years before, they faced the exact same potential outcome. And you know what happened? They rejected. And you know what happened? They were judged. Christ is saying the exact same thing. We see the heart of Ezekiel, we see the heart of Jeremiah, we see the heart of Isaiah, and what are they doing? Lamenting what is coming to these people. In 8066, when the Jews revolted against the Romans, Jerusalem was sieged, exactly like Christ predicted. And interestingly, in AD 68, when Nero committed suicide, the guy who was in charge of the siege, his name was Vespian, he went back to Rome and he left the siege and he left his son Titus in charge. And for a brief period of time, they relaxed the siege on the city. And you know what happened when they did that? All of the people who were Christians who understood the teachings of Christ, who were aware of the statements of Christ. By the way, the book of Luke would have been written before this time, and so they could read the words of Christ in the story that Luke is recording. You know what they did? They said, we have opportunity, and they fled the city. All those who had embraced the Messiah, the Christian community, they ran for their lives. They crossed the Transjordan and they stayed in a stronghold called Pella. But the siege wasn't done. And in AD 70, Titus came back into the city and wreaked absolute havoc. Josephus actually talks about this. And he makes a point that there was a distinction between the Christian community that had fled And the Jewish community that came for the Passover and was celebrating in the temple as they were being choked out by the Romans. What's the point? What Jesus said happened. And Jesus knew it, and he lamented that event that would take place. Sixth thing we see is he lamented the failure to understand God's timetable. He says, Thou knewest not the time of thy visitation. I want to contrast that with two people that the scripture talks about at the beginning of Luke, one being Zecharias. the father of John the Baptist, the second being Simeon, an old man who held the Lord Jesus as a baby in the temple. Zechariah says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel, he has visited, interesting word, redeemed his people and hath raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began, not everyone was blinded to this reality. Simeon says, Lord, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word. Mine eyes have seen thy salvation which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. Moves me to a third point. There were some principles that drove Christ's reaction. And so as we think about what he's saying, we ought to ask why. Why did he say these things? Was it just because he was a compassionate person or was there more to it than that? It's because he was a principled righteous man, God in flesh. The way that Christ interacted with the people around him, the way that he interpreted the circumstances all around him, it was all in a perfect and righteous and just way. And we need to ask the question, why did he think this? Principle one. He understood God is just and we're responsible to embrace the truth. And the people had not embraced the truth. Principle 2. Since God is just, he will punish evil. And he will do it in perfect, righteous justice. Romans 2. We are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth. Principle three When God punishes evil, he does not, and this is important, and this is at the heart of what we're saying today, he does not delight in the destruction and misery of the wicked. Now let me tell you, we do. We do. How do I know that? Because I have find myself in such a place. You know, you see somebody who you're like, you've been waiting for them to get it for a really long time, and it finally happens. You're like, it's about time. And there's kind of like this joy and this glee, right? You know? That's the way people are. God is different. God values people. Is he just? Absolutely is just. Is he holy? Absolute. Is he righteous? Yes. But he's also a God who loves those who are created in his image. And he takes no delight and pleasure in the destruction of people. And in Ezekiel 33, 11 it says, As I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked. But that the wicked turn from his way and live. Turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways. Why will ye die, O house of Israel? Here was something that was penned hundreds and hundreds of years before Christ lamented the city. What do you see? A consistency of spirit. Why is that? Well, because God is an unchanging God. His character is the same in every generation. And as Ezekiel speaks This proclamation from the Lord's lips. You see this consistency. Principle four, we cannot afford to ignore his call to embrace the truth. While God takes no pleasure in the destruction of the wicked, he will do it. If the wicked does not turn from their wicked ways. He says in Romans chapter 2, verse 3, Despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance, but after thy hardness and impenitent heart. Treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God who will render to every man according to his deeds. Why did Christ respond the way that he did in this text? It's because of those four principles. God is just, he will punish evil. He does not delight in the destruction and misery of the wicked, but the wicked must repent and believe, or they will face his wrath. Nothing has changed. Nothing will change till Christ returns. This is the character of God. And it comes out very clearly in the text. So the final question I'm going to ask is, well, how do we apply this? I think there's some very important truths for us to think about here. First of all, to the unbelieving. I don't know the state of your heart this morning. You came to church this morning. Maybe you've attended this church for years. I don't know what's going on in your soul. Maybe you're watching this on the live stream. First time you've ever heard a service in our church. Or maybe you've been watching for a long time and you've been really contemplating the things that you're hearing. And you find yourself in a position of unbelief. What that means is the Bible says, and you say no. The Bible says you must turn to God. You must place your faith in the finished work of Christ. There is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. He died for your sins, he rose from the dead, repent, believe in the gospel. And you say, No, I'm not going to do it That's what I mean by unbelief. It is a rejection of the truth. When God says this, you say, nope. Unbelief. I want to ask you some questions. Why would you continue to rebel against such a God? He's good. He's righteous. He takes no joy in the fact that one of your face is wrath. But you will if you reject it. He is just, and you will face the full justice of God if you do not embrace the gospel. He has done everything that must be done to save you from wrath. Everything. There is nothing for you to give God. There is no payment for you to give. Not a financial payment. Not a sacrificial payment. The only payment that is acceptable for the sins of mankind is the death of Christ. The perfect, sinless, substitutionary death of Christ on the cross. Anything else, it's an offense. It's unacceptable. You do not have to face his wrath. You can be safe from wrath through him. Today's the day you should repent and believe. to the believer, who I would say is probably the vast majority of those who are here. Overwhelmingly so, maybe everyone. I want you to consider this comparison Think about it this way. If Christ laments the destruction of his enemies, these are the people who said, be quiet and tell your disciples not to say a word. These are the people who plotted in the city with Judas to betray Christ so that they could take him by force and crucify him in the city. These are the people that wanted him nailed to a cross, the most horrific way you could imagine someone being killed. Do you realize even the Roman Empire Made crucifixion illegal several hundred years later because they said it's the most barbaric way that mankind has ever figured out to kill people. They made it illegal. Even the Romans. Christ knew that this the spitting and the mocking and the beatings, all of it. If he would lament over those people, his enemies, how do you think he views you as his children? You know how many Christians believe that God hates them? You say, why is that? Well, because of bad things that happen in their lives. Because of a misunderstanding of how God views them. Maybe it's a sermon that they heard, maybe it's a conversation that they had, maybe it's something they read on the internet. Maybe it's a passage that they're not understanding it in its context, but because of a misunderstanding of God, they view him as a tyrant who hates them and is just waiting for opportunity to crush them. If God was waiting for opportunity to crush you, he'd have so many opportunities you wouldn't be here right now. I wouldn't either. He doesn't have to look for opportunities. We give him example after example. But what do we read in the Bible? The patience, the mercy, the forbearance, the long-suffering of God. We see it over and over and over again. If God could lament the destruction of his enemies, how much more does he love his children? So I apply it this way: In a moment of weakness or misery, do not allow yourself to embrace a twisted view of God. He is a tender God, and he's tender toward us in our misery. He hears us when we cry out to him. He is slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. He does not permit pain and suffering without a real redemptive reason. There is a great difference between how the Christian should lament and the world. You know what the word is? Hope. Hope. We do a funeral of a believer. A lot of crying But there's hope. Because that person is with Christ. Because Christ has redeemed them And they are alive in his presence. My grandfather passed away this weekend. And that's sad. I know it's what's a word And so when I go down with the family to see the rest of the family, they'll be weeping. But he's with the Lord If I didn't know the Lord and I didn't know that my grandfather was with the Lord, I could not feel that peace. And anybody that does is playing mind games with themselves. The world does not have what we have. Christians sorrow, but not as those without hope. Second thing I'll mention is in a moment of self-righteousness, do not allow yourself to embrace an arrogance toward the world around you. And I tell you, I I'm convicted by that statement. It's God's mercy that sustains our lives. It's all of his grace that we've been drawn to him. It's all of his grace that we've made any progress and growth into Christ's likeness. The fact that you've matured at any level in the Christian life is because of the mercy of God. And we can look at the world around us with great disdain and hatred. But you know what the passage in 1 Peter says? It says the reason that God is slow is because he's not willing that any should perish But that all should come to repentance. Why does God tarry? Because there are more people he wants to save. And the fact is, we can become very arrogant and self-righteous, and that does not reflect the attitude of our Savior. We have no place to harbor pride and self-righteousness. The third thing I'll say and finally is this. In a moment of frustration with others, don't desire their destruction. If they don't repent and believe, that day is certainly going to come. No matter how you feel about somebody, God's going to deal with it. Okay? He doesn't need your help to hate them. It's true. Some people might have to go buy a new TV because something they hear somebody say, you know, in a in a debate or something like that. Cost you money, right? The fact is, God doesn't need our help. He's righteous, and he's going to do what's right on his own timetable. We need to just trust him to do that. If they repent and believe, think about this. They will be just as forgiven as you and I are. And they'll be just as righteous in Christ as we are. There is no exception to that. The cross is the ultimate equalizer. May God help us to apply his word. Let's bow for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we close in prayer, I want to ask a very simple question. Is there somebody here that say, Joel, I've never trusted Christ as my Savior? You touched on that issue of unbelief, and I have not embraced the gospel, and I 'm not sure if I know how to do that, but maybe I just need to talk to somebody and get this issue settled. Nobody else is looking but me, and the only reason I'm asking is so I can make a note to try to reach out to you. Is there anyone here that say, Joel, I've never trusted Christ, I need to do that I need to speak with someone. I'm uncertain of my salvation. Anybody at all like that? Anybody at all? You might say, I'm not gonna raise my hand, but I need to. All right, come talk to me after the service. No problem. I'm not gonna I'm not going to point you out. I'm not going to make a big issue. We can have a private conversation. I can take the Bible and show you how you can be saved. Don't leave this place if you don't know the Lord is your Savior. I'm sure there are many in our midst that needed to hear this message. Well, I say all of us need to hear it. But maybe we in particular needed to hear it today. May God help us to apply the word. Let's pray. Our Father, I thank you for your word. It's amazing how our Savior would lament over a city that was so rebellious. It 's so hardened, so callous toward the true king. Father, may we be a people Who apply the text of Philippians to, who let that mind be in us? A people who are willing to humble ourselves And love others the way that you would want us to. Father, help us to reach the lost. Help us to be burdened for their souls. Help us to be distinct assault and light in this very dark world. We ask it all in Christ's name, amen.