Let's all turn together to the book of Luke. And we are in Luke chapter 20 this morning. Luke chapter 20. And we are working our way verse by verse through the book of Luke. And Lord willing, by the end of the year we will have finished the entire book. And I think it's only taken us three years to do that. But I'm really excited about the book that we will start after we finish the book of Luke. But let's focus on the text in front of us this morning. Luke chapter 20, we're going to look at verses 20 through 26 together. We'll pray and then dig into a very important text of Scripture. Here's what God's word says. And they watched him and sent forth spies which should feign themselves just men. That they may take hold of his words, that so they might deliver him under the power and authority of the governor. And they asked him, saying, Master , We know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the persons of any, but teachest the way of God truly. Is it lawful for us to give tribute unto Caesar or no? But he perceived their craftiness and said unto them, Why tempt ye me? Show me a penny, whose image and superscription hath it. They answered and said, Caesar's. He said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's. And they could not take hold of his words before the people, and they marveled at his answer and held their peace. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we dig into this passage of Scripture, I pray that you'd help us all to give careful attention to the Word of God As we look at this passage, may we see the tremendous wisdom of our Savior, the Lord Jesus, as he dealt with these crafty individuals who desired to trick him and ultimately to deliver him through that craft to be killed. And then we see the incredible authority of Christ that is talked about in this text. And then we ultimately think of where this is leading. The cross of Christ. I pray that this morning as we look at each of these concepts that we would have a clear understanding of what is being presented to us in this passage, and may we see how these verses apply very personally to our lives. I pray that you'll be with the children in the back. May their class go very well. I pray that you would get the glory, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I want to begin by kind of reflecting on something that I know all of us are aware of, and that is the tremendous difference between examining history as one who has lived through it versus actually living through it yourself. Now, this week, we celebrated, I believe, the 81st commemoration of the D-Day invasion on the beaches of Normandy and France. And I know that my wife's grandfather was actually one of those soldiers. He was a very young man who was on the beach that day. I cannot imagine what would have gone through his mind as he was riding in those crafts to that beach that was going to let them out and they were going to literally storm those beaches. With gunfire all around them. And many, many people on that day would die. And it would be a terrible, tragic day. They had no idea how that was going to unfold. As they lived through it, there's no way for us to appreciate what was going on in their minds. But I can only imagine how those people who are still living today, and it's a very small group of people, these are people that are probably 98 99, 100 plus. In fact, out of all the people that were involved in that great conflict, veterans, there are only a few tens of thousands who are still alive today. For people to look back on that event as historians, we see it from a different angle. For instance, as people live through history, they don't see how all the parts work together They rarely recognize the most significant pieces of what they are living through and they don't know how it's all going to play out. They rarely see the full working together of those events. It lacks clarity. But when you can look at it on the outside, and you can look at it after it's completed, all of a sudden you start to see how all of these pieces come together. You see the events that led up to that moment You see all of the pieces that came together and that did not work out well and those that were successful, and then how in the end it is accomplished And that's the way that history works. One of the great blessings of studying history is we're able to see and learn a lot because we're looking without the bias of living through those events. One of the things we should take away when we study history is that God rules. It is God who determines. How the thing will ultimately play out. As people plan and as people scheme and as pl people force themselves to be involved in different aspects of an event. Ultimately God in heaven is going to guide all of those things to an ultimate end. And this is a mysterious thing. It's not something we can fully comprehend. But when we step back and we look at these things, there's a beauty to God's providence. The verses in front of us, in fact, they illustrate this point very, very well. Let me kind of remind you again of the basic story that we're examining here. We have these religious leaders who have assumed a tremendous amount of authority there in Jerusalem. And this authority actually is an authority that they did not have rightfully. In fact We mentioned this just kind of in passing several weeks ago. But the people who are part of the Sanhedrin, some of them were not actually qualified to be in the roles that they were in. These were essentially political appointments. And so these are Jewish people that are working with the Roman government and they're establishing authority and they have some kind of, you could say, system, and they have some some We could say a working together, some kind of relationship, and they do not want that to be disrupted at all And so as Christ comes on the scene and as he begins to teach and he begins to preach and he begins to push back against some of the things that are just status quo common thinking and teaching of the day. The religious leaders are becoming very, very irritated with Christ. And you can kind of see this building through all the different texts that we have dealt with in the book of Luke. They've now gotten to the point where they're willing to do almost anything to trap Jesus. These are people who presented themselves as very righteous, very noble, very serious-minded people, but they were thieves. They were covetous. These are people that were filled with greed and animosity, and they were even willing to take a man who they knew was innocent. And through craft present him to be killed in his innocence. They're so angry That the most basic restraints that had kind of kept those passions in check, they're now off the table. And as these people are plotting and scheming, they're going to do whatever they can to get rid of Christ. That's what we're reading in these verses. We don't want to miss it. So, as we look at this passage, I would summarize it by saying this: the text in front of us is going to reveal the wisdom of Christ. You're going to see this in the way that he answers their question. It's going to show you the authority of God. You're going to see that in the content of his answer. And then by the end of it, you're going to see that God's wisdom And God's authority are going to be two pieces of these train tracks that are moving to a destination. And that destination is ultimately the cross. But it's got to go at the right time. All of this is a part of what God is doing. And so to do that, let's pick them up one piece at a time. First of all, let's look at the wisdom of God in these verses. We see this in verses 23 and 24. Notice what it says. But he perceived their craftiness. It's an interesting word. Craftiness. These are people who are plotting, they're scheming, they're manipulating, they're doing everything at their disposal to catch Christ. And he said, Why tempt ye me? Show me a penny. And this would have been the common coin that was used of the day, a denarius is the coin. And he asked them a question. Whose image is printed on that coin? Now how do we see the wisdom of God in this response to the people that have come to him? Well, let's look at the progression of the feud between the religious leaders and Christ. In fact, if we were to go back through the Gospels, we can kind of see this progression. At first, Jesus is a little bit intriguing to them. We see this in John chapter 3, verse 2. Nicodemus comes to Jesus at night and he says this, we know that you are a teacher come from God. That's a really interesting statement. Nicodemus is a religious leader. He is a very well-known religious leader. He's a part of the Sanhedrin. He was probably selected by this group of men who were in charge, and they said, you go talk to Jesus You're more kindly disposed toward him than we are. You ask him the questions that we don't want to ask him. There's an intrigue. We know you're a teacher come from God because no man can do these miracles that thou doest except God be with him. But then as Jesus has a conversation with Nicodemus, he just goes straight to the point. He says, Nicodemus, unless a man's born again, he's never going to see the kingdom of God. And by the end of the story, I can't imagine what Nicodemus went back to those people and reported that. He's like, I got a different story than I was anticipating. He told me I'm a lost man and I need to be born again. Intrigue. Then we see that this moves a little bit from the intrigue to the irritation. In Luke chapter 7, we see this verse 39. It says, When the Pharisee who had been in him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known what manner of woman this is that toucheth him. She is a sinner. So if we go back to this passage of scripture, you have this intrigue And now Christ is invited into these people's home, and as Jesus is sitting there at the table, a woman from the street comes and she is weeping and she washes his feet with her hair and all of these men who have brought Jesus to basically watch him and critique him, they go, oh, what is this man doing? And so they go from just being intrigued to going This guy, he's not a true prophet. Certainly he knows what kind of a woman is touching his feet. It's irritational. Well now we don't just see intrigue and irritation. We see anger. We see an aggressive confrontation that is boiling. And in verse 2 it says They come to him. This is after Christ has overthrown the money changers in the temple. They said, by what authority doest thou these things? Who is he that gave you this authority? They say, who do you think you are? Who are you to come into this temple? And go to those money changers and take those tables and turn them over and drive them out and call this your father 's house. Who are you? And that was a pretty intense confrontation. And Jesus says, I'm not going to tell you what authority and what right I have because you won't answer my question. And then that moves us to where we are this morning. The plot to eliminate Christ. In verse 20, it says, they watched him. They sent forth spies which should feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words, so they might deliver him unto the power and authority of the governor. In Mark chapter 14, verse 1, he comments a little bit more on this. He says, that they might take him by craft and put him to death. So you can see that they went from what do we know about Christ to who is this guy allowing this woman from the street to touch his feet, to by what authority did you do these things that How can we catch him and kill him? You see this progression. So let's kind of burrow down into this a little bit so that we can see what's going on in the text. First, notice their plan. In verse 20 it says, they watched him. They watched him. Now in our house we have a dog and we have a cat. And I have generally been partial to dogs as opposed to cats. For whatever reason. Don't hate me, but it's true. One of the things that is so fascinating about watching a dog and a cat in the same house is that their natures are so different. The dog just kind of goes around and does his thing. And as long as the cat doesn't harass him, he's okay with the cat. Don't come near his food when he's eating, but other than that, he's totally fine. But the cat is so different. That cat will jump up on a ledge and just analyze the dog. I'm serious. It's crazy. I'm like, I wonder if it's ever watching me like that. And that dog's just kind of running around, and the cat's just watching, and she'll jump down and she'll kind of sneak around and she'll peer around the corner Why is that? Because in the character, the DNA of the cat is this pouncing ability. And the dog, he's not into that. He's just he's doing his own thing. I mean the whole Garfield versus Odie thing, I think it's actually kind of true And so as we think about this cat peering and looking around, guess what? That's these people right here. They are just analyzing Christ. They're not trying to learn what he's saying so they can follow him and embrace him. They're not pointing people to him. They are looking to exploit anything he does. Anything he says, any vulnerability is on the table. And as they watch Christ, here's what they begin to conclude. They're not going to catch him and anything by just observing. So they go to the next level. It says they sent spies. And as they sent these spies, it tells us that they feigned themselves to be just men. Another way to put that is they are playing the part of a total hypocrite. They're going and they're sitting at the feet of Jesus and saying, you're the most amazing teacher we've ever heard. We love your teaching. We want to hear what you have to say. They're asking him questions. They're acting as if they are absorbed in his teaching. And the reason they're doing it is they want to get close and they want to trap him with questions. They feigned to be just men. Isn't it amazing how the people that presented themselves as the most noble in all their society were some of the greatest hypocrites in the entire society? These are people who presented themselves as angels and they were. They're just on the wrong side. And then we see that they wanted a grounds to accuse Christ to the Romans. And so this is what they do. They come to him with a question. And they basically say to Jesus this. Is it right for us to pay tribute to Caesar? Now, by the way, that is not the first thing they said In verse 21, they said, Master, we know that thou sayest teaching rightly. We know that you're a good teacher. What you say is true. He says you do not accept the persons of any. The idea is you show no favoritism. You don't play this person against that person. You just speak plainly, you just speak truthfully, and they were absolutely right on that. But there's a reason that they came to Jesus in this way. You know why it is? Because they themselves were duped by this kind of flattery. This is this is they're literally projecting on Christ their own mindset. They're thinking that, you know, in the same way that when somebody comes up to us and tells us how good a teacher we are, it starts getting to our head, we can do that to Christ. And the same way that we like it when people say, I like you, you just tell it like it is. They say, we could do this to Christ. And the same way that they say, man, you're not afraid of anybody, we could say this to him, and we'll catch him. There's a great problem with their thinking, though. Christ was no fool. And not only was he no fool, he was not going to be duped by their flattery. He could care less what was going on in their heads. He could care less about the way that they presented themselves to him. But the question was coming with a desire to trap him. The second part that we see is the wisdom of Christ and how he responds to them. In verse 23 it says, but he perceived their craftiness. Jesus knew that all of those flattering words, and Jesus knew that all the things that they said were not genuine. He could see right through it. And as these people are talking to him, he knows what they're doing. And it's very interesting how he responds. In verse 23 he says, Why do you tempt me? That's a question. Before he ever gets to answering their question, he asks them a question. Why are you tempting me? What's your motive? Why are you asking the question? The second thing that he does is very interesting is he says, show me a penny. Now, it doesn't give us any indication of the religious leaders having to look really hard to find the coin. And the reason for that is because this is the currency that they use. It'd be like someone saying, hey, um, could you give me a dollar? Now, right now I couldn't because I don't have a wallet in my pocket. And actually most of the time I probably couldn't give you a dollar because I never have money in my pocket. Just that little card. But it was no problem for these people to be able to pull out a coin. Why is that? Because this is the currency that they used in all their exchanges. This is the money that they got in their coffers. This is the money that they used. This is the money that they supported their family with. This was the currency of exchange. And you know what that tells you? What that tells you is as much as they hated the Romans, they lived within that system with very little complaint when it came to this issue of currency and exchange and support of themselves. And so rather than Jesus saying, all are a bunch of hypocrites, he says, could you pull out a coin? And they do. He looks at it and he says, Whose image is on that? Caesar 's. Now why did he do that? It's called wisdom. He understood by asking them, why are you tempting me? By saying, get me a coin, and then asking them the question, whose picture is on that coin that they were now in the position To be exposed as the hypocrites that they were. Jesus was very wise in the way he approached them. You say, why did he have such wisdom? Is it because he was just a really smart man? Well, it's because he's God in flesh. He had this wisdom because he is infinitely wise. Jesus was not caught off guard by what they were doing. He knew exactly how to deal with them. And by the end of this passage, what does it say? It says they marveled, verse 26. that he answered this way. They held their peace because there was nothing more for them to say on this issue. He silenced them perfectly. But that moves us to a second thing that we see here. And that is not just the wisdom of the way that he dealt with them, but the actual teaching that he gave. And to me, I find this extremely intriguing. Because it shows you both wisdom and instruction all together in the same little piece. Look down in your Bible at verse 25 at what he says. He says, render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God 's Now, if you'll notice the way that they framed the question to him, it is different than the way he answered them. For instance, when they asked the question, they said it like this. Do we give to Caesar or do we not give to Caesar? The question was either this or that. And the reason they framed it that way is because they began with an assumption. It's either yes or it's no. They began with another question, another assumption. If it's yes or no, he's going to have to answer either yes or no. And another assumption is, if he says yes, we can catch him with one group of people. If he says no, we can catch him with another group of people. But what they fail to recognize is that he was ahead of them And Christ knew that the answer is not yes or no. It's this is true, and this is true, and so live in the life of these two truths together. That's what he's saying. And I want to remind you that actually a lot of answers in the Bible actually fall in that line. You need to be very careful when you come to the Bible with this attitude of it has to be this or it has to be this. And there's no other options because that's not always the case. When you start with that kind of a premise, then you better be convinced in your mind that the Bible poses the question in such a way. He literally ignored the way they framed the question. And so there's a couple things I want you to notice here. First is this. How a question begins actually matters quite a bit. The very first example of this in the Bible is in Genesis chapter 3. In fact, I have to look back, but I believe this is the very first question posed in the Bible. It wasn't posed by God. It wasn't posed by Adam. It wasn't posed by Eve. It was posed by Satan. And this is what he says. Hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree in the garden? Now why did Satan start in such a way? Because he's about to go from here To here, to here, to here. There is an agenda at every single point of the question that he asks. Has God really told you you can't do this? And she says, well, yes. And he says, well, you're not going to die like God said. God knows that in the day that you eat thereof. Your eyes will be opened, you shall be as gods doing good and evil. What you can see in this interaction is that the question was posed with an agenda. The question was posed with a bias. And guess what? You can do it. And I can do it too. Be careful the way you frame your questions when it comes to Scripture Second thing I'll mention on this is that God gives us everything that we need to know, but not necessarily everything we want to know. This is a really important concept for us to understand. God does not answer every question that your brain can come up with. And uh once you have some junior high children, you'll start realizing there's a lot of questions that you can come up with that uh the Bible maybe doesn't directly answer and you go, I don't even know what to say about that particular issue. God answers the questions we need answered. He answers them in the ways that we need them to be answered When we talk about the sufficiency of Scripture, we're not saying that the Bible answers every single question that man could ever ask and every single way that could ever be framed. We simply see that God answers the questions we need answered. And so in Deuteronomy chapter 29 it says the following: The secret things belong unto the Lord our God, but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children forever, that we may do all the word of this law. That's a really important text. You know what it's telling us? There are some things that God just doesn't answer. And those are things that belong to Him, and you need to learn to trust Him with those things. And there are certain things he has revealed, and you better know what they are, and you better follow through with them, because he gave them to you for a reason that you might obey him and do what is right. The third thing I'll mention is this. Some questions begin with an unscriptural assumption. In fact, we're going to kind of hit this, the next text that we're dealing with. And in Matthew chapter 22, and when he's dealing with this issue of the resurrection, he says, you do err not knowing the scriptures nor the power of God. And so they frame this hypothetical scenario that they believe can trap Christ, and they do it because they're like, I got ya. And he says, you don't even know what you're talking about. You have no concept, the realm that you've entered into. Your hypothetical has no authority. Now, why do I bring this up? I bring it up to simply show you this. Christ answered the question the way it needed to be answered. He didn't need to submit himself to the way that they posed the question. He didn't need to give them an either or, he needed to give them a both and. This is true, this is true. So what does he say? Well, here's what he says. He answers by setting beside one another two duties that, when understood correctly, relate properly to one another in the right way. The first duty is one to human government. He says this, obey those who have rightful jurisdiction over you. That's what he means when he says, render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesars. Now I'm going to just kind of notice this contrast here. When he says, render to Caesar what is Caesar's and to God what is God's, does God have the same jurisdiction as Caesar? Does Caesar have the same jurisdiction as God? The answer to that second question is no, he doesn't. God 's jurisdiction encompasses all things. Caesar's is given to him. for a period of time with certain parameters. In other words, Caesar may claim more land than he should have, but ye should only submit to what is rightfully his. That's really what he's saying. And when God says, obey me, he doesn't need to qualify it because he owns everything. There's a limited jurisdiction we talk about Caesar. In fact, we see this general principle playing out in other passages. Jesus doesn't take the time to break this down, but we do see it broken down in other passages. For instance, in Romans 13. He says, let every soul be subject unto the higher power. There is no power but of God. What does that tell you? There are human authorities, but there's one that's higher. It's God. The powers that be are ordained of God. Why is there human government? Because God created this concept. He says he is God's minister to thee for good. He says, render therefore to all their dues, tribute to whom tribute is due, custom to whom custom, fear to whom fear, honor to whom honor. Or in 1 Peter chapter 2, he says, submit yourself to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake. Now the purpose of this text is not to break into all these details. I'm actually going to kind of leave it without going into it too much today. And I hope it doesn't trouble you. The whole point that Jesus is saying is you have true responsibility to your government. But all of these passages continually say God gives God is over. God limits. You know what that tells us? That tells us that there are always limitations to human for human organizations and the rightful authority of those. We talk about government, there are limitations. We talk about the family context, there are limitations. We talk about the work context, there are limitations. And we see that. And there is the potential for conflicts with those limitations. I think that Jesus is emphasizing this here. Because you need to give to God what is God's. What about when the government says do this and God says don't? Who are you going to submit to? The answer is God. In Daniel 3, verse 16, Satrach, Meshach, and Abednego answered Nebuchadnezzar and said, We're not careful to answer thee. on this matter. If it be that our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning flesh uh furnace, he will deliver us out of thine hand. But if not, be it known, we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image. which thou hast set up. Now this is important to notice. These men submitted to Nebuchadnezzar within the jurisdiction that Nebuchadnezzar rightfully had. But when Nebuchadnezzar takes it outside of that and says, now you need to worship me as God, they say, now we have a problem. We cannot submit to that command. You see this conflict. What does that show you? We see limited jurisdiction. Or in Acts 5, verse 29, then Peter said to said and the other apostles answered, we ought to obey God rather than man. Here's the Sanhedrin saying, Don't speak about Jesus. Don't proclaim his name. Don't talk about the cross. Don't talk about the resurrection. They said We don't answer to you. We answer to God. If he told us to do it, nothing you say will stop us fulfilling our duty to him. And so what you see is there is rightful submission to governments, but there's limitation to such jurisdiction. He then sets beside this a second duty, and that is obey God in everything. By the way, by submitting rightfully to government, you're not disobeying God. You're doing it because he said to do that. When you say no and you submit to God in opposition to an unlawful expectation given by government, clearly in violation of the Word of God, again you're submitting to God by not submitting to government in such a situation. Very interesting concept. So what we see is a limited but real submission. Human government is a divine institution, but it derives its rightful authority from God, and we should be honorable citizens. The second concept, obey God in all matters, render unto God the things which are God's. When I think of Caesar, I think of limited jurisdiction. When I think of God, I say unlimited jurisdiction. Psalm 145, verse 13, thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom. Thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. Daniel 4, 35, All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. He doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? All his works are truth, his ways, judgment, and those who walk in pride he's able to be to obey. Such an interesting text in Daniel chapter 4, because what it shows you It's here is Nebuchadnezzar, this man who makes this bold command that he does not have the right to make. People say no in God's spares them. And then this man raises up himself in pride. And what does God do? He brings him down and then he lifts him back up and he re-establishes himself. That's an amazing thing to consider. What does it show you? The providence of God. God has unlimited jurisdiction. And so this absolute, unreserved submission to God is something that should characterize all of our lives. No human institution or law is supreme authority. This is God's world. We are ultimately accountable to him. There are always limits to human authority. We should never obey human authority in disobedience to God's clear commands. Our obedience should always begin with submission to Him. And so rather than Jesus saying it's this or that, he says it's this and it's this and this is over that. That's what he's saying. In other words, he reframes the question and answers it rightly. We then see a third truth, and that's this. We see the plan of God that takes the wisdom of God and the authority of God and sets them side by side and moves them to this ultimate end of redemption. What's so interesting is this passage highlights Christ's wisdom. And we see how he deals with these very deceptive individuals. And then he highlights God's authority. Yes, there are human authorities, but they're under the authority of God. And then he sets them side by side and he shows us how they work together to work out God's purposes in the world. In verse 20 it says, they did this that they might take hold of his words, that they might deliver him under the power and authority of the governor. Why did they want to do this? They wanted to kill Christ. Why were they unable to do it up to this point? Because God did not permit it. Why was that going to change by the end of the week? Because God said, now is the time. What is that? It's the providence of God. The passage demonstrates God's wisdom. It affirms his sovereignty, and it vividly unites the two in the most significant moment in history. I kind of look at it like this. When you're looking at a train track, Hopefully not standing on the train track at a bad time. You have a rail here and you have a rail here. And those two rails are actually side by side as they move down wherever the train is going. Train track is going. They actually don't intersect. They're side by side. But when you look down that track, you know what you see? They appear to merge. And they're going to the same location. And I think this is a great illustration of what's going on. We have the wisdom of God And we have the authority of God. And these things are working together. What are they doing? They're driving to an ultimate end of the cross of Christ. And we see this stated in Acts chapter 2, verse 22. Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you all, as ye yourselves know. Him being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, you have taken and by wicked hands crucified and slain. What do you see there? You see on one side the human explanation as to why Christ died. Did they choose to do this of their own accord? Absolutely they did. And by the way, they would have done it earlier and differently if they had the opportunity, but God didn't permit it. And then you have the providence of God, how he is working this plan together, and God is guiding this to its ultimate end. We see them side by side. God didn't make them do something they didn't want to do. They would have done it much sooner if they could have. And so what we see in these verses is that their intention to kill Christ and to deliver him to the Romans is firmly established. They are literally chomping at the bit to do this. God is permitting them to rage and to plot. He could have stopped him if he chose to, but he didn't. Yet he is skillfully guiding the moving of this vessel as they plan and as they scheme and as they do their work. God is moving those decisions and moving those desires at the right speed to the right end. His motive was to bring about redemption through the death of Christ at the exact moment in time when this needed to happen. Interestingly, this happens on the night of Passover. Why did it happen on the night of Passover? Because as they were killing all these Passover lambs, they were killing lambs and smearing the blood on doorposts. That we're actually pointing to the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. In the very moments that they are celebrating the Passover, the Passover is being completed in Christ. And so what you can see is if it had come a little later, it would have been a problem. If it had come too early, it would have been a problem. It comes at just the right moment in history. God worked it in such a way. The darkest moment in history is history's greatest triumph. If you were living through this and you're one of the disciples, you go, why is Jesus being betrayed? Why does he speak the way that he does? Why why is this unfolding the way that it is? And as they run from him and they hide from him They're completely disillusioned and they think it's all over. , And then there's the resurrection and they're like, maybe it's not over. And they're trying to make sense of all this. And Christ has to go through all these Old Testament scriptures and explain to them that this is the sequence of what God has promised. And this is why this happened in this way, that these things would be fulfilled in such a way. It's all being demonstrated in this text. So my final question is this. How do you live in the light of such a text? Three words I want you to remember this morning as we go. The first is the word wisdom. Do not do not be duped by the flattery of devious people. Christ could see through their words. Christ could see through everything that they did. And you know what? He navigated it perfectly. Perfect example of wisdom. Don't be duped. Be careful with the way that you handle questions. These individuals framed an unfair question to Christ. It's either this or it's that, and he says, nope, you got it wrong. It's this and this and this is over that. Be careful. The things that God hasn't revealed clearly, trust Him with those things. The things that are very clear, obey Him in those things. Wisdom. Accept God's answers and his silence. Wisdom. Second word is teaching. Faithfully fulfill your ordinary duties in this world You know what? Tax season is horrible. It shocks me how much money goes to the government out of my pocket. And I don't pay as much of taxes as some of you in here do. I guarantee that for sure. And it's a painful thing. Sometimes I wish it wasn't 55. I wish it was 65. We'd go through lots and lots of simple little things. But as imperfect as human government is, God expects us to be faithful citizens who are not bucking what God has given for our good. Yet at the same time, we have to be so very cautious that we don't chuck our brain out the door and fail to realize that we may very well find ourselves in places at times where we're going to have to either obey God Or man. And if we obey God, it may very well cost us something very serious. If we obey man, we have compromised. It may be easier for the moment, but our conscience will condemn us. You realize for first century Christians, this is something they live through a lot. Why were most of the first century Christians martyred by the Romans? It was because they refused to pinch incense to the emperor. It's because when there are festive occasions and everyone from the community came together and they were part of these pagan rituals, they said, we won't be involved in those things. It's because they lived by a different series of ethics as Christians than the pagans around them in their culture. And because they would not submit to some of the ordinances and some of the traditions and some of the expectations of those who are over them in submission to God, they pay dearly for it. I thank God that we have religious liberty in this country, and I pray to God it continues. But we would be so foolish to think that it could never be taken away. And we have brothers and sisters in Christ all over this world right now who live in government, under governments, that are not, they are not kind to Christianity. And they are caught in situations where they will submit to God or submit to government and they pay dearly for it. Pray for those and such situations. That God would give them wisdom, that God would give them grace, and that God would one day allow them to serve Him in freedom. We should pray for those in such situations. We must put God first in everything teaching. And the third word is the word providence. We need to rest in God's absolute rule over all things. Now what I mean by that is that there are things that God allows to happen in this world, and we don't always understand the why, and we may never understand the why. And I understand that there are some things that are very difficult for us to wrap our minds around. But God always provides a means of escape. God always uses the difficulties of life for the Christian to conform them to the image of Christ. He is faithful. We can trust him. And so we must learn to rest in his absolute rule over everything. When circumstances fall outside of our control, we need to trust God with what is outside of our control. When we have responsibilities and duties, we need to do what is right. We need to trust him to complete the work that he started in us. May God help us to walk in wisdom, obedience to this teaching, and trust in his providence. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, as we think about this text of Scripture, I pray that you would take it and drive it into our hearts. May we have a simple trust in you. May we obey you in all things. May we submit ourselves to your purposes. Father, help us to be strong and wise and principled. I thank you for this wonderful example of Christ as he deals with these very contemptuous and dishonest people. May we be reminded how he wisely navigated that situation, how he laid out the teaching in simple clarity, and ultimately demonstrated that you rule and you reign in all things. We ask this in Christ's name, amen