We're in Luke chapter 18 this morning, and we'll be reading verses 18 through 27 together. Again, that is Luke chapter 18, verses 18 through 27. And as we read this passage of Scripture, we have the unique opportunity to watch how Christ dealt with a man who was very self-righteous. And had no ability to see it. I think there's some tremendous insights for us to see from this text of Scripture. And so let's go ahead and read it together as we look at God's grace in everyday conversations. Says this, and a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? None is good, save one, that is God. Thou knowest the commandments. Do not commit adultery, do not kill, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor thy father and thy mother. He said, All these I have kept from my youth up. Now, when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him , Y like us sell one thing. Sell all thou hast. Distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven. And come, follow me. When he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich. When Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said , How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. They that saw it said, who then can be saved? He said, the things which are impossible with men are possible with God. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to really open our understanding to this profound text of Scripture. Father, as we have read your word, I pray that the Holy Spirit, who dwells every Christian in this room, every believer, has the Spirit, that the Spirit of God would take this precious text and press it on our souls to help us to understand the weight of the truths that we find here, to see how Jesus so marvelously dealt with this man. May we gain great insight into how Christ dealt with people. And Father, I pray for someone in our midst who may not know you as their Savior, just as this man who came to Christ. Who may be very well asking the exact same questions that this man was asking, who needs to listen carefully to what Christ said to him. May the Spirit of God take the word and impress it upon their hearts, opening their understanding to see the weight of sin. The perfect righteousness of Christ that no one in this room can or ever will be able to present of themselves to God. And the ability that they can have by your grace to turn to you in humble repentance and to place their faith in Christ's finished work. May the Word of God do its work today, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us, as I said, is very interesting because what it does is it gives us a clear example of how Christ dealt with people. And what I think is fascinating about this passage of Scripture Is that the way that Jesus dealt with this man was very different in many ways to the way that he dealt with Nicodemus. It was also very different than the way that he dealt with the woman at the well. Yet, there are some things below the surface that if we were to really step back and we were to look at them objectively and listen carefully to what Jesus is saying, we would actually find out. that in fact Jesus is not in any way dealing differently with Nicodemus and the woman at the well than this man, the rich ruler. And you say, well, how can those things be different and the same? And the answer is, well, on the surface they are different, but at the root. They are the same. And so as we dig into this text, I hope that you will see what is at the root and the soul and the heart of what Christ says to this man, and I hope that you'll consider the back and forth because I think it will give us great insight into how a person has to think in order for them to be able to place their faith in Christ. So let me summarize the text for you, and then we're going to start working our way through the interaction between Christ and this man. The summary I would give you is this. Humble yourself and listen to what he is saying through the ordinary conversations and moments in your life. That is really what Jesus is saying to this man. Listen, you are not hearing what I have said You are not hearing what I'm saying to you. You are deaf and you are blind and you need to wake up. and see what I'm saying and hear what I'm saying and respond to what I'm saying. That really is the tone of the text in front of us. As we think about it, as we process it, what we're going to see is that what God wants us to do is pretty simple. Humble ourselves through the ordinary expressions of grace that God has put in front of us. Think about how God in his marvelous way does this in our lives too. So in order for us to do that, I want us to kind of just work our way through the story. This is a dialogue. This is a conversation between Christ and a man. And interestingly, Christ did not initiate this conversation. The man is the one who initiated it with Christ. Notice where he starts. I want to begin by saying this. The seeds of the conversation that we're looking at this morning actually do not begin in the text that we read. If we really want to understand what kind of leads into this conversation, what Christ is drawing from when he talks to this man, we've got to go backwards several chapters and think about what's going on in the life of Christ. Where does this fit in the flow of the narrative of the book of Luke, where what what Luke is doing is he's talking about how Christ is making his way up to Jerusalem and some of the conversations that Christ has with the people along the way. And there are two passages that I want to draw your attention back to that I think help us to understand why Jesus dealt with this man the way that he did. The first example is verse number 9 of chapter 18. It says this, and he that is Jesus. Spake this parable unto certain which, listen carefully, trusted in themselves that they were righteous and they despised others Did you catch that? People who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and they despised others. So the problem that these people had was they had an absolute inability to be able to see how they did not measure up to God's perfect standard of righteousness. Their trust was misplaced. Because their view of righteousness was wrong. They were constantly comparing themselves to the other people around them. They said, I'm not as bad as him. I'm not as bad as her. Most certainly I'm okay. I'm acceptable to God. Christ knew the hearts of people that thought in that way. And so he teaches this parable. There were two men that go up into the temple. One is a Pharisee, one is a publican, one says, God, I thank you, I'm not like other people are, and he lists all these things just like this guy over here. And what does the what does the publican do? He falls on his face He says, God be merciful to me a sinner. And what does Jesus say? He says, I tell you, that man went back to his house justified rather than the other. Why does he give that illustration? Because people that were listening to Jesus weren't listening to Jesus. They were hearing what he was saying, but they weren't processing it. They weren't internalizing it. They weren't allowing the truth to resonate in their hearts. You know, lots of people do that. They've got information, but they have not considered implication. And that was the point of the parable. The second text that I think is so fascinating is what we looked at last week, verse 17. He says, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child. shall in no wise enter therein. Now interestingly if we think about that text of scripture, you have people that are bringing their children to Christ And there are people who said, no, you can't come to him. Those children are not worthy to be able to enter the presence of Christ. Send them away. And what does Jesus say? Unless you become like those little children, unworthy, you cannot. Enter the kingdom of God. What's he saying? If a person is going to enter God's kingdom, humility, brokenness A recognition of guilt, a recognition of unworthiness, crying out to God for mercy, and trusting alone in God's grace and mercy. That is the whole tone of everything stated up to this point. And now listen to the next verse. And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life? Question. What in the world was that man thinking to ask such a ridiculous question? You say, Pastor, that's kind of that's a little harsh, is it not? No, it's not Because this is a man who heard the parable of two men going into the temple. This is a man who heard Jesus say, Unless you become like a little child, you will not enter the kingdom. And the very next thing he says is What good thing can I do to inherit eternal life? And Christ is like, are you kidding me? Are you kidding me? Have you been listening to what we're saying here? Now, that's not what he says, but that's how we would have to look at this. It's almost like you spend all this time explaining something to someone And then they're like raising their hand in the classroom and saying, Hey, I got a question. And they ask the question, you're like, Did I just waste the last 15 minutes of this conversation? Like, like, why did I say anything? This is what Jesus has got to be thinking when the man asks this question. In other words, this conversation opens up with a shocking question. I would say a really bad question, but a really common question. In fact, if I was to think about it, this is probably one of the most common questions people ask God. What good thing can I do to inherit eternal life. Why is that? Because people do not naturally think that they are, they have no hope outside of the grace and mercy of God. Most people believe, hey, I go to church and I pay my tithes and I do good to my neighbor and I I live a good life because certainly I am building up credentials and at some point God's going to say Thank you, you've done a great job. I'll accept you now because you've done all those things. I would say the vast majority of people naturally believe that the law is not a schoolmaster to bring us to Christ. And to show us that we are morally bankrupt and our only hope is God's grace, but most people naturally see the law as a mechanism to walk up to God and say, I've done all these things. That's exactly how this man is thinking. Now, what I think is fascinating about the statement here is that this man was a ruler just like Nicodemus. He was someone who had access to the truth. It wasn't just a shocking statement because of everything that he'd heard. But it was a shocking statement because this is a person who is very conversant in the Word of God. That word ruler is the same word used of Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews, a teacher. a scribe, a member of the Sanhedrin, the same thing that is used when talking about Jairus, whose daughter had died and Christ raises her back to life. These are people who read Scripture, memorized Scripture, studied Scripture, expounded Scripture, were respected by people who wanted to learn Scripture. They were older, they were wiser, they had clout in their communities, and he's asking this question. Totally stunning. You know what that tells me? You could have a lot of access to truth and not get it. You could have a lot of access to truth and not get it. You know, there's a lot of kids that grow up in church. And they they play the part, do good, be good, look good, but it never registers in their mind. It's me And God, I'm unworthy, I'm a sinner, I'm broken, it's Christ alone. They never get it. And at some point later on, sometimes God in his mercy, he shakes them and draws their attention to the facts of the gospel, and they're converted. But it's possible to sit in a church like this for years and not get it. And this guy didn't get it He was blinded by his own ego. Third thing you notice here is how Christ responds to his question. And I think it's quite fascinating. Christ does not answer his question directly initially. He begins with a question. He says, why do you call me good? Isn't it really interesting? He could have said, sir, what is your problem? Have you not been listening? You're not a good man. You are broken. You're a sinner. You need the grace of God. You need a savior. You need a messiah. I'm the Messiah. That's not what he did. He said, why do you call me good? He says, there is none good save one, that is God. Isn't that amazing? It's just such a simple little thing. This guy comes and it's almost like he's going to stroke Christ. He goes, You're a good teacher, Jesus. Jesus says, why do you call me good? Nobody's good but God. And then he goes on, he says this. Thou knowest the commandments, do not commit adultery Do not till, do not steal, do not bear false witness, honor thy father and thy mother So Christ not only states or not only asks the question, why do you call me good, and make the statement there's only one that's good that's God, and by the way, Christ is God. But he's drawing this man's attention to something. Don't you understand that there is no living person that has the right to ask such a question? and expect God to say, well here are the things that you can do for me, and if you do them, great, I'll accept you. Nobody should think in such a way. Nobody. And then he gives them a reason why you should believe that. He says, you know the commandments. And he lays out all these commandments. You know what's really interesting though? Christ is obviously referring to the Ten Commandments, but he doesn't mention ten, does he? I think that's kind of interesting. He does not mention the last one. Thou shalt not covet. He doesn't mention that one. And you know it's always also really interesting. He doesn't mention any of the commandments that relate exclusively to God. Have no other gods before me. Do not make a graven image. Okay? Remember the Sabbath to keep it holy. He doesn't address those issues. And I think there's a reason for that. Actually, I know there's a reason he doesn't mention the last one because he's going to hit on that one. But the truth is if he had told this man, you don't love God supremely, he would have looked at him like he was crazy. So what does he do? He takes the simplest, easiest, most obvious examples of where this man falls short. And he says, you know the commandments? You know you don't keep those? That's what he's saying He's talking about lust and anger and theft and dishonesty and dishonoring of parents. He leaves out the first commandments dealing with a love for God and the last one that deals with covetousness. But I want you to notice how the man responds. And by the way, he could have done one of two things. The first thing he could have done, which most certainly he should have done, is he should have said, you know what? I have a problem. I have lusted in my heart. I have been ungrateful. I have taken things that don't belong to me. I most certainly have not honored my parents every single day and moment of my life. I have a huge problem with anger. What do I do? That's not what he did. What he should have said is, you're right, I'm not righteous. Is there another way? But that's not what he did. Rather, he said, all of these things I have kept from my youth up. Now what I think is fascinating about this story, and by the way, there's there's there's this is a is very, very helpful when it comes to thinking about how to deal with people when it comes to issues like this. Christ could have easily told him, sir You're wrong, and I'm going to prove to you you're wrong. And he could have been very confrontational with him. But he gave him an opportunity to come to the conclusion himself. And you might even, I might even add, Christ kind of narrowed it a little bit more each time so that it became more and more obvious that this guy should see this. He says, why do you call me good? Nobody's good but God. You know the commandments. He mentions commandments. He was giving this guy opportunity , opportunity to go, you're right. God does that with us too. God is really patient with us You could say he almost, it's as if he asks us the questions. He states the things. He uses circumstances in our lives. And those who are wise, you know what they do? They see it. And those who are fools, you know what they do? They force God to have to get a little harder with them. And all of us have been here at some point in our lives. God has to get a little harder, a little more forceful. He's got to push down harder because we're not listening to what he's saying. This man should have never ever gotten to such a place. He didn't need to get to this place. He had the parable. He had the statement, the interaction with the children. He had Christ's questions. He had Christ's statements. He listened to none of them. And so you know what Christ does? He counteracts his statement of pride with a test. Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing. Interestingly, he goes to the last commandment, covetousness. Which interestingly, when we read the Old Testament when we read the New Testament, when the Apostle Paul talks about covetousness, it's interesting. He says, covetousness which is idolatry. Interesting connection, is it not? Just like in the Old Testament, he says stubbornness is as witchcraft. I mean not we're not saying that the exact same thing. He's talking about what's at the heart of those in those different things. So here's a person that's covetous, and what he's saying is you have taken material possessions and you've taken the stuff of this world And you have put yourself on a pedestal before God, and you say, you have to give me this. I'm not happy with this. And ultimately, you're putting yourself and you're putting your stuff before God. That's what's going on here. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind. Love your neighbor as you love yourself. And so what does Christ do? He says, you lack one thing. He points to one of the most personal and obvious violations of the law for this man. This just happens to be one of the laws not mentioned. He says, Sell all that thou hast, distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven, and come and follow me. Now, do you know of Jesus in an evangelistic conversation telling any other person to do that The answer is no. You do not. Yet did he talk to people who are wealthy? The answer is, of course he did. So then the question we should ask ourselves is. Why did he go to that issue right there when he didn't go to that issue with the woman at the well? He didn't go to that issue with Nicodemus. He didn't go to that issue with the Apostle Paul. He didn't go to that issue with other people. Why this test with this man. The answer should be very clear to us. The moment that he says do that, the man in his heart should have said , You're right, I don't keep the law. That's not what he did. Why is that? One word. Pride. Christ gives this man a test so that he will humble himself and say, What hope is there for a man like me? What did Jesus do with the woman at the well? Go call your husband. He didn't say it to anybody else. He said it to her though. Why? Because that got to the heart of where she recognized her brokenness and her sinfulness. And this is where she could come face to face with the reality I need a savior, and if not for him, I've got no hope. And you know the truth is in your life right now, if you're not a believer, there may be something that's kind of like It's that pointed issue in your life that you hold fast to it and you're unwilling to admit, I am that sinner who needs redemption. And what does God need to do? He points to that one issue and says, you prove through that one issue you are not righteous. That's what this is. Christ's incredible wisdom. And interestingly, when those people see this, it says, when he heard this, he was very sorrowful, for he was very rich. The sorrow was not the true tragedy. The tragedy was his unwillingness to allow the sorrow to point him to a real solution. Think about that. That man was humbled. Well, I shouldn't use the word humble. He was sorrowful. But he was not humbled. His sorrow made him walk away from Christ. His sorrow should have made him walk to Christ. And he should have said, God be merciful of me, a sinner. That's not what he did. Folks, when we talk about repentance, repentance on its most basic level It is a radical thinking change that puts me in the position of heart to turn to God and trust only in what Christ has done for us. And the truth is that when you talk about that, there might be a different block that is a hindrance to any person in this room. One person it could be sexual addiction. One person it could be the unwillingness to admit that, hey, I'm a good guy, I look good, everybody respects me, I'm not that good person, I'm a broken person. There's lots and lots of different things that could be the thing that keeps me from admitting this is who I am. This is my absolute inability to come to God. I need his grace alone. That's what repentance is. It's what humbles the heart. It 's what causes the heart to be broken and tender and dependent and turn to God. This man, he wasn't repentant at all. The absolute tragedy is not his sorrow. It's that his sorrow did not lead to repentance Interestingly, in 2 Corinthians, he talks about this. There's a sorrow of the world that leads to death, and there's a sorrow that leads to life. It's all about where that sorrow leads you. It's all about where that sorrow points you. The fact is that the gospel has been articulated with clarity. You will feel the weight of sin before you feel the freedom of eternal life. Because the law has done its work in you. And the grace of God is now the most amazing and beautiful thing you've ever seen. That's what we're looking at in this text. A man who did not turn to God, he walked away. And then we see how Christ responds in verses 24 and 25. He said, How hardly Shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God? It is easier for a camel to go through the needle's eye than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God. Now I've pondered this for several days now, and I asked the question, when Christ says, how hard is it for someone who has riches to enter the kingdom of God, I ask this question. What are the riches that he's talking about? What are the riches? I know immediately we go, it's material stuff. It's not the stuff that's the problem. It's how our heart interacts with the stuff. And the fact is, it wasn't just the fact that he had stuff, but it was his self-reliance, his self-righteousness. The fact that he believed he was good and noble and righteous, that's where his true riches were lying. When he comes to the Lord Jesus Christ, the one who would go to the cross and die for his sins and rise from the dead, he looked at him and said, What good thing can I do, believing he's got it all himself. And then I think about Matthew 5. The very first of the Beatitudes, he says, Blessed are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom. It's like someone who is like a little child entering the kingdom. Basically what Christ says is it is impossible for a man Who sees himself as rich before God to receive the kingdom? It's impossible. Nobody with such a mentality will ever enter the kingdom of God. You see, that's a pretty strong statement. It's true, though, to what Jesus said. Someone say, well, what does he mean by Uh easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle. It's actually an idiomatic expression that they use in that time. And the idea is it's impossible for someone to take a camel and stick it through the eye of a needle It's an impossibility. Nobody can do it. Jesus says, no man in such a place can do this thing. And so the Pharisee , excuse me, the disciples ask a pretty obvious question, well, who then can be saved? And this is what he says. The things which are impossible with men are impossible with God. You know what that tells me? Salvation doesn't come through. Our effort? Comes through his grace. In other words, unless God does a miraculous work in the heart of a person, they're not getting saved. Until God in His mercy and His grace humbles that hardened and callous heart, so that they see themselves as unrighteous and sinful before a holy and righteous God. And that God's grace and mercy alone, the redemptive work of Christ, his death on the cross, his resurrection from the grave, his righteousness, until they see that's their only hope. They cannot, they will not enter the kingdom of God. So let me highlight a couple of things that I notice in these verses. That's the story. The first thing I want to highlight here is that many with opportunity respond the wrong way. I think sometimes in our minds we think, man, if I could just, if we could just get the gospel to everybody in the world, then everybody gets saved. I mean, the gospel is the most beautiful message that has ever been preached. That sinners who are separated from God, who have no hope of coming into the presence of God can be accepted in the beloved, declared to be saints, righteous in Christ, forgiven, cleansed, all of the wonderful blessings that come through the gospel. In our minds we say, if the message be preached everywhere, then all will respond. And the answer is of course not. That's not true. People have to respond correctly to the truth. And many sadly will not. Now, what we really don't know about this man is if there is ever a point in the future when he reflected back on the situation and was converted. The bottom line is, I'm not saying this is the Apostle Paul, but that's exactly how the Apostle Paul thought as a rabbi. There was no difference. Between the mindset of the Apostle Paul and this ruler of the Jews who came to Christ. In fact, I'm going to show you this in just a second. And interestingly, out of all the sins that the Apostle Paul talks about in Romans 7 The one that he highlights is covetousness, amazingly. , There must have been something about that particular vice for someone with such a mentality. But many people with opportunity will respond the wrong way. What I mean by wrong response is this. What we see in our text. What good thing can I do for God? What shall I do to inherit the kingdom of God? Or we see it stated slightly different in Matthew 19, 16. I think it's referring to the same person, but the way he states it is slightly different. He says, What good thing shall I do that I may have eternal life? The wrong response is to believe that we can do something for God to earn his favor. There's another wrong response. And that is what we see the people doing with the disciples when they're preaching after Pentecost. Intimidation, violence, trying to silence. And sometimes a person will just quietly walk away. Sometimes the person will look you in the face and say, I'll fight you on this issue. I think you're wrong and I'm going to silence you. And that's exactly what some people did in Acts chapter 4. It says, as they spake unto the people, the priests and the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees came upon them, being grieved that they taught the people and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead. And they laid hands on them and put them in hold. Verse 16, it says, What shall we do to these men? For that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them. And it is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem, we cannot deny it. Those are amazing statements. So while one person just walks away, others say, we've got to silence these people. Wrong response. There's a third interesting response that we see in the Gospels. Luke chapter 10, verse 29. He willing to justify himself said unto Jesus, Who is my neighbor? That's a really interesting one. This man's talking to Christ and he summarizes the law. He says, love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your mind, all your strength. Love your neighbor as yourself on these two commandments hang all the law on the prophets, and this guy looks at me and says, Well, who's my neighbor? Whoa, interesting, isn't it? What does that show you? Rebellion and rejection come in a lot of different shapes and sizes. Some people get real quiet and real sullen and they walk away. Some people get very aggressive and they go out of their way to stop what you're doing. Some people say, let me offer you another way. Let me see if there's a loophole there, to kind of trick. But what do we call this? It's called rejection. They're all the same thing at the heart, rejecting God's grace. But the right response is what we see in other places. Luke 18, 13, the publican standing afar off would not lift so much as his eyes into heaven. But smote upon his breast, saying, God, be merciful to me, a sinner. Acts 2. 37. Now they, when they were pricked, in their hearts said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, men and brethren, what shall we do? What is that? That's the right response. Acts 16, 30. What must I do to be saved? They said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. That is how a person with such a disposition toward God and such a view of themselves is to respond to the gospel. Faith alone. Second thing I want you to notice is that God knows exactly how to point us to the truth. He asks the right questions. Why do you call me good? He appeals to our conscience to the obvious. There is none good save one that is God. Thou knowest the commandments. It's like when he says to John in John chapter 3 to Nicodemus. He says, that which is born of the flesh is flesh, and that which is born of the spirit is spirit. Marvel not that I tell you, you must be born again. Or John chapter 4, verse 13, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again, but whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst again. Sir, give me this water. Go call your husband. What's the point? He knows exactly where to point us God is so wise. He is so forbearing. He is so patient with people. Would we be like that too? He gives us examples that we should be able to see. He says, sell all that you have, distribute unto the poor. He says, let me prove to you that you don't really love your neighbor like you love yourself. He tells the story of the Good Samaritan. And in that story he says, hey, there was this one guy. He walked by. He watched the man dying on the road. He just walks away. And then there's this other guy. He's a Levite, the priest, the Levite. They see the man and they just walk away. And then a Samaritan. Who? A Samaritan. He sees the man and he goes and he takes care of him and he puts him on his animal and he brings him to A place where he can find rest. And he takes care of them. And he says, whatever it costs you to care for this man, I will pay it all when I come back. Why did Jesus give that story? Because the man that spoke to him hated Samaritans. And the very moment that Jesus makes the Samaritan the hero, and the very moment that he says the Levite And those religious people are the ones who turn a blind eye to their neighbor. He realizes Jesus is talking to him. You're that man. That's why he did it. He was getting to the heart of the problem in the hearts of these people. He points to the heart of our rebellion. I mentioned the example of the Apostle Paul. Listen carefully to how Paul expresses what was going on in his heart when he became a Christian. Philippians chapter 3 verse 4 says this, though I might have confidence in the flesh, if any man thinketh that he hath whereof that he might trust in the flesh, I the more. And he gives all his credentials. And then in verses 78 he says, but what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ, and I do count them but dung that I may win Christ. Interestingly, in Romans chapter 7, he kind of pulls back the curtain and lets us know what was going on in his heart when he came in contact with the law. And the law began to do its work in him and was showing him his true condition before God. Listen carefully. He said, I had not known sin but by the law. For I had not known lust except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet. But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. For without the law sin was dead. For I was alive without the law once, but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died. And the commandment which was ordained to life I found to be unto death. Sin taking occasion by the commandment deceived me and by it slew me. You know what Paul's saying? He says, In my mind I was a good and moral and righteous person. But there was something in my heart that I was blinded to, and that was covetousness. And when the law said, don't covet, all of a sudden I began to see all these different ways that I was guilty of that sin. And when you take that sin of covetousness, I mean it could be how you look at your neighbor, it could be look at how look at the relationship your own spouse has with your children. It could be your siblings, it could be somebody that attends this church, it could be somebody in your workplace. I mean, there's all different kinds of ways. Somebody they drive up in a car you wish you had, and all of a sudden you begin to realize, I'm a greedy person. I'm a covetous person. I'm not content with what God's given me. I'm not content with just his presence and his portion that he's given me in life. And all of a sudden, that statement, thou shalt not covet, it starts hitting you here and here and here. And all of a sudden, you're like, I'm undone. I'm totally undone. I'm guilty. The law that had bolstered your confidence has killed you. And you know what it says? Turn to Christ. That's what it says. That's what Paul is saying. That's what this man should have done when he came in contact with the with the words of Christ. God causes people to repent and believe. He draws us to decision. It says, God now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. Behold, now is the day acceptable. Behold, now is the day of salvation. God does what is humanly impossible. I love what it states in Luke chapter 24, verse 32. This is the strangers on the road to Emmaus are talking to Christ. And this is what they said. Did not our hearts burn within us while he talked with us? And while he opened unto us the scriptures. Or Acts 16, 14, it says, A certain woman named Lydia who sold purple, her heart. The Lord opened and she attended unto these things. You know what God does? He takes his word and he presses it on our hearts. And in his mercy, he takes the veil off. And we feel the weight of our sin. And it's very simple. Turn to Christ. Could be that there's somebody listening to the service today, that that's exactly where you find yourself. You walked into this place believing you were good and righteous and moral and you have heard the word of God and God has said you are not. And he says, humble yourself and turn to me. What are you going to do with that? Are you going to respond like this man and walk away? Or will you humble yourself and turn to Christ? That's what the gospel calls us to do. Nobody can do that for you but yourself. You must choose to respond to the word of God. Last thing I want to mention is this some truths of application. We learn about God's gracious ways in this passage in the same way that God worked in these people. He's worked and will work in our lives. He will work this way in the lives of the people around us. When you evangelize and you're giving the gospel to people, trust God to work like this. Because that's who he is. That's how he works. It's not our skill, it's not our ability. I'm not saying we should be haphazard in any way with the gospel. We should be as careful and cautious as possible. Cut it straight. But the power is not in us, it's in the word. It's the Spirit's work. Secondly, we learn about God's persistence. In the same way that Christ moved through a progression with this man, he will do it in our lives. You may have somebody that you you're burdened for, you've been praying for them for a long time, and in your mind you're like, I think I'm done praying for them. I think I'm done trying to make a connection with them. Hey, God doesn't stop. He doesn't stop. The scriptures are full of examples of his persistence with people. Just keep the door open and take every opportunity that God opens to you. Third, we learn about God's power. Conversion is a miracle of God's grace, not a work of man. If I could make people believe I'd do it. The same way if I could heal the sick, I'd go to the hospital and I'd heal everybody. But I don't have that power. Nor do you. But what we do have the power to do is give the word that God uses to draw people. What does it say? Faith cometh by hearing. And hearing by the word of God. How can they call on him whom they've not believed? How can they hear without a preacher? Have they been sent? They have been sent. God tells us to do it. Fourthly, we learn about the pressing need to respond immediately to the gospel. When God begins his work, we must immediately respond to it. The truth is, every time you come in contact with truth, it's affecting your heart. Either it's softening it, or it's hardening it. It's like when the sun beats down. This is an illustration, then start with me. I think it was G. Campbell Morgan used this illustration. But he said, the same sun that softens the wax hardens the clay. The problem is not the sun. It's what's going on in the heart. Are you getting callous toward God as He gives you access to truth? Are you being softened by the Word of God as He gives you access to the truth? May God help us to have ears to hear, eyes to see. Hearts that are ready to respond. Let's bow for prayer. Before we close in prayer, I'm going to ask a simple question. Is there anyone in our midst? Heads bowed, eyes closed He says, Pastor, I'm not sure that I'm a Christian. I've heard this message, and I tell you, I I think that I'm like that man. And I need someone to take a Bible and show me how I can be saved. I don't want to be like him, walk away. I want to respond humbly to the truth today. If that's you, would you just quietly raise up your hand so I can see that I'm not going to call you out? I'm not going to make you stand up. I'm simply going to take note that I've seen your hand so that I can take note and speak with you. If you're not comfortable doing that, that's fine. Send an email to the church office. And I'll be glad to respond to that email and set up a time to speak with you. Is there anyone that would say that's me, Pastor? I need to speak with you. Anyone at all? Give you that opportunity. You might say, well, I'm listening on the live stream. How do I reach out to you? Actually, even easier. You can email us at the church office. You can send a Facebook message. You can even send a comment through YouTube if you want to. And I would love to reach out to you. Take a Bible. Even if it's explaining over the phone. Maybe you live on another continent, I don't know. God's word has power. I'd love to have that conversation with you. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to take these things and press them on our souls. Our Father, as we think about your word. May your word do its work in us. May it soften hardened and calloused hearts. May it do its work in us. May the Spirit of God convict us of sin and righteousness and judgment, if in fact that's what we need. And may it point us to the absolute grace of God and the cross. And for the believer, may we be humbled under your word every time it is given. May we learn that in the same way you worked with us before our conversion, you are persistent in our hearts after our conversion. Conversion. May you do your work in us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen