Well good evening. We'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church's live stream, and we have uh really an important service tonight as we will be focusing our attention on the death of Christ and the significance Of the cross. As we open up our service tonight, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to Daniel chapter 9 for our first scripture reading. Daniel chapter 9, and we will be reading verses 24 down to verse 26. This is what the scriptures say. Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people. Upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness and to seal up the vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy. Know therefore and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah, the prince, shall be seventy weeks. And three score and two weeks, the street shall be built again, and the walls even in troubled times. And after three-score and two weeks Shall Messiah be cut off? I'd like to ask you to bow with me for a word of prayer as we will be focusing our attention on this very important topic tonight: worshiping the Lord by glorying in his work of redemption. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, we are so grateful that we can come to you through the work of Christ. That we have the privilege of coming into your presence, that we are forgiven, that we are cleansed, that we are justified, that we have the guarantee of eternity with you in heaven. And Father, we're reminded that all of those blessings are rooted in the gospel message. And if it were not for the cross of Christ, If it were not for his willingness to go to that cross and to suffer the shame and agony of that cross, to bleed and to die so that we could be forgiven, if it wasn't for his obedience to the Father's will. Then we could not have those tremendous blessings. I pray that this evening as we focus our attention on the cross and its significance and weight, That you would open our eyes to understand the wondrous truths that we find in the Scriptures. That as we sing praise to you, we would reflect deeply on the work of Christ. And as we focus our attention on the reading of Scripture tonight and the preaching of your word. I pray that you would instruct us and stir up our affections to worship you appropriately tonight. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Brother Chris is going to come and lead us in some songs. And we know that by uh surveying that wondrous cross as we sing hymn number two two forty three when I survey the wondrous crossing. Well I was on with the pre My interest guns and work cont. Not my pride, or bet Save him not pri That your name was previous time to Say problems not Sorrow and dead such roll. What the hell? My o wonderful singing. I know that you're at home, but if you would join us by standing and singing Hymn number one fifty seven now Grace Greater Than Our Sin Marvel is grace of our loving Lord. Grace that exceeds our sin and our care. Yonder on Calvary 's mark, there were the blood of our one clear. Praise God spray that well part and crap with them Grace, grace, God, praise , grace that is breakner than all our sin Shark is a saying that we cannot hide, what can avail to wash it away Look, there is falling a prince a tight, whiter than snow you may be today Grace , grace , God 's grace , grace that will fall on and climb sweat Great God is greater than all our sins Marmeless and then it much was race, freely bestowed on all who believe All who are longing to see his face, his place we save That will part on and climbs women. For those of you who are standing, please take a seat. As we pause for our next scripture reading found in Isaiah 53, verses 1 through 3. Isaiah 53 Verses 1 through 3. There the prophet states, Who hath believed our report, and to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground, he hath no form nor comeliness. And when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Let's think on those words as we continue our singing. Singing hymn number three fifty-five, Jesus Ate It All Washed white as snow For now indeed I find I bar and I alone And thy And now the heart of Just made it all to him I allowed her. Whereby thy great claim I 'll Jesus made it all my own And left the crimson thing He washed in white as snow Had before the throne night in place Jesus died my daughter 's way And let us still remain Jesus dated all to them Now join me in standing For singing hymn 251. Hymn 251. Please stand there in the comfort of your own homes and sing out for new Near the cross. All in straight cause from The cross in my glory , tell my rapture so shall die. Across such family small Mercy farms me then the right adjoining star chair's names are Then my patriot soul shall find that cross. Help me walk from day to day , let it shadow me in the cross. My glory till my race also shall lie. Resting on the river in the cross. I watch and played walking trusting. Tell our wake your hold and strength because we are not In the cross, in the cross, be my glory Till my rapture soul shall find rest beyond the river Thank you. You may be seated as we read now our second scripture reading from the book of Romans before we sing our last hymn for the evening. before Pastor comes. The book of Romans, chapter five, verses six through nine There it states, For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died. for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet peradventure for a good man, someone even dares to die To die, but God commended his love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word this evening We'll sing one last hymn and then we 'll enjoy a special pre-recorded just for t this evening. But right now we're going to sing hymn 336 Hymn 336. Why not stand there in the comfort of your homes? This is a lively song, so let's go ahead and sing this one out. My hope Hope is in the Lord. My hope is in the Lord. And in the right of all my dead and almost for me for me He led and ever lasting my hand might be brilliant. No parent of mine own head. Anger to surprise My only hope is found Jesus Christ For me And everlasting my man might be brilliant. For me, and everlasting my band like him bringing. And recognize his work of love and Christ wishing for me. And ever passing my man like him bringing. Wonderful singing this evening. You may be seated. We have now a pre-recording of a special performed by the Petersons. For this evening, and we're very privileged to have uh wonderful musicians and singers in our church who are willing to come out on their own time and bless not only They are hearts, but the heart of our Lord. So please enjoy. Why leave a heavenly mansion? Why choose the symbols? So I wander for and humble The king and lord of all why he loved leap. Why cause the blind to see the light of all creation? Shining there for me, it was for me, he tried for me, he died. For me he shed his blood upon a tree, it was for me name, for me shame For me, no praise , name it blush for me. Why stay in all this garden? Why spend the night in prayer Why suffer such betrayal in anguish feeling pain Why leave his mother crying? Why set Brabus free? Let's stop this my love have man Give in here for me Why climb that dreadful mountain? Why suffer agony? Why give his blood up mountains filled and broken? Love we greed When he walked the road to Calvary, gave his life so willingly Broken there, the rose of Sharon died for me. It was for me Christ For me he died For me he shed his butt upon that tree It was For me , name, for me his shame, for me, oh praise his name, it was for me. The king who came from heaven to decry there is no room Namaste 's very body. In a code and volunteer That the great it could not hold him Yet lost victory The rhythm Lord of the ring now for me, for me, in one more thing, right? For me though. For me he set his broad upon the tree It was for me game For me shame For me your praise is name It was for me For me , I'll praise it. It does for me. Well, I love that song, and I hope that you enjoyed that time where we reflected on the fact it was for us that Christ came and died. And if it wasn't for the work of Christ on that cross, we would be of all men most miserable. We'd have no hope of salvation. If you have your Bibles, please take them and turn with me to John chapter 18. John chapter 18, and tonight we're going to be looking at a very important topic. And the topic we're looking at is the weight of the cross. The weight of the cross. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading in verse number one of chapter 18. We will read down to verse 8 as we really get into a very, very important passage in God's Word. John chapter 18 and verse 1 says this. And when Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the book, brook Kidrom, where was a garden into which he entered and his disciples. And Judas also which betrayed him knew the place, for Jesus oftentimes resorted thither with his disciples. Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, Cometh hither with lanterns and torches and weapons. Jesus, therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth and said unto him, Whom seek ye? They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus said unto them, I am he, and Judas also which betrayed him stood with them. As soon as he had said that unto them, that I am he, they went backward and fell on the ground. Then asked he them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus answered, I've told you that I am He. If therefore ye seek me, let these go their way. When we come to John chapter 18, we have been working through the account of Christ's final week before he goes to the cross. And we've talked about those events that led up to it. We began with the triumphal entry, what we commonly call Palm Sunday, and we talked about how Christ came into Jerusalem. And people all around the city were gathered together and they cried, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. God, save us, they even quoted from the psalmist. But then we see over the course of the week, Christ gets his disciples together, and they get in an upper room, and they're in that upper room, Jesus begins to talk to them about the events that are about to unfold. Jesus girds himself with a towel and he begins to wash their feet. Jesus says, one of you is going to betray me And he hands the bread there to Judas, and Judas goes out and actually goes straight to the high priest, where he's going to betray Christ. Jesus tells Peter, he says, you're going to deny me three times before the cock crows. And then Jesus begins to encourage his disciples. He talks to them about their future ministries and how it's going to be fruitful because of the presence of the Holy Spirit and because of the ability to abide in Christ, and how they can bear fruit in abundance because of the Lord Jesus Christ. He talks about how he prays for them. And then at the end of that time in the upper room, Jesus takes his disciples to a place That they knew very well. A place where they were going to pray late into the night. And as they were praying, Jesus said, I want you to watch and pray with me. And there that night, those disciples who loved the Lord and he loved them, they fell asleep in that garden, not knowing about the events that would unfold over the next several hours, culminating in the cross. You ask, what's the purpose of John 18, 19, and 20? Well, here is the purpose of this portion of the Scriptures The purpose of the following section was to help us understand the remarkable unfolding of events that led to the unjust crucifixion of Christ. So that we would grasp the unjust the tremendous price that was paid for our redemption. In other words, it's to help us to understand what Christ did is something that is priceless. beyond our imagination. It's beyond our ability to even fully grasp and comprehend. The cross, the weight of the cross, is a marvelous thing to consider. And as we think about these truths tonight, we will see that God wants us to understand and to glory in his incredible love for sinners I want to remind you as I stand here today, I'm a sinner. There is absolutely no reason, based on anything that I've done, that I should be able to stand in God's presence. There's no reason why God should accept me. There's no reason why God should forgive my sins. There's no reason that God should say, You are now my son. There's no reason for it if there is no cross. And so as we look at this passage and as we understand the incredible injustice and the suffering and the pain that Christ experienced on that cross that that day. We need to reflect deeply on the incredible love that God has for people, for sinners. So, how can you and I do what God wants us to do tonight? Glory in that cross. Well, I want to begin with this first section helping you to understand the series of events that pointed Christ to the cross. In fact, when we read through John 18, 19, and 20, we'll see that there are four phases of movement in the story as John records the details of what took place. that night and into the next day that give us a series of events. Now you know John's not giving us all of the details. If we want to get all the details, we have to read Mark's account, we have to read Matthew's account, we have to read Luke's account. And when we take all four of those accounts together of those facts, we get a full picture of what took place that night John is simply interested in recording details that are within the main scope of the book that he is writing down. He's trying to emphasize Christ's unjust being dealt with unjustly in this passage. And so let me mention the phases of movement here in the story. The first phase we find in chapter 18, verses 1 to 11. Christ is arrested in the garden. And there are details recorded about what took place in the garden when Christ was arrested. Then in verses 12 through 27, we see a second phase or movement in the story. Christ stands trial before the religious leaders late into the night. And in just a moment, I'm going to explain to you. It wasn't like Christ stood on trial before one individual, and at the end of that time, they said, All right, we're going to take you to Pilate. There were actually a series of people that he stood before that night. Then we move to a third phase. He stands before the Roman governor, Pontius Pilate, the next day. And we find that in chapter 18, verses 28, all the way down to chapter 19, verse 16. Tonight we're going to look a lot at the conversation that Jesus has with Pilate and Pilate with the people that are in that crowd wanting to see Christ crucified. And it's interesting out of all the accounts, this is the most time that John spends dealing with this conversation with Pontius Pilate. We then move to the fourth phase. That's in chapter 19, verses 17 to 30, where Christ is later crucified there on Galgotha. But before we look at this conversation that Christ has with Pontius Pilate, I want to give you a couple more important details that I think will help you to understand a little bit better what took place that night. The first thing is this, Christ stood before six separate officials throughout the night and into the next day. Let's just say that Christ stood spend a full hour having this uh trial or interrogation with each uh with each of these individuals. You're talking about six to eight hours just standing on trial with without throughout the night and then into the next morning. Obviously these people were not all in the same location. So they traveled from one man to another, and this is all going out throughout the night. This is remarkable when you consider that the entire Jewish nation. Is in the middle of the opening festival for the entire year. They're celebrating the Passover. In other words, that night Christ had had the Passover with his disciples. And then he goes to the garden to pray and to prepare for that night of what was going to take place. And all throughout the nation, people were celebrating the Passover. In fact, people are celebrating Passover during this week right now. And during that time, these Jewish religious leaders were able to stay the night Accusing Christ. He stands before Annas, the high priest. John 18, verses 12 to 14, and then verses 19 to 23. He then stands before a second high priest, that's Caiaphas. And there was a controversy about who the high priest was. I won't get into that tonight, but he stands between those two individuals, Annas and Caiaphas, at different times. In Matthew chapter 26, 57 and 58, we see that Matthew records those details for us. Then we see that Christ stands before the Sanhedrin, not just the high priest. But that body of rulers who viewed themselves as the holy police of the temple The Sanhedrin he stands before, and Matthew records that for us in Matthew 27, verses 1 and 2. Then we see in the morning he stands before Pilate. And this is really the focus of John's account. John chapter 18, verses 28 to 38, he stands before Pilate. And then Pilate sends him to another individual, Herod. And in Luke 23, verses 6 to 12. We see that there's a conversation between Christ and Herod. And then after he stands before Herod, he kicks him back to Pilate again. And in John 18, 39 down to 19, verse 16, a fairly lengthy portion of the scriptures dealing with the crucifixion, he is in conversation with Pilate. You see, I didn't realize all that took place that night. But it did. In fact, in just a six to eight-hour period of time, the Lord Jesus Christ stands before all of these individuals. But what I'd like to do tonight is I'd like us to understand the astonishing injustice and the unbelievable hypocrisy that went before these proceedings. As these religious leaders who despised Jesus, they loathed him. They wanted to destroy him. How they worked that night to see the Lord Jesus Christ crucified. The first thing we're going to see tonight is found in John 18, verse 28. We see that the Jews, out of an intense hatred for Jesus took him to Pilate's hall, but refused to enter, so they'd not become ceremonial and clean during during the Passover celebration. This is a really interesting statement. He writes in verse twenty eight, then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment. And it was early, and they themselves went not in to the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled but that they might eat the Passover. Imagine this. Here are these religious leaders who hate Jesus. They know he's innocent and they want to murder him. They want him nailed to a cross. They want him crucified. And they won't walk into this room that has a Gentile ruler who has the power to do what they can't do. Crucify Jesus. In verse 29, we see a second injustice or a second coloring of this story. When they brought him, they demanded that he be put to death, but they demanded without any charge. Look down in verse 29. Pilate then went out unto them and said, What accusation bring ye against this man? They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him unto thee. Now that's not what he asked. Why is he charged? What did he do? They didn't answer. They just said, if he wasn't a guilty man, we wouldn't have brought him to you. Interesting. This man is going to stand trial with no accusation, with no witness, and these holy men are going to have him killed. We then see a third. The Jews demand that Pilate take up the case, so that he be put to death. In verse 31, it says, it says, Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him and judge him according to your own laws. The Jews therefore said unto him, It's not lawful for us to put any man to death. All of a sudden Pilate says, I know why he's here. You hate him. You want to kill him. But you don't have the authority to. You want me to do your dirty work. I know this game. And Pilate looks at these people and says, What do you do? The Jews demand that he be put to death. Then we see that Pilate privately asks Jesus if he's really a king. And though by Christ and through by Christ's response, we see that Pilate knew a lot about Jesus and had private discussions about him. Look down carefully at what he says in verse 37. Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, and it's interesting the way he puts this. Thou sayest that I'm a king. What is Jesus talking about? Jesus knew that Pilate knew the story of what was going on. Pilate was well aware of who Jesus was. He was well aware of the miracles and the claims. He was aware of Christ's teaching. He knew who Jesus was, and by the way that Jesus answers his question. He's saying, I know that you know who I am. Thou sayest I am a king, and to this end was I born, for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice. And listen carefully to what Pilate says. Pilate publicly admits there was no just cause for Christ's crucifixion. Verse 38, Pilate said unto him, What is truth? When he'd said this, he went out again to the Jews and said unto them, I find no fault at all. Pilate publicly admits to those people, there's no reason To kill this man. There's no reason to flog this man. He is an innocent man. I find no fault in him. Very interesting statement. Then we see in chapter 19, verses 1 to 3, that Pilate hoped to somehow appease these people. In verse 39, it says this the Jews demanded that he free a criminal and crucify Jesus. Pilate sits down and he says, you know what? I know what I can do. I don't want to kill Jesus. I know that he's an innocent man. And so what I'm going to do is I'm going to somehow appease the people and manipulate the people. And they say, hey, look, I know that during the Passover we have this policy that we release a prisoner to you. So I want to ask you a question. Who do you want me to release? Do you want me to release Barabbas, a murderer? A robber? A thief? A wicked, violent man? Do you want me to release Barabbas? Or do you want Jesus? In Pilate's mind, he says, of course these people are fair-minded people. They're going to take Jesus over Barabbas. But he was wrong. We see that he says, You have a custom that I should release unto you at the Passover. Will you therefore I release unto you the king of the Jews? They cried again, No, not this man, but Barabbas. Barabbas was a robber. Pilate thinks again and he says, I know what I can do. They're not going to take Jesus, they're going to take Barabbas. So I will beat Jesus, unjustly nonetheless. An innocent man nonetheless. I will beat him. I will flog him, and they will see that he has been punished, and they'll they'll they'll they'll back off. They'll be okay. Pilate hoped to appease them, and had Christ brutally beaten, hoping that the people would back away from their demand to crucify him. In chapter nineteen, one to three it says, Then Pilate took Jesus and scourged him, and the soldiers plated a crown of thorns. And put it on his head, and they put on him a royal robe. And said, Hail, King of the Jews, and they smote him with their hands. But in verse 6 We see the scourging did nothing to appease the crowd. When the chief priest informed the officers saw him, they cried out saying, Crucify him Crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye then and crucify him, for I find no fault in him. Again, he states it, I know he's innocent. You take him. Pilate was in a terrible predicament. He wanted to free Jesus, an innocent man. He knew who he was. He had the press of the Sanhedrin, the religious leaders, and the mob in Jerusalem. He's in the middle of Passover. He's afraid. And listen to this terrible predicament play out. And verses 12 to 16, from thenceforth it says, Pilate sought to release him, but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this man go, thou art no friend of Caesar. Whoever makes himself a king speaketh against Caesar, then deliver he him, therefore, unto them to be crucified And they took Jesus and led him away. You say, why do you take the time to deal with those details? Folks, there's a lot more that we could talk about, but I want to show you something. Jesus was condemned to death as an innocent man. And Pilate knew it, the religious leaders knew it, and he knew full well that this is a terrible miscarriage of justice. So I asked this question. Why in the world was the cross necessary? Why is the cross so important? And I want to transition from the storyline to the significance of the cross. I want to talk to you for a few moments about why it was so important that Christ went to that cross and what he accomplished for us on that cross. And I want to begin with this very important fact. Every person, there are no exceptions. That's me, that's you, everybody has a serious series of problems. And you say, what are those problems? Well, those are problems that stand between you and me and God. And not only is there a serious problem between you and me and God. But you and I have absolutely no power, no ability to remove the problem between us and God. You say, what problem are you talking about? I'm sitting in my living room right now. I'm okay. God's good with me and I'm good with him. I'm going to tell you something. That's not true, apart from the cross. Let me give you a couple of examples of what I'm talking about. The first thing is this: we all are completely incapable of controlling our circumstances. Without eternal significance to what we're going through in our lives, everything is pointless. We're living through a pandemic right now. When I turn on the news and I listen to what's going on, sometimes I sit down and go, is there an end in sights? I have no ability to protect myself. There are people that all they do is go to the grocery store and they get their food and they end up sick. It happens There are people that have taken all the necessary precautions and they end up sick and they end up in serious trouble. The truth is, folks, we have no power to control our circumstances. We are helpless. We are dependent upon God. And if this life doesn't have a God-centered perspective in view, then we have serious problems. In Ecclesiastes chapter 1, Solomon writes this, I've seen all the works that are done under the sun. Behold, all this vanity and vexation of spirit, and much wisdom is much grief. He that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow. Solomon says, The more I learn about life, the more troubling it becomes. Why did he say that? It's because he realized he can't control the circumstances. He's not his own God. There is a sovereign ruler over all, and it's not you, and it's not me. A second thought that's very important is this: our sin stands as a tremendous offense between us and God, and it sets us apart from God as his enemies. In Ephesians chapter 2, it says, We all had our conversation. That's the way that we live in times fast, fulfilling the lusts of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. Folks, the reason there's a problem between us and God, it's not on God's side, it's on ours. We sinned against God. We violated his laws. And so we stand as guilty and condemned as enemies to God. You and I have no ability to change our nature. In fact, there's a scripture in the Old Testament that says, can a leopard change its spots? The answer is of course not. It's his nature. You and I are sinners, and we are powerless to remove our sin. Another thought that's very important is this: because we've broken God's laws, we're under his just wrath. And we deserve to be punished eternally for our sins. In Romans 6:23, it says: the wages of sin is death. It's not just that I'm by nature a sinner, but I do sinful things. And because I sin against God, I deserve death. I move on to this very important fact. There is no mechanism, and there is nothing that we can give God that can remove our sin And can bring us into his presence and make us acceptable to God. We have no mechanism to approach him. There's nothing we can give him because all that we can give God is affected by our sinfulness. In Isaiah 64, 6, the prophet says, We all are as an unclean thing. All of our righteousness. That's the very best I can give to God. It's a filthy rag. You know, I have small children and they help us with the meal sometimes. Imagine if my children are bringing food to the table and when they're bringing the food to the table, they bump something and they spill rice and they spill the food all over the floor. Now that food tasted good. That food smelled good. That food was hot. It was prepared with love. It's good, nutritious food. What would happen if my kids got the broom out, the dustpan, and they swept it back up into that bowl that we had used it and put it on my plate and gave it to me? Would I eat it? Would you eat it? Probably not. Why not? It's good hot food. It's nutritious. It was prepared with love. The reason you wouldn't eat it Is because the moment it hit the floor, it became defiled. And the truth is, folks, our righteousness is like that. The very best we can give God, it's defiled by our fallen nature. And because of that, there is no way that we can approach God through our own good deeds. Our righteousness is like a filthy rag. And then we come to Romans chapter seven and we see that this reality, the fact that I'm a fallen person by nature, the fact that I sin against God's laws, the fact that there is nothing that I can give God There's nothing that I can create for God that can make me acceptable to Him. I'm undone. I'm in trouble. That's terrifying. Romans 7. I see a law within my members. Worry against the law of my mind and bring me into captivity by the law of sin which is in my members. And this is what Paul says: O wretched man that I am. Who shall deliver me from the body of death? He says, I'm undone. I'm without hope. Folks, if there was no cross, then that's where we'd all live. And that's where we'd all stay. If it wasn't for the fact that Christ went through that humiliation and that suffering and that injustice. And if he wasn't nailed to that cross, if we didn't shed his blood, and if the sins of the world weren't placed on his shoulders, If God didn't pour out his wrath on him as he hung on that cross, we would be of all men most miserable. But there's a second fact that is so important. That's the third Listen to what the scriptures tell us in Romans chapter 8, verse 3. What the law could not do Folks, there are a lot of people, maybe even joining us this evening on the live stream, who have believed throughout their life that the way that you get to God is you do good. You be good. You go to church. You pay your tithes. You treat people with respect and dignity You read the Bible, you pray, you get baptized, you get confirmed, you go through this process of learning doctrinal truths. Lots and lots of people believe that you get to God by climbing a ladder. By your good outweighing your bad, by doing what's right. That's how you get to heaven. But this is what the Bible teaches: the law can't do it. Why is that? Because all of our righteousness is like a filthy rag. Because the best that we can give God is never acceptable. But listen to the scripture carefully What the law could not do, and that it was weak to the flesh. Because I'm a sinner, everything I touch becomes defiled. The best that I give God is defiled. What the law could not do and that it was weak to the flesh. God did. And how? Sending his own son. In the likeness of sinful flesh. And for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh The Lord Jesus Christ came and did for you, and he did for me what we could not do. All of our righteousness is as a filthy rag. All of Christ's righteousness is fully accepted. We are sinners. He's perfect. He's holy. He's righteous. He went to the cross not because he deserved it, but to take your place. And he condemns sin and that act on that cross. Fact number three, the good news is simply a fulfillment of what the Bible said would happen all the way back in the Old Testament. Isaiah 53, we read this this evening. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He shall see the travail of his soul and shall be satisfied. He shall bear their iniquities. In other words, in Isaiah 53, the prophet writes, the Messiah is going to die for the sins of mankind. He's going to bear their iniquities. And when God looks at his son 's sacrifice, his travail, his agony, his suffering, he's going to say, that's enough. I'm satisfied. In other words, there's nothing to add to the work of Christ. There's nothing you can give God to add to what He's done already. There's nothing that needs to be added because he said it's finished. He said, I'm satisfied. It's done. The good news is a fulfillment of the Old Testament prophecies. Folks, I want to show you what the scripture says the cross accomplished in Romans 8, verse 16, 6 to 10. It directly provided the solution. To each of our greatest problems. Romans chapter 5, verse 6 says this: when we were without strength, in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. God commended his love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. When we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Don't miss those facts that are stated clearly in Romans 5, 6-10. The first thing it says is this. Christ died for me when I was powerless to save myself. I couldn't do it. There was no law that could make me acceptable to God. There was nothing I could give him that could bring me into his presence. There was nothing I could do to appease his wrath. I was helpless and hopeless, and I said, I am of all men most miserable. Oh wretched man that I am, who shall deliver me from this body of death? And you know what the scripture says? Christ died for me when I was without strength. It says Christ's death was in the fullness of time. In other words, God had a plan for redemption all the way back from the fall of man. In fact, not just from the fall, but before the foundation of the world, God said, I know what will happen in the garden. And I'm prepared for it. I'm sending a Redeemer. The Lord Jesus Christ will come to earth. He'll be born of a virgin. He will live a sinless, holy, righteous life. He will demonstrate who he is by the miracles he performs, by the conversations that he has with people. He will fulfill entirely the Old Testament prophecy. And in the fullness of time, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. Why? To redeem us from the curse of the law. In due time, Christ died. The third thing it tells us is that Christ's death revealed the depths of God's love for you and for me. He says God commendeth his love toward us. That word commend has the idea of demonstrating something, showing something, but it goes beyond just showing it. It's commending it. It's presenting it to us and it's saying, look at it in its beauty and in its glory. Christ dying for the sins of mankind is an unbelievable demonstration, a beautiful and glorious demonstration of his love for sinners He says, when we were without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. He commended his love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. A fourth fact that it demonstrates is that Christ's death provided the means to declare us not guilty. He says this, Christ died for us. We are now justified by his blood. What does that mean? That means that God can declare you righteous on the basis of two things that have taken place for you. The first is this your sin debt is paid in full. His blood paid the price for your The second thing is God can call you righteous because you are united with Christ, and when he sees you in Christ, he says, perfectly righteous in Christ. In other words, the righteousness of Christ was imputed to us. It was credited to us. And on the basis of that imputation, God says, not guilty, righteous, justified. Folks, Christ's death provides the means to declare us not guilty. Christ's death removes God's just wrath against us He says, we are saved from wrath through him. Folks, if it wasn't for that cross, God's wrath would be there to crush us. Us. When we stand before Him on the judgment day, we would face the full weight of His just wrath against our sin. Yet because of the cross, God says it's Done. Lastly, I mentioned this: Christ's death brings us into relationship with God. It says when we were his enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Folks, our greatest needs, eternal needs, they are all met by the work of Christ on the cross. Let me add in chapter 8, verses 1 to 3, or chapter 5, verses 1 to 3, he also mentions we have peace with God, we have access to God, we have a sure position in Christ. We can live life without fear of eternity. We can cope with the sufferings of this world because we recognize there's more to life in this temporary state. Those are just a few of the things, in addition to what we've already stated tonight, that because of the cross Those are available to us. I finish with a fifth and final fact. All men can be saved from their sins because of this cross. Folks, the basis of these blessings is the cross. In Galatians chapter 2, verse 21, Paul writes, I do not frustrate the grace of God. If righteousness comes by the law, then Christ is dead in vain. Do you realize what you're saying when you say I can earn my salvation before God? By doing good, by paying my tithes, by attending church, by doing good things, by keeping God's laws, I can earn my way to God. Do you realize what you're saying? You're saying Christ didn't need to die. That injustice, that shame, all that suffering was worthless? It wasn't necessary Folks, the cross is the basis by which we can be saved. And all these blessings come to us through faith in the finished work of Christ. In Ephesians 2, 8 and 9, the scriptures say this: by grace, grace is an unmerited favor. You are saved through faith. In other words, the basis of our salvation is what Jesus did for us on the cross. And the means through which God gives us that salvation and all those benefits is faith in the finished work of Christ. By grace you are saved through faith, that not of yourselves. That's the gift of God. There is no person that will stand in God's presence in eternity On the basis of something they did for God, or something that they gave to God. We all stand before Him on the basis of what He did for us. It's a gift. It's not of works, lest any man should boast. I want to ask you this question. Have you come face to face with the realities of the cross? Have you turned to the Lord Jesus Christ in repentance and faith, recognizing his work on the cross was sufficient? That your works and your righteousness play no part. You have nothing you can give God. It's all what He did for you. God wants us to understand this remarkable unfolding of events. That unled to this unjust crucifixion of Christ, so that we would grasp the tremendous price that was paid for our redemption and we would glory in his love for sinners. If you're a believer tonight, I want to say that that's how you and I should respond to the text. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, you can glory in the cross too. But you need to come by faith. You need to depend on what Christ did for you. You need to turn to Him humbly, calling on the Lord, saying, Lord, save me I believe Christ died for my sins. I believe he rose from the dead. I believe there's nothing I can give you to earn my forgiveness. I'm trusting only in what Christ did for me on that cross. I call on the Lord to save me on the basis of the work of Christ. Scriptures tell us with the heart, man believes unto righteousness, and whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord. Shall be saved. If you do not know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven, if you're uncertain whether or not you've been saved from your sin I want to encourage you, please reach out to us by email or phone. There is an email address at the end of this sermon on the slide. One is my personal email, or my my church email, and one is the office email. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, you're uncertain that when you stand before God You will be accepted on the basis of the work of Christ. You don't know for sure when you die you're going to heaven. If you have doubts, please reach out by email. And we want to be able to help you. We'll take the Bible verse by verse, explain to you how to How do it. you can be saved. Aren't you thankful for what Christ did for you on that cross? Let's bow together and have a word of prayer before our closing hymn tonight. Father in heaven, we are so grateful. That in your tremendous love, your overwhelming compassion toward a sinner, your grace Undeserved favor. You provided redemption through the work of Christ on the cross. I pray that every person who hears this message, Would be a worshiper of you, glorying in the cross. If even one tonight does not know you as their Savior, I pray that today would be the day where they understand the gospel. And they place their faith in Christ. May you take these words and use them for your honor and glory. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. As we conclude our service tonight, we're going to sing Hallelujah, what a savior. Through and senders to reclaim all the room of water save Bearing shame and stopping rude in my place of death destroyed. Sealed my partner with his one follow what I say Don't he my blessed we 're blessed among God was he For a moment, can it be however you're what I saved? Left it up while he to die. Yes, headest was his cry Now it am exalted high follow your water When he comes our glorious king , all his grandsons home to bring Thank you for joining us this evening. on live stream. We look forward to having you join us again this Sunday. I know tonight we focus on the cross, but come Sunday, we will rejoice together in worshiping our risen Savior. Have a wonderful weekend and good evening.