And uh let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then uh we'll do our opening song and then uh dig into our uh scriptures this evening. So let's bow for prayer. Father, we pray that you'd help us tonight to understand the Word of God. I pray that uh you'd help me to communicate it effectively, uh speak to our hearts, and I pray that you'll just bless our time of prayer together. May we uh lift up uh these very needy request into your presence and I pray that we would see you at work in these situations and we just look forward to how you'll work in each of these scenarios. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Hymn 411 is where we're going to be tonight. Hymn 411. And we'll sing the first and the last verses of the solid rock. 411. My hope is built on nothing less than Jesus' blood and righteousness. I dare not trust us, sweetest frame, but holy lean on Jesus' name On Christ's solid rock I stand, all other ground is sinking sand, all other ground is sinking sand When he shall come with trumpet sound, oh may I then in him be found, just in his righteousness alone, falls, lest you stand before the throne. On Christ a solid rock I stand all underground is sinking sand, all underground is sinking sand. Okay, good singing. Let's turn together, please, to Ecclesiastes chapter eleven. Ecclesiastes chapter 11, and what we're looking at is a continuation of the section that we dealt with last week. We read verses one through three together last week. This week I'd like us to look at verses 1 through 6. We're going to read 1 to 3 just so that we can kind of get a little bit of a sense of the context how it leads into the section we're looking at this evening. But Ecclesiastes chapter 11 verse number 1 says the following. Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Give a portion to seven, and also to eight, for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth If the cloud be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. If the tree fall toward the south or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. He that observeth the wind shall not sow, he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child, Even so thou knowest not the works of God, who maketh all. In the morning, sow thy seed. In the evening, withhold not thine hand. For thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike. The passage that we're looking at is dealing with this issue of stewardship and We talked a good bit about this a few weeks ago, how God expects us to be good stewards. He wants us to take the resources that He's entrusted to us And he wants us to be good good stewards in the sense that we are taking them and we are investing them wisely for the glory of the Lord and for the sake of his kingdom. Well part of being a good steward is being thoughtful and principled in the kinds of decisions that we make. When we say thoughtful, what we're saying is, I'm actually not just responding, but I'm actually thinking through is this right or is this wrong, what's involved, and that's part of the decision-making process. We talk about principle and we're saying I'm guided by certain truths that I find in God's word. So God wants us to be thinking before we're doing. He wants us to be active. He wants us to make decisions based on thinking through the situation, saying, this is what's right, this is what's wrong. I'm going to choose to do what's right. Well, there's a third side that we're going to look at this evening that's a part of this being thoughtful and being principled, and that's being decisive. And what we're going to see in these verses is that sometimes we're in situations where it's really hard to be decisive. And one of the reasons it's so hard to be decisive is because there's a lot of uncertainty in the decisions that we're going to make. So let me first of all give you a summary statement which is going to sound a lot like last week's. I added a little bit of dynamic to that, and then I want to kind of give you a little bit of review into what we talked about last week. And then dig into this last principle of the ones that are in this section. Here's the summary statement. Ecclesiastes eleven reminds us But since life in a fallen world is unpredictable, we must manage our resources decisively in a thoughtful, principled way. God wants us to be decisive in the decisions that we make. And so let's talk for a few minutes about our view from last week. First of all, a couple different basic ways that people make decisions. And the reason that I did this is I want us to ask the question, how do I make decisions? Do I just react or do I actually think things through? And then what are the principles that I follow when I go about making a decision? Well, first of all, there are some people that just ignore what God says. They could care less. In fact, not only do they ignore it, when they come in contact with it, they get angry and they say, I don't want anything to do with this. There's a second group that actually does care about what God has to say, but they don't have the discipline to actually think through an issue and make the right decision. Anybody ever been in that position right there? It's like you want to do the right thing, you want to make a godly decision, but you don't think the issue through. You kind of react too quickly. We don't want to be in that kind of a situation Another wrong response is some people take kind of a passive, fatalistic kind of approach. They say, hey, God's sovereign, so I'm just going to go ahead and do whatever and just see what God does with it. Now that's a misunderstanding of God's sovereignty. Yes, God rules and yes, God reigns, but the fact that God rules and reigns doesn't mean I don't have to make responsible decisions. It means that as I make responsible decisions, I can trust that God's going to work through those things. And even when there are things that I don't understand or things that I haven't seen, And I make a decision and I was wrong. God can still use those things to accomplish good purposes in our lives But I should never just throw caution to the wind and say, ah, whatever happens, happens, because God rules and God reigns. Another wrong way, and I think this is very common, is taking a very mystical approach. And when I say a mystical approach, what I mean is That we take the concept of having a clean conscience when we make a decision, and we should have a clean conscience when we make a decision. We shouldn't go against our conscience, violating what we believe internally to be rights. But on the other side, it's not like we get this internal sense, oh I know now I'm supposed to do this. The Bible doesn't teach such a thing. So sometimes what a person will do when they're going to make a decision is they'll look for like a proof text verse. And that proof text verse will kind of like give them the the motivation to go and do that thing. That's a really dangerous way to make decisions. We need to think about the principles that are involved, not proof text or some impression that I have internally about a decision. And so we have to be very, very cautious about these things. The end of it all is basically this. We need to take a principled, thoughtful decision that is firmly rooted in godly wisdom. And that's why we have the book of Proverbs. Because the book of Proverbs is full of rich godly wisdom. That's why we have the book of Ecclesiastes, full of rich godly wisdom. We take the truths that we read in places like that, and we apply those things into the decisions that we make. Well, from that, we look at several very specific appropriate principles when it comes to walking in godly wisdom. And these are the points that we looked at last week. And so I want to remind you of those. The first one we found was in verse number one. This is what the verse said. It said, Cast thy bread upon the waters, and thou shalt find it after many days. If you remember, casting your bread on the waters was basically an illustration of somebody who's involved in industry. And so they're sending out produce and they're sending out wares and they're sending out things that they've developed. They're involved in enterprise or business. And so the first principle was have an entrepreneurial attitude. Now that's not to say that we're all supposed to start businesses and we're all supposed to be businessmen, but the idea is that we're supposed to be builders, we're supposed to be innovative, we're supposed to be Taking the things that we have and try to invest them wisely. And that's the sense. In other words, don't just sit on your hands. Take what God gives you, the skills that He's given you. the resources that he's given you and put those skills and put those energies and put those truths to good work Second principle, we found in verse number two. Here's what it says. It says, give a portion to seven and also to eight, for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth. Now, this particular statement shows us that there's a side to life that we always have to be prepared for. And what we have to be prepared for is unpredictability. In other words, we know that there are going to be times that things happen that we we didn't see that coming. We didn't anticipate that. And so the principle is diversify your investment. And uh right now you're going, is there even a place to put my money to good use when I don't know the NASDAQ's down what? Almost 30% on the Is that correct? Thirty percent. That's shocking. Absolutely shocking. Well, diversify your investments for Here on out. Please do that. That's a biblical principle. And the reason that you do that is because you recognize you can't predict what's going to go well and what's going to go poorly. So you have to kind of spread it out. The third principle, these are all wisdom principles, is found in verse number three. Here's what it says: if the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. In other words, you look outside and you go, wow, it's really dark. I'm hearing thunder. The air's getting a little bit cooler. It's getting really windy. I bet you it's gonna rain. What's the point of that? Well, the point is we should make decisions based upon favorable probability. In other words, there's certain things, well, we can't predict everything in life While we are going to get blindsided at times in life, there are certain things, if we'd open our eyes and look, we should be able to figure out what's going on there. That's really what the principle is. And so when you go to make a decision, you're not making the decision entirely blind. You actually have things to look at. You don't have all the factors that are involved, you're not omniscient. But you have enough factors that you're looking at that you should be able to make a good, reasonable decision. That's what he's saying in there. Fourth principle, verse number three. If the tree falls toward the south or towards the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. You might say, so when a tree falls, that's where it's going to be. That's really the point of what he's saying. You go, well, what's the principle? Well realize that some outcomes While they can't be predicted, or maybe you can kind of tell what's going to happen, the fact is you have to live with the outcome. And so he's really driving at the point that when you make decisions, you think it through. Because once you do something, you gotta live with what you do. If you're cutting a tree down and you didn't judge it correctly and the tree goes down and it hits your neighbor's yard, guess what? You're gonna have to live with Repairing your neighbor's fence or fixing the side of their house or whatever. You're gonna have to live with that decision. That's what he's saying. Now these are very simple, basic, common sense kind of principles. You might say, well, what's so Christian and biblical about that? The Bible teaches us that godly wisdom, part of it is just being sensible about life. But this fifth principle, which is the one we're going to spend time on tonight, is one that is very rich. It is very important for us to understand this fifth principle. And let me read to you again verses 3 to 6, and then I want to give that to you, and then I want us to kind of dig into this principle and look at several truths that are packed into this very important principle. Here's what it says in verse 3. Well, I already read verse 3. If the clouds are full of rain and they empty themselves in the earth, if the tree falls for the north to the south, there it shall be. And then we continue on here. It says this, he that observeth the wind shall not sow. He that regardeth the cloud shall not reap. As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child, even so thou knowest not the works of God. who maketh all. In the morning sow thy seed, in the evening withhold not thine hand, for thou knowest not whether shall prosper either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good. Now you may ask the question, what is he saying here? Here's what he's saying. Be decisive in the face of uncertainty Understanding the kind providence of God. Let me say it again. Be decisive in the face of uncertainty, understanding the kind providence of God. You know, there's certain things in life that you cannot predict. And so you have to prepare for the unpredictable That's why you diversify. There are certain things that you should see them coming, so what do you do? You make decisions based on a good logical approach to what's going on. But then sometimes you're in situations where you sit down and you go, you know what? I have to make a decision. I'm forced to make a decision based on the circumstances that God has put me in, and the reality is there's a lot of lack of clarity in the decision that I have to make. What do I do in such a situation? Trust God. God and make the best decision you can under the circumstances you're in. That's really what he's saying. And he's going to give you some examples, kind of break down that principle here. So the first truth that we're going to talk about, which is kind of falling into what we've already discussed, is be prepared to function in a fallen world. Some things are predictable, some things are probable, and some things cannot be predicted. Does that make sense There's some things you can see it coming, and you're like very certain. There's some things you go, ah, it's iffy, but it seems to lean this way, and there's some things you go, I have no idea. The second truth though is the one that we really want to dig into. We need to learn from people who have been forced to trust God with what they can't control. Let me say it again. We need to learn from people who have been forced to trust God with what they cannot control. Now, every person in here knows a scenario. It might be a scenario you have lived through yourself. But every single one of us knows of situations where we have either personally had to live through a situation, it was out of our control. It was completely under the control of God's hands, and the reality is we had to make decisions, but it was sort of out of our out of our control. I mean, think about something like this, who 's in control of the government right now? I mean you you cast your vote and then that's the end of it. It's not the people that cast the votes that determine the election, it's those who counted, I've heard. Uh anyway, just say it. Definitely like that in um countries that have a lot of uh A lot of political corruption. Right. But here's the simple the simple fact. Throughout most of human history The people that lived in those countries had absolutely zero control over who was in power. Like none. They had no control over those things. There are circumstances that we find ourselves in as individuals that sometimes it's not because of bad decisions that we made. The fact is that in the providence of God, He allowed us to be in such a situation. And in those situations, God forces us to have to trust Him, to have to depend on Him, to have to take steps that are commitments of trust to God. Notice the way that he puts it in this verse, verse number four. He says, He that observeth the wind shall not sow, and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap. Now what kind of people sow things and what kind of people reap things? What kind of people are those? They're farmers Now you know most of us who live in a community like this one, we don't understand the whole farming system, okay? We go to the grocery store, we want eggs, there they are. We might complain about the cost and how much it's gone up, but the reality is they're just, you know, a bunch of eggs sitting in a box. Or we go, oh, there's cheese over there. Oh, let's go get some chicken. Let's go get some beef. Let's go get some produce. But the fact is that beef was grown somewhere. That chicken was grown somewhere. Those produce were grown somewhere. Those eggs were laid somewhere on a farm. And the people that raise the chickens and raise the cattle and plant the fields, they understand something about farming that you and I actually don't really appreciate The fact is that a farmer is completely dependent ultimately on the elements that he has to live with. Now, I know that farming has changed a lot in the modern era, and I know that there's a lot that we can do to make up for the challenges of weather and all those kinds of things. But even with all the technology that we have, you got a guy that plants his field of corn, and then at a certain point in the development they get horrific storms and hail and all that kind of stuff. Guess what? There's no technology to protect the corn from being devastated. There's just none. This year we had a really late 20-degree cold snap. And I have one peach on a peach tree right now. One peach. No apples. All the blossoms. When they were coming to open up, it hit twenty degrees I mean what do you do with that? If you're a farmer, you're stuck with it. I just guess we're gonna wash up this year, right? And then you have other years that go great. But the point that actually we're making here, that Solomon's making, is that a farmer is someone who has has to depend on God. Not every year is favorable for the crop that they're planting. Some years they have tremendous crops, other years they have almost entire losses. But whether the the the out whether it's looking favorable or not, they got to go plant their field because that's that's how they survive. That's how they live. In other words, the fur the farmer, by virtue of his work, is forced to trust God. Now, a farmer who's not a Christian doesn't realize that it's God who's giving him the crop that he needs, but the fact is he's dependent on God too. I was having a conversation with somebody recently about festifications and in most parts of the world and I said, you know, in every single part of the world, to my knowledge, festivals in the fall all were connected to paganism. Do you know why that is? It's because they believed that the crop was a result of their God's giving them the crop. They understood something. We don't control all the circumstances. You as Christians, if you're a farmer, you come to that season, you go, God, thank you for this bounty. Thank you for blessing me. Because we recognize that he's the one who gave us the rain and he's the one that made the conditions conducive for us to have this crop. A farmer has to learn to trust God God. He's forced to by virtue of what he does. And so Solomon uses this illustration. An illustration that would have been very easy for them to understand. If the farmer tries to predict the perfect time to plant his harvest, he's never going to plant his field. He's going to lose the fruit of his labors. The opportunity to plant and to harvest, it's a time-sensitive, time-dependent kind of a thing. Hey, if you don't get your stuff out there at the right time, guess what? You're not going to get a good harvest. If you put it out too early, if you put it out too late, you're gonna suffer. That's the way that it's gonna work. It's a very time sensitive thing. And so if the farmer walks out and he goes, Oh, you know, it's a little it looks like maybe Maybe today's not the best day for me to go plant my crops. And he does that enough times. Guess what? When he finally plants his crops, he's going to get a good harvest. Because he's trying to predict a perfect scenario. Some of us try to make decisions that way, by the way. Oh, I'll move when everything's aligned perfectly. Prepare yourself for a lack of movement in life because you're always going to deal with some kind of challenge. If the farmer is hesitant rather than decisive, he won't get the harvest that he's dependent upon. Simply put, he's entirely dependent on the Lord. You know, we live in a time where we're partially insulated from a lot of these realities. Like, I don't think we realize how tough it would be to have to actually like feed your family. Feed my family. To feed your family like from the work of your own hands, it's a lot tougher than you realize. Like you go out there and you're like, Oh wow there's something that's eating our corn. Yeah, and if it gets it instead of us we're gonna go hungry and something's eating the beans and all those kinds of things. There are a lot of elements that you have to fight against as a farmer. We're kind of insulated from those things. As long as we have the money in the in the bank account, we can go, we can buy what we need. But the farmer, he understands this. Sometimes God forces us into situations where, like the farmer, we have to rely on him. Let me give you a couple of scriptures that talk about it. Psalm 119, 71. It says, It is good for me. That I have been afflicted. Now, being afflicted in and of itself isn't good. But he's going to explain to you why it was good to be afflicted. so that I might learn your statutes. In other words, the psalmist says, the affliction I've gone through actually was good for me. I didn't feel good in it, but it was good for me because it taught me your statutes. Psalm thirty-four, six through eight, listen to what it says. This poor man cried, and the Lord heard him, and saved him out of all his trouble. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. And then listen carefully. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. The word taste and the word see are more than just having this knowledge in a very general sense. Tasting is experiential. Seeing is experiential. What the psalmist is saying is that God allowed him, because of the challenges that he lived through. God allowed him to go from just having this academic knowledge of who he was to having a personal, experiential knowledge of God. Folks, God doesn't want us to just be theologians with a bunch of knowledge in our heads. He wants us to be heart theologians. He wants us to be people who experience the Christian life. Not just I know truths about God, but I know them experientially. And so sometimes God puts us in situations to force us, like the farmer is forced to rely on God, we are forced to rely on God so that we know Him experientially. I'll give you a really good example of this from Psalm 48. I want you to turn there, and I'm not going to break it down to the extent that I that I will, you know, in about two years we get to this in our in our Psalm series. But this is a really amazing psalm. Listen to what it says in Psalm 48, starting in verse 1. He says, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness. Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. God is known in her palaces for a refuge. Now, pause for a moment. What the psalmist is communicating is that people have a head knowledge of God. They call him their refuge. Okay, if you were to if I was to ask you, do you believe that God is your defender? You say, Yes, God's my defender. Do you believe that God is good? You say, Yes, God is good. Do you believe that God is sovereign? Yes, I believe that He's sovereign. If I asked you truths that we would say are propositional truths, you'd answer affirmative. I affirmed those things, I affirmed those things, I affirmed those things. These people affirmed God's defense and his protection and all those things. But listen carefully to the next verse. He says, Lo the kings were assembled. They passed by together. They saw and so they marveled. They were troubled and hasted away. Fear took hold upon them and pains as of a woman in travail. Now, he's going from this experien , or not this, I'm going ahead of myself. He's going from this academic knowledge of God God is the defender. This is his city. Now he's going to the fact of saying, now the people are in the city, and as they're looking over those walls, you know what they see? They see this massive army that is gathered together, and this army is coming out against Jerusalem, and they're going to overthrow the city. In those days, the way that they overthrew cities was they basically locked them out so nothing could come in and nothing could go out. And then they just starved the people out. And when the people started starving, and the people were dying from from hunger, from disease, from sickness. The people were mentally fearful. That's when the armies would come up over those walls and they'd wipe out the city. And this was something that happened over and over and over again in the ancient world. I mean, could you imagine looking over those walls for months knowing that just a matter of time we're all gonna not be able to hold out long enough? We don't have anybody to come protect us and defend us. These armies are just gonna wipe us out That's terrifying. And this is the next verse. He says this: Thou breakest the ships of Tarshus with an east wind. As we have heard , so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, and the city of our God. God will establish it forever. You say, well, hold on a second, what's going on? What's going on is that the people had a knowledge of God. They were put in a very difficult series of circumstances, and then God demonstrated that he is their defender. He demonstrated that he is trustworthy. He demonstrated that he is a God who is a refuge. And then he goes on to say this. He says We thought on thy loving kindness, O God, in the midst of the temple. According to thy name, so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth. Thy right hand is full of righteousness. Let Mount Zion r rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad because of thy judgments. He says, Walk about Zion, go around about her, tell the towers thereof, mark ye well her bulwarks, continue Consider her palaces, that ye may tell it to the generation following. For this God is our God for ever and ever. He will be our guide even unto death Basically, what the psalmist is saying is God delivered us. And we started walking around the city and going, you know what, all those armies were encamped against us, and now they're gone. The only explanation is God fought on our behalf. In other words, they went from an academic knowledge of God to an experiential. Knowledge of God. And that's what God wants for us. He wants us to know Him experientially. And so sometimes He puts us in these kinds of places. Truth number 3. We must learn to trust in our sovereign God who steadily works even when we cannot see what he is doing. Let me say that again. We must learn. Learn, okay? In other words, it doesn't just happen. We have to go through the process. We have to learn how to trust in our sovereign God who steadily works even when we cannot see what he's doing. Many times, when God is at work, we don't see it until after. Now, that's not always the case. Sometimes when we're in the midst of things, God gives us these little glimpses, these little reminders. Hey, I'm in charge, I rule, I'm on the throne, and I want to remind you of that. God does that. But generally speaking, when we're in the midst of very uncomfortable circumstances, God will show us his sovereignty later. We go through those things, we look back, we go, now I see the hand of God working in all these things. I didn't understand through this circumstance what was going on, but now I see a lot more clearly. I didn't realize what God was doing in my life at that time. Now I do. That's what we begin to see. And here's how he puts it in verse 5: As thou knowest not what is the way of the Spirit. Nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child. And by the way, think about that. That statement was made without ultrasounds. So we have ultrasounds now and we can see the development of a child, but you don't go and look at the ultrasound and just watch this child growing like right in front of your eyes. I mean they grow so fast it it almost seems that way. But there's something mysterious about this, something wonderful about this. He says, in the same way you don't know how the spirit works. In the same way that you don't know, there's a mysterious element to how a child develops in the womb. By the way, that word child is important, is it not? Even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh Just like you cannot understand and fully comprehend what's going on inside of a woman as that child is developing in the same way as God's working sovereignly in our lives, we can always figure it out. There's a mysterious element to this. The way that God works in the world is mysterious and it's wondrous. You can't see the wind or the miracle of new life. You can't see the development of a child in the womb. You can't see the full work of God in this world as He is working. God is sovereign even when we can't see a clear indication of it at the time. Our perception of God's sovereignty does not change the fact that He is sovereign. By the way, our misunderstandings of His sovereignty don't change His sovereignty. Our misrepresentations of his sovereignty don't change his sovereignty. Our resistance to his sovereignty doesn't change his sovereignty. He rules, he reigns, he's working in our lives. It's one thing to affirm this principle, and it's yet another to understand it experientially. And so one of my jobs as a pastor is what It's to teach you the Word of God so that when you start going through difficult times, you have some kind of foundation to work from. That that's my job, week in and week out. It's to teach the Word of God to shape your thinking So that your life is built on principle. But when your life is being built on principle in a thinking sense, there's a dimension that goes beyond what is taught. Do you understand? That's the experiential side. In other words, God takes what is taught, and the Holy Spirit begins to implant it into our heart, and he begins to stir up our heart, he begins to shape our thinking, he begins to mold our disposition. He's doing all this work inside of us. But there's another dimension that's even fuller and deeper than that. And that is the work of our sovereign Father. Who is working in our life. And so he's taking the word of God that's going into our heart and the Spirit of God who's working with the Word in our heart. And God the Father takes us through all these circumstances, and all of a sudden the knowledge takes on an experiential dimension. And that is how we grow. And that is how we mature. And that is how we grow to love our Lord. It's because what we know and the Spirit is working in us is now working in an experiential way. This is where vibrancy comes in the Christian life. And so God says, you've got to learn to trust me because I'm ruling and I'm reigning and I'm working in your life. The final fact, truth that I want us to see tonight, is that we have to be decisive in the face of uncertainty. Verse six He says, In the morning sow thy seed, in the evening withhold not thine hand, for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good. Basically, what he's saying is this: sometimes God puts you in situations that are outside of your control. And he says, learn. To trust Nate. What you can know, act on it. What you're responsible for, act on it. What you can't understand, what's outside of your control, guess what? Trust God with those things. That's what He's Let me be as practical as I can be about this. Get the information that you need to make an informed decision. You know, get the facts. Don't answer a matter before you hear it. Don't take a decision before you have the facts that are involved. Think carefully about the biblical principles that apply to that particular situation. Not looking for a proof text. Not looking for some internal impression. What are biblical truths that apply specifically to this particular scenario? Number three, don't take unreasonable or unnecessary risks. Now I'm not saying that you won't have to step out at times. But don't do it unnecessarily. Don't do it irresponsibly. Number four, don't expect your circumstances to be free from challenges. This is a fallen world When you take a job, you're going to have challenges in the job. When you get married, you and your spouse are going to have challenges. When you move to a new area, there's going to be challenges that are involved. When you go to college, when you start classes, all of these scenarios. When a person is thinking about who do I marry, there's going to be challenges to work through. That's life. It's a fallen world. You will not be able to make decisions with perfect smoothness in every single scenario. It's just not going to happen. Number five, don't expect absolute certainty of a positive outcome. God doesn't say, here's what's going to happen. Now go do it. He says, here are the truths that apply here. Make a wise decision and trust me. There's a difference between those things. We want absolute certainty, but God doesn't He wants us to learn to trust him. He wants us to learn to think through issues. He wants us to think and act biblically. Learn to trust God with what's outside of your control. But lastly, the one that really should resonate with us tonight is this: rest in the goodness of God. God is good. He's not against you, he doesn't hate you, he loves you. You're his child. Because he loves you and you're his child. He's going to work in your life. The bumps along the way, the challenges that you and I experience, and they're there. He's going to use them. For redemptive purposes. We've got to learn to trust him. We've got to learn to trust him. We're in the midst of tough circumstances. We've got to learn to trust him. When we have to step out and make a tough decision, we have to learn to trust him. When things didn't work out the way we wanted them to. And now we have to rely on him to help us work through what we're dealing with at the moment. God is good. We can rest in him. God wants us to manage our resources decisively and in a thoughtful and principled way. And I hope that the truths that we've talked about this evening will help you with that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. And then And we'll uh we'll we'll get our prayer sheets out and talk about uh what's on there. Father, please take the things that were presented this evening and use them for your glory. I pray that the principles, the truths that have been laid out would be helpful. Father, you know the specific situations that uh people that are here this evening Or have joined us on the live stream this evening or who will listen to this at another time in the week, you know what they're going through. Some of these things are very happy. Heavy and discouraging. And I pray that you would uplift us through your word tonight. Help us to remember that you are mysteriously and wondrously working in Our lives, and that you want us to go from a an academic knowledge of you to an experiential love and knowledge of you, a person Personal intimate relationship. Pray that you'd help us to grow in our walk with you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.