Turn with me in your Bibles to Ephesians chapter 2. And I hope that you have enjoyed us working our way through the book of Ephesians. This is such a a powerful, powerful book. It is full of so much rich content. And I I feel like when I get into these passages of scripture, there's so much that I want to say and uh there is so little time and I want us to really be able to focus on what is really the the the the primary point of what is in the text. And this passage in front of us is probably one of the greatest texts in all of Scripture to just articulate the simplicity of the gospel. And so if I was going to title this message, I might title it something like Salvation Plain and Simple. But I decided I'm going to do something a little different, and this is the title. It's Grace Alone. Faith alone, Christ alone, to the glory of God alone. That's what salvation is, plain and simple. Grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone, to the glory of God alone. Every single one of those pieces is here in the text in front of us. So we're going to look at verses 8 through 10 together for the main focus of the sermon, but I don't want us to miss the context, so let's go all the way back to verse 4. And uh really the context goes all the way to verse 1 of chapter 1, but we're going to start in verse number 4 of chapter 2, kind of work our way through what is here. Here's what it says. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love or with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins. Hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace we are saved. And has raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That in the ages to come, he might show us the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith. And that not of yourselves. It is a gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained. That we should walk in them. Let's bow together, ask the Lord to really help us to understand this very, very important text. Father, as we open up your word and as we dig into these truths, I pray that the Spirit of God would take the word And give us a clearer, a more profound understanding of these wonderful truths. They are simple, yet they're so deep, and they're so rich. And so I pray that this morning you would open our understanding to appreciate these wonderful truths. As I lay out this text, I pray that I would present it in a way that is consistent with the intent of the text. And that the Spirit of God would work. Bless the preaching of your word this morning. May you get the glory and may we may we be encouraged and changed by your word today. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. Passage in front of us deals with how our salvation is all the result of the grace of God. And he saves us through faith alone in the object of the person of Christ. And it's not Christ and, it's Christ alone. That's very, very important. It's not grace and it's not faith and it's not Christ and it's grace alone. Faith alone. Christ alone. And all of this redounds to the glory of God alone. Nobody in this room who is a Christian is a Christian who can boast in any way in something they have done for God. It is all the result of his kindness toward us in Christ. And so as we look at this text, I hope that we will see the need to rejoice in the greatness of the salvation. And the obvious obvious question we should ask is, well, how can we really do this? Well, we have to understand what the scriptures are saying here in order to do that. So Let's just work our way piece by piece through the statements that we find here. The first statement that we find emphasizes that salvation is by grace alone. Verse number eight, it says, By grace are ye saved. By grace are you saved. Grace is God's unmerited favor poured out on us because of what Christ has done for us. If it is grace, then it is in no way in part a part of work we do for God. The moment that you take an addition sign and you say, grace, and it's not grace. Christ and is not Christ. It's Christ alone. It's grace alone. And this is really the emphasis of this entire section of the book of Ephesians. We see in verse number eight that this is not of ourselves. Our salvation doesn't start with us. It starts with God. And he's really made that very clear in everything that he has said up to this point. It's free to us. And we see that in verse number 8 by saying, it is the gift of God. Now it's important for us to just pause for a moment and ask the question, are gifts free? The answer is, well, it depends on how you look at it. It's free to the recipient, but it's not free to the one who gives The one who gives pays for it unless they stole it. Okay? So if you go into the store and you steal something and you give it as a gift, well then you didn't pay for it. You'll pay for it later when they catch up to you. But when we talk about a gift, As you are given a gift, you don't say, well, you know, I'll pay you back a little bit at a time, or eventually I'll get back to you and I'll pay. No, no, no, no, no. A gift, by its very nature, is something that's free to you. You don't do the work for it. You don't pay the price for it. All you do is you receive it, and it's given by someone who cares about you and has paid for it in full on your behalf. That is what salvation is. It's a gift. And then to make it even clearer that it's grace and it's a gift, he says in verse number nine: it is not by works that we have done. Salvation is not through any work we do for God. It's not through any promises we make for God. Any commitment, I'm going to do this the rest of my life. That's not the way that we're saved. And then verse number nine, to just kind of like put the cherry on top, says, and it's all this way so that no man can boast in it. When you and I become Christians, that gospel message confronts the very core of our pride. It says, you want to give something, but God says nothing you give is acceptable. You want to pay for it, but there's no payment, there's no price you can give that's high enough. You 've simply got to accept that God does it all for you. And that's what salvation is. It is through the grace of God alone. He does the work. I'll put it in another way. The basis of our salvation does not fall in any part on several issues that some people in their minds think are a part of this understanding of the gospel. It is in no part a part of our tradition. It's a no-part result of money that we give. Listen to what it says in 1 Peter 1. 18. It says, you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold. From your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers. But with the precious blood of Christ as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. Now this passage makes it very clear. Your salvation was at a cost. The cost is Christ. His death, the shedding of his blood, it's not through us giving to the church. There are many, many people that they believe somehow I'm gonna go to heaven because I was a very giving person. I gave to the church, I gave to charitable uh places, I helped people go through college, didn't have the ability, I paid for my kids to go through uh Christian education, private education, whatever. I'm a very kind of I'm a very benevolent person. If I see a person that has need, I give to help them. And certainly that's going to go a long way to helping me earn my way to get to heaven. If that's how you think about salvation, you don't understand it You don't get it at all. There are many people that take comfort in the tradition that they were born into or they were raised into. But tradition and religion does not give you salvation. We aren't saved through tradition. We aren't saved through money. We are saved through the precious blood of Christ that was poured out for us. A second thing that is not the basis of our salvation is our ability to keep the law. And some of you go, well that's really a good thing, because I know I fall really, really short. But listen to what it says in Romans chapter 3, verse 20. By the deeds of the law, no flesh will be justified in his sight. For by the law is the knowledge of sin. There are some people in their mind they say salvation comes through giving money. Salvation comes through tradition or salvation comes through the law. Isn't that why God gave us the law so that we could do good, be good, know what he expects? And as we do good, we start kind of clearing the air where all the bad things are that we did. And so we wash those things away by doing good, right? Isn't going to heaven kind of like climbing a ladder and the better I do, the closer I get, and eventually, you know, Jesus makes up the difference. No, no, no, that's not salvation. Salvation does not come through our ability to keep the law. The Bible says all of us have sinned. All of us come short of the glory of God. There's not one just individual in all the world who who does good and does not sin. If salvation came through the law, we'd all be lost and we'd have no hope. We should be really glad salvation isn't through our ability to keep the law. And the third is our righteousness. A lot of people believe that the way that you go to heaven is you build up religious credentials. And every time you, we could say, plant those seeds of good things, we cooperate with God's help, and eventually we get what we want, salvation. But Titus chapter 3 verse 5 says, it is not by works of righteousness which we have done, but it is according to his mercy that he saved us. There's a reason I start with what it's not. Because there are many people who hold, and might I say, very genuinely in their hearts sometimes. They believe very sincerely that you go to heaven through tradition and money and obedience to the law of God and righteousness, and all of those things undermine grace. So what is salvation really? It is all the work of God done for us. It's not the work that we do for him. And we can see we could say the opposite of all of those things that I just mentioned. For instance, Salvation cut does not come through our obedience, rather Christ's obedience. Romans 5. 19. By one man's disobedience, many were made sinners. That's Adam So by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. That means your salvation doesn't hang on your obedience, it hangs on Christ's obedience. And then we think about our sacrifices, our ability to do good, and the traditions we follow. But what does the scripture say? Our salvation isn't rooted in our sacrifice, but rather his. Hebrews chapter 10 verse 10, we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Thirdly, it's through his triumph over death. 1 Corinthians 15, 58. Thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Not through our righteousness, but his. Philippians 3 9, that I might be found in him not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by Faith. So what's the point here? The point is that our salvation is 100% a result of the grace of God. It is his gift to us. It is his work for us. It is Christ's righteousness, not ours. It is Christ's obedience, not ours. It is Christ's sacrifice, not ours. Every single element of what gives you a right standing with God hangs on the work he did for you, not the work you do for him. Don't ever forget that. Salvation is by grace alone. Second thing, it is through faith alone. It comes to us through faith alone in Christ. He says, it is by grace we are saved through faith. I want to make a distinction here that I think is very important. We are saved on the basis of the grace of God through faith, not because our faith is somehow something that God says is meritorious. Faith in Christ alone means that God has established that this is the one and only way that people are reconciled to Him. Philippians 3. 9. It is the righteousness which is of God by faith. Romans 4. 6, it says, to him who worketh not but believeth on him who justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness. This is a really interesting verse. You know what it's telling me? It's telling me this. That when a person's mindset is, if I want to go to heaven, if I want to get forgiveness, if I want to get cleansing, then I've got to do this and do this and do this and do this. Jesus says All of those things are simply, we could say, righteousness that is filthy rags that fall short. The one who ceases from his labor to earn salvation from God and rests in what God has done for them, that's the one who receives this gift. And then in Romans 3. 23 it says that the righteousness of God is by faith unto all and upon all them that believe. Salvation comes to us not through the work we do, but reliance on the work he did. That's very, very important. Faith isn't something that merits God's forgiveness. Faith isn't something that impresses God. Faith is not a work that we do for God. Faith is simple dependence, trust, reliance on what he did for us. I want to break this down a little bit. Because the truth is that the Bible gives lots and lots of examples of, we could say, a visible example of what it looks like when a person understands I need salvation and they place their faith in Christ. Here's one, Luke chapter 18, verse 13. It's a man that cries out for mercy. He says, it says that the publican who stood afar off would not so much as lift his eyes toward heaven, but he smote upon his breast saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. That's an amazing statement. You know what it shows is? It shows that this is a guy that understands several things. Number one, God's holy I'm not. God 's righteous, I'm not. I don't deserve God's forgiveness. I don't deserve any standing before God. My only hope is the mercy of God. And you know what they say? They cry out and they say, God be merciful of me a sinner. That's where faith is. Faith isn't, hey, God, thanks for doing those things for me. Hey, look what I'm doing. Hey, we're going to work it out together. That's not faith. Faith, God be merciful to me a sinner. Christ did it all. I have no hope. It's only him. A second example, Romans chapter 10, verse 13. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. It says, with the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. Here is this person who is a sinner and he's separated from God and he's in deep trouble and he has no hope and he realizes my only hope is the Lord. And I believe that he has provided salvation. I call out to him, believing in my heart, and he saves. A third example. Luke 23, verse 42. Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom. He knows the story of the thief on the cross. Here is the Lord Jesus Christ. He's hanging on that cross. And there's a guy on this side of him, and there's a guy on that side of him, and they're all in miserable agony. And there are people that are down there at the foot of the cross, and some of them they're mocking him, and they're spitting at him, and they're saying, if you're the son of God, come off that cross. You know what that if you're the Son of God is, it's saying, we know you're not, and we know you can't, and we just want to mock you while you hang there in misery. The religious leaders did that. Even the Roman soldiers who didn't fully understand what they were doing. They didn't understand we are killing the Son of God. They're gambling over his garments. They're doing what they've done so many times. They were grisly soldiers who did this for a living. They killed people on crosses. And one of those, one of those men, after watching Jesus hang on that cross, hearing his words, Seeing his demeanor, seeing it become total darkness for several hours in the middle of the day. Hearing him say things like, Father, forgive them. They don't know what they're doing. That man looked at the other man and he said, What are you talking about? We deserve to be here. He doesn't. You know what he's saying? He's not saying if you're the son of God. He says, I know you're the son of God. And so I have a request for you. Remember me when you come into your kingdom. That man understood that's the savior. I'm a sinner. I deserve to be here. He doesn't He is the only one that can save me. By the way, he understood there is a resurrection coming too if he says, remember me when you enter your kingdom. And so what does he do? He cries out. The fourth example, Romans 4, 3, Abraham believed God, it was counted unto him for righteousness. God gives these covenant promises to Abraham, and a part of that promise that God gave to Abraham is redemptive promise. Through your seed, all the nations of the earth are going to be blessed. You say, what's that all about? He's talking about the Savior, the Messiah. And here is Abraham, who realizes he has no children. He realizes that this is humanly impossible, but God has said it, and he goes, well, you said it, I'm going to accept that. I'm going to take you at your word. Abraham believed God, and he counted it onto him as righteousness. I'll give you one final one that I think is very interesting. And that is what we read in Mark chapter 10, verse 15. It says, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child. He shall not enter therein. Whoever does not receive the kingdom as a little child will not enter therein. And you know what? Salvation, faith, is simple, childlike trust. What is faith? I'll give you a real simple definition. It's choosing to take God at His Word from the heart. He said it. I'm convinced of it, and I'm going to take action on it. Believing what God has said. It's choosing to take him at his word from the heart And faith involves three aspects of who we are. The first part is our mind. You have to know facts. This is very, very important. When we talk about salvation, we talk about the gospel. The Christian claim is not that there's a lot of ways out there that are acceptable ways, and you just kind of pick the one that you like. Okay? That's not what the gospel is. The gospel is that God made promises to humanity, and these promises have been made and they have been reaffirmed and they've been confirmed for thousands and thousands of years. And throughout all of that history, people who took God at his word and were looking for the Savior believed that God was going to fulfill that promise and send a real man, Jesus of Nazareth. He's God in the flesh, he's gonna go to the cross, he's gonna die for our sins. I'm not saying they understood every single detail of that of that simple equation. But I'm a sinner. I need a savior. God's sending the savior. I believe that. I'm looking for that. I'm waiting for it. There was real content to that message. And then Christ comes and he confirms what he said. This is a real event in history. Jesus of Nazareth was a real person. We can read about him not just in the Bible, but we can read about him in secular history. Even people who rejected that he's the Messiah, they know he lived. They know he died, and they know that his followers believed to such a level that he had risen from the dead that they were willing to die as martyrs for that conviction. And so when we talk about the gospel, our mind has to understand a couple of very basic principles. Number one, I'm a sinner. And because I'm a sinner, I have no right to have access to a holy, righteous God. My sin stands between me and him. I have to accept that. Number two, I have no hope in myself to remove my sin. I can't do it. I can try. I can turn over a new leaf, I can present myself differently, but I cannot change fundamentally who I am and what I've done. I can't do it. Number three, God did something for me that nobody else could do for me, and that is Christ came and he died. And he died on the cross for my sin. My sin was placed on him. He was punished in my place. He rose triumphant from the dead. Through his sacrifice, I can be redeemed to God. He conquered death. He rose from the dead. That really happens. And God says If you'll turn to me and place your faith in Christ alone, you will be saved. I got to know that in my head. You cannot place faith in a message you don't have in your head. You've got to hear the gospel. Now I want to pause for a moment and say this. Just because you understand the basics of the gospel doesn't mean you figured everything out there is to figure out about God. Okay? You need to be willing to come to terms with that very simple basic message. This is true, and I am willing to accept that. But it's not just about having an intellectual knowledge of these facts. The gospel isn't just told to people, it's preached to them. That means that when the gospel is coming, it's not like, hey, let me tell you what Jesus did. It's kind of nice to know that, isn't it? Like, well, it's really nice to know that. So is there more to it or not? Yeah, there is. You have to accept it. You have to be humbled in your heart and recognize you have no other hope. It's him alone. You've got to come to terms in your heart with what the Bible says to be true about you and Christ and the only way of salvation. In other words, it's not just about knowing the facts of the gospel in our head, but it's humbly accepting these facts and the personal implications of them in the heart. There are lots and lots of people who are not Christians, and you know why they're not Christians? It's because they're not willing to come to terms with what the Bible says to be true about them. I know the Bible says I'm a sinner. I don't believe it. I want to accept it. I know the Bible says that my righteousness is filthy rags. My righteousness is plenty good, and God's going to have to accept it. You mean Jesus is the one and only way? That's too exclusive. That's too harsh. I don't like that. Well, you're not God. He's God. He makes the terms, not us. Are you going to come to terms with what he has said in his word? Are you going to allow the truth of the message to break down your stubborn, proud heart and you accept what it says to be true about you and not just you, about all of us? Every sinner is a sinner saved by grace. And so it's not just the mind, but the heart has to come to terms with the implications of this message. Has to be willing to accept it from the heart and desire to be rescued by God from their sin. And then there's a third aspect to this. And that is the will. We have to choose the person rely on what God has offered for us in salvation. It's interesting when the Bible says repent and believe, repent and believe, it's given as a command. God commands all men everywhere to repent. That means he doesn't just say it's a nice thing if you do this. He says, if you don't, that's rebellion against your creator. He calls us to humble ourselves, to turn to him, and then childlike faith depends on what he did for us. What is faith? It's understanding the facts of the gospel in our minds. It's embracing them from the heart and then choosing to rely on what God's done for you. And it's a very simple question. Have you placed your faith in Christ? Alone. Not Christ and Christ alone. The very moment you put a plus sign, you negate grace You negate gift. And might I even add, you tell God Christ's sacrifice wasn't good enough. In Galatians, he says, if righteousness can come through the law, then Christ, he died in vain. There's no purpose for his death if it can come through some other means. Third thing I want you to notice is that salvation is to the glory of God alone. I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying here. I'm not suggesting that you and I don't enjoy the benefits of the gospel because we are not going to hell. And we are forgiven and we are made right with God and we can enjoy him forever. I'm not suggesting that. But what I'm saying is this when we examine this gospel message, there is one final appropriate conclusion. All glory goes to God, not me. All glory goes to God, not the person who brought the message to me. All glory goes to God because He is the author and finisher of our faith. He does it all for us. We simply receive it by faith alone. And so in verse number 10 he says this, we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works. Which God hath before ordained. We should walk in them. There are four statements I want you to notice here that are important. The first one is this: that we are his workmanship. What does the word workmanship mean? What's kind of interesting is that that Greek term that's used there is actually the term that we get the English word poem from. Okay? So if you look at the Greek text, it's almost a transliteration of the word poem. And we know what a poem is. A poem is a work of art. It's something that's being crafted by someone who's very skilled in their use of language. They're very skilled in and being able to present well, maybe we're not all equally skilled when it comes to writing poems. Okay. Some of us aren't past roses are red and violets are blue. I know we just had Valentine's Day and Maybe some kids got to prove their poem skills. I don't know. To mom, hopefully, right? So, anyway, when we write a poem, it's a work of art, if we're good at it. We're shaping it. We're crafting it. We're thinking about how to how to prov how to present these beautiful images that make people think. And so when the Bible speaks of us as his workmanship, our lives are a work that he's doing. He takes us these broken creatures and he draws us to himself and he rescues us from eternal destruction And he makes us new creatures in Christ, and he begins to shape us to look more and more like Christ It's an absolutely amazing thing. When he says we are his workmanship, he's indicating that he is actively, personally molding and shaping our lives. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? And by the way, if our lives have been an absolute, we could say train wreck, And God saves us and we begin to see and put all these pieces together, we can really see it. We see his mercy, we see his grace, we see his kindness, we see how active and personal he's working in our lives. It's all there. We're his workmanship. The second phrase we see is created in Christ Jesus. This creative work that he is doing is found in only one position, and that is in Christ. This applies to the Christian, the believer. Think back to Romans chapter 8. He says that all things work together for good to who? To those who love God. To those who are called according to his purpose, whom he for know, he predestined, he conformed to the image of his son. And he talks about how God uses all these things in our lives and he weaves them together to paint this beautiful picture. What's beautiful about it is what God's doing. Not the pieces that He's working with. It's what He's doing Even some of our most painful circumstances, God is able in his grace to take those things and use them to bring something good out of them. Only God can do that. Even those m those seasons where we are stubborn and we resist God, when he humbles our heart and he's actively working our life, he can use those things to bring glory to himself and to shape us more and more into the image of Christ. It's like a person who's gotten saved out of a very rough life. Well, guess what? You're not the first, and you're not going to be the last. And there are other people in this world that they're in the same kind of circumstances you found yourself in before you were a Christian, and they say, I cannot be saved. God has nothing for me. And in their mind, the church is for the good people. I'm a bad person, not for me. And here you are, and you say, you don't know who I was before I became a Christian. You don't know how I thought. You don't know what I said. You don't know how I lived. You have no idea what my worldview was, but I'm telling you that the same God who saved me can save you. The same God who's made me a totally different person than I was, he could do that in your life. Or you have this young Christian and they're beginning to grow and they're feeling the pains and the struggles of growth. You come alongside them, you say , I remember being that same position you're in. You lift them up, you encourage them, you strengthen them. What's amazing is God can even take those really low seasons in our life and he can use it to bring goods. Does it make it good? It means he used it for good. Create in Christ Jesus unto good works. The result of our salvation in real time. is that we begin to see this progressive change, transformation, growth into Christ-likeness. And I love this last little statement because it's so important. God has beforedained. Now here's what he's saying here This statement takes us all the way back to the beginning of our salvation. And here's what he's saying. From the beginning to the end. This salvation is a full package. And it all celebrates the glories of the grace of God, his mercy, his love, his power. It's all being displayed in it. For instance, look back at verse 4. Chose us in him before the foundation of the world that we should be holy and without blame before him. Verse number five, he predestinated us unto adoption. Verse number eleven, he predestined us according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. Verse number six, it's to the praise of the glory of his grace. Verse number twelve, what we should that we should be to the praise of his glory. And what do we see in these verses? He says, we're his workmanship created in Christ Jesus unto good works which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. He's saying all your salvation is a result of the grace of God. And you and I, as we live in real time, the most visible immediate evidence That everything that's stated in this text is true is the working presence of the Spirit of God in our lives. Can you feel the forgiveness of sin? No. Can you feel what it means to be declared righteous? No. Can you feel these things? You can't But you know what you can feel? The immediate work of the Spirit of God when He indwells you as a Christian. And it's very interesting how he puts it in verse 13. After you believed You were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession. This is a very interesting point. When you got saved, God forgave you, God cleansed you, he declared you righteous, you are his child. But a lot of the we could say the visible experience of those things is is coming down the road. Doesn't mean they aren't true, but you're not seeing them You're not experiencing them in an experiential way, but what you do experience is the work of the Spirit that drew you, that convicted you, that pointed you to the truth. The Spirit of God who now indwells you as a believer, who's working in your heart as we grow, what are we reminded of? This is just the beginning of what God is doing in my life. This is just the beginning of that experience that I'll have for all of eternity. As we learn, as we're reminded of all these little things, what are we doing? We're seeing that God is at work in us. As we experience the comfort, the conviction, his love, we're reminded that he loves us, he secured us, and he's going to give us all things. That's really important. You know why it's so important that you're in the Bible, week in and week out, day after day? Because as you read the Bible, you know what the Spirit of God does? The Spirit of God who indwells you. He takes the truths of Scripture and He takes those things and He makes them press into our souls And when you're reading the scripture, the Spirit of God drives that truth home and you experience something in your soul. The work of the Spirit. It's so important you listen to preaching. Why is that? Because when the Word of God is being presented and you feel conviction, you feel comfort, you feel wonderment and awe, and you feel all these different things. That is a result of the Spirit of God taking the word of God and He's using it in your heart. When you grow and you mature and concepts that you did not fully understand and you will never fully comprehend, but you grow in your understanding of them and who you are as a person, it's being visibly changed. The people around you can see you're not the same person that you are. Guess what that does? It gives us a a little reminder that the Spirit of God, the down payment has been given to us and all the stuff that's talked about in Ephesians 1 and 2. It's true about us. It's true on the days that you feel it strongly. It's true on the days you don't at all. It's true. But the Spirit of God was given to you to drive home these truths. We are forgiven sinners who are works in progress. The work in progress isn't how we become Christians. It's how people can see the evidence of the change that's taking place in us on a day-by-day basis. And our God is a God who loves to work on his people. Think of some examples. Ecclesiastes 3. 11. He that's God hath made everything beautiful in his time. He has set the world in their heart so that no man can find out the work of God from the beginning to the end. You know what's really interesting about life? At certain moments in our life, we feel as if God isn't there and everything's falling apart, but then we step back time later and we see that God's hand was involved in all kinds of stuff. And we're like, I didn't feel it then, but it was going on, and now I see it. That's the way God works. Think about the story of Judah in Jeremiah chapter 18. I love this text. God tells the prophet, he says, go down to the potter's house and watch what he's doing. And so it says that I went down to the potter's house and behold He wrought a work on the wheels, and the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hands of the potter. So he made it again another vessel as seemed good to the potter to make it. And this is what's interesting. God says to Jeremiah, do you not understand I can do that with these people right here? Why is that? Because he's a God who takes personal interest in people's lives. And he takes us And he molds us. And he shapes us. And sometimes he's got to be a little bit firm, and sometimes he's got to be gentle. And as a perfect God, he knows everything about how to work in our lives. He does this. We're his workmanship. And then I think of 2 Corinthians 3, verse 18. He says that we are changed. into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. If you're a Christian, God is doing this work in your life right now. On the days you feel it and on the days that you don't. It's true. He's doing it. He's consistent. He's faithful. So that moves me to the final question. How do we apply what we've heard this morning? I want to ask first of all a question. When you stand before God on the judgment day, and by the way, that's not a hypothetical question. It says, it is appointed unto man once to die after this judgment. Not a hypothetical question. We're all going to stand before God someday. What hope do you have? What are you resting in? What are you standing on? What are you relying on to give you a standing with a holy righteous God? If your confidence rests in anything other than Christ alone, you have a serious problem. And that problem is you don't understand the gospel, you are not a Christian, you need to be born again. Now I know that's very direct, but it's true. It's true because God says it's true. If in your mind you are resting on Christ and baptism, church membership, giving to the church, doing kind things. Being a good person, guess what? You're not saved. You might be the kindest, most benevolent person that you know. Salvation doesn't come through what you do for God. It comes through what he did for you. While all these things are good and when understood properly, they have no power to save us from sin. We must recognize that salvation comes one way by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone, to the glory of God alone. There's no other way And so, my simple encouragement to you is this: turn to Christ and place your faith in Him today. That is the simplest application if you don't know the Lord. Second question. When we experience moments of weakness and doubt, and by the way, as Christians we do, it's not like when you become a Christian, you never struggle with any other area in your life again. I I did I know I'm saved and I'm never gonna have another doubt in my mind and there's never gonna be this question that pops up into my head and I'm gonna go, oh yeah, I'm I'm saved. I don't even think about that. The truth is that some of us, very introspective by nature, things pop into our head. We start going down a rabbit hole, and all of a sudden we start getting shaken. When we experience moments like that, what do we do for confidence? Let me give you some encouraging things to think about. One is this focus on the nature of salvation. It is all of grace and free. One of the reasons that sometimes we get shaken in our hearts is because we forget, we know, but we forget it's all of grace. It's free. We start thinking about those moments or we have fallen short. We start thinking about our weakness. We start thinking about our failure. We start comparing ourselves to other people. And instead of us thinking salvation is a gift, it's grace. We start allowing what we know to be true to become less dominant in our thinking. Focus on the nature of salvation. Number two, focus on the basis of that salvation. The basis of your salvation is not the strength of your faith. It's the work of Christ. It's all in his work, his sacrifice, his resurrection. His righteousness, his obedience. We are connected to the benefits of the gospel through faith, but the basis of salvation is his work. Never forget that. Number three, remind yourself of the simplicity of faith. Do you know the facts of the gospel? You say, of course I do. Well, rehearse them to yourself. You know those facts. Have you felt the weight of your sin and desire to be reconciled to God? You say, of course I have. That's why I'm concerned about this issue. Have you called on the Lord to save you? I have. Well, does God lie to you? Is he trying to trick you? No. He says, with the heart we believe, and the mouth confession, whosoever shall call in the name of the Lord shall be saved. If you, understanding the gospel, desiring to be reconciled to God, have called on the Lord for salvation, He saves you. It's that simple. These are the elements of real faith in Christ alone. God has drawn you and convicted you, and you've rested in it. Stay there. Don't doubt it. Look at the evidence of the Spirit of God working in your life. When you feel the conviction of sin as a Christian, That's just a reminder that you got the earnest of the Spirit. When you're growing and when the Spirit of God's working in your heart as you open up the Bible, as you sit in a sermon, what is that? It's a reminder that the Spirit of God indwells in you and He's working in you. Third question. When we think about our salvation, who gets the glory? Don't ever say, I'm just glad I was smart enough to become a Christian. Don't do that. It's by grace alone. It's not of ourselves. The gift of God. It's not of works. Lest any man should boast. We have no room to boast save in one person, that's Jesus. And we have no place to glory save in his grace. And his cross, and his resurrection, and his righteousness. The truth is there are a lot of Christians that honestly They know the gospel, they're truly saved, but they don't live day in and day out like they really believe God gave them a gift, and it's all a result of his grace. They live like they somehow earned it. They look down at other people around them and why can't they get it together like I can? They need to get a little more. God be merciful, be a sinner. And then a little less. I thank you. I'm not like other people. We can be truly saved, but not living like it day in and day out. My challenge is very simple. Let's rejoice in the greatness of this salvation. Let's bow for prayer With every head bowed and every eye closed before we close in prayer, my simple question is this. Is there someone here this morning that say Brother Joel, I've never trusted Christ. Like you described today from the Bible. By grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone, I've always thought Christ and And today I realize it's Christ alone. I need to be saved. I need to trust Christ. Is there anyone that would quietly raise your hand and say, that's me? I need to do that today Today. I'm not going to call you out, not going to ask you to come forward, not going to ask you to speak to anybody. I simply want to see that. So I know that God's work in your heart. Anybody like that at all? Anybody at all? I see that. Here's what I'm going to encourage you to do there in your seat. When I close in prayer, you tell God what you learned today from His Word. Tell them that you learned that you're a sinner, that your sin separates you from God, and you know it's true. Tell him that you know that Jesus died for your sins and rose from the dead, and you want to be reconciled to God to what he did. And just simply ask him to save you. If you want to say, God be merciful to me a sinner, I believe that'll work. With the heart, one believes unto righteousness. There is no special prayer that the Bible gives us. There's no magic formula. It's faith alone in Christ. Plus nothing. Him alone. There in your seat. Ask the Lord to save you. And if you do that, maybe come by and tell me that. Someone on the live stream saying, maybe you need to trust Christ, do that. Let's bow together for a prayer. Our Father, I thank you for your word I thank you for this message. Ephesians 2, 8 to 10. What an awesome text. I pray for those who have acknowledged today that they need salvation. I pray that they would turn to you in their hearts and place their faith in you. That today would be the day they experience the transforming work of the Holy Spirit in their life. I pray that every one of us in this room would be thoroughly encouraged and blessed by what we have heard. Your word is so powerful. It is so sweet. And it is so God exalting. May we leave this place with hearts that are lifted up in praise to you. And I pray that as we go into this week, our hearts would continually remind ourselves of what Jesus has done for us. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.