Open with me to uh 1 Chronicles 21. 1 Chronicles 21. As we are wrapping up the story of David, uh we got a couple more weeks left. But as we remember past last week, Pastor really started preparing us to start thinking about what was going on, why so much had been happening, and ultimately we are pointing to the temple. And that's really what we're going to focus on this week is how they got to the landing point of where the temple would be at. And if we were to sum up the sh the story very, very briefly, is that just as we saw in previous chapters, we think way back to 2 Samuel with chapter 11 and 12 with Bathsheba and David, is that Through sin and through David 's inabilities, God was working something out. God worked out Solomon through David and Bathsheba. And through the sin we're going to see here, we're going to see God prepare the location for the temple. One of the ways we're able to see that he's able to do that is Here. So let us read 1 Chronicles 21, 1 through 8. And Satan stood up against Israel and provoked David to number Israel. And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go number Israel from Beersheba even to Dan, and bring the numbers of them to me, that I may know it. And Joab answered, The Lord may the Lord may well The Lord make his people a hundred times so many more than they be. But my Lord the king, are they not my Lord's servants? Why doth the Lord inquire require this thing? Why will he be a cause of trespass to Israel? Nevertheless, the king's word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed and went throughout all Israel and came to Jerusalem. And Joab gave the sum of the number of the people unto David, and all they of Israel were a thousand thousand and a hundred thousand men that drew sword. And Judah was 400 threscore and 10,000 men that drew sore. But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them, for the king's sword was abominable to Joab. And God was displeased with this thing. Therefore he smote Israel. And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly because I have done this thing, but now I beseech thee. Do away the iniquity of thy servant, for I have done very foolishly. Let 's pray before we jump into this. Father, thank you for the word we have here, the encouragement that we're able to see that while sin abound, your grace did much more abound. And Father, help us not to miss that as we look here at the life of David, as we are drawing things to a close, we see that how he dealt with sin, that we may be similar in that, that we are ready to repent and turn towards you. Father, we also just pray that as we look here, that those will be listening will have soft hearts to hear your word and be shaped ultimately to your image. Give me the words to speak. Praise His precious holy name. Amen. If we were to summarize this passage, I would describe it as in David's sin and God's judgment. The author's focus was on how God's grace provided a future, permanent location for the temple, a place of grace for future generations. Even more so, I would say one of the things that we are to be reminded of is that God reminds us through his grace and he has a perfect plan. Remind us to rest in his grace and his perfect plans. A lot's going to happen as we work through here. And I always want us to come back and remember that part of what's working through here is God's grace. It's going to be hard. It's not going to be easy. There's going to be some judgments. And we're going to ask why and different things that are going to go on, but ultimately we have to remember at the very end that God's grace was shown. Why and what it's able to do. And ultimately his perfect plan. The first thing we're going to end up seeing, though, is Israel and David's failure in God's judgment. If you notice right at the very beginning, it says Satan stood up against Israel. The very first person we see in this chapter is not the person we would expect to see. If you really think about what's been going on, it seems like David's been having victories. We've had some things going very well. And it comes to and Satan. How often in our lives that we can look at this passage, that we can think about that when things are going well, something comes along that makes it not as well. We try and point fingers and we may ask God why. It comes here first and foremost that it says Satan stood up against Israel to number Israel. And provoke David to number Israel. One of the things here we also can think about is it has provoked David. David ultimately did have a choice. He conceded to the temptation. He gave in to what was going on. He he had no problems. He turned around and just handed things over and conceded to Satan. We know it comes from Satan. One of the interesting questions though is why do we think why do we say David sinned through this? The Lord was very upset. Verse 7 says, God was displeased with this thing, therefore he smote Israel. But if we look through here, nowhere do we understand why David numbered the people, what was wrong with that. We know in other passages and numbers in Exodus that the people were numbered. We actually will know later that during the building of the temple under Solomon, the people were numbered again. But none of those were labeled as sin. And while the Bible does not say exactly why he had sinned or why they considered it sin , We can make some pretty strong conjectures to what that may be. And I think the most obvious one is who prompted it was Satan. That it was David's pride. Not leaning upon God. We're going to talk a little bit about that coming up in a little bit. But one of the interesting things is this passage, if you were to read through it, we're not going to outlay it today, but if you were to read this and lay side by side with How David dealt with David and Bathsheba, that passage there in chapters 11 and 12, you're gonna see a lot of parallels. Down to even that someone says, hey, hey. Maybe David, that's not a good idea. Joab, the ruler of the people, said he said to go number the Israel, Beersheba, even to Dan, and bring the number to me, and that may know it. Joab says, The Lord make his people a hundred so many more than they be, but my lord, the king, are they not my lord's servant? Why then dost thou my lord require this thing? I find it very interesting. Of all the people To say, David, this is not a good idea. It's Joab. One of the guys with the most shadiest background in the whole story as we read through the story of David. Joab is the first one to say, David, this is not a good idea. But one of the characteristics you should recognize about Joab is he can read David better than anybody else. He knows that something's not right here. It doesn't belong. So Joab begins pointing, saying this is not a good idea. So you can see that Joab fails to deter him. He works and he tries and doesn't succeed. But I also want us to point out what Joab says. The So in verse 3. The Lord make his people a hundred times so many more than they be. Think about what he's saying. Think about what he's pointing to God and how powerful our God is, is that David, what mattered this number? He says it's 100, David says it's 110,000. He could make it a hundred times more. This number is nothing. I find of all the people to point out to David, how powerful is our God, it's not David, but it's Joab that sees it. What a powerful story here that Joab is the one that's working through it. And God was displeased with this thing, and he smote Israel. Now, if your Bible has a little marker in it next to mine, you'll notice it will say 2 Samuel 24, and I want to deal with what we're going to call a hard passage. 2 Samuel 24 doesn't use the a unique word. It's a very similar story. There's many similarities. Almost a parallel chapter 2, and it says, The anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them to say. Another way of having to use the word move there is he incited David or tempt David. And we need to work through something right before we get into this passage about what temptation is, where it comes from, and the purpose behind it. Because temptation is a regular part in our lives. And how we handle it is going to change things very drastically. And we need to turn and say, what is God doing? And we're going to use Not exhaustive. By no means am I doing exhaustive, but I want us to pause for a moment and ask a very simple question. Does God tempt us? Because that's what it looks like, 2 Samuel says, does God tempt us? The answer to that is a simple no. If we were to look at Scripture, one of the first things we can see is where it comes from. There's two locations. First one is from within. James 1, 13, 14 Let no man say that he is tempted. I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. So we already know there's a verse that says, no, we are not tempted by God But it doesn't stop there. But every man is tempted, and when he's drawn away of his own lust and enticed Something within David enabled him to turn away from God. We can look at this passage here in 1 Chronicles and say maybe it was pride. The other side of that is if it's not from within, it also could be from without. 1 Peter 5. 8. Be sober, be vigilant, because your adversary, the devil, is a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour. We know that there are two locations that sin can come from. So we have to ask the question though, dealing with that, what is the purpose of temptation? Or as challenging of a word, as a unique word that is English sometimes we always have a negative connotation for temptation. But it doesn't have to be negative. Temptation, another word that we could use for it would be trial, test. When we look when God allows temptation or When Satan comes along to test us and tempt us, we need to ask what is the purpose of what's going on? The first and foremost, we have to realize that sin, the temptation is not sinful. I think it's very important to talk about that, that temptation is not sinful. If we were to say that temptation itself is sinful, then Jesus sinned. He was tested in the wilderness, tempted. So we have to understand first that temptation is not evil, but it is going towards a purpose. There's an intent that God allows things in our lives that we can turn to Him. And ultimately, the first and most important purpose of temptation is to rely on God. Rely on His Word. Or if we don't, rely on ourselves, as I would like to say David did, we fail. 1 Corinthians 1013, there is no temptation that is common to man, but God is faithful. Who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able, but with temptation also make a way to escape that ye may be able to bear it If we think about the way of escape, if we were to use what Jesus' example in the wilderness, the way of escape is through his word. He always Jesus always turned back to his word when temptation Satan came, he says, he quoted back scripture. In the same way in our lives, when temptation comes We cannot rely on our own strength, but have to rely on God and His Word. That we may pass. And if we pass , There's a second benefit. To mature the believer. Neither one of these, I'm going to have two verses on the screen, but it says James 1, 2 through 4, and 1 Peter 1, 6, and 9. I'm going to read. James 1, 2 through 4. My brethren, count all joy when you fall into divers or various temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh, patience. But let patience have her perfect work that ye may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. God allows Satan into our lives. To tempt us, to draw us away, to sh to show that we need him, that we cannot do it on ourselves. I think it's so if we look at Job, that's one of the great stories of Job, is that Job the whole time was being tempted by Satan and he did not turn away. He wanted to turn towards God. We can see that the same story happens in our lives. We cannot miss that. So where does this fit? Why is there the difference between 1 Chronicles and Samuels? And I want to refer remind us something that Pastor had said last week. And that is the purpose of the Samuels and the Kings compared to Chronicles. It's kind of coming, like I said, full circle of what's been going on. 1st and 2 Samuel and 1st and 2 Kings is a historical account. I almost like to think of it as a lawyer or not a lawyer, but in a court you have the recorder who just types away everything that happens. They're just typing away and filing everything as it happens. They don't know why, they don't know what's going on for the purpose, but they'll just say this is what's happening. And we'll see that it's I will extend that further and say it's to show the justification for God's judgments that come later. That's the whole purpose we see for the kings and Samuels. Chronicles written by post-exilic people, so people who are already coming back from Babylon, from Assyria, that are working their way back, they are writing this here. And it's almost like a biography. You're able to look back at somebody's life and you're able to say they did this for this reason. A historical account with a spiritual emphasis. Showing God's grace and God's redemption of his people. You'll note that if you were to read through Chronicles, certain details are left out, but other details are added pointing back to God multiple times. One of those is the temple. And how God's working and how God's preparing everything for the future. So we look at temptation, where it comes from, why it's happening. But ultimately we also have to recognize that David failed the test. He relied on his self instead of God and his word. Joab, by the way, gave a way of escape. I think Joab was that way of escape that we can read here in this passage. That he said, hey, David, not a good idea. He does it anyways. He fails. Just as with children, when they fail to do what is right, there are disciplines. Regardless of conceding, the temptation has a consequence. This judgment has twofold. I like that as we read through here, we're going to see that one of the first important parts is the seriousness of sin. Don't miss that. The consequence is going to point the seriousness of sin. But we're also going to see it's going to magnify the power of God's grace. Judgment's going to have the power to magnify God's grace because without judgment, grace is meaningless. If we were to pause and think for a moment, if we were not doomed for hell, what would Christ's death mean? Without judgment, grace is meaningless. So he comes along, verse 7, and God was displeased with this thing. Therefore he smote Israel. One of the characteristics that define David is the way he responds. Verse 8, he repents. And David said to God, I have sinned greatly because I have done this thing. But now I beseech thee, do away with the iniquity of thy servant. For I have done very foolishly. One of the things that makes David a man after God's own heart is he is very sensitive to the Lord. When the Lord starts moving in a certain way, he recognizes it. And he, a lot of times we think about, especially with sin, is he repents. He does not blame it on anybody else. If you were to read verse 8 with me, we're going to read through it again. I want you guys to count how many times a personal pronoun or reference to himself there are. For I have sinned greatly, because I have done this thing, but now I beseech thee, do away with the iniquity of thy servants. For I have done this very foolishly. I count five through the if you include the iniquity of thy servant referencing himself. Five times he says, it's on me, it's my fault, it's my fault, it's my fault. He doesn't say, well, you let Satan into the garden. He doesn't say it's Satan's fault that tempted me. He says, it's on me. He recognized where the problem began. And we're actually, if you were to compare 2 Samuel 24 and 1 Chronicles 21, One of the big differences you're going to see is that the author here spent no time getting to the heart of the message. Verse 8, David's repentance. Samuel spent time talking about how Joab went about, went through all the other, and it spends multiple verses. He doesn't do that here. Joab went out, he returns, David repents and gets right to the heart of the message. Because just as David repents And judgment begins. God's grace begins being extended. Actually, what I would even call that, our next thing we're looking at is God's grace extended. And we're going to see three instances that God's grace has extended through here. And it's going to be the most majority of this passage here, 9 through verse 30. The first grace extended, he offers a choice. And the Lord said unto Gad, David, the seer, David's seer, saying, Go until David, thus saith the Lord, I offer thee three things. Choose thee one of them, that I may do unto thee. So Gad came unto David and said unto him, Thus saith the Lord, choose thee. Either three years of famine, three months to be destroyed before thy foes, while the sword of the enemies overtake thee, or else three days the sword of the Lord Even the pestilence of the land and the angel of the Lord destroying throughout all the coasts of Israel. Now therefore advise thyself that I shall bring again him that sent me. The first thing we have to recognize is he's given a choice. I I remember this was not a story for myself, but I remember always hearing about an old the older generation that when their parents were told them to go out behind the shed and pick a switch off of the tree. And the story I always heard that was with that was when you had to pick out that branch there. You had more time to think about your punishment, and you had to think about whichever one you were going to go with, the the consequences with that choice One of the I read through here, what I see God doing is He's giving David, realizing the seriousness of his sin. He's going to give him a choice. And by the way, his choice, David recognizes the sin, the grace here. He David chooses it. Verse 13, we may look at that and go, neither, none of these are winners. But David picks the best one. He says, David said again, I am in a great strait. I have a tough choice before me. Let me fall now into the hand of the Lord, for very great are his mercies, but let me not fail into the hand of man. He says, three years of famine or three months sounds like man dealing with men, but three days I'm trusting in the Lord. David said, I'm gonna give control to God because that's ultimately who I need to be trusting in and having faith in. That God can work in the situation. That's the first grace. The second grace is punishment withheld. Verses 14 through 17. So the Lord sent pestilence upon Israel. And there fell Israel 70,000 men. And God sent an angel into Jerusalem to destroy it. But as he was destroying it, the Lord upheld and said, And he repented him of evil and said to the angel of the shoring him, It is enough. Stay now thine hand. And the angel of the Lord stood upon the threshing floor of Ornan, the Jebusite. And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of the Lord stand between the earth and heaven, having drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of Israel, who were clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces. And David said to God, Is it not I that commanded the people to be numbered? Even I it is that have sinned and done evil indeed. But as for these sheep, what have they done? Let thine hand I pray thee, oh my God, oh sorry, oh Lord my God, be on me and my father's house, and be not thy people that they should be plagued. Punishment comes in. The angel comes to Jerusalem ready. But God says, it is enough. Pause. One of the things you can see if we were to look at what was going on, what led to God having to say, stop , is verse 17. Verse 16 and 17. You have David and the elders of Israel who were clothed in sackcloth fell upon their faces. And David said to God, It is not I that commanded the people to be numbered. It is I that sinned and before evil indeed, but as for these sheep, what have they done? Let thine hand I pray thee, O my Lord, O Lord my God. Excuse me, wow Be on me in my father's house, be not thy people, that thou should be plagued. We're gonna see God comes here, he sends the angel, and there's a unique word, he repented. When we see he repented, oftentimes we think about a sigh. For ourselves, we think about the changing, a changing of direction. But when we look in these passages, when we see that God repented, there's a there's a silver, there's a thread that is consistent in all the passages. Someone intercedes. As one man put it, he said, eventually this repenting of God was recognized as an outstanding feature of his character through Joel and Jonah. Even so that we might appear as a changeableness in God that he it actually seems a quality of his unchangeable nature We see God in the story that He's going to punish, and He's going to punish, He's going to punish. He comes in, he's wiped out 70,000, and he comes to Jerusalem, and he stops. You go, why did God stop? He didn't finish what he said he was going to do. So God changed what he was going to do. And the answer to that's no. And yes, but no. He changed his response because he saw David and the elders interceding. That ultimately he extended grace to them. A characteristic that is seen over and over and over in David's life, in God's life, David's life, and God's working. David continually was interceding. A regular part. And by the way, if you look through here again, some of the unique language he says, and it's by the way, he keeps saying it's on me, it's on me, it's my fault. Take my death. Let me die for all of these people. By the way, I love the word that he uses. He remembers what it was like being a shepherd. He says, For these sheep, what have they done? It's on me. But just as that punishment was withheld, David, if I can say it this way, was not a qualified sacrifice. for him to die for everyone else. The third grace extended is the location of the temple chosen. Verses 18 through 30. We're not going to read through all of this, but I want us to read verses first few verses though. But then the angel of the Lord commanded Gad To say to David that David should go up and set up an altar upon the Lord in the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. And David went up, saying, Gad, which he spake the name of the Lord. Just having to read those two verses. We need to pause. I want us to recognize a couple things. One of the first ones is who was speaking to Gad. It says the angel of the Lord. We have a Generally, when we can see this ver these verses or these f words together, the angel of the Lord, we are typically seeing a title for a pre- incarnate Christ. We're able to see Jesus in the Old Testament, a theophany, as we may call it. Or sorry, Christophany. Let me correct myself. We're able to see here, but what we're able to look at this location is I want to think about this as a location of remembrance and God's provision. Multiple things happen at this location on the threshing floor. One of the first ones is unique that I did not see till studying this. And that's actually a prophecy fulfilled. Deuteronomy 12. Multiple verses, 5, 11, and 14. But I'm gonna read just verse 11 so you guys can catch this. That Moses was talking about an altar. And it says, then there will be a place which the Lord your God shall choose to cause his name to dwell there. Thither shall ye bring all that I command you, your burnt offerings and your sacrifices and your tithes and your heaves and your hands and all your choice vows which ye vow unto the Lord. Verse 11 right there says, there is a place that God is going to choose that offerings are going to be made. A prophecy begins being fulfilled Not yet entirely, but he says there. One of the unique things about where God tells David, it's the only location during the life of the kings. that God specifically says to build an altar until Ezekiel. So from Saul to Ezekiel, this is the first time God says, I want you to build an altar. There's a purpose. He wants him to go up there and he goes up here, but it's a location. This location is also, as I said, brings back remembrance of God's provision. As Pastor had said last week, and I want us to remind ourselves again that this location is the location of Mount Moriah. Genesis 22, where Isaac was supposed to be sacrificed. But God said, stop. Or if I can use the word that he told the angel, it is enough. And he looked up, and there was a ram caught in the thicket. And there was a substitute made for Isaac. We think about in this situation here. A sacrifice was going to need to be made, a substitute for the life of David and for the life of all the Israels that were going to die. If you notice one thing about the story where we stop so far is that the angel is still ready to strike. It says that he Uh verse 16, that he lift up his eyes and saw the angel of the Lord stand between the earth and heaven, having drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. The story doesn't finish there. And as they continue through the story, this location is a location of sacrifice and atonement. Later on it will say verse 26. And David built there an altar unto the Lord, and he offered burnt offerings and peace offerings and called upon the Lord, and he answered him with a heavenly fire upon the altar of the burnt offering. And the Lord commanded the angel, and he put his sword again into the sheaf thereof. The impending judgment was not over. until there was an acceptable sacrifice. Just if you read here, if you look here, David offers a burnt offering and a peace offering, and God accepts it in a dramatic fashion, fire from heaven consuming it. And it's with that sacrifice the judgment is appeased. That location is going to be for the temple. What better place to constantly be thinking about, my sins were here, I offer a sacrifice for my sins. This will happen over and over to realize the consequence for their sin. I like the way that 2 Samuel 24 verse 25 says. And David built there an altar upon the Lord, and he offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. So the Lord was entreated for the land, and the plague stayed from Israel. His wrath was appeased. But when we look at this, I hope your mind's jumping just the same place as I am, that wrath was impending for us. And it wasn't until the death of a worthy sacrifice that God was appeased It was read this morning. I'm going to read it again. Isaiah 53, verses 10 and 11. I'm not reading all the verses, the entirety of the verses, but just certain portions. Yet it pleased the Lord to breeze bruise him, he hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. Verse eleven. He shall see the travail of the soul and shall be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many Through the worthy sacrifice was God's wrath appeased. Not anything that David did. It was not anything the elders or anyone could do on their own. It was on God 's. We look at the story here and through the temple, and we can See a lot of challenges. God's working. But ultimately we can see through here that there is punishment in the sin, but God's grace is the center of the story. If you look at it one through eight, very little is spent on the judgment. But once we get to verse nine, you start seeing God's grace little by little by little It's not the same in our own lives that as we are able to work through here, we're able to see, we look back and we can say, oh, things were hard. I made mistakes here. Things were wrong. But we can always look back on God's grace little by little by little. So how do we apply this message? First thing I want us to do is we need to recognize just as it is, the understanding the seriousness of our sin. We can see the way the consequences were. And David recognized it. I have sinned greatly. I have done very foolishly. He recognized his sin. Through God's grace, He's able to help recognize the seriousness of it. You know, when sin is in our lives, means there's judgment. We need to be sensitive to God's judgment and be ready to repent. Not much is said about verse 7. It says, God was displeased with this thing and he smote Israel. And David said to Gad, immediately he turns saying, what have I done? He was ready to turn and repent. One of the things, though, we also need to recognize is the responsibility of leadership is serious. David's sin did not just affect him It affected many around him. We will look at our churches, our government, our families. Our leadership matters. If we were to focus just on our families, what mom and dad do affects their children. Exodus talks about the sins of the Father into the third and fourth generation. There's consequences for what we're going to deal with and how we handle it. But thankfully the story doesn't end there. The judgments in our lives are there for God's grace to shine through. I want to say that Romans 5. 21, that sin reigneth into death, even so might grace reign through the righteousness unto the eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord. That we see the things that are going on in our lives, that we're able to turn to God and recognize that His grace is greater than our sins. By the way, that allows us to come boldly unto his throne. Hebrews talks about that because Christ has been tempted like we are, we can come boldly to his throne. And a storyline that is all too common, not just in the life of David, but in many characters to the Bible, that should be a gentle and gracious reminder. God's able to use our lowest points in our lives to show his grace and his sovereignty. Just as David's sin, you look at the situation, if you were to stop in verse 8, even stop at verse 14, that 70,000 men fell. It would be a sad end of the story. But God's offering for grace was working to his plan. It went away that I do not believe that God was hoping it would have to go. But God prepared a place. A place that was the best option, better than David could have chosen. That every time they go into that offering, that they would be able to see the seriousness of their sin. And how great God's grace was, and it's greater than that sin. Let's pray. Father, thank you for today. Thank you for the opportunity we have to be here. And as we deal with these passages and we're able to see that judgment and the seriousness of sin is we've seen so many times over. But Father, even more so, just as great as sin is Help us to remind ourselves your grace is greater. That you love us and you care for us. Thank you for all that you do. Praise in his precious only name. Amen.