Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we'll get started with our service. Father, we are so very thankful that uh we can gather together as believers who Have the gospel and we stand righteous in Christ and forgiven and cleansed, and we are so very grateful that we have this treasured position. Father, I pray that tonight as we uh get into the Word of God that you would uh bless Brother Braxton as he opens the word, give him clarity, help him to preach the word in a way that uh is very simple and clear and will speak to our hearts and I pray that as we have opportunity to sing songs and as we share a few short testimonies, I pray that as a church we'd be very encouraged. We ask all this in Christ's name, amen. All right, good evening. Thanks so much for joining us. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to 343. 343. Springs of living water. We're gonna sing all three verses. Sing out this evening. Swinging as a printer with me, walling at the time , so the spring was within the body. It makes me like that because we can 't. I wanted the pain Be seated, turn back to hymn number 339. Heaven came down, and glory filled my soul. We'll sing all three verses. Oh but I'm not going to walk on the day I will never I don't know how to do And in the spring to bring them to the right. So often how I bring me how I can make me operate their name. Where I was at one , and we got that one people, wherever I believe , let it be grown and left in the burnable. Darling we are. And I think there was a way, and my eye was turned to the day I went down and cording till I know the room. Great singing. Let's turn back to hymn number 336. 336. My hope is in the Lord. We'll be singing all four verses. Of him number three hundred thirty six. Great singing this evening. Four eighty two But we're going to be able to do that. Great job, kids. Just remember, kids, our intelligence network. Forty three in the red book. Forty three in the red book. Great and mighty. Ah, what a good one. Braith and lightly, break and light with me. Can I go on work on my brain? Bring them on week. X two hundred and three in the box. Two hundred two, sorry. Jesus Fair So you need to start to do that. Uh all that you want to be around those alcohols, but And finally my anchor holes. This will be in the fly leaf. The second page of the fly leaf. Technical page third, but. My anchor holds. We'll sing the first and the last. Cashing that we're going to do. Oh there we go. I'm being Great singing, please be seated. Fifteen years ago, my wife and I came up to anchor. in the summer to visit the church and to see if this was the place that the Lord would have us to come and work. We were not yet married. We were coming to visit and And we were going to be getting married in September. And one of the things that really attracted me to Anchor was the fact that there was a history in this church of uh young men and uh I guess however you want to categorize that, guys who had uh finished Bible college, uh some of them had finished their seminary training, some of them were in the midst of seminary training. But they were men who desired to go into the ministry and they wanted to be involved in a ministry where they could both serve, be mentored, uh, they could they could be a blessing and also learn as we all make mistakes in in the early days. Well, all along the way, we'll just put it that way. And um so I'm very excited about uh having Braxton preach this evening. Um Um, I don't know if you guys remember uh Josh Zacharias, but he stayed uh in our prophet's chamber for a couple of months over the summer. He was helping with the church plan. Up in Baltimore and now he's in Australia. And right before Josh was heading back down to Pensacola where he's faced out of, um Chris and I were talking to him. And uh said, you know, Pastor Chris is getting ready to go into the chaplaincy and we're looking for an assistant. And so if you as you travel, of course he he's a missionary, travels all the time. If there's anyone that you meet that you think might be someone that we should reach out to or that would like to reach out to us, you know, connect us. You've spent some time in our church, you know what our church is like culturally, you know, um the preaching and and those kinds of things. And uh he said, actually I have a friend and I'd like to try to connect you guys. And so within a couple of days, um that was the first time that I was able to And so I'm looking forward to having him preach tonight. I'm also looking forward to us uh getting to interview him after the service. And uh I've gone through a significant process myself, which I'm going to share with you during our meeting and kind of share with you some of those details. But I'm looking forward to having him preach. So Braxton, come on up and All right. Good evening. All right. Um, you know, Matt, that was uh that's my favorite hymn. So having to request um dwelling in Beulaland, that is one of my favorites and Even more so, which I find very encouraging, is that you guys really belt out on the praise God. Um back home when we do the Victory in Jesus, we get that part where he's um they yell sold, and I'm the only one in my church that does that. Growing up in the Midwest, that's a very big part of uh, I guess, camp ministry. would be just having to just yell out and bring be bring some life to the hymns. And uh this is very encouraging. So thank you, Nat, for having to request that If you guys would, though, open up to Psalm 16. Psalm 16. One Uh one summer I had the opportunity to live in um Montana, just right outside Glacier National Park. Absolutely gorgeous part of the country. If you ever chance to go, I would h highly encourage it just because um it is uh just a great gem. You get to see God's beauty, his majesty through it. Um but one of the things the family I was staying with, their backyard was a mountain back. And it was absolutely gorgeous. And I could see and I loved having to wake up in the morning and just look out the window and then boom, there was this wonderful mountain. Well, my wife and I were going back for a wedding a number of years later. And while we were there, we're kind of looking around. Um, we were driving from Spokane over for the wedding. And unfortunately the time of the year was not great. It was just very, very foggy. It was really overcast pretty well. Um, you just couldn't see much. And we got to my friend's house and I say back here And we look at the back window and there was just this wall of clouds that were pr you almost couldn't see any part of the mountain just because of the rain, different things like it. And the perspective was a little skewed. We couldn't see what we knew was there. Sometimes in life, things come the way that we we want to view God, we try and see him, but we can't quite see it through circumstances. Even more so I like to think about is when we look at men in the Bible, David, Moses, Joseph, all of them had this unique relationship with God. I don't know about you, but maybe growing up or while I was in college or something like that, I I read about these men and I was like, how do they get such a great relationship with God? How can I have a similar relationship? Maybe for you, maybe let's make it break it from the Bible. Let's make it a little bit more personal. Maybe it's you have a really close friend, a co-worker that seems like have this amazing relationship with God. There's pastors, maybe think of Pastor Rocher, and you think about how he has an amazing relationship with God and thinking, oh, I can never have anything quiet like that. Maybe it's your spouse, and they just have this very close-knit relationship. But one of the things that as we see, especially in the life of David, Is that he never he had a proper perspective of God's goodness. He always was able to really see God through the circumstances, through everything, and just focus on what was going on. So much to say though that one of the things that hinders that view of God, and I think this happened in David's eye from time to time with Sin. I think about First Timothy. Paul was writing to him and he says in First Timothy 1, 15 and 17, this is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation. that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of who I am chief. Paul recognized that he was a sinner. But is it end there? How be it? But for this cause I obtain mercy, that in me first Christ Jesus might show forth all long suffering, for a pattern to them. Which pattern them, which should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting, not into the king of eternal, immortal, invisible, the one and only wise God. Be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Paul, even though he had this recognition that he was a sinner, he still focused on what Christ, the gospel, had to offer. So much so that we can see that God wants you to have a proper perspective of his goodness. Sometimes it's hard to see. Do you The question tonight you could be asking yourself is, during my circumstances, is God good? Let's look at the passage here. Psalm sixteen. Preserve me, O God, for in thee do I put my trust. O my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou art my God, my goodness extendeth not to thee. But to the saints that are in the earth, and the excellent in whom all my delight, their sorrow shall be multiplied, that hasten after another God. Their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names to my lips. The Lord is the portion of my inheritance and of my cup. Thou maintainest my lot The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places. Yea, I have a goodly heritage. I will bless the Lord who hath given me counsel. My reigns also instruct me in the night season. I have the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand. I shall not be moved. Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoices. My flesh also shall rest in hope. For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Lust. Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy. At thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. Let us pray. Dear Father Lord, thank you today. Thank you for just the church and the encouragement, the the opportunity I've had to talk to him over the last few days. I pray that as I present this, that it just not be um a message from me, but it will be um a letter, a love letter to you f from you, Father, to these believers, that we can be encouraged. That they will see you and focus on you above all else. Praise the precious and holy name. Amen. The first thing I want us to note is how David begins the psalm. And it's just kind of a simple prayer. He begins with this idea of preserve me, O God, for in thee do I put my trust. He kind of he begins immediately saying, Lord, I need I'm trusting in you. I'm trusting in what you're doing. Preserve me. Help protect me from the different things that are needed. What's going on? A few passages that mention preserve. Now, preserve is a request for protection. In many aspects. It's not just a physical, it could be emotional, spiritual, just protection in general. But he says here in Psalm 37, 32, verse 7: Thou art my hiding place. Thou shalt preserve me from trouble. Thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah. He's our hiding place, protects us from trouble. He's hoping that, Lord, things are going on in my life. I'm trusting in you. Psalm 140, verse 4. Keep me, O Lord. From the hands of the wicked, preserve me from the violent man who had purpose to overthrow my goings. Satan's going to attack us, and he's going to seek us to destroy us. Lord, I we need your protection. It's not what I can do to protect myself, but it's what you are able to do. Even more so it's And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom, to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen. Paul knew that he to trust the Lord, he had to keep working and keep trusting and speaking to what he had to do. And he said, Lord, protect me for the job that you have at hand. How many say it focus on what you have? And anytime we go into any work, having to turn our eyes to God is going to be the key. And the first thing we see is having to protect the Lord. It's just this God is protecting. But it's more than just preserve me, O God. That's where it begins. Now, we're going to look at several things here, and it's going to each point is going to almost parallel with David's observation. This observation is not just something that I want us to say, like, all right well, this is David observing. I want you guys to put yourself in David's footsteps and say, can you observe a similar thing in your life? To help put yourself in perspective. David, for instance, was observing: O my soul, thou hast said unto the Lord, Thou art my God, and my goodness extended unto thee. But to the saints that are on the earth and to the excellent, in whom is all my delight. Part of my wonders I read through this is Um, there's not a period of time when it says David wrote this. It could have been older, it could have been younger, it could have been somewhere in the middle. But as I really kind of think through here and I'm reading, I wonder if David's sitting there shepherding and he's looking and he sees his brothers. And David's kind of, it seems like an outcast to his family. We definitely see several interactions where he is just kind of rejected. When you're rejected at work or anything like that, he's looking for a way to, he wants to be accepted by those people. And I think David's kind of recognizing that he wants to be accepted by them. But he recognizes at the same time though that while he's trying to maybe please his brothers, that God 's not overly pleased on what he how he's trying to go about this. So much so that he recognizes, he says, God, you're just gonna you're my God. I have to turn back to you. Keep trusting in what you are doing. He saw how shallow this observation was and how he could it didn't please God. So instead he had this reaction where he says, all right, let's respond. He goes, in Oh, sorry, wrong passage. Their sorrows. So he's seeing that, you know, my brothers, my family, the world, their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another God. Only truth can be found in you, God. Having to see what you are doing, how you are working, their drink offering of blood will I not offer. Nor take their names into my lips. He was saying, Lord, my lips will only be for you. Not the gods, the men around me, the nations around me, but only for you, Lord. He knew God was protecting him, and he was we see we definitely see that later as he's talking about with Saul, that he is, Lord, you protected me from the bear, from the lion. He you will do another work here. That 's because he recognized and he said, God's protecting me. He had this proper perspective of God's goodness and how he was working, even working with the sheep and saying, God. You are doing a mighty work. I'm trusting in you above all else. You know, Romans 132. For who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. He was recognizing that When he would take pleasure in someone else's sin, he was guilty of that sin. He wanted to make sure one of the things that makes David a man after his God's own heart. Is the way that he responds to sin. He wanted to recognize that God, you are working and you're to be glorified. But God is not only protecting, and David saw this, but he also knew that God was providing. His first observation here. And I o to me when I first read this, as we read in in verse five, The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup. Thou maintainest my lot. The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places. Yea, I have a goodly heritage. Reading through his, there was a passage that immediately came to mind. That was Hebrews 13, 5 and 6. All right. All right. Let your conversation be without covetousness. Be content with such things as ye have and hath said: I will never leave thee nor forsake thee. So that I may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, I will not fear what man shall do unto me. David was saying here, and he's trusting his Lord, I You are my important. You are my inheritance. Whatever is before me, whatever is going on, I'm going to turn and trust in you. You will never leave me nor forsake me. What man hath to say, whether he revile me or whatever, Father, I'm turning unto you. Several things are to be noted here though. The Lord is the portion of mine inheritance. This inheritance is this idea of a possession. We think about the prodigal son. He wanted his inheritance early, all of the possessions his father would have to him. that he would be able to work and he'd be able to just say, God, give me what is un what is owned unto me. Work with that. Give me what is mine, Father. Dad, come on, give it here. Uh you're you're you're dead to me. And he goes, God, wherever I'm at, my inheritance, my possessions, I have a thing for you. I can't be covetous of what other men are doing or what other people have. But saying rather, you are enough. Continues on, it says, inheritance and of my cup. Several times throughout scripture you'll see how a cup is being referenced to someone's position. there. We also had the one where we talk about the the wine or the about again back to Joseph about the guy who tasted the cup for the Pharaoh. Uh Jesus says, Pass this cup from me. It's this position of recognizing what he had. Even as a lowly shepherd or as king of the nation, he knew that God had given him the Lord. Lord can take away. He's put in this position. He's trusting in God. The lines are falling to me in pleasant places, yea, I have a goodly heritage. This placement. Where you're located. Where I'm at currently is I'm teaching at a Christian school in Miami, Florida. I am from the Midwest. I'm a country boy at heart, and I am about as far from a country per area as I could possibly be. It's a small country of little Cuba down there in Miami. And it's not what the my heart desires. The Lord has brought us there and it's been such a blessing, and it was, but the Lord has worked. And I've been so thankful I've been there. And it was having to turn and trust the Lord saying, You are working in this place. You have me here for a reason. I have to trust you and see what you are doing at all times. It's not only that, but it's having to recognize that you put me here, let me be useful here. Well, that could be a job at work, the place you are working. It could be the part of the country. Different things, but having to trust that God, you are working. The whole time reading this passage, I don't know if this kind of reminiscent to you of Joseph's life. And what's been going on and having to say, God, you've put me over this house, you brought me here. It's been hard. But Joseph has this passage that he starts really, I think he started recognizing, you know, as God, I'm trusting in you. Yeah, the Lord was always with him. I think Joseph was always trusting him, but there is this per portion of time that things start to just I don't I just see a little change. And it's in Genesis 4151. It says and Joseph called the name of his firstborn Manasseh. For God hath said, for God hath made me forget all my toll and my father's house. I wonder if Joseph kept always thinking back to his family. He knew the Lord was blessing him, the Lord had him here, and he kept trusting the Lord, he kept trusting the Lord. And he refinally resided everything to God saying, I'm here because how good you are. I see why you brought me here. Why I have gone through all this is to save many people. He definitely says that later on, that you meant it for evil, but God meant it to good for good And he says, God, I'm naming my firstborn in praise of what you've done. We have Ephra the next verse, Ephraim's born. The next several verses after that, we talk about the seven years of Plentius, the seven years of famine that start to begin. So we have several years have passed by. Not much is said about Joseph's life or what has happened. But the first verse of the next chapter. Now when Jacob saw there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said and says, Why do you look upon one another? And he starts sending his sons back here. Joseph was content on where he is at. Joseph's heart, I believe, was always to hopefully be able to work back to get to his family. We see that in his interaction with his brothers in the next few chapters. His heart was there and he kept trusting the Lord and he's saying, Lord, I love you. I'm seeking you. I'm focusing on you during these circumstances. I'm trying to keep this proper perspective how you're working and you're providing for me But it would be really nice to see my brothers. It would be really nice to see my family. And upon finally giving that over to God, you see this immediate almost like this immediate thing of the Lord brings them in. And his reaction, though, David's observation and reaction to provision, I will. David's response is I will bless the Lord who hath given me wait, uh jump a spot. No, I'm right where I'm sorry. I said the Lord always before me, because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. When someone starts providing and you see in how God is taking care of it, it's very easy to just say, Lord, whatever the circumstances, I give you control. David trust in God during all of them. He got sent to the battlefield at just the right time. He was the man for the right season to be there. He was the man for Israel for the right season. He was able to prepare everything for Solomon. He was trusting in God. Maybe he's writing this chapter as a as a king and saying, God, I can't rule these people right without you leading. Take me to where you want to go. It was this idea of submission, placing himself under God. If he was the king, he's the most powerful person. How easy is it to get prideful and pumped up, which we do see in David's life And he constantly had to come back saying, Lord, let me place you under. Let me place you under what is necessary. David saw that the Lord was protecting. The Lord was providing, which made it very easy to let God begin Persiding. It wasn't just that the Lord was presiding, and what the Lord was doing I see this almost parallel between the next few passages. Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoiceth. Rest in hope. I'm going to skip number 10. I'll come back here in a second. Thou wilt show me the path of life. Verse 11. In thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore. First part we like I said, I see this parallel. Therefore my heart is glad. That will show me the path of life. As we kind of think about the heart, we look at the culture today and how heart is says follow your heart. The heart is what you want. It's where everything, you know, whatever your heart says, do. Scripture does have a little context, a little things to start saying about that. Jeremiah 179, the heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Proverbs four twenty-three. Keep thy heart with all diligence, for out of it are the issues of life. Psalms 119, 9 through 11. Wherewith shall a young man cleanse his way? By taking heed thereto according to thy word. With thy whole heart have I sought thee. David also recognized that there was a an about face. The heart is deceitfully wicked. I had to give it to you. Let me not wonder from thy commandments. Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sit against thee. If the heart is deceitfully wicked, there's so many things that are problems of our heart. David's response was, fill it with scripture, fill it with God. That we can trust him, turn to him. Now we think about what makes us glad that joy makes us bring us life. This following the Lord and letting him have control of the path of life, his word is a lamp into my feet, is showing that He is leading the path. Having to follow God brings gladness. I mean, we see earlier on in the passage, it says, There solar shall be multiplied that hasten after another God. So if this path, following another God, is sorrow. The antithesis of that would be to follow after God, which would bring joy and happiness. But it's not just there. It's not just being glad. And my glory rejoiceth In thy presence is fullness of joy. I love coming home at the end of a day of a long day of work. Why is that, would you think? I get to come home to my house with two kids and my wife. I enjoy their presence. He's rejoicing because of the presence with God. In thy presence is fullness of joy. Just doing a quick search, I just put in rejoice, enjoy, just or I just put in just the word rejoice. And almost every passage I read where they mentioned the word joy in the same verse, if not in the few verses around it. Rejoicing as mentioned. They're hand in hand. This inward joy brings out this outward praise. David was focusing on what God was doing, even more so that he could always find it, even in the hardest of situations. And the best part, it wasn't just that, but his flesh shall also rest in hope. At thy right hand there is pleasures forevermore. Resting is not what we have done, but what God is done. And resting in what? The finished work that He's done. No, in the past it talks about Christ having to be placed at the right hand of God and seeing what he is doing. It's having to trust and find this closeness. By this goes right back again, finding closeness to God, bringing this joy, having to be close to Him. Noah Webster describes this pleasure that's for pleasures forevermore is the same kind of pleasure as being near somebody. Having to smell something pleasant, a rose, a flower. So he gave several examples. Harmony is pleasant to hear. A sweet treat is pleasant to taste. They go hand in hand. Pleasure and resting in what God has done. Now I said I skipped verse number 10. If you were to read verse number 10, there's only one person that comes to mind. Thine Holy One, Christ. At the center of what how he was re-letting God be in control was Christ. If you read throughout this passage over and over, Christ is pointed to and it's centered on Christ. If you would, turn with me to Acts two. Acts two. There's this Christ-centered observation. We have Acts 2. He begins in verse 14, Peter, you have days of Pentecost, they're in the upper room, the the The windows swide open, what sounds like a gust of air coming in, almost like tongues of fire on top of people's heads. Peter then begins this sermon that converts Multitude of people. And it begins here in verse 14 and he continues on. He starts talking about how the Lord is working. And he comes in. Now there's actually a parallel section all the way down in verse number 25. For David speaketh concerning, for I saw the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand that I shall not be moved. That I sorry should not be moved. Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad. Moreover, also my flesh shall rest in hope. Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption. Thou hast made me to know the ways of life. Thou shalt make my shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance. Paul was quoting Psalm 16, 9 through 11, that last little point we were at. And he starts coming here and starts expounding upon how Christ is what's going on. Christ is working. During the circumstances, things were getting rough for the Jews. And he's saying, look to Christ. Say focus on what Christ has done. Constantly pointing to him. Christ was always the focus, and Christ crucified was something worth rejoicing about. At that time, I don't think that was something worth rejoicing. They were struggling, they were being challenged, but the but Paul Peter comes along and says, Rejoice that Christ is dead. Be thankful because something greater has come in. Maybe you're thinking here and you're reading through and you're listening about how God's goodness and his proper perspective and how we're able to view God and how he's able to protect. And his protection is there. Maybe it's this proper perspective how God's providing, trusting in how He's working and taking care of our daily lives, our daily needs. And having to come behind him and saying, God, I don't know what you're doing right now, but I will follow. Trusting you at all times. Or maybe it's this final proper perspective having to trust that God let you lead my life. Take things as they're needed to be, constantly focusing on what you have. David recognized that to have his proper perspective, he had to focus on Christ. We remaining find we read throughout scripture over and over that it was this constant, daily focusing on him. And if anything, David has this great testimony of showing God, but if I can extend this to today's vernacular, he was showing Christ over and over. It didn't matter the circumstances, he had this proper perspective. So going back to my earlier question About how there are things in our life and how we keep looking for we see David, we see Moses, and how they had this proper perspective. They had this intimate relationship. Do you have a capability of having to trust God saying, I'm trusting in you what you are doing? Turning and loving you and focusing on you above all else? Um Pastor Arch, I leave this with you as we were to um as you'd like to end the service in your manner. Psalm sixteen is a great psalm. It's focused on the resurrection. And one of the things things I think really uh is drawn out of the psalm is that God created us for uh a relationship that is rich and meaningful. And it is eternal. And it's all contingent on something. Christ has to die, so there's a basis for us to have this relationship. And two, he has to triumph over death. To rise from the dead. And that's really the heart of this psalm. And so I want to remind you this evening, let's rejoice in the fact that we have a Savior. who died for us, he triumphed over death, and he offers to us everlasting pleasure. He says, at your right hand are pleasures forevermore. More. Everything in our lives needs to be channeled back to the gospel and it needs to be lived in light of that. And so I think that's really the great challenge. Let's go ahead and let's turn in our hymn books, please, to hymn 391. And the song uh the song that we're going to sing is I Am Resolved, 391. And probably the resolve this evening is To focus back on the gospel and to recognize that that is what gives us the relationship we have with God, and that's what we need to So let's stand together, 391. We'll see the first, the third, and the fourth verses together. I am no longer the danger. In the I think the God I will make me I am not good. He was here , too, he went, he is blind. I am not kidding, be a path of him, and they are all meeting. What do you mean are you leaving the idea? Okay, well let's go ahead and let's bow together for a word of prayer, close out our service. We'll take uh probably about a ten-minute break, and then after that uh we'll come back and uh we'll uh go go into a question and answer time and I will uh talk to you a little bit about uh just how uh we want to approach this and I want to give you some insight into the questions that I've already asked Braxton and his wife. So let's bow together for prayer and then we'll take a little break. Our Father in heaven, we are so grateful for the sixteenth Psalm. A psalm that reminds us that every good and perfect gift that we enjoy is rooted back in the fact that Christ triumphed over death. What he purchased for us and what we have because of the resurrection. And Father, I pray that we would be a people who uh who live like we have these great treasures. who live like God really is our greatest delight. And the eternal joy that we'll experience with Him is something Something that really sustains us through some of the darkest moments of our lives, some of the most challenging moments of our lives. May we see your glory and may we bask in it. We ask all of these things in Christ's name. Amen.