I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to Psalm 22. Psalm 22, we're looking at the 22nd Psalm this morning. And obviously this is a very lengthy psalm. And what's interesting is as I was looking at our schedule, we were planning to do the Lord's table in the evening service rather than the morning service. But when I saw that Psalm 22 was a psalm that I was going to be dealing with, and then tonight I'm talking about Lot, I thought, there's no way that I'm going to uh Reflect on Lot's life, and that's going to be the focus of our Lord's table reflection. And then Psalm 22, one of the most important psalms. Talking about the suffering of Christ on the cross, we would go ahead and we would skip that. So what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look together at this psalm. And as we look at it, I think there's some incredible truths that we are going to hopefully begin to reflect on just a little bit this morning. And and my prayer, my hope is that as you go throughout the rest of your day-to-day, you'll continue to think on these truths. And then as you go into the rest of your week, you'll continue to think on these truths because in fact What we're looking at this morning is describing really the heart of what gives us salvation. It's the fact that the Lord Jesus Christ was willing to go to the cross He was willing to suffer affliction, and this is going to describe some of the nature of that affliction that he experienced. He's going to talk about the emotional experience of the cross. He's going to talk about the physical suffering of the cross. And ultimately that was an essential part. of God's wrath being poured out on our sinless Savior so that we could be forgiven and ultimately declared not guilty in the courtrooms of a holy God. Psalm 22, and I'm going to begin in verse number one. It says the following: My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me and from the words of my roaring? O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not, and in the night season, and am not silent. Later on he says, I am a worm and no man. I repro a reproach of men and despise of the people. All they that see me laugh me to scorn, they shoot out the lips. They shake the head saying he trusted on the Lord that he would deliver him. Let him deliver him, seeing he delighteth in him. I'm going to stop there because we've already read through the length of the psalm and I'm going to spend time looking at the rest of this psalm, but I want to ask this question this morning. What in the world is Psalm 22 all about? What is being expressed in this psalm? Who really is the one talking about the agony and the suffering and the pain? And why was this Important for us to think about this morning. Let me give you a simple summary statement for the psalm in front of us, and then from that dig into some very important principles that are laid out in these verses. Psalm 22 gives us insight into the emotional agony that David experienced in one of the lowest moments of his life. You say, Well, I thought it was about Jesus. It is about Jesus. But it's not just about Christ. It's also about David, and we're going to see why David's suffering at a moment in his life was so important and how it really actually serve as an important function in the prophecy that David is recording for us. It gives us insight into the emotional agony that David experienced, one of the lowest moments of his life, to predict Christ's sufferings on the cross. As he was wounded for our transgressions. The things that we're going to read about this morning and we're going to think about, they were an essential part of how we can be redeemed. He was wounded for our transgressions. And we read about that already this morning in Isaiah 53. And what's wonderful about this is as we think about this It's going to move us to remembering the Lord's death until he comes as we partake of the Lord's table. Remembering his body broken, his blood shed. This is going to be a wonderful psalm of reflection. God wants us as we meditate on this psalm to think of Christ's agony so that we will find comfort. And you see, how in the world does thinking about the agony of Christ have anything to do with comforting me in the moment of affliction that I might find myself in now? Or a moment of affliction that I've already passed through, and it's still something that nags at my heart. Or a moment of affliction that I have no idea about, but it is in the future, and I'll face it. How can the suffering of Christ have anything to do with comforting me in the moment? I hope that this morning you'll see as we dig into the Psalm. First of all, let me give you a couple of introductory thoughts that are important when we talk about Bible prophecy. Because this is a prophetic portion of Scripture. Psalm twenty-two is something that was clearly alluded alluding to the cross of Christ. And when we read through the Gospels and it talks about the suffering of Christ on the cross He is speaking about Christ's suffering, and he's literally quoting from the psalm before us this morning. This psalm was fulfilled when Jesus was nailed to the cross and he suffered and died. So we need to understand how God actually gives prophecy in the Old Testament. So a few words about that introduction. Biblical prophecies We're always given within a storyline. You know, it's interesting when we're reading through the book of Matthew and we see that this happened that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophet Isaiah or Micah or one other prophet, a lot of times we think of it on this side of the cross, on the fulfillment side of these events. We simply think of it as if God just said, Hey, let me give you some information in this moment. Let me tell you about something that's going to happen down the road But a lot of times what we fail to think about is that prophecy wasn't actually given like you would give instruction in a lecture Prophecy was something God revealed in a storyline, and in the midst of the things that the people felt and that they feared, God would give this information about something in the future. That was supposed to help them in that moment. Do you realize when we read the book of Revelation, it was actually written to help and encourage suffering Christians that were living in the early church because they were facing the kind of oppression and the kind of challenges and persecution that people will experience at the end of the age. And so these things were written to actually encourage and strengthen the believer, to stir them up. Bible prophecy is written in a story. Sometimes it's to provide relief, to comfort people in crisis. Many, many times that is the sense of Bible prophecy. Sometimes it's to warn someone who's arrogant, who's going to face God's swift justice. It's like this person is pressing and pressing and pressing, and they're abusing people, and they're unjust, and they're they're committing atrocities, and in that moment, God says, Let me tell you something. You're going to be brought down And when I bring you down, I'm going to give you, I'm going to use you as an example of something I'm going to do in the future because there are going to be many people who rise up after you who are going to have the exact same thinking pattern that you have And I'm going to deal with them. And so sometimes it's to warn people who are very arrogant. Sometimes it is something that has both an immediate and a long-term fulfillment. And that short-term immediate fulfillment was something that was meant to validate the fact that there's a promise coming. So sometimes when we read Old Testament prophecies, you'll see This will happen and you'll know that when this happens, this other thing is also true. It's like when a person is looking at a mountain range. It just looks like one line of mountains. But the reality is if you could go up in the sky and you can look down, you see there's a mountain here and there's a mountain here and then there's one further down here. But it all looks like it's just one panorama That's the way prophecy sometimes is. God gives you the whole picture, but this event's going to happen here, and it's going to validate the fact that this event's going to happen here and here and here all the way till its ultimate fulfillment. These are the kinds of things we see in prophecy. Sometimes it was to provide an experiential appreciation for the weight of what was promised. And that's exactly what this passage is. In other words, when David is suffering And he's lamenting to God, and he's expressing in his own words the pain and the sorrow and this feeling of abandonment that he's experiencing. It's in that moment of expressing his agony. That God uses him to predict a future event that David's not just going to talk about, but he's going to feel the weight of that moment because he's in something like that. I don't know if that makes sense to you or not, but as we get into this passage, I think you'll see exactly what we mean by that. Sometimes prophecies were meant to not just give information, but to give you an appreciation for the weight of that information. Psalm point. So let's begin, first of all, by looking at this first truth from Psalm 22, that it shows us how godly people endure suffering. There are two godly people that are really in view in the psalm that we're talking about. One is the person God used to write it, David. And the other is the person that God is talking about in the future who's called the son of David the Messiah. The psalm starts with a question, or excuse me, yes, a question, and it ends with a promise. Let me remind you of the question Why, verses 1 and 2, hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me? Why does David express this? See, because that's exactly how he felt in that exact moment. He felt as if he's here in this moment of trial and affliction, and God is so far away from him, it's almost as if God doesn't see it and God doesn't have a heart of compassion toward him. That's not the case, but he's expressing how he feels. Do you realize that as the Lord Jesus was nailed to the cross and he says, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? It's because for the first time In all of eternity, and the only time for all of eternity, there is a separation, a fellowship, a broken fellowship between Father and Son within the Godhead. And the Father pours out The wrath that is against your sin and my sin. And the Lord Jesus Christ, the perfect Son of God, feels the weight of that wrath against sin. The just for the unjust that he might bring us to God. That is what is being expressed. The question is why But then there's a promise. Verses 26 to 28. He says, The meek shall eat and be satisfied. They shall praise the Lord that seek him. Your heart shall live forever. All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord, and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. And the question that you should ask this morning is what is it that gets us from the question why to the answer this is what's going to happen? What's in between? It's the cross. It's the agony of the cross that becomes the answer and the basis for the future promise. That the meek will eat and be satisfied, all the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the kindreds of the nation shall worship before thee. He's talking about eternity. He's talking about what's going to happen in the throne rooms of heaven when people from every tribe and kindred and tongue, every people group throughout all the world People who had never heard the gospel and God brought the gospel, those people will gather around that throne as one massive group of people and sing praise to God. How do we get from the question to the promise? It's the cross. The events prophesied in this psalm answer the question and give the basis for the promise. I want to remind you that it has both a Davidic focus and a messianic focus. David really lived through the agony that he expresses in the song. His words not only describe his own immediate experience, but also the coming experience of the Son of David, the Messiah on the cross. What David fell and expressed in words gave more than just an academic knowledge of what Christ would go through on the cross to secure a redemption. You know, when we sit in a class and we talk about the cross of Christ, it's very easy for us to become very academic as we talk about this. It's very easy for us to just kind of kind of in our minds become mentally detached from the gruesome agony of the cross of Christ. It's very easy for that to happen. And so David is going to give a promise, a prophecy, and he's going to feel on some level something to give him an appreciation for that. I would even go so far. As to say, one of the reasons that God allows us to suffer as Christians is so that we can look back at the cross, which gives us stability and hope and strength in this life. And we can begin to have just a little bit more of an appreciation for the weight of sacrifice and the weight of suffering and the weight of the pain and the agony that our Savior experienced on the cross. so that we could actually be redeemed to God. There are many, many scriptures in the old in the New Testament where one of the ways that Paul encourages believers who suffer is he says, just realize that you are partakers of Christ's suffering. Very, very important. So let's take a moment and look at what it shows us about how godly people suffer. I'm going to kind of work our way through the text so that you can see there's this pattern that's going on here. The first thing that we see is that there is a lamenting of suffering, verses 1 and 2. He says, Why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me? Lamenting is basically me or you expressing to God I don't understand. Understand the why. And by the way, he may not give us an answer. Or the answer that he gives us may be incomplete in the sense that he doesn't give us the entirety of the answer. He just gives us enough of the answer that we can continue through that. But lamenting, lamenting is something we find a lot in Scripture. There's nothing wrong with God's people when they suffer, crying out to God and saying, God, I'm suffering right now. I'm in pain right now. I don't understand what I'm going through. There's nothing wrong with expressing that. The Lord Jesus Christ on the cross, he himself even expressed the agony of the cross to the Father. It's an amazing concept, lament. But then we see a second side to this psalm. He moves from lament to an affirmation of truths that he knows about God. Verses 3 to 5 he says, but Thou art holy. That means that as he's lamenting, he's reminding himself of the fact that God is holy. God is just, God is righteous, God is good. In this moment, I may not feel those sides of his character, but that's unchanging about who he is. I'm going to remind myself of truth. He says, our fathers trusted in thee, and they were delivered, and they trusted in thee and were not confounded. He says, not only do I know who God is , But I know how he's worked in history. I see examples in God's word of how he allowed people to go through hardship, and then at a moment in time, he steps in at just the right moment. At that time where there's tremendous need, he steps in and he delivers through some means that those people, as they were crying out and suffering, they could have never anticipated that deliverance. He said, That's the kind of God that I serve. David is saying this. Even as Christ is hanging on the cross, he says, I know the Father. He is holy But then we see a third dimension. He kind of drifts back into this lamentation again because this suffering isn't like, okay, you suffered for five minutes and it's over. It's like when a person goes and they have a surgery and a person says, well, and the you know the doctor says, well, you know, on a scale of 0 to 10, what's your pain threshold? Well right now it's a seven. Okay, we'll give you a little more of this and then we'll ask again what is it? Oh now it's a four. Well I'm so glad to know that tomorrow when I wake up it'll be zero again. Is that how it works? No, that's not how it works. It may take you a very, very long time to get back to zero. In fact, maybe in some situations you never go back to zero. It's the enduring of affliction that sometimes causes us when we lament and then we remind ourselves again of God's character and God's ways, we're in a good place, and then we kind of we drift back again. You know what I'm talking about? Because the longer it goes, the more we go through this process. It's almost like there's this cycle that's going on. And this psalm actually expresses that. And here's what he says. Verses 6 and 8 he says, I'm a worm and no man. I don't even feel human. I don't feel like I have any value. That's what he's saying. He says, a reproach of men, despise of the Lord. Sounds very similar to what we read about in Isaiah 53, where it says that he is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrow is acquainted with grief. When we saw him, we hid our faces from him. He's despised, and we did not esteem him. That's what he's saying. And so we see this drifting back as this continues to go on. But then we see again in verses 9 and 10 that God comforts us by his faithfulness. He says in verse 9, he says, Thou art he that took me out of the womb. Thou didst make me hope when I was upon my mother's breast, I was cast upon thee from the womb. Thou art my God from my mother's belly. He's saying, Before I could do anything. When I was in the complete, the most dependent stage of life, I was entirely dependent on you. The fact that I've breathed all the breaths that I have up to this point, the fact that I've grown and I've been strengthened, all that, it's all to the fact that you have upheld me from the very moment I came into the world. And so he's reminding himself again of what? The faithfulness of God. But then what do we see in verses 11 through 21? We see another lament, another crying out to God in weakness. And this is an extremely Transparent. I might even use the word kind of raw. Explanation of how he feels in the moment. Listen carefully. He says, many bulls have compassed me, strong bulls of Basham have beset me round. It's like they're these wild beasts that are ready to gore me to death. I see all these people, their enemies around me, and I realize how feeble and how frail and how vulnerable I am. They could crush me in a moment. They gaped upon me with their mouths. Another way to put that is they open their mouths and they're going to shred me to pieces. As a ravening and roaring lion, I'm poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. These are expressions of someone feeling a complete helplessness and vulnerability and weakness. My strength is dried up like a pot 's herd. A potshirt is a clay pot. So when they're shaping that, it's soft and it's pliable and you can do something with it. But when you put it in the kennel and it comes out, it's got no moisture at all. He says, that's me. I am like a dried-up pot. He says, Dogs have compassed me. The assemblies of the wicked have enclosed me. They pierced my hands and my feet. Obviously, a reference to Christ on the cross. He says, I may tell all my bones they took and stared upon me. Talking about the fact that as Christ was hanging on that cross, you could see every bone on his body. It's describing the agony and the physical suffering of our Savior. They part my vestment, my garments among them, cast lots upon my vesture. As Christ was hanging on that cross, naked, unexposed, humiliated. They take what little he had, and they're casting lots to decide who gets to take home the spoils of the last person they killed on a cross. What humiliation. This is what they thought of this man hanging before them. He says But be not thou far from me, O Lord, my strength. Hasten thee to help me. Deliver my soul from the sword, my darling, from the power of the dog. Save me from the lion's mouth. Do you get an ex an understanding of what Jesus is saying? I am in agony. Do you understand what David was saying at a moment? You go, well, who was the dog? Who was the line? It might have been his father-in-law, Dav uh David's father-in-law Saul. It might have been at one of those moments when his life was in great danger. This passage could have been written at so many different moments in David's life because he experienced this personally. But then we see where this ends up. We find comfort with a focus on the glory of our final salvation. Literally, as David is suffering, he turns his eyes in that moment to what is coming in eternity. And the Lord Jesus Christ, as he hangs on the cross, he turns his mind to what he's accomplishing on the cross. And that Is what sustains them in this moment. Here's what it says in verse 22. I will declare thy glory among my brethren Praise thee. My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation. The meek shall eat and be satisfied. They shall praise the Lord that seek him. Your heart shall live forever All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord. All the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. What is David saying? I know there's redemption coming. What is the Lord Jesus Christ saying on the cross? I know that this is going to accomplish redemption, and every tongue will confess that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Jesus is accomplishing this work for the Father's glory, and he's expressing that in these words. There's the second thing the Psalm shows us. Psalm 22 shows us how suffering drives us to the gospel. Suffering causes us to work through a cycle. In fact, if you've ever been through a period of tremendous trauma in your life, or you've ever gone through something that's very painful, and you're healing from this event that has just shaken you to your core You've experienced on some level this cycle that you go through. You go through this period where you feel very numb. And then you begin to process. And as you process these things, there are all kinds of different emotions that you're going to experience. And then in those moments God reminds you of truth and it encourages you and it strengthens you and upholds you. But then this season continues, and as the season continues, what ends up happening? Well, you go back into that same place. It's like you end up back, but you've learned some lessons. And as you work your way through this, you grow and you mature and you become stronger and you become healthier. And as time goes on, God helps you to heal. You know what's really amazing? We can actually see that little cycle on some level, even within this psalm, as David expresses it God reminds us of truth. And He does this when we are lamenting and when we are suffering The duration of these trials drives us back to moments where we panic and we're anxious and we're fearful and we lament again and again. And God repeatedly comforts us by reminding us He is faithful. And the same way that we see this in Psalm 22 for David, and the same way that the Lord Jesus Christ on the cross goes through this in his own heart and expresses it, we experience this too. We end up back in this cycle, but slowly we grow into maturity and strength. Maturity develops as we fix our hearts on the surety of the future salvation we have in Christ. And when I say future salvation, what I mean is we are saved the moment we trust Christ. But we're not in heaven yet. We're not experiencing the full weight and the full glory of all that God has promised to his children. And so as we live in this broken world, we are sustained by the future Glory that we will enjoy forever. And yet the Bible is full of instructions telling us to do this. Let me give you a couple of examples Isaiah 59, verses 15 to 17. Listen carefully because this is a passage that is alluded to in Ephesians 6 and in 1 Thessalonians chapter 5. Here's what he says. Truth faileth. He that departeth from evil maketh himself a prey. The Lord saw it and it displeased him. There was no judgment. He saw that there was no man and wondered that there was no intercessor. So this psalm, this prophecy, this moment, is an expression of a desperate time in Israel's history. But then it says this, listen carefully. Therefore his, that's Christ, his arm brought salvation unto him, and his righteousness it sustained him. And here is The reason for he put on righteousness as a breastplate and an helmet of salvation upon his head. Why did God step in and deliver? It's because this suffering believer put on his breastplate of righteousness and the helmet of salvation. Does that sound familiar from another passage? Ephesians 6. Ephesians 6. 14 he says, Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. And above all, taking the shield of faith wherewith you shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation. That's what he's referring back to this passage. You say when he says, put on the helmet of salvation, what is he talking about? What aspect of our salvation Is Isaiah talking about? What aspect of our salvation is Paul alluding to in Ephesians chapter 6? Well, 1 Thessalonians 5 clears that up for us. Listen to what it says. First Thessalonians 5. 8, let us who are of the day be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love and for an helmet the hope of salvation. That means it's our future salvation. It's that moment when we'll experience glory. It's the exact same stuff that is the promise at the end of Psalm 22. We are to fix our attention in moments of weakness and moments of suffering on our future glory because of the work of Christ. That's what he's saying. We are to remember what he has done and what we will experience. He says Christ died for us that whether we wake or sleep, we shall live together with him. Wherefore comfort yourselves together and edify one another. This psalm doesn't just tell us about the suffering of David and the coming suffering of Christ that we look back to on the cross, but it shows us how godly people suffer and triumph. We must look to our future glory purchased by the work of Christ when we will experience glory forever and eternity. That is what we must do. But then that moves us to a third and final fact that I want to show us this morning. Psalm 22 shows us what the gospel gives us. What do you have as a believer What do I have as a believer because Christ was willing to go to the cross, to shed his blood, to suffer the agony of the cross? What do you have? Well, obviously you have forgiveness of sins. You have a position in Christ. You have eternity guaranteed. But this psalm gives us some very specific things. Let me read it to you and remind you of what it says. The meek shall eat and be satisfied. They shall praise the Lord that seek him. Your heart shall live forever. All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord. All the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee, for the kingdom is the Lord's, and he is the governor amongst the nations. You know what he tells us? It gives us hope when we're suffering. The meek shall eat and be satisfied. You know what a meek person is? It's a person who has strength. But it's a person who has to control that strength. Because they're dependent on the Lord. You know the verse where it says, The meek shall inherit the earth? This is a reference to this concept. The fact is that God is going to uplift those who have depended on him very humbly and have even been abused in this fallen world. He gives us hope. The second, it gives us security that we will forever be with the Lord. Verse 26. They shall praise the Lord that seek him. And I love this statement. Your heart shall live forever. Forever. When we cry out to God for deliverance, sometimes in that moment, He delivers us from a physical oppression or from a physical pain or sickness. But there's going to be a day when we cry out for deliverance that he says, I'm taking you home. That is actually the ultimate deliverance that you and I will receive. When God says you have run your race, you have been faithful, now it's time to enjoy your eternal reward in my presence. This psalm reminds us that we have a secured position in Christ because of this work. Number three, it gives us a glimpse into God's future triumph over evil. You know, let's be transparent. There's a lot of things in life that we look at and it's just it's agonizing. You watch the news today? Does it make you angry? It does me. I sometimes I just gotta like turn it off. I can't watch this I can't go back and think about it because it'll put me in a in a mindset that I know is not healthy. But here is the simple fact that God triumphs over evil. He conquers it. He crushes it. He rules and reigns. Verse 27 it says, All the ends of the world of the world shall remember and turn unto the Lord. All the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. You know, it's really amazing is as we think about end times and eschatology and prophecy, What we see is that the greatest period in all human history where people will be saved and will embrace the gospel will not be in times of peace, but it will be in the great tribulation. The gospel is going to spread to every single people group in that time. In fact, the scripture even tells us even the angels will bring the gospel to the nations. And the witnesses will proclaim the gospel all throughout the world. And there will be massive turning to God during this time of great suffering and terrible destruction. In other words, as evil seems to triumph more than at any other point in human history, the gospel will triumph in that moment. It's an amazing thing to consider. And by the way, when we look at church history many times, the greatest periods of Christian suffering become the greatest movements of Christian growth in the church. God wins. All the world will remember and turn to the Lord. All the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee. That's what the cross accomplished Lastly, it reminds us that God is ultimately in charge. Verse 28, it says, For the kingdom is the Lord's. And he is the governor among all the nations. Scripture is so full of examples of this. Pharaoh learns the hardest way possible. That God rules and reigns. He went to the bottom of the Red Sea. Think about that. Nebuchadnezzar learned that God rules and that God reigns. As he roamed like a wild beast in the field, and amazingly his advisors watched him, and they chose to put him back in power when it was all done. That's shocking, but true. And what does Nebuchadnezzar do? He says, I've learned That there's a God in heaven, and all the inhabitants of the earth are appeared as nothing. He does according to his will in the armies of heaven, and none can stay his hand. Or say to him, What doest thou? When those Pharisees and Sadducees and the elites of the day nailed Christ to the cross Delivered him out of envy to the cross. And as those people were gathered and mocking him on that cross, and they were gloating in their victory, they were being defeated. The cross was God's triumph over sin and death. It's an amazing thing to consider. Folks, God wins. And it's important when we are discouraged and downcast that we go to this psalm when we remember the basis of that hope. As we suffer, let's appreciate what Christ suffered so that there is a hope. And let's take a moment to remember What Christ has done for us as we partake of these elements of the Lord's table. Let's bow together in prayer and prepare our hearts to participate in taking these elements, remembering what Christ has done for us. As your heads are bowed, I want to encourage you take a moment to thank God for what he accomplished by Christ's work on the cross. The Lord's table is not about you sitting in your pew and being in agony because you failed. It's about you rejoicing in the fact that your failure is why he went to the cross. And rejoicing in the fact that because of his work, you are accepted in the beloved. Let's bow together and remember what Christ has done for us. Father, as we participate, we partake of these elements in just a few moments As we eat this bread that represents the body of Christ that was broken, and we drink this juice that reminds us And represents the blood of Christ that was shed on our behalf. I pray that as we eat this bread and drink this juice, we will truly remember the Lord's death until he comes. I pray that our hearts would be strengthened by what is symbolized in this moment. What symbolizes the unity we enjoy in Christ because of the work of Christ. I pray that we would be encouraged. I pray that this remembrance would be sweet. I pray that we would come with a humbled heart, a grateful heart, a praising heart. Father, may you strengthen your people as we remember the redemptive work of Christ We ask these things in Christ's name, amen.