Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church. And uh if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we want to welcome you. and hope that you received a welcome packet. We're going to go ahead and do a couple announcements here at the beginning, and then we're going to have a moment of silence. And then after that, we will open up our service. So Pastor Chris is going to come with a few announcements before we start. Good morning. Hope you were able to grab a bulletin. We have a lot of things coming up, even more so because it's summertime. And uh of course everybody has plenty of free time during the summer, so we're gonna ramp things up. Uh just I know everybody is struggling right now. Um no for today we got the nursery workers meeting after the a. m. service. That's for all w uh nursery workers and that will be right after the the the service. I'm not sure of the location. Uh right over here on the piano side. Um then next week we also have a meeting for VBS, and that is for everyone who has volunteered in any shape or form for VBS. And that will actually be in the fellowship hall next week. It'll be kind of out of the way, so be sure to keep it on your mind. We will have our VBS meeting after the morning service next week in the fellowship hall Along with uh next Sunday, we got our teens after the uh evening service. That's not on the 12th, it is on the 5th. So teens just keep that in mind. And then on that Friday, June 10th, we have our ice cream night And we will be eating a lot of ice cream. There will probably be uh a competition involved, and uh hopefully no brain freeze. And then keep it on your calendars. Father and son , Camp Out is on June 17th through the 18th, as for fathers of juniors and teens. Bring your own camping equipment. We'll be camping out here on the property. I just want to put it out there because it's coming up and then that weekend is Father's Day So looking forward to a lot coming up as well as VBS uh next or in July. There are signup sheets in the back of the s the the the the Crafts are pretty well filled. However, we are in desperate need of more snacks. And for the snacks, if you see one person who has already signed up for an item, feel free to be an additional person. uh just to even it out a little more we need to get some snacks uh signed up for on the snack sheet in the back on the bulletin boards with that pastor without calm Okay, two more items. One is uh tonight at 5 p. m. there's choir rehearsal. And so those of you who uh Would like to be in the choir, please do make sure that you come to that rehearsal. And our intention is to go through the summer and basically we'll do one choir selection a month That's our plan. So if you have been in the choir or maybe you haven't been in the choir but you would like to get involved in that, please either see me or my wife or Ian and um we can give you the details that you would need with that. So please remember that's tonight at 5 p. m. And then also we will have a baptismal service next Sunday evening. We also have the Lord's table in the morning. So I hope that you'll be able to make it for that. And then also I forgot to mention June the 11th. We need help as we're going to be removing some trees. And Okay, and Scott Moore is telling me that there's volleyball tonight after the evening service. So if you would like to uh stay and play volleyball, uh should be a pretty nice night for that. So That'll be great. You know, when we come to this time of the year, Memorial Day weekend is generally seen as the first holiday of the summer season. And people travel a lot, I know a lot in our church, have traveled and will travel. But the truth is that Memorial Day is not so much about celebration as much as it is about remembering those who have paid the ultimate price. And the fact that we can assemble this morning in freedom is something that it's a freedom that we enjoy because others have laid down their lives. And I think it's very important that we remember why we have this time. It is to remember those who have paid that ultimate price. And so I want to take a moment for us to just silently reflect on that before we open our service. And I think also we should remember those who right now are reeling down in Texas. as there was uh a terrible school shooting this week and uh our country is in a very uh deep place And uh we really need to uh pray earnestly for our nation to recognize that these things are the results of rot in the roots of our nation. And uh we need to ask the Lord to send a genuine reviving to his people and that uh we will be uh a godly testimony. And that we will see our country turn to the Lord in a very sobering time. So let's take a moment of silence, and then we'll open our service in prayer. We're assembled this morning and we have a mixture in our hearts of joy and great sorrow. Of delight and also soberness, we are so grateful that we live in a land of freedom and prosperity. A land where we can assemble, we can share our faith in Christ openly, we can point people to the gospel without hindrance. We are so grateful for the tremendous blessings that we enjoy in this land. Yet we're also sobered to recognize that We have these freedoms because there are people that have made countless untold sacrifices. There are men and women who have laid down their lives, and they've done it for love of this country, for love of their family. out of a desire to see this land stay a land of opportunity and a land of liberty. And so Father, we thank you for those who've been willing to pay that price so we can enjoy the many blessings that we do enjoy here today. Help us to never take it for granted to recognize this is a gift of your grace from your good hands. We're not entitled to it. We certainly have not done well with it. Father, we pray for those down in Texas right now who are who are grieving and who are reeling as they have faced a tragedy that they would have never foreseen. Father, I pray that those who know Christ, those who have wisdom and discernment in these troubling days, would be the people who rise up in this community. And can be used of you to minister to the very deep wounds that are going on in that community. Father, I pray that you would help us as your people to be salt and light. Father, help us to walk with you. Help us to be men and women of integrity. Father, help us to make a genuine impact on the generation in which we live. Father, help us to be ready and willing to give an answer of the hope that lies within us with meekness and with fear. Father, I pray that you would help us and help churches all around this land who genuinely preach the gospel and are walking uh in conformity to your will to the very best of their ability, I pray that you would revive and stir up these churches, that we would be a powerful testimony for righteousness in our communities. Father, we pray for those in our congregation who are sick right now and dealing with heavy affliction. We pray for those who have traveled, who are traveling, who will travel. I pray for your traveling mercies on these individuals. I thank you for many who have opportunity to spend time with family and dear friends, and I pray that That time would be very sweet, and that you would just use it as a blessing in their lives. Father, I'm so grateful to be able to see some folks in our midst today who because of heavy illnesses have not been able to be with us for many, many, many months. And I thank you for the testimonies to your grace and your healing that has enabled them to be with us this morning. You're a great God and you're worthy of our praise, and so we want to do that this morning. Father, I pray that as we sing praise to you, that our hearts would be knit together in sweet fellowship, in communion with one another and with you. Father, I pray that as we open up the scriptures, that our hearts would be just overwhelmed by the tremendous blessings that we will delight in this morning. And I pray that we would be a changed people, shaped more and more into the image of Christ because of the time we've spent together this morning. We ask for your blessing on this time in Christ's name. Amen. If you have your Bibles, I want to ask you to turn to our opening scripture. Our opening scripture is Luke four, verse forty-two. It says, And when it was day he departed and went into a desert place, and the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he would not depart from them. And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also. For therefore am I sent. And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee. This morning, as we open up the scriptures, we are going to be reminded of God's goodness. And we're going to see that Jesus Christ took time to interact with people. And he took time to rest from his labors. And we're going to talk about really the privilege. of Christian rest, not just resting our bodies and our minds, but resting our souls in Christ. And so I hope that this morning as we focus our attention on these truths, that it will encourage your heart. Good morning. Thanks so much for joining us for worship. Please stand and open your hymn books to hymn number six. Hymn number six, I sing the mighty power of God, will sing all three verses of hymn number six. I think the high power of God had made the one prize and bring the wings. See the bottom of the law in dies I sing the wisdom that I think we 'll start to know the day someone finds. The life is coming and all the stars of day I sing the goodness of the Lord that will be unfortunate You born the preachers with that word and that pronounce them good Lord have I wonder by turn my eyes And by survey the crown I sweat for gave my one at George There's none of my war be my boy And over to him number one sixty. 16, this is my father's world. Hymn number 116 will sing all three verses I 'm going to treat my team for God has war, my brother 's not going to be right , declared I am a Yes, the bottom is like the whole as well, then my brother. He speaks to me everywhere. Let us by all yeah. Great singing, please be seated As we turn back to hymn number one hundred nine, great is thy faithfulness. Hymn number one hundred nine, we'll sing all three verses Una vez que le I believe my hand went by the last one to me. Summer and winter and summer and summer. So I live all the mercy and God Pray and let my faithfulness , prayed by faithfulness , my goodness. Oh baby , I know I clean the answer. And I be that end thy Lord. I slate for the black or two more things with ten thousand. To be sight, greater thy faithfulness, greater thy faithfulness, morning by Lord. Oh I have really full of Amen. Great singing. Oh For the benefit of the sound booth, we're going to be reading our opening scriptures at this time. Genesis chapter 1. Genesis chapter 1, verses 31. And then we'll read through the second chapter through verse 3. Genesis chapter 1, verse 31. We'll read through to chapter 2, verse 3. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it, because that in it he had wrested from all his work, which God created and made. And then we'll turn over to Ecclesiastes chapter 3. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verses 9 through 14. Ecclesiastes chapter 3, verses 9. Through fourteen. The scriptures say, What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboreth? I have seen the travail which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in it. He hath made everything beautiful in his time. Also He hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. I know that there is no good in them but for a man to rejoice and to do good in his life, and also that every man should eat and drink and enjoy the good of all his labor. It is the gift of God. I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be forever. Nothing can be put to it, nor anything taken from it, and God doeth it, that men should fear before Him May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. As we continue our singing, we'll turn in our hymn books to hymn number 466. Hymn number 466. Joyful, joyful. We adore the four sixty six So I go so I go we 're going to be a good one. Well I wake up my words will raise my Same thing that we saw in the world. Ever singing my tree are The closet and thumbs up strike. Joyful magnet me thought farm work and that 's right, I'm strict. And please stand with me as we sing once more. We'll be in our blue book. Number 192. Complete and D. Number 192 will sing all four verses of number 192 in the blue book. Complete indeed, no work up mine may take too long. And I am now complete in thee. And thank you by salvation was Thy blood has bought and fought for me And glory by two shall be complete No more shall stand Thy grace has gone to bring within Thy voice shall bend under plea And thy shall stand complete And thank them by submission walk by blood and fart and bought for me. Glorified I too shall be complete and these was applied and no good thing to me denied since thou I I am no more complete indeed Yes a fight of God I take a fight And what I fought and part for me and glorify I do something. Let's have the instruments drop. Here we go Dear Savior, when before thy bar, all tries and tongues assembled are Among thy souls, and will I be at thy right hand, completing thee, Yeah just a fine blessed thought And take a fight salvation rot, thy blood hath fought and brought for me. And glorify thy two shall be. Great singing, please be seated. Make me know your presence for King of Lord. You know which part an action holds anxiety and fear. Can I hide from me? Can God decide inequity? Oh my god, be when you are very Serve when God is me. All the walls is far away when God is me. Everything is at the side when God is there, how can I stray? How can I falter? I stay upon the altar, I know why God miss Make me know your presence, Lord, when I feel so alone. You know we strive lasting pain, the purse that is unknown. Oh why can I not See your hand so firmly guiding me, oh how can I untrust in thee When you are very serious when God is All the walking for my way when God is me. Everything is bad on point when God is How can I stray? How can I water? I 'll stay upon the altar. I know my God is nice when God is All the world is more away when God is near everything ever sight. When God is me, how can I stray? How can I water? I'll stay upon the altar. I know my gossip I know my God. Well, amen. Thank you for that. Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back, uh, with their parents' help, of course. And uh the rest of you I want to invite you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to Luke chapter four. And uh the guys in the sound booth did an outstanding job uh when I threw them a curveball, a very bad one. Yeah, it's interesting. We're getting ready to go and uh have some time away this next week, and so I was preparing to order service. for this Sunday and next Sunday this week. And so when I got up here and I was looking at the Order of Service, the last opening scripture reading that I remember was the one for next Sunday. Not this one. And so I thought, oh no, I think I have the wrong order of service up here. And it was the correct one. But anyway, uh my brain was in a fog for a moment up there. Luke chapter 4 is the text that we're looking at, and we're going to be looking at a very interesting topic this morning. We're going to be talking about the importance of priorities. And I want to ask you on the front side before we dig into this text and a lot of scripture we're going to look at this morning, do you feel that you're a person who has good priorities in your life? Uh not to mean perfect priorities, I don't mean that you've got everything perfectly aligned, but the question is, do you feel that You have good healthy patterns of rest and labor in your life. And the way that you kind of decide how you balance that out, you feel like it's a healthy balance. What we're going to see in these scriptures this morning is that the Lord Jesus Christ gives us a perfect example of how to do that. And that is not the foundational reason that this text was written. It's actually it's an implication. It's an application. But what we're going to see is that there's some very rich theological truths that help us understand even God in flesh took time to rest. Very interesting topic. So Luke chapter 4, verse 42 says the following. When it was day, he, that's our Savior Christ, departed and went into a desert place. And the people sought him and came unto him and stayed him that he should not depart unto them from them. And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also. For therefore am I sent. And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee. Now the text in front of us is an interesting one. Luke chapter 4 reveals that the Lord Jesus Christ had priorities that not only demonstrate his power as God, but also his weakness as God in flesh. When we're talking about Christ, we're talking about someone who has the ability to heal the sick and raise the dead. He has the power to command Satan's kingdom. And he demonstrates that actually in Luke chapter 4. But this same person, the Lord Jesus Christ, is also humanity. He is fully man as well. And so in his humanity we see that the Lord Jesus Christ submitted himself to the weaknesses of being in human flesh, and there were times that he needed to rest. Jesus observed the Old Testament Sabbath. We're not under the Old Testament Sabbath, and I'm going to actually talk a little bit about that later on in this service, but Jesus would have followed the Levitic or the Levitical Sabbath system. He would have followed all of the festive occasions, and they had many, many festive occasions on the Jewish calendar. The month of July for us, the seventh month for them. was the entire month was full of festive occasions. They took a lot of time off during that time. They opened up their year with the Passover and during that period there was almost a two-week period of preparation, celebration, and then there was a festive after the Passover. The Jewish people were commanded by God to take a lot of time off from their labors. The Lord Jesus Christ demonstrates his power as God, but also his weakness in human flesh, where he took time away to rest. and to be re-energized physically and mentally and to commune with his father. We're going to talk about that concept this morning. But what we ultimately see in the Lord Jesus is someone who was perfectly submitted to the will of his Father And so we're going to look at that concept this morning. What we should see from the text is that God wants us to have priorities like our Savior. Priorities that follow this pattern of one who labored according to the will of God, but also took times to rest and to commune with his father. I want to begin, first of all, by talking about what I think is the primary intent of the text so that we do not skip by this. This is very important. Luke chapter 4 provides us insight into the uniqueness of Christ. When we talk about who Jesus is, we're talking about someone who is described as the one of a kind, the monogeness, that's the Greek term that was used, the Son of God. He is the one who is unique and there is none like him. He is fully God, the creator and the sustainer of the universe, yet he's also God robed in full humanity. Now you say, well, I can't fully wrap my mind around that concept. It's a rich concept that we cannot fully wrap our minds around, yet it's a thoroughly biblical concept. We don't have salvation if we don't have him being fully God. We also don't have salvation if he's not fully man. So he has to be God in flesh. This perfect union of deity and humanity in one person. In his deity, we see his authority, his power. We talked about this over the last couple of weeks, how he commands Satan's kingdom and shows his sovereignty over the kingdom of darkness. We saw that he heals the sick, and so we see his authority over the effects of this fallen world. We see the deity of Christ, but we also see the weakness of Christ, the humanity of Christ. We see him displayed in very rich terms. We talked a good bit about this concept even a little bit last week. We saw the compassion of Christ at Lazarus' grave as he is weeping when he sees the suffering of those people that love dearly their brother who was deceased. And his humanity were reminded that he is the one who thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but he made himself of no reputation and took upon himself the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of men. Literally, Christ laid aside his power for a season so that he could suffer in weakness and ultimately go to the cross. We see that he humbled himself and he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. This scripture is not only giving us these important theological insights. But it also shows some very practical applications as well. That's kind of what I want us to focus on this morning for the time that we're together. We need to follow the pattern of Christ so as it is shown in this passage that we can as mere mortals. In fact, it's interesting in 1 John chapter 2, verse 7, this is what the scripture says. John writes, A new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past and the true light now shineth. Now, I covered this passage, it's been a couple of years ago now in our 1 John series. But in 1 John chapter 2, John basically says I'm writing you an old commandment, which you've had from the beginning, but I'm also writing you a new commandment. You say, well, which one is it? Well, it's an old commandment that is being flushed out in a new way. The old commandment is that you're to love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and to love your neighbor as yourself. This is really the ultimate fulfilling of the law. But he says, as New Testament Christians We are to follow the pattern of Christ. In other words, we're to be like Christ. And that's not something that the Old Testament saint was able to do because they didn't see Christ. We have seen him as we read the scriptures and how he lived his life, but there's another dimension to it that's very unique for the New Testament Christians. It says this new commandment is true in him. That's an interesting statement. Because the darkness is past and the true light now shineth As New Testament Christians, we walk with an empowerment of being in Christ. And we are following the example of Christ. We are becoming more like Christ. That's how our lives are supposed to be. So how do we prioritize our lives after such a pattern? Well, let me begin with the first truth that I think we find in these verses that's very important. Rest is a necessary priority to be a good steward. Now, I have to confess to you that this is a very busy week for me. And I probably feel a bit convicted as I make such a statement this morning. And what I want you to understand is when we talk about rest being a priority, we are not slaves. to rest, but it's actually an opportunity that God invites us into. In fact, it's very interesting when we talk about this issue of taking time off, a lot of people feel very guilty. Because they are so focused on their labors. Pastors are notorious for being unwilling to take a day that is dedicated to resting their bodies, resting their minds, and focusing on the Lord. Yet if there's anybody that needed such refreshment, it'd be those who minister in the Word. Would it not be Rest is an important priority if we're going to be good stewards. Here's what he says in verse 42. It says, when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place. You say, well, why was he going to a desert place? He was going there to rest. He was going there to get away from the labors of what he had been involved in. to rest his mind, to rest his body, and to commune with his father. And what's very interesting is as we read through the gospels, we see many, many examples of Jesus doing this very thing. Luke chapter 4 verse 42 He says he went into a desert place. Luke chapter 6 verse 12 it says he went into a mountain to pray and continued all night in prayer to God. And Luke chapter 9, verse 28, it says he took Peter and John and James. And they went up into a mountain to pray. We go to the book of Matthew, we go to the book of Mark, we see many examples of Jesus taking time away, communing with his father. Jesus was one who didn't just work all the time. There were times where he stopped and he rested and he refreshed and he refocused. One of the most interesting of these examples is actually Matthew 14. In Matthew 14, verse 13, it says Jesus heard of it. He's talking about the death of John the Baptist, actually, here. It says he departed thence by ship into a desert place apart. You might say that the Lord Jesus Christ needed to process the weight of such a terrible loss. Of someone who is his cousin. When Jesus was going to pick the disciples that were going to follow him the night before, he calls those twelve to him. He spends the whole night away in prayer. What's the point? Jesus prioritized rest. Folks, we were not just created to work. We were also created to fellowship and commune with God And fellowshipping and communing with God means that there are times that we need to step away from our labors and step away from the focusing of our energies, and we need to focus them in a different direction. And that direction is going to be on the Lord. You know what's very interesting? This concept of rest is something that goes all the way back to the very beginning. We read this this morning. It was supposed to be our opening scripture. It was in the middle because I messed it up. But Genesis 1. 26, here's what it says. It says, God created man in his own image, and God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it. And then the next thing that's very interesting here is this. On the seventh day, God ended his work, which he had made, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made. And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made. Did God need to rest? The answer is no. He is omnipotent. He is all powerful. It's not like God was worn out from everything that He'd done. He said, I need to take some time away. But there was somebody that God did create that did need to rest. Interestingly, you know who that was That was Adam and Eve. You say, well, hold on a second. Adam and Eve were created on day six. Why does it need to rest on day seven? Ah, it's a very interesting question, is it not? They were created on day six. They worked on day six on some level. I I I don't know how long. I mean naming all the animals would have been uh fairly exhausting thing. And Adam did have a surgery procedure. I guess it was outpatient or something like that. But Day number seven, the first day that this man and his wife saw the sunrise and the sunset, they didn't work. You know what they did? They communed with God. Pretty interesting, is it not? So God even established in the creation account six days of work A day of rest. And the very first day, the very first day that this couple saw, their first full day, was a day of communion with God. Very interesting, is it not? In fact, this is the foundational basis for the Levitical Sabbath and the New Testament practice of the Lord's. Now, I make a distinction. We are not under the Levitical system. And I'm going to mention why not. Well, I guess I could go into a lot of details as to why not. It was a huge uh uh discussion in the New Testament church. But I want you to notice the way that God speaks to the nation of Israel under the Levitical system about the Sabbath day rest. Here's what it says in Exodus chapter 20. He says, remember the Sabbath to keep it holy. Six days shalt thou labor and do all thy work, but the seventh day is the Sabbath, and I want you to listen carefully to the way it's put. The Sabbath of the Lord. It doesn't say it's the Sabbath to the Lord. But that's the way that most people would think of this. In other words, God created the Sabbath day so we do all of our spiritual work on that day and then all of our non-spiritual work all the other days. That's not what the Sabbath day was all about. It was God's Sabbath. It was literally God inviting his people away from their physical labors. to rest their bodies, to rest their minds, and to have their soul soaked and satisfied with God It was God's day. And he was inviting them to participate. Now he mandated it, I will tell you that. But it was an invitation. In other words, they weren't doing the Sabbath for God, God created the Sabbath for them In fact, even when Jesus was out and he was in the fields with his disciples and they're picking the grains and the Pharisees start taking issue with Jesus, Jesus says, the Sabbath Was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. It's a very interesting statement. Even in the Old Testament system, Levitical law, God is saying, look, the Sabbath is for your benefit, not God's. Interesting way to put it, is it not? It was a foundational basis for what we see in the New Testament era. In the New Testament, we never have the Sabbath day being restated. But what we do see is that there was a pattern of behavior in the New Testament church. And that was on the first day of the week the people would assemble together. And on that day they would focus their attention on the Lord. And the question is, well, why is it that that day would have been a sacred, set-apart day of focusing on the Lord? Well, it's because it was rooted in the concept of six days of work. And then a day of rest that is focusing on the Lord. In fact, it's very interesting. I kind of jumped ahead of myself. When we talk about the Old Testament system, God created within that system not just a weekly day of rest, but lots of days of rest. When there was a contention about this issue and he addresses it, I believe it's in Colossians, I'll read it later. He talks about Sabbath days, okay, not the Sabbath day and the festive days. But I want you to realize if you'd have lived under that Old Testament system and the first of the month you would have celebrated the Passover and the Feast of Unleavened Bread, we're talking about essentially a two-week period of festive focus. Fifty days later, you would have celebrated the Feast of Weeks or Pentecost. And then within that time period, the Feast of First Fruits. For all those farmers, we love that day, right? On the seventh month, this would be kind of like our July, our summer vacation, right? You would have had the Feast of Trumpets on the first day of the month, the Day of the Atonement on the tenth day of the month, the Feast of Booze on the 15th month Seems like it was kind of a busy bit busy month, wasn't it? But you know what's really interesting about all of these feasts? It shows us why God called the people to rest. It wasn't so that they wouldn't get tired of their jobs. He called them to rest because he wanted them to continually reorient their lives back to him. Very interesting. He continually wanted them. So the Passover was about what? Focusing on the Lord. What's the feast of unleavened bread? It's a part of that. What is Pentecost? What is the Feast of First Fruits? What are all of these festive occasions all about? It's about reminding yourself that you need to reorient your life back to God. It's about communing with God, fellowshipping with God. And what's very interesting is that these were all done in community, not in isolation. That means that God wants us to celebrate together as His people. In other words, our walk with God is personal on one level, but it's also corporate and communal on another level. God wants us to grow together, not in isolation. And so we even see this under the old system. What's also very interesting is all of these festive occasions and all these times of break, they pointed to the Messiah. They all did. Every single one of them. They pointed their attention to him. And what's very interesting is when he comes and he establishes the basis through which we can come into the presence of the Father. Through the sun. He's inviting us into this continual rest. I'm going to read it in just a moment. The takeaway Is that God wanted his people to rest and orient their lives toward him and to commune with him in community, and he wanted them to see a picture of the Messiah coming over and over and over again. Technically, as New Testament Christians, when we assemble on the Lord's Day on Sunday, you know what we're doing? We're looking back to the resurrection of Christ. It really is. Easter Sunday isn't the only time that we celebrate the resurrection. Every time we assemble, we should be reminding ourselves that Christ is risen. As they say, he's risen indeed. Colossians chapter 2 makes it very clear that we're no longer under the old Levitical system He says, Let no man judge you in meat or drink or respect of holy days or new moons or sabbath days. Yet we also recognize that there was something very valuable that was pictured in those things. You say, well, how are we to rest as New Testament believers? Well, we're to assemble together. That is a major part of it. Hebrews 10, verses 24 to 25, he says, Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and good works. That word provoke means to be stirred up. So when we gather together, there should be a warmth and an affection that encourages us in the Lord. He says we're not to forsake this assembly. We're to exhort one another more and more as we see the day approaching. God wants us to do this because it's for our good. And by the way, assembly is it's exactly that. It's gathering together. It's assembling. The apostles celebrated this. Acts chapter 20 talks about this. When Paul talks about gathering the collection that he's going to take to Jerusalem, he says on the first day of the week, when you're gathered together, this is your practice. As believers, that's when you lay aside this money that I'm going to take later on. What's the point The point is that we need a consistent, God-oriented pattern of rest and labor that involves our whole person. Our bodies need refreshment, do they not? Our minds need to be refreshed. Our mental faculties need to be refocused so that we stay sharp. It's an important part of us getting to be effective in what we do. But there's a third aspect to this, not just our minds and not just our bodies, but our spirit, our inner man needs to be refreshed and renewed. And this happens through corporate and private communion with God. The problem with the world that does not follow a God-oriented rest is that their spirit that is dead cannot be refreshed. And this is a huge problem. Truth number two, rest is not a matter of self-centeredness. We don't rest because it's about me time. Now, I mean we probably do on some level. But that really ought not be why we rest. And we actually see an indication of this in the way that Jesus relates to the people. That came to him when he wanted to rest. He wanted to get away. Verse number 42, it says, The people sought him and came unto him and stayed stayed him that he should not depart from them. What did Jesus, when he saw him, say, hey, get out of my presence. I'm taking my rest right now. I'm communing with my Father. Can't you see what I'm doing? That's not what he did. He engaged them in conversation. In fact, we see an even uh more interesting example of this in Matthew chapter fourteen, verse fourteen. I mentioned this text earlier, but here's what it says Jesus did when the people came to him. It says Jesus went forth and he saw a great multitude and was moved with compassion. Passion toward them. And he healed them of their sicknesses. Or when Jesus on the Sabbath day sees a man that is lame on the side of the road, he didn't go, oh, you know, today's my day off. It's the Sabbath day. I'm just going to let you sit there. Actually, what he did is he healed the man on the Sabbath to make a point. That the Sabbath, I was not made for the Sabbath, the Sabbath was made for people. And by the way, I, the Lord Jesus Christ, am the Lord of the Sabbath. He's demonstrating that. But what's the point? Jesus was not self-centered about how he saw this issue of rest. What I would say is this: we need a biblical worldview when it comes to rest. Have you ever thought about that? That you should actually think like a Christian when it comes to this issue of rest. Why does the world rest? Well the world rests because it's exhausted and it can't continue. I I mean it's purely pragmatic. I mean you can't survive if you don't take rest from time to time. Sometimes we wear ourselves out. We end up on our back. Why? Because our bodies can't handle such over and over repetition of things. We have to take time off, and the world, well, is very pragmatic about it. Sometimes it's because we're just flatly burned out. We don't want to deal with people anymore. We don't want to deal with problems We don't want to deal with another controversial conversation. We don't want to deal with another person that is over us or under us in the workplace. We just want to get away so we don't have to think about it anymore. That's what the world does. But a lot of Christians rest for the same reasons. Its rest is generally a self-centered rest A rest that can't really satisfy. It may rest the mind on some level, it may rest the body on some level, but there is a dynamic to this rest that they don't have The Christian's rest is different. It's rooted in a God-oriented life pattern of communion with the Lord. Our rest should be God-centered, not self-centered. This day should be a day of focusing on the Lord and drawing strength. and nourishment and sustenance from him. You know, there's a lot of scriptures that talks about how God is the one who is supposed to be the center of our joy, the one who renews our souls. Let me read to you a couple of examples of this. Matthew 11, verse 28. He says, Come unto me all you that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you what? Rest. He says, you'll find rest for your souls. Not just your body and your brain, but for your soul. There's nothing in this world that can give you rest for your soul, only Jesus John 4, verses 13 and 14, when he's talking to the woman at the well, this is what he says: Whoever drinks of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst. But the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life, a nourishment of the soul. God wants you to rest in such a way that it's oriented toward Him and He strengthens your heart. He nourishes your soul. He gives you rest and satisfaction in your inner person. Jeremiah 2 verse 13. This is an Old Testament text. God says, my people have committed two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters, and hewn them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water. Anybody here like going to baseball games? I do. Baseball game cannot give satisfaction to your soul. Or football games. Or hanging out with your buddies. That's what the world does to kind of refocus. I'm going to go to the beach. I'm going to go to the lake. I'm going to go to the ball game. I'm going to do all these things. You know what? It may give rest to your brain, and it may give rest to your body, but it does not restore your soul. And the nation of Israel was rejecting the one source of satisfaction, God Himself. And they're replacing it with something that was broken and holds no water. Do you know why our society is so broken right now? It's because of what I just read to you. We have a society that has rejected the source of satisfaction. They may not even realize it. And the fact is, everything that this world is searching for satisfaction in, it is an empty pit of greater misery. 1 John 1 verse 3 says, That which we have seen and heard, we declare unto you, that you may have fellowship with us. And truly our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ, and these things write we unto you that your joy may be full. That's what the book of 1 John is all about. It's about us fellowshipping, communing with God so that we can be satisfied and we can find full, rich joy. We as God's people need a regular rejuvenation of body, mind, and spirit. This holistic health thing is a really popular thing in our culture. I was uh in the grocery store the other day and I was uh in the unfortunately in the line where I had to have somebody check out instead of going to the self-register, and they had this like HTC thing right here. It was a holistic health right here. Really? Holistic, huh? You need a drug to replace God. That's the thinking of our society Today. It really is. We need to establish this reorienting of our bodies and our minds and our spirits to God. And folks, it actually really involves a tremendous discipline of time and energy. If I've gone through decades of life where frankly I do not rest, where I rest, but it's not oriented toward God, Then for me to establish a new pattern, it's going to be hard. But it will be very rich and very rewarding. But in these verses, what we see is even though we have that pattern Jesus was willing to allow it to be interrupted. Whether it was to heal someone who was sick, whether it was because the disciples were hungry and they needed to pick some corn in the field. Okay. Jesus took time and he was not self-centered about it. In other words, we need this pattern of life, but we need to be flexible within this pattern. That's what Jesus was. Even though he took time to rest, he still took time to interact with the people. He was selfless in the way he related to them. He put the genuine needs of others ahead of himself. He was continually in the service of his father. There is a balance that we need within this concept. A pattern of work, labor, and the willingness to serve others in the midst of That pattern. Truth number three. God's will should be our highest priority. It's very interesting about the way that Jesus speaks to these people as he pulls away from his rest. Pulls away from this isolation and his focus on his father and the communion he was going to enjoy. He emphasized his mandates. He says in verse 43, I must preach the kingdom of God. And not just in this location, but in other cities. He says, Therefore I'm sent. That means God has commissioned, my father has commissioned me to go. And to preach in the synagogues of Galilee. That's what Jesus said. In other words, he had this perfect balance in his view of his work and his rest Jesus labored. Jesus rested. Jesus allowed himself to get interrupted in the midst of this pattern. And whatever the Father wanted him to do, he was going to go and do it. And that's the way that we should be as his people. We should have the time of labor and energy and a time of rest and rejuvenation. We should be willing and flexible for God to interrupt what's going on in our lives from time to time, and we need to submit ourselves to his purposes all throughout. I asked this question. Is that how we look at this issue Or is it just purely pragmatic? Or are we kind of like something that's floating out in the sea in whichever way the sea is pushing? If the tide's going this way, it's getting pushed this way. If the tide's going this way, it's getting pushed this way. And we really don't live our lives purposefully We just get pushed back and forth. Is that how we live? Or are we very principled? Are we very focused? Are we prioritizing our labor and our rest and our submission to the will of God and all these things? Is that what we are doing? Folks, his sacrifice of time was all about the advancement of God's kingdom. Verse 43, I must preach. Verse 43, I have been sent. Verse 44, he preached in the synagogues. His life, whether in labor, when disrupted, whether in rest, it was all about the glory of his father. It was all about the advancement of the kingdom of God. That means you can rest to the glory of God. Do you realize that? And you can labor to the glory of God. And you can allow the disruptions of life to the glory of God. And you get uproot and move in a new direction for the glory of God if that's what He is calling you to do. Jesus had perfect balance. In a broken world. And that's what we should ask the Lord to begin pressing in our own lives. Think about what Jesus said in Matthew chapter 6. He says, take no thought. Saying, What shall you eat or drink, or wherewithal shall you be clothed after all these things do the Gentiles seek? Your heavenly Father knoweth that you have need of all these things But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things shall be added unto you. Folks, my encouragement this morning is that we will not see a day of rest as a burden Or as an offering to God, but as the opportunity to enter into his invitation to us. That's what I'm driving at here. That we will see the Lord's day as not a disruption or a week. Man, it really stinks. I gotta go to church on Sunday. I'm really tired this week that we'll see this as an invitation from our God to commune together. That when we leave this place we won't be drained and wearied because all we've thought about is I'm giving God this and I'm giving God this and I'm giving God this and I'm giving him this. But we think about him Feeding our souls. That when we rest, that it's not just about, oh, my body needs to rest and my brain needs to rest, but my soul needs to to be refreshed. rest. We desperately need this in our lives. I need it. You need it Just a word of encouragement to our men who have a wife who is drowning with little children. I am one of them. We need to do a better job, man. Of allowing our wives to have rest too. Sunday's a really hard time if you're a mom with little kids. And it's because we as men are not doing a good enough job to help shoulder that burden. We really need this. My prayer this morning is that we will take these truths and we'll let them suffer Settle into our hearts. We need our minds, our bodies, and our souls to be refreshed. And He's the only one. That can do that. How are our priorities? Have we established a biblical pattern of rest that is focused on communion? With the Lord? Are we willing to set aside our rights and minister as God calls us to serve others when things get disrupted? Are we being continually refreshed, not just physically and mentally, but spiritually? May God help us to develop these patterns as He graciously enables us to serve Him more effectively. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we are so grateful that in your wisdom, in the very first week of creation , You set aside a day of rest. Not because you needed it. Not because you expected Adam to give you something. But because you invited him from his labors to commune with you And Father, I pray that we would recognize that there is no greater privilege in life. There's no potential for richer joy. Than to walk with God. And we neglect this wonderful privilege far too much. We are wearied and we are in great turmoil because we have neglected the source of true rest. And so, Father, I pray that you will take the truths that have been laid out this morning and made them stick in our souls. Father, help us to develop very necessary patterns. I pray that you would work in our hearts. Help us to not see This day is a duty as much as a delightful privilege to come into your presence with gladness and joy and to leave your presence richly satisfied. Help us as your people to do a better job of helping those who do have heavy loads that they carry on such a day. May we help offset those by our willingness to be disrupted in our rest. Father, use these things for your glory in our lives in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's uh take out our hymn books, please, and let's sing hymn number three hundred and seventy-one as our final hymn. Stand together. It's a passion for thee. And And on a day where we rest and we refocus on the Lord, this is probably a great song to sing and such a focus. 371, a passion for thee. Set my heart, O dear Father, on thee and thee only. Give me a thirst for thy friends and divine for thee my My focus on loving people urge me from urs my heart after A passion for thee, O Lord, set a fire in my soul, and a thirst for my God Here thou my favor, thy power in war. Not just you, sir, but you love me with all of my heart. Father, fill with thy spirits and give me for sooners. That love for Christ had people give his life. Lay down my joy and my soul's one design of passion for me. And the thirst for my God Hear thou my hair or thy power in core. Not just easier, but we love me in all. I hope that really is your Your prayer this morning. Sean, can you close us in prayer, please? And please be in prayer for many in our congregation who'll be traveling. over the next several days and uh pray for those who are sick and uh make sure that you stay engaged with our our prayer sheet and the the various requests that are on there and uh Just ask the Lord to work in those situations, Sean. Close in prayer. Father, thank you for this um opportunity we have to uh come to church and listen to teaching from your word and uh fellowship with believers and I just ask that we uh um take what we learned today and and apply it and uh uh rest when when we need it and uh take advantage of of today even as a day of rest and um just ask you um uh deal with all these prairie quests um uh and with this uh uh city in Texas Texas that just suffered a school shooting. We just um continue to lift them in prayer and for the families, and that you would use churches and Christians in that area to uh comfort those who are grieving. And um just give Give us a good afternoon and bring us all back here safely and in Jesus' name. Amen.