Okay, if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with me to 1 Timothy 5. 1 Timothy chapter 5. We're going to be looking at this entire section really over a couple of weeks. And we started this last week. And so I'm not going to read the entire section, verses one through ten, but I want to read the first couple of verses and then remind you of a couple of the details we talked about last time. First Timothy five one Rebuke not an elder, but entreat him as a father, and the younger men as brethren, the older women as mothers, the younger as sisters with all purity. Honor widows that are widows indeed. Now I'm going to stop there and really we're going to dig into this passage on another week, even beyond that. We're going to talk a good bit about the church's relationship to those who are widows, and particularly not just all widows, but a specific group of widows that are called widows indeed. And we see that the Bible tells us as a local church that our responsibility is to make sure that the physical needs of those ladies who are widows indeed is taken care of by the church. And there's a very specific way that we're supposed to do that as a church. And really in principle, I think there are some things that we can glean from that, even beyond that exact specific situation. Because one of the things we need to realize is a lot of times when we read the Bible, we read what we call case law situations. So basically we have a statement, we have a situation. And it's expounded and undergirding that application, that specific application, will be certain principles that are timeless truths. And those timeless truths can really be applied into lots of different areas. For instance, in the Old Testament, there's a law that says, don't muzzle the ox that tramples the grain. Now, obviously, he's saying that if you have an animal that's working for you, then you need to make sure that you feed that animal. You need to make sure that it draws strength from the work that it's doing. Now, if somebody says, well I have a goat, I don't need to feed my goat because my goat's not an ox trampling the grain. Or my ox isn't trampling grain, he's grinding something else. No, the idea is that that one situation teaches a principle. If something is working for you, an animal in that situation, then you need to make sure that you provide for that animal's needs. Oh, you know what's so interesting? The Apostle Paul takes that principle into the New Testament and he applies it to making sure that your pastor is taken care of. So I guess I'm the ox that tramples the grain in the church, okay? No, that's not what he's saying. He's saying the principle is Just like you would make sure that that animal that's working for you is fed, make sure that the one who handles the word of God is taken care of. That's what he's saying. The reason that I give that illustration is not because I'm trying to, you know, in a passive aggressive way do anything here. You guys take good care of your pastor. It's to help you to realize that we have what we call case law situations. And so when we get into this issue of talking about widows indeed, we're going to see not only that specific situation, but we're going to see principles that really flow out of that particular situation. And we're going to talk about how as a church we look out for those who have great need. But before we get into that, on a different night, let's talk about the section in front of us. Last week we talked about the fact that the church is a family. In fact, there are lots of different illustrations that the Bible uses when it talks about the local church. The local church is described as a body. And we talked about it being a body emphasizing the fact that we have a head and we have hands and we have these different body parts and they all serve in different functions. But those different functions are not to work independent of one another. They're supposed to work together to accomplish something And so he emphasizes the fact that we are mutually dependent upon one another and that we work together as a team and the diversity of giftedness within the local church is by God's design to make us dependent upon one another. to make us more humbled and to help us to really strengthen and build up one another more. We see that the body is uh the the the scriptures not only describe it as a body but refers to it as a building And the idea is that we are built on a foundation. The Lord Jesus Christ is the chief cornerstone, and the foundation was laid by the prophets and the apostles of the Lord Jesus Christ. What's very interesting though is this. While the Bible uses the illustration of the church being a building, it doesn't refer to the building as the church. I want you to understand that. There's a distinction. The Bible never talks about the church like it's a business. In fact, if anything, the Bible would really go against that mentality, that this is some industrious money-making kind of a situation. In fact, the Bible warns us about as pastors or deacons being lovers of money. We are not to be that way. The Bi the Bible does not present the church as a political action group. And one of the things that I emphasized last time is that in the New Testament, when the Apostle Paul and Peter and James and John, when these men were founding churches, they would have never thought of the church being in a position to move the government to do certain things. Okay? In other words, they would have never picketed against the emperor or said, that's an unjust war and we're going to fight against that And we're going to demand our rights. They would have never done such a thing. They would have never even considered such a thing. They saw the church as a family. And the reality is as the gospel transforms individuals within the church, those people are going to go out and they're going to reach into their communities and they're going to lead people to Christ and they're going to make disciples. And as the church begins to grow, and as churches are planted in communities, those places are salt and light in those communities. And as the church functions as salt and light, you know what ends up happening? It changes the way that people in society think about things In other words, as the church is doing its work, eventually it's going to flow into the way that a society thinks about things and functions. Rather than it being a political action group, it's a place where people are saved, baptized, discipled, and they are Saul and light. And the reality is that in most communities, the church was a small minority that even faced intense persecution. But in the midst of that persecution, the church still was able to thrive and the gospel was able to go forward. But what do we see, the church as a family. Galatians 6, we talked about this. Ephesians chapter 2, we talked about this. Ephesians chapter 3, we talked about this. And we emphasize the fact that when Paul talks about how we're to relate to one another, he uses terms like, relate to an older man like he's your father. Relate to an older lady like she's your mother. Relate to a younger man like he's your brother. Relate to a younger woman like she's your sister. In other words, he uses the family illustration here We are to relate to one another as family. Hopefully not dysfunctional family. Healthy family Happy family, loving family, a family that is tight-knit and connected. Have you ever interacted with a family where you say, those people really love each other? I hope somebody can raise a hand in here. I hope your own family's sat wet. But the reality is that if the gospel is at the center of your home, it should be a loving home. It should be a place where we learn to get past our differences and we forgive one another and we're patient with one another and we work together and there's an affection for one another. And that's the way the local church is supposed to be. An affectionate community. So we talked about why does it even matter? Well it's because it's a loving community. We talked about this concept of quinania or community, fellowship, communion. We talked about the concept of hospitality, meeting the needs of the vulnerable, how we come together at the Lord's table and we worship in remembrance of the death of Christ, his body and his blood being shed for our sins. We talked about accepting one another as brothers and sisters in Christ and enjoying the sweet connection that we experience in corporate worship. The reality is that there is something that you cannot get following the live stream. You cannot experience the connection that you experience when we are gathered together as a body. That you do on a live stream. It's so interesting. Some of the old old preachers that I enjoyed listening to, some of them refused. It's gonna be interesting. They refused to go on the radio. I'm gonna give you the example of Martin Lloyd Jones. He would not go on the radio. You know why he wouldn't go on the radio? He said there were two reasons. One is he refused to be limited by the constraints of a broadcast time clock. That was one. All right? I'm not saying that was good. I'm just saying I'm just telling you what he did, alright? And the other was, he said, there's something very sacred and special about the gathering of the saints. That when you are in that environment together and you hear the preached word together, there is something so precious about that environment that I don't want to cheapen it by going on the radio. That's what he did, alright? I'm not saying he was right or wrong. I'm just saying that's what he did. That was his viewpoint. And you know what? In some way he probably had a point. The reality is there's something very special about the gathering of the church. There's something about listening to that sermon live. With your kids sitting next to you, your spouse sitting next to you, people that are in that place. We have sung together. We've listened to the word together. It's a community. It's a fellowshipping community. And so he talks about this concept. It's also a place where there's commitment. There's commitment Galatians 6, he talks about if someone is overtaken in a fault, those who are spiritual restoring this person and bearing one another's burdens and so fulfilling the law of Christ. In Acts chapter 20, Paul talks about supporting the weak. In 1 Thessalonians 5, Paul talks about exhorting the brethren to warn those who are unruly, to comfort those who are feeble-minded, to be patient toward all men. To not render evil to for evil unto anyone, but to follow that which is good. And the thing that's emphasized in that passage, in all those passages, is that when there are conflicts between brothers and sisters in Christ, We don't abandon them. We don't walk away from them. We have this commitment to one another that rather than pushing them to the side and saying, I don't want to be dragged down. And we're needed, what am I going to do? I'm going to bear your burdens with you. I'm going to encourage you and strengthen you. This is a very important body So we get into this second point. How our interaction should be with other Christians. And there are three words that I think should stick in our minds. The first word is the word grace Grace. The second word is honor. And the third is purity. Grace, honor, purity Those three words are to distinguish the way that we relate to one another within the body. And I want you to see how he puts it in chapter 5, verse 1. He says, rebuke not an elder. Now, when he uses the term elder, many times in the Bible the term elder is used to refer to someone who is in a pastoral role. And the truth is that may be what he's talking about in this text. But I would say in the context, I would lean toward it being an older man. Now when he says an older man, I don't mean an old feeble man, someone who's older than you, someone who's more mature than you, someone who there should be a respect between your interaction and them And you know, we have lost this sense of respect and honor in our society. Big time. It's it's in fact it's one of the great tragedies. of the modern world is that we are losing a sense of respect for other people. I think about my interaction in Ghana, where you still had that respect that was highly expected. Older man walks in the room and you're a younger man. When I say younger, I mean you're a year younger than this guy. You show him respect. Like it's a really big deal. I remember dealing with conflict resolution issues, and sometimes it would be a guy, he'd be like three years younger than the other guy, and he's like, I'm senior to you, you can't respond this way. Like, whoa. Respect's a big deal. Sometimes it's abused, I know that. But one of the things he says is this: do not rebuke an elder. He then goes on to say this, but instead entreat him as a father, and the younger women as sisters with all purity In that verse, we're going to see those three concepts of grace, honor, and purity. And I want you to realize that when it comes to how we deal with other Christians, we need to be cautious that we aren't harsh. And irritable and condescending and caustic towards Christians. Well, we shouldn't be causing like that toward anybody. But the reality is within the church there should be grace in how we deal with one another. When he says, don't rebuke an elder, what's interesting is If you look at the verse in the original language, what you will see is he also would say, don't rebuke an elder, don't rebuke an older woman, don't rebuke a brother, and don't rebuke a sister. Instead, you're to entreat Your older man as a father, and entreat an older woman like she's your mother, and entreat your peer as a brother. And entreat your sister or this lady as a sister. And he adds something else. We'll talk about that in a minute. But what's the point? The point is: don't be harsh. Now, I'm not saying that a Christian is never allowed to rebuke another Christian. I'm not saying that. The scripture wouldn't teach that. But it should take a while before we get to that point. We need to start with the most simple and gracious way to resolve a conflict with another person before we ratchet up a little bit. You rebuke when a person is arrogant and is proud and as unbending and you've extended mercy for a long period of time. That's the way that God is with us. But especially a person who is in an older position. There's a lot that could be said here, but the reality is this. We need to relate to one another in grace. Listen to the instructions in 1 Peter 5, verses 2 to 3. Peter writes, feed the flock of God which is among you. Taking the oversight thereof. Now we talk about oversight. We're talking about authority. A pastor has authority. Not by constraint, but willingly Not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. Now listen carefully to the next phrase. Neither as being Lord's Over God's heritage, but being examples to the flock. In other words, even a pastor who has authority in the church Does not have the right to be overbearing. Does not have the right to present himself like he is a lord or a master over servants. Pastor's to be gentle. He's supposed to be patient. He's supposed to lead by example. And I want to ask you the question: what is the highest level of authority in the church? It's the pastor. If he's expected to have that kind of grace, how much more so? And how we relate to one another. In 2 Timothy 2, 24 to 26, it says, the servant of the Lord must not strive. But be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves. If peradventure God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who is taken captive by him at his will. That passage tells me and tells you that even the pastor of a church who's dealing with a very stubborn individual has to be patient with them. Has to be long-suffering with them. Has to extend mercy to them. And that is the example that all of us are to follow. There are far too many Christians that ignore the Bible when it comes to this issue. They're vindictive in their interactions with other people. They are harsh. They are blunt, they are rude, they're aggressive, and they're disobedient to the word of God. There are a lot of pastors that are doing the exact same thing, And by the way, we're all tempted to be this way, I promise you. We all are. We're all made of the same stuff. But God calls us to grace in our interactions with one another. This is part of how we grow as a Christian. Grace. There's a second principle that is so important: be an encourager. He says, but rather entreat him as a father. And by the way, when he says entreat him as a father, he also includes that into how you relate to an older lady, how you relate to a young to a a young man who's appeared to you or to a young woman who has appeared to you. If you're in that position, however you want to put it. Timothy was a young man. Entreats. What does the word entreat mean? The the word entreat is the exact same word that's used of the Holy Spirit being our comforter That paracletas, okay? He's going to come alongside and strengthen and encourage. That's what it means. Encourage. Come alongside. In other words, rather than being blunt and harsh of people, we have to come alongside of them and encourage them and build them up and strengthen them. This is an extremely important responsibility that God gives to every person in the church. And by the way, when we come alongside people And we encourage them and we strengthen them, as the Word of God's telling us to do, we are ultimately functioning after the pattern that God's put in front of us. , That's what the Holy Spirit does with us. He's an encourager. He's a comforter. We need him in this role. And 2 Corinthians 10, verse 1, this is what Paul says. Now I, Paul, myself, beseech you by the meekness and the gentleness of Christ, who in presence ambass among you. By the way, that was the church at Corinth. Not exactly the most stellar bunch of people. They were a stubborn bunch. They did not like Paul. In fact, when we look at 2 Corinthians, most of the book is Paul defending his apostleship. Why did Paul have to defend his apostleship? Because the church didn't believe he had the right to be so authoritative. So he had to prove I'm an apostle of Christ. Yet he says, I come to you in meekness and gentleness. It's pretty amazing. We are supposed to be encouragers. We're supposed to be gracious with the people that God brings into our lives. And by the way, there are times that that takes incredible grace and restraint. It's the Spirit of God that enables us to do what we're supposed to do in these circumstances. We're to be encouragers to the younger men as brothers, to the younger women as sisters, to the older women as mothers. I want you to think about your mom as your mother or father ages. You think about how there was a time when they took care of you and now you're in a reverse role. talk about. Now you're taking care of them. Now you're looking out for them. You're making sure that they're getting to their doctor's visits. You're making sure that they have wood stacked for the winter. You're making sure that things are the way they need to be for them. And so as the revolt the roles begin to reverse, there is an honoring that takes place where you're looking out for your parents. And that's the sense that he has here. You need to entreat the older man like he's your father, the older woman like she's your mother. We come to this third principle. Be above reproach in the way that you relate to other Christians. Now it's interesting when he talks about these different groups, he only focuses in on one group with this phrase. You need to relate to younger ladies as sisters with all purity. Very important We have no idea if Timothy was a married man. I actually kind of doubt he was. I I mean maybe maybe some commentators would say that he was, but it doesn't seem to indicate that he was a married man So what would that mean? That would mean that in the role that he had, he would have been tempted to relate to women in a way that he shouldn't. And he would also be in a position where ladies might be tempted to relate to him in a way that he shouldn't. But he still needed to relate to the ladies in the church. And he still needed to minister to them. So how was he supposed to do it? He was to relate to them as to a sister And to do it with all purity. There should be nothing duplicitous about the way that he relates to women that would have been his peers. And you know what's very interesting in the book of 1 Timothy, when he talks about the role of a pastor, someone who is qualified to be a minister of the gospel, he says that this man must be blameless. That means there's no accusation that can be hurled against him, and you say, that sticks. The way that he relates to these people is wrong, and you can see it, it's clear. You can't do that if you're going to be a pastor. He talks about him being the husband of one wife. And the idea is that this is a person who is a one-woman kind of man. They're above reproach in the way that they relate to young women. And not just younger women. I mean, as he gets older, how he relates to peers, ladies. He's faithful to his wife. Unquestionably. It's his character. It's not just that he hasn't cheated on his wife or that he's not been married two or three times. He is faithful to her. He is above reproach in this area. It's clear, unquestionable. He then talks about him being vigilant, having a good report of those who are without, unbelievers, lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. The idea is that a pastor has to relate to people in purity. And so those three words stand out. Honor, encouragement, and purity I want to ask you a question. Do you relate to people in honor, encouragement, and purity? That's what God wants of us. He expects of us. And the truth is, as the church reflects God's expectations, the church will thrive. Relationships will flourish, they'll blossom, they'll be healthy, it will be a family that is sweet, not contentious. And so long as we ignore these things, we will have one after another contention and problem Truth number three, we must look out for the most vulnerable. In verse three says, Honor widows that are widows indeed. Widows were to be highly esteemed and treated with the utmost value. And we're going to get into this next week in greater detail. But we need to recognize that in the ancient world, a woman who had lost her husband was perhaps the most vulnerable person in all the community. Especially someone that did not have children that could take care of her. In other words, she was completely alone. How is she going to meet her needs? How is she going to find employment? How is she going to find a place to stay? Who's going to defend her when someone tries to take advantage of her? The reality is she's a defenseless person in many ways. He says, honor her. She's not your mom. She's not your grandma. She's not your aunt. But treat her like she was. Take care That's the sense. In James 1 27, the scripture says that pure religion before God and the Father is to visit the fatherless and the widows and their affliction. In Acts chapter 20, verse 34, it says, You know that these hands have ministered unto my necessity, and to those that were with me, I have showed you all things how so laboring you ought to support the weak. The reality is that the Apostle Paul was a hard-working man. He labored in the word He labored to take care of his own physical needs. And he went beyond that. He labored to take care of the needs of those who were defenseless. Couldn't support themselves, who had come alongside of him and were encouraging him in the ministry, but didn't have the resources to be able to take care of themselves. Paul did that for them. And he presents himself as someone who followed Christ, and we're to follow Christ like Paul followed Christ. So here's my question. How do we take what we've talked about tonight, and really last night as well, and how do we just practically apply it in a very simple way that will help us this evening before we go to prayer? Let me give you a couple thoughts. The first one is this. God wants the church to be the church. If there was ever a time that this country needed the church to be the church, it's now. We need to be the church. Not what people think the church is. Not maybe what we thought it was before we were instructed biblically. We need to be what the Bible calls it, this organism. This body, this family, this community. We need to be the church. There's no healthy church culture apart from the gospel. You know, when we talk about grace and humility in relationships, when we talk about encouraging people, hey, there's times we don't feel like being encouragers, I promise you. When you're tired, when you're weary, when you've dealt with several issues in a week, and then you have another one, is that one one that you feel inclined to be an encouragement? No. But the gospel is an endless well spring that we draw from. Remember what Jesus said to the woman at the well? I can give you living water that will cause you to never thirst again? And she says, Give me this water. And the truth is, he's using an analogy. He's saying in Christ, in the gospel, this new relationship to God through the gospel, you have an endless supply of nourishment. And the reality is that because we are God's children, because we have the gospel, we can draw from this endless supply of God's daily grace. And we will need it to have good relationships within a church. Three, we cannot grow in isolation. If we pull away from other Christians, Then we are going to shrivel up. We won't be healthy. We won't be strong. We won't be vibrant. We've got to be connected to other Christians The body is made up of dozens of individuals united together in community. And lots of diversity You know, he talks about there being older men and older women and younger men and younger women. What does that tell us? The church is very diverse. When he talks about there being Jews and Gentiles and bond and free, barbarian and Syntian, he talks about the diversity of the church. When he talks about there being lots of different gifts, but one spirit that gives those gifts, what's he emphasizing? The diversity of the church. Why? Because this body is made up of lots of different people with different backgrounds, with different gifts, but we have one common faith. And that's the way God wants it. We need to be doers of the word, not just hears only. You know, it's so easy to talk about doctrine, theology Some people just like to talk about theology. It's as exciting to them as some people watching football. It really is. Or whatever your hobby is. Some people theology is their hobby. They love to talk about it. They love to talk about spiritual things. But God didn't want just talk, He wants practice. He wants what we talk about, what we think about, what we discuss to become action. He wants it to influence our words. He wants it to influence our heart. He wants it to influence our hands. He wants it to influence everything that we do. He wants us to be doers of the word But not just hearers of the word And lastly, there should be a refreshing distinction between the way that Christians relate to one another and the way the world relates to one another. Our families should be very different from the families around us that don't know the Lord. Our church body should be very different than what you see in the way that people relate to one another in the world. The kinds of things that go on in this place should be very distinct and very different. That's what makes it light. Jesus says a city that's set on a hill can't be hid. What's his point? His point is if you're light and it's dark and then you're on a hill, you are visible. Everybody sees you. You can't hide. So what do they see? They should see this refreshing distinction. When people walk into this congregation, they should be warmly welcomed. They should see that there are people that actually care about their soul. They should see that the way that we relate to one another is very refreshing and very different. And I'll tell you that that's something that's extremely attractive. One of the young men, I guess he's not quite as young as he was when I first met him in Ghana, he's now a pastor. He was a medical student at the university. He'd been getting the gospel. In fact, it's an interesting story. He was an eye doctor in training, and one of the men had need of an eye doctor, and they went and he got him his prescription. Gave him a gospel tract. Invited him to church. And this is what he says. He says, I walked into church And there was something about the ways the people related to me and to each other that was so different than anything that I'd experienced in another place. This is before he got saved. Okay? He wasn't yet a Christian. He hadn't yet embraced the gospel. He didn't even fully understand the gospel. All he knew was that when he walked into that place, the way that people related to him and the way they related to each other was refreshingly different than anything he'd seen. And it was compelling. And as the gospel was presented, he began to realize it's the gospel that's made the difference. And that's what people need to see in us. May this be a refreshing place for people. Even people say, I don't even I don't I believe that message. But you know what? I can't deny it's changed these people. That's very powerful. May that be the case. And may God use that to bring people into his kingdom. Let's bow together for a word of prayer tonight. Father, thank you for the time we've spent in your word. It's very refreshing, very challenging, very convicting. And so needed. I pray that you administer to our souls through the things that have been presented this evening. May you get the glory in all of it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.