Okay, good evening. Hope that you're having a good week and uh looking forward to our study tonight. Uh let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer And then we will dig into a passage that's going to be actually a little bit off of the study that we've been doing. But let's pray, we'll sing a song and then get into our study tonight. Father, we're very grateful for your word and the opportunity tonight to open it up. I pray that you'd help me to communicate the truths of Scripture effectively. I pray that the things that we'll talk about that they'll really settle in our hearts. Very practical topic. It's really at the heart of church life. And so I pray that as I go through these passages that you would speak to our hearts. Bless the children in the back as they're doing truth trackers and tiny trackers. Help them to have just a great night back there. Help them as they learn the word to to uh hide the the scriptures in their hearts and uh be with those who are working with our kids. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, the song we're going to sing is from our blue book. It's 151. I run to Christ. And we'll sing uh all three verses together, please, tonight of I Run to Christ. I want to Christ and is my menu. It's always kind of I come to Christ when I go. Christ was born by my and by the way. And I need all of your God. Right now you try to stop by Son in Christ and touch and five for your ears , our Lord has been. It's a good song, isn't it? Great message in that song. Um, if you have your Bibles tonight, I want to ask you to turn with me. uh to look at Matthew. We're gonna be in Matthew chapter 25. Uh this is actually gonna be our starting point. And uh we're working our way through lots and lots of topics dealing with uh family life life. We spent a lot of time on issues raised with related to raising children. And there's a topic that I wanted to pause and cover tonight. Um that's really been on my heart. And the reason that it's really been on my heart is uh if you take out your prayer bulletin and you look at our prayer bulletin, it is loaded. I mean loaded with prayer requests And these are very serious prairie quests. It seems like over the last couple of months, right around from maybe Thanksgiving until where we are today, there's just been one thing after another. of challenges that people are facing. And these are physical challenges, uh family members uh passing on, uh people with major health concerns. We have several folks that are um in rehab facilities because of injuries they've had, things like that. And and the thing that the Lord's really put on my heart is how important it is in a time like this to ask, what does God want us to learn in the midst of this? And um obviously we don't have all the answers as to why things come together at the moment that they do, but I I'm very, very sure that one of the things that the Lord would have us to learn during this season in our church family is how much uh how important it is that we pull together as a body and we minister one to another. And so that's the topic that I'm going to talk about, how healthy Christianity and ministry work together. And so I hope that this will be an encouragement to you. By the way, I am not addressing this issue because I think as a church we're doing a poor job. I think we're doing a really good job. I I know when we've had uh meal trains go out, uh as soon as that meal train hits We have, I mean, those meals are covered really, really fast. And I know that there are people that are sending cards. In fact, uh my mother-in-law um had a very significant surgery uh last week. And uh people from our church sent her cards, um, sought sent the family cards. So I know that people are making efforts to minister one to another. So this is not A topic that I'm addressing because I feel like we're doing a terrible job. I'm simply addressing it because I think we need to be encouraged in these areas and think about how important the body is as we minister one to another. So Matthew chapter 25, this is one of Christ's parables. This is what it says in verses 32 to 40. Before him shall be gathered all nations, and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats. He shall set the sheep on his right hand. But the goats on the left. Then shall the king say unto them on the right hand, Come ye blessed of my father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world. And this next statement's fascinating. For I was hungered and you gave me meat. I was thirsty and you gave me drink. I was a stranger and ye took me in. Naked and ye clothed me. I was sick and ye visited me. I was in prison and ye came unto me. Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee and hungered and fed thee, or thirsty and gave thee drink? When saw we saw thee a stranger and took thee in, or naked and clothed thee? Or whence saw we thee sick or imprison and came unto thee, and the king shall answer and say unto them, Verily, verily I say unto you, insomuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren You have done it unto me. Now, this parable is actually communicating several different truths. But one of the things that this parable is communicating is that there is a certain character quality that we could say is distinct of people who know the Lord. Okay? This parable is not explaining how how somebody becomes a Christian or how somebody stays a Christian. That's not the point of the parable. When we think about our position in Christ, we are justified, declared righteous entirely on the basis of the impeded righteousness of Christ. And we think about that position, it is by grace alone. We don't earn it. We don't deserve it. Grace means this undeserved favor entirely. It is by grace through faith. It's not of ourselves. It's the gift of God. It's not of works lest any man should boast. We understand that's what the Bible teaches. We understand that we're kept by the power of God. Save from wrath through him. Nothing can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. So when we talk about our position in Christ This is not talking about how we get into the position or how we stay in the position or how we're strengthened in that position because it's entirely a grace position. It's entirely what Jesus did for us But what it does illustrate is the way that Christians think. And it illustrates the way that Christians live. What it shows us is that the gospel fundamentally shapes a person's life. When a person comes face to face with their sin and understand I am unrighteous and he is righteous, I'm unholy, he's holy, I'm a sinner. I'm separated from God. And they turn to Christ. They place their faith in his finished work. At the moment of conversion, they are born again, regenerated. They have new life in Christ. A person who was spiritually dead becomes spiritually alive. They're not the old man that they were before. They're a new creature in Christ. They're now indwelt by the Holy Spirit when formerly they walked according to the course of this world. They were slaves. Sin. They were powerless to overcome the power of temptation as unbelievers. Now, if I'm a new creature in Christ And I have the Holy Spirit, and positionally I am safe in Christ, that's going to change how I think and how I live. And that's really what's being illustrated in these verses. It shapes us in two practical ways. The first way is that a new creature in Christ is motivated to humbly serve God. Other people. You don't become a Christian by serving other people. But people who are Christians, who are genuinely born again, they have this sense I want you to see how this is stated in some other places. So he says in verses 35 and 36 When I was hungered, you gave me meat. When I was thirsty, you gave me drink. When I was naked, you clothed me. When I was sick, you visited me. When I was in prison, you came to visit me. He says you had a certain quality. You were a serving people. But the next part's very important Because it's not just that you were a serving people, but there was a distinctness about the way that you served. And this is fascinating. It's a kind of service that doesn't think much of the service Notice the way he puts it in verse 37. He says, Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when? You know what that tells me? That tells me that these people that served and ministered were not keeping a logbook of all the things they were doing for God and others. You say, well, why weren't they keeping a logbook? It's because they didn't need to. They weren't doing it because they were trying to prove to God their worth. They weren't doing it because they were trying to earn his favor, trying to get into heaven through those things. They simply did it as an expression of love because there's a different disposition in them as people. In other words, this is a service that is purely motivated. The world doesn't serve that way. When the world does something good, it keeps record because it wants to prove that it's worthy of whatever it's trying to accomplish. And by the way, when God talks about his children, there are many places where he kind of talks of them in this kind of a way. The quality that is consistent with God's children. For instance, in Romans 8. 28, he says, we know that all things work together for good to them that love God. Okay? He is describing a genuine Christian, someone who loves the Lord. Or in John 13, 35, he says, By this shall all men know that you are my disciples, if you have love one for another. He's not saying how you become a Christian. He's saying how somebody can recognize that a person is a Christian. 1 John 4, 7 and 8. Beloved, let us love one another, for love is of God, and everyone that Loveth is born of God and knoweth God. He that loveth not, knoweth not God, for God is love. Do you see the consistency in what he's saying here? He's describing how new life in Christ changes people. And then in Philippians chapter 3, verses 7 to 10, this is fascinating. You see kind of the side of this where people don't think much of their service. Paul writes in Philippians chapter 3. 7, he says, What things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. And I count them all but dung, that I might win Christ, and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. You know what Paul's saying? Before I was a Christian, the way that I thought was: I do this and I do this and I do this and I do this to build a basis for God to accept me. And I put tremendous stock and tremendous weight in those things. I kept this rule book, this log book in my mind. But there came a point when I recognized that that righteousness doesn't cut it. It's filthy rags. And he said, I turn and embrace the righteousness of Christ. He gave it to me. He declared me righteous. I counted my record that I was keeping as my reason reason God should accept me. He says, you know, when I rejected that and I embraced the true righteousness of Christ. It was revolutionary. That's what the gospel does to people. And so we see this concept, and I wanted to start here because I want us to recognize when we talk about service and ministry , If we're not Christians, if we're not genuinely born again, the motivation behind why we serve will be wrong. And even if we are believers, sometimes we get ourselves into a mindset where the motivation behind what we're doing really is wrong. It doesn't mean we've lost our salvation or that we're not truly Christians. It means that we're not thinking and acting consistent with our position and consistent with what we believe as Christians. Christians should be distinguished as a people who serve without taking thought for what they're doing. Like he says, don't let your right hand know what your left hand It's like when you give, don't keep this rule, this logbook in your mind goes, well, you know how much I gave this year? is. I gave this much. It makes you feel really good. Just give freely from the heart out of love for the Lord. That's what he's saying. All right, so let's dig into this concept for a few minutes tonight. The first truth I'd like you to see is that the body is called to serve. The body is called to serve. Now, not just individuals, the body as a whole. Not just deacons, not just pastors, not just Sunday school teachers. The body is called to serve. Not just the strong physically, but also the weak are called to serve in some capacity Every single member of the body has a duty before God to play some role in ministering to the body as a whole. It's a very important concept. We see this in Galatians chapter 6, verse 2. He says this. He says, Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. Now, when Paul writes that, who is he writing to? Is he writing to a pastor? Or to a group of pastors? Or to a deacon or a group of deacons? The answer is no. He's writing to the churches in Galatia. He's saying all of you need to recognize this principle. We need to bear one another's burdens. We see that this command is directed to the body, and we see similar commands in other passages. For instance, 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verse 14. He says, Now we exhort you, brethren. Warn them that are unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient toward all men. Now, if I was teaching a class to to young guys who are getting ready to go into ministry, This is definitely a passage that I would go to. If I was in a mentoring relationship with a young person going into ministry, I would go to this passage, but the reality is This passage is not just directed to pastors, deacons, or future pastors. When he says brethren He's talking about the church. , He's talking about everybody in the body. And so when he says warn, he's saying when a person is, we could say, being stubborn and rebellious. It's not just people in leadership that should go and speak to them and say, brother, I'm concerned about this particular behavior, this particular mindset. It's just common folks in the church. When he talks about comforting the feeble-minded, that that that state that word feeble-minded actually has the idea of people who are exhausted and who are worn out in life. I wouldn't be surprised if there's at least one or two people that are feeling exhausted and worn out in life right now. It doesn't matter the the the the season of life you're in. You might be a college student and you're exhausted and we're not in life. And people are like, You're twenty years old. You you're like at the prime of life. You won't be any stronger and you won't be any more vibrant than you are as a college student and you're exhausted. Exhausted and worn out in life. It's true. They have junior high and high school kids exhausted and worn out with life. There's people that are young mothers, exhausted and worn out with life. There's people that are at the end of their working years and they're thinking about retirement and then they they go and they look at their 401k and they're like, I'm exhausted and tired with life. There's seasons where we go through that we get exhausted and worn out. And you know what we're supposed to do? We're supposed to comfort people in those places. We're supposed to come alongside of them and encourage them in the Lord. Bear their burdens with them. That's what he's saying. That's not just the responsibility of leadership, it's the responsibility of the body. Not that the body takes the not that leadership should not do these things, but the reality is we should all be doing it together. He says, support the weak. And that word weak has a different idea than feeble-minded. Feeble-minded meaning a person's worn out. This word weak means a person is infirmed. A person is sick. We could say a person has ended up in the hospital. They've ended up with uh some kind of illness that has put them on their back, and they're not able to do the things that they normally do. This could be a person that has a chronic illness. They might be very young, but they're dealing with physical infirmities that are very difficult and very heavy. And so what are we supposed to do? We're supposed to support Uplift those who are infirmed. So when we go through this prayer list and we see that there's someone that's in the hospital, in the back of my mind I say, go, I shouldn't just pray for this person. I need to think of how I can be supportive to them. That means I might need to figure out how I can go visit them in the hospital. You know how boring and how difficult it would be to sit in a hospital bed day after day after day, not one place. person come and see you? Not one phone call? Not one text? You're just sitting there isolated alone by yourself? Yet there's people like that. The the hospitals around us are filled with people. There's nobody to go and visit them. There's nobody to look out for them. Some people say, well, oh we can't visit them because of all the COVID stuff. Well that's true in some hospitals, but that's not true in all hospitals. We can do stuff like this. We can bring them a meal. We can encourage them. We can write them a note. If your handwriting is like mine, perhaps type them a note and then sign it at the bottom and send it to them. But the fact is that we need to support, uplift , encourage, and strengthen those who are weak and firm. And then the next statement that he makes is very interesting. He says, be patient toward all men. So the person that's stubborn, I've got to learn how to be patient with them. The person that is exhausted and worn out, there might be a day that I look at them and I'm like, you know what it's time for you to just stand up and be strong and get over it. Patience. Patience. The person that's weak and infirmed, you know, someone might start to diminish the person's situation. Oh, maybe that's not as bad as they are. Maybe they need to just be a little stronger. He says, be patient. Be patient. That's what ministry is. Ministry is for the whole body. To support and comfort and warn and be patient with one another. Church leadership should lead by example and teach and equip the church to do this. Now, one of my jobs is to make sure that I am functioning in this capacity. But I'm not the only one who's supposed to do that. In fact, actually, probably my primary job as a pastor is not just to see that I'm doing this personally. But it's to help teach you or to help lead you by example on how to actually do this. This is extremely, extremely important. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter 4, and I want you to see how this is worded. In Ephesians chapter 4, verse 12, it says this. He, that's God. Gazed on prophets and apostles, some pastors and teachers and evangelists for the equipping of the saints. To do the work of the ministry for the edifying of the body of Christ till we all come into the unity of the faith And of the knowledge of the Son of God unto the perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. So why does God give pastors Teachers, evangelists, and when we talk about prophets and apostles, he's talking about the ministry that gave us the Word of God Why does God give us those gifts? It's so that we have the equipping to do the work of the ministry. In other words, it's a team effort. Every person in this room is supposed to be involved in some capacity in doing this work. Now, if you have struggles where you're not able to do this, part of it might be I'm not doing my job the way I should, because I'm not helping equip you. Sometimes it's that we just don't think about it or we're very nervous about these things. We have a hard time stepping out. And so part of the the responsibility of those who are overseeing in the church Context is to help encourage, equip, strengthen, say, hey, come alongside. is One of the things that's very helpful sometimes is that a pastor or deacon might ask somebody in the church to go on a visit with them. Say, hey, I'm going to go visit uh this particular person. They're they're in a uh in the hospital, and I'd like you to come with me. Would that be okay? And they go. Well I I've never gone to a hospital visit before. And they go on that hospital visit and they and they see the kind of questions you ask and the things that you say and the things that you don't say and how you respond and all of a sudden they're just they're processing that Sometimes it's your your offspring. Maybe not like a kid, little kid, they don't allow little kids in the hospital, but sometimes you know a teenager or a young adult can go along. And the idea is that equipping is not just what we say it's it's what we see. Very, very important. So I might say, well I thought we we paid pastors so that they do all the ministry work. I thought we had pointed deacons so they do all the work. I mean I mean don't they do all the evangelism and all the discipleship and all the preaching and the teaching and all the visiting? In a few minutes I'm going to talk to you about some of the the situations that we have in our church and ask this question. Do you think one person can do all those things? Effectively? Do you think ten people could effectively do the level of ministry that's needed for some of the things I'm going to mention? I tell you, no, they can't. It takes an entire body doing the work of the ministry. In fact, it's interesting in Acts chapter 6, verse 2. We know we know the story. There was a contention in the early church. Now part of this contention wasn't just about people getting neglected, but there was kind of a dynamic where The people that were getting neglected were getting neglected because of their ethnic background. Okay? So there was that dynamic. But this is what it says. After this Confusion and the situation arose. It says, the twelve called the multitude of disciples unto them and said, It is not reason that we should leave the Word of God and serve tables. Brethren, look ye at among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and of wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. We will give ourselves continually to prayer and the ministry of the word. Now what that shows you is that the apostle's primary function was that of teaching and praying. Not that they were not involved in the physical ministry, but they couldn't do it all to the level that it needed, considering the need that was in the church at the time. And so they needed people to come alongside of them who were going to give their attention primarily to the physical needs, while others were giving attention primarily to the spiritual needs And they were working together as a team, not oh one's got the noble task and one's got the lowly task. That's not what it was It was about them working together as a team so that the work could be done effectively. That's what the church needs. A healthy church by implication learns how to spread the load among all of its people Preaching, teaching, prayer, equipping the church to serve in a mighty way. This is very, very important. Now, I want to just pause for a moment and want to give you a little bit of a sense Of how much physical need there is in a church that is really not that big. So when everybody's healthy, maybe have 150, 60, 70-ish people, something like that Do you realize on our Deacon's Watch care list right now, we have 30 people? 30 people Do you realize that in our church congregation we have 25 widows, widowers, or elderly people who live by themselves? It's a lot of people. Now, a lot of them are on that list, by the way, okay? But not all of them. Not all of them. Around fifteen people in our church deal with chronic health issues. And I and I mean significant chronic health issues. that that really make it almost impossible for them to do a lot of the things that they might have done just five years ago. You realize we have 15 people in our church that are 80 and above? Eight and above. And I start thinking my my parents are not yet seventy, and I start thinking like, hmm, at some point I'm gonna start having to look out for them physically. Not that they're looking like they need that at the moment, okay, but yeah, I start to think that. When people start getting in their 80s Their strength is not the same. What they're able to do is not the same. And the truth is that a lot of these folks You may not even know who they are, or you maybe haven't seen them in a long time because once we had COVID, I mean a lot of folks, they were very uncomfortable coming back, or their doctor their doctors told them, you can't come back. It's not safe Put them in a very difficult position. We've done over fifteen funerals in the last four years. Our church. On the positive side, we've had twenty babies born in our church in the last five years Probably didn't know that. You probably go, I know it's a lot, but I don't know exactly how many. So we have about fifteen kids that are in our nursery. Uh we have almost twenty kids in our junior church. But listen carefully. Whether it's someone who's elderly and living alone, or whether it's a little baby who's in the nursery, what it represents is need. Need. All those babies that are in the nursery, their mothers are probably at least a little bit sleep-deprived. And they're facing lots of pressures. And the reason I bring these things up is not uh not to make you feel guilty in any way because you're not doing this or that. That's not the point. In fact, you'll see as we move through this. That God uniquely gifts each individual to step into a team role that's unique to them, but it's to help you realize there's lots of needs. By the way, there's a lot more needs than even what I'm telling you here. Every time a visitor comes through the doors, there's an opportunity to connect with someone. Yeah, I think about a lot, we have a lot of uh military uh folks that are fairly young, singles, they come to church on Sunday mornings. Think about how encouraging it would be for them to get invited to a meal sometime. Just to have somebody, you know, would you like to sit with us? It's a very uncomfortable thing to walk into a church setting and I don't know one person here. I know some of our military folks when I've met with them, they said I came here, I didn't know one person. Not one person in the whole area. It's fairly intimidating. Some some people love it and embrace it, and others that's terrifying to them The point I'm trying to make is that there are needs everywhere. And there's no one person that can handle all of it. There's not five people that can handle all it. There's not ten people that can handle it. It takes an entire body that is plugging in to these little needs here and there to help meet those. And by the way, when I go and visit our church members in the hospital and rehab facilities and places like that, I many times will hear comments from people like, you know, that person's getting a lot of support. I've noticed they got. They got cards, they got flowers, a couple people come by and visit them. So people are doing this. But we have to keep our minds focused on these things Truth number two. And by the way, I don't have four points. I have two points, so don't worry. You get nervous, right? God has a plan for how ministry is supposed to be. There are actually quite a few scriptures that talk about this, but I want to focus in on just a few of them. 1 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 4, is the first one I want to mention. It says this. Now there are diversity of gifts, but the same Spirit. There are differences of administrations, but the same Lord. There are diversity of operations, but the same God which worketh all in all. The manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit with all. First Peter 4 11 or 4 8 it says this above all these things have fervent charity amongst yourself For charity shall cover a multitude of sins. Use hospitality one with another without grudging, as every one has received the gift, so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God. If any man minister, let him do it with the ability which God giveth, that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Let me make a couple of comments about this. The first is that the church belongs to God. And you see that in each of the passages that we've referenced. For instance, in Ephesians 4 it says, He gave some for the perfecting of the saints to do the work of the ministry. Who is the one who gives the gifts? It's not the pastor, the deacons. It's not a church vote. Let's vote on who has the gifts to go and do these different things. It's God. He does it. First Corinthians twelve, the same Spirit, the same Lord, the same God which worketh all in all. The emphasis is on the fact that God is the one who owns and manages his church First Peter four. Let him do it as of the ability which God giveth, that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ. So, what we recognize is that this issue of service, it's not about what somebody else in the church is going to think, or what the pastor thinks, or what one of the deacons thinks. It's about God. It's his church. He administrates the church in his own way. The second thing I'll mention is this: the concept of spiritual gifts is actually a very rich concept. And and when we talk about a spiritual gift, there's actually a lot of discussion about what it actually means to have a spiritual gift. So I'm going to give you a couple of aspects to what I think is being referred to here. One is opportunity. Now it's not just opportunity. But if somebody contacts you, if I ask you, would you be interested in teaching a Sunday school class? I promise you, I will not ask you if I don't think you have the ability to do it. I'm serious. I won't. All right? It won't happen. Why? Because I look at the people in the body who I think have the aptitude to teach. Now it might be a little out of their comfort zone. Maybe certain age groups are a little different, you know, but I wouldn't ask somebody if I didn't think they had that ability. Opportunity. Opportunities come because there's a notice someone has the ability. Need. As situations arise, all of a sudden, it's not so much about opportunism. We have a problem that we've got to address And so we need to find people who have the ability, because God's giving it to them, to actually help meet that need. And so that's an aspect to it Uniquely fitted for a task. Every person in this room has unique abilities that are unique only to you. It's just true. There are some people they would never be comfortable getting up and teaching a Sunday school lesson. But they wouldn't. In fact, they may even ask you, Pastor, please never ask me to do that. It's true. Yeah. They may never be comfortable in a public setting, but if you got them in a one-on-one conversation with somebody, you would be amazed at the Compassion and the kindness and the wisdom that would come out in that conversation. In other words, they actually have almost the heart of a pastor but not the ability or necessarily the comfort level to teach in a public capacity. So they are uniquely fitted for that one-on-one situation. And so you know what? That's a spiritual gift. Some people are very administratively wired. Some people are just they're very merciful. Some people are very wise. And the fact is that God uniquely fits each individual. And so some people they serve very, very well behind the scenes. in a one-on-one situation. Some people, they're very comfortable in a public setting. Some people they're not comfortable yet, but they'll grow into it. There's all different situations. But what's the point? The point is this. Opportunity need, uniquely fitted by God, and this goes even beyond the natural ability. So we might say, well, I'm not sure I can do that. And the question that should be asked is: do you believe that by God's help you could do it? It's a fair question. We'll get into that in a second. I think season of life is another factor. There are certain seasons of life that make it nearly impossible for you to do certain kinds of ministry. And there are seasons of life that make it very easy for you to do certain kinds of ministry. But you know what's amazing? Sometimes when people really could not easily do it, they'll try And when people, it's very obvious they have the time and the energy to do it, they're not willing. The season of life that we're in is a factor. So what God does is He gives us in each season of life opportunities, needs. He uniquely fits us so that we can play a role in the ministry of the body. Very, very important. Next, he chooses the role we play in ministering. 1 Peter 4:10. He says, Every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. In other words, when I think about the way that God has fitted me to serve, if I'm choosing to hold back and not do it, I'm being unfaithful as a steward before God. Think about that. If I have the ability and I have the time and God's given me the opportunity and I pull back, I'm being unfaithful as a steward. Of the gift that God has given me. You won't get the time back. You may not get that opportunity back. This is a very important thing for us to consider. He's created a context that forces us to be a part of a team. Now, God could have, if he wanted to, given us all the same gifts Could have made us all great in evangelism. And we're just, we're strong evangelists. We all go out there and we can lead people to Christ. And we're all really good at one-on-one discipleship. Or some people maybe we know how to serve physically behind the scenes and we we we know about needs that people have in their houses. We go visit all the shut-ins and we're doing little projects for them and we're helping them. He didn't do that. He gave this person a unique gift and this This person won, this person won, this person won. Why did he do that? Because he wanted us to be a team. He didn't want us to all puff ourselves up with our ego and go, oh look at me, I'm the best of this particular group in the church. No. He wants us to be interdependent on one another. Very, very important. So he says there are diversity of gifts, there are differences of administration, there are diversities of operations. God did that so that the church doesn't elevate individuals, it's so that we work as a body, as a team. You cannot fulfill your part effectively apart from His gracious. I love this statement. You are a steward of the manifold grace of God. 1 Peter 4 10. 1 Peter 4 11, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth. Now, you've only known me since I was uh an intern at Anchor back in 2008. But if you'd have known me when I was a sophomore in high school, you would have never dreamed I'd be a pastor. I promise you. I didn't like getting up in front of people ever for any reason. I wasn't comfortable doing it. Speech class was misery. Complete misery. The only reason I say that is because you don't know what God's going to do in somebody's life. You don't know what person seems very unassuming as a junior high boy or girl, and how God will begin working in their life and giving them opportunities, and they start growing incrementally a little bit at a time, and all of a sudden You start recognizing, wow, God is giving this person an ability that I would have never dreamed was there, or an interest that was I would have never dreamed was there. But the point that I'm making is that God graciously enables people to do that It might not be that I'm naturally inclined that way apart from God's grace working in me. And so we see that. We see that we serve for the sake of the body. God has placed us in 1 Corinthians 12 6. There are diversity of operations, the same God that worketh all in all, manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man. And then I love this last statement. To profit with all. So we are not gifted to serve for ourselves, but for the body. These principles are all very, very, very important. And so I want to close with some final practical thoughts About how we can take what has been laid out from Scripture and apply it in a practical way. What I'm going to tell you here isn't like, oh, here's my verse. And I I'm just I'm thinking practically, working in a ministry context on how I can help you think about this. Okay? That's what I'm doing here. So the first thing I want to say is this we've got to think outside of our own world. We've got to think outside of our own world. Everybody in this room has problems, frustrations, and concerns. And I'm not saying this to diminish anyone's issues. But I'm telling you this, do not let your own issues cloud your uh it keep you from being able to see that other people are hurting and needy as well. Well. You have no clue. And what's amazing is if they would step outside of their little bubble and start realizing what's going on in their life, all of a sudden there would be a potential ministry connection. Ministering to them, they minister back. And all of a sudden there's a bond that's able to establish. We've got to learn to think outside of our own world World. We do not have the right to be the center of the universe. We are not the center of the universe. Doesn't mean that God loves us dearly, but He wants us to think about others. We need to be informed. Now, there's a difference between being informed and being a gossip and a busybody. A gossip and a busybody wants information so they can talk about it Being informed for ministry is I want to know so that I can go and I can with knowledge help someone and encourage them and help them. And we've got to be informed. This prayer bulletin is really, really important. We need to know who these people are. A lot of times we'll go through the prayer bulletin and somebody mentions a name, they don't even know who that person is. They have no idea who they are. You know, God be with this person who's dealing with this health issue and they don't realize it, but this is somebody that that they could know. When we get our our uh our our new directories, which we're getting all the pictures together right now. You know, having we put the pictures in there so that you can put a face with a name. Very, very important. And so we've got to be informed. We've got to actually talk to people. You know, ask them how they're doing. Not like, oh, I noticed the formality, I have to ask you how you're doing, but hey, how are how is your week? And stop and let them tell you. Don't ask yes and no questions. Don't ask them to tell you about that. And take a genuine interest about gaining information so that you can encourage and help someone. Be proactive. Pray for the person. Send them a text. Don't text someone and say, I'm praying for you if you're not praying for them, okay? Pray for them. Think about their needs. Send them a text. Send them an email. Write them a card. Drop in for a visit if you can. If it's appropriate, be proactive. Don't ask someone, say, hey, you know, I really think it'd be great if you went and you sent a note to this person. Think about how you can connect with people. When you reach out, we got to be careful how we do this. You know, when we're going to a person who is dealing with major issues, that's not the time to go and tell them. How to correct all their problems. It's true. It's not the time to go and tell them how their doctor's wrong about everything that they're prescribing to them, and here's what they really need to do. It's the time to go and just be present. It's the time to ask questions. It's a time to listen. It's the time to carry the burden with them. It's the time to lovingly pray for them. Pray that God will give them wisdom. Pray that God will give them strength. It's not our place to fix their problem. It's there to be compassionate. I know all of our all of our all of our men, when you first got married and your wife like laid on the table all these issues and then you tried to fix them and she walked away crying. What did I do? I see some laughs around here. It's from the ladies, ironically. Because they know what I'm talking about. They just wanted you to hear them out. They just wanted you to tell them uh d to hear what you were what they were thinking. The truth is people need to know that you care and you're present. You know, follow up. If you know that a person has a need, don't just you know do your duty and write them that note and then, whoo, I'm glad I got that over with. You know, follow up a week or two later and ask them how they're doing. Do what your schedule allows. Perhaps you should prioritize your schedule too. Incorporate bringing your family if appropriate. Now, I have small children I want my children to learn how to minister to people. Probably I shouldn't bring all my children to go visit somebody who is in a time of great need. But I might be able to bring one of my children under very straight guidelines in certain situations to come and to actually be exposed to a person in need and how to minister to them. That's very, very important. Maybe I should get a babysitter and have them watch my kids so that my wife and I can go and do a visit. Maybe you could do a thing like that. Allow ministry to be something that brings your family together. Brings you and your spouse together. Brings you and your son together, you and your daughter together, so that you can minister to others. Learn as much as possible, but allow your limited knowledge to not become a stumbling block Let me explain to you what I mean by that. I remember when I first went to college and I was in the ministerial class and came home on that Christmas break and told my parents all these amazing things that I learned. And I think they probably rolled their eyes quite a few times in that conversation. Because it wasn't even a conversation. It was just listening to Joel. Talk, talk, talk, talk, talk. You know, when we get involved in ministering to other people, we do learn a lot. But we're not experts. We need to always maintain a humility in how we approach people in these issues. Say, Pastor, why are you bringing this up? The reason I'm bringing this up is purely this. God put it on my heart. It's bottom line. This morning or not this morning, uh on Monday morning when I was reading through my scriptures and I was I was writing down some thoughts and I was going through this prayer bulletin from last Week and I'm seeing all these needs. I said, you know what? I really need to encourage our church. This is a season where there's a lot of hardship going on. It's also a great opportunity for us to connect and bond. It's a great opportunity for us to get to know people that we didn't know before. We have not had a connection with them because we didn't we've never interacted with them for all these years of our life, and God has brought us together at this time. And now I have an opportunity. To pour and invest in their lives, and all of a sudden we begin to develop a friendship, a bond in Christ, and it strengthens both of us in the process. That's why I'm putting this out. Not because our church is doing a poor job. I'm actually extremely encouraged by the ministry that I see happening. It's something we need to continually be encouraged with. And so I ask that the Lord will help each of us to think in this way. Let's bow for prayer and then we'll have a little bit of time to pray together in our groups. Father, thank you for the word. I pray that the things that were said tonight would be an encouragement and a help. We are all growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus We want to serve you faithfully. We want genuine love to be developing amongst your people. We want to support the weak. We want to comfort those who are feeble. We want to be paying Patient. I pray that you'd help us as a church body to actively serve one another as a team. Pray for our time of of prayer requests. May uh we have a sweet time together one with another, and as we lift up this request, Quest, I pray that we would see your hand actively at work. We ask it all in Christ's name, Amen