First John chapter 5, and we are looking at verses 10 to 13 this morning. 1 John 5, 10 to 13. Before we do read the text, I want you to imagine for a moment that you're a kid growing who's raised in a Christian home. And uh you go up to Christian college, you're sitting in your dorm room, and you have a roommate. This roommate is uh a very sensitive person, uh seems to have a real love for the Lord, seems to have Have a real gentle spirit. And as you get to know this person, you find them to be just a wonderful, godly individual. About halfway through the semester, you begin to notice a change in your roommate. And as you begin to relate to your roommate, you notice that the roommate just doesn't seem to be fine. There's something going on inside. They still have a very gracious spirit, the way that they interact with the people around them. them is it's it's as good a roommate as you could have. But it seems like every time they come home from church, they sit in the room, they just look very Very troubled, depressed. You don't want to use that word, but that seems to be the spirit of that person. They are downcast, they are discouraged. And you try to ask them some questions, are you okay? After a little time goes on, you start realizing that your roommate is starting to lose weight. And they They don't look very healthy anymore. And you just you know something's not right. One day, your roommate finally Just lays it all out. The reason I'm troubled is because I don't know if I'm saved. You go, you don't know that you're saved. No, I I don't know that I'm saved. Well, everything I've ever known about you has been so positive. You you you sit in church, you take notes, you you're meticulous. You get up in the morning and you read your book. Bible and you pray, I don't have any room I've had in my college career that was as easy to get along as you, and yet you are very troubled. And they say, I am very troubled. I don't think I'm saved. And so you begin to ask them questions. Well, why why don't you think that you're saved? Well, I know what I am Inside. I know what's going on in my heart, and you said, well, everything that I know about you has been very positive. They said, but you don't know what's going on inside. And you asked me , More and more questions, and you look at this person and you don't know what to say to them. Because everything that you know about them seems to indicate that they're a Christian That they're a believer, yet inside they are so discouraged and so troubled, even to the point that it is affecting them emotionally and physically. I ask you a question: how will you help that person? One day it might be one of your kids. One day it could be a spouse. One day it could be a dear friend or a relative And they call you up on the phone or they sit across from you at a table and they are troubled and they don't even know how to communicate what's in their heart. I want you to realize something. There is a place that you can and you must take them. And the place is 1 John chapter. We're going to look at 1 John 5, 10 to 13. We're going to read the passage, and then we're really going to dig into the content of this passage. Because I want you to realize something. This text is one that you may very well need today. You might need it for yourself. You might need it for somebody in your life. You may need it down the road. Who knows? But this is a passage you need to be well versed with. You need to understand what it's saying, and you need to appropriately apply it to your own heart and life and to the lives of those around you. 1 John 5. 10 says this. He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness of him in himself. He that believeth not God hath made him a liar, because he believeth not the record. That God hath or that the record that God gave of His Son. And this is the record. That God hath given to us eternal life. And this life is in His Son. He that hath the Son hath life. He that hath not the Son of God hath not life. These things have I written unto you that believe On the name of the Son of God, that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. The reason that John writes this little section Is because he wants to bring these Christians back to the principle that should be their ultimate source of confidence and joy, the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. I want you to realize this morning that God wants you, no matter where you are, seated here today, no matter what your background is, no matter what you did this week, no matter what you didn't do this week. week no matter how you feel in your heart today or no matter how you feel when you go home this afternoon. God wants you number one to be his child He wants you to be saved. He wants you to be right with him, to know with confidence that you have eternal life. That when he looks at you, he eternal He says, you're my child, you're accepted in the beloved, you are forgiven, you are righteous in Christ. He wants that of every person here. And two, he wants God wants you to have a humble confidence that that is your position. God not only wants you to be saved, God wants you to feel confident that you're saved. He wants you to know that, but he doesn't want you to know it in an arrogance. He wants you to know that in a humility. And this overwhelming display of confidence in him, not in confidence in yourself. So the question we want to ask this morning is how in the world can you today have that confidence? Maybe you are in this room today and you have that confidence absolutely 100%. But I want to ask you a question. Will you be able to help the person who's struggling? The troubled Christian? Or the person who's not a Christian and they're troubled, and you need to help that person. How do you know if there won't be a day down the road that you will find that moment of deep valley and you will need this text? How can we have a confidence? That we are saved. Four simple truths I want us to look at from this passage. And I want to begin with this truth. The first is this: there's a promise Of a redeemer. The promise of Redeemer. In fact, we'll say it this way: God has given an unmistakable record of who Christ is and what he has done. done for us. The book of 1 John is all about the Lord Jesus Christ, who he is, what he did, and why he did it. And every single aspect of that book is focusing in on those truths, who Jesus is, what he did, and why he did it. The reason is Because John knows very, very well that every person in his audience is not going to have joy and confidence and comfort. They're not going to have a healthy, vibrant walk if they don't know who Jesus is. Why he came and why that's important. And if they're not appropriating those truths and living in the light of those truths, the whole book of 1 John is meant to emphasize those things. But notice what we read just the other day and in this text. It says this, verse 10, He that believeth on the Son of God hath this witness in himself, and he that believeth not, God hath made him a liar, because he believeth not the record that God gave his son. That little phrase at the end of the verse is the one I want us to kind of channel our energy and focus on. He does not believe the record that God gave his son Jesus. The fact is this, folks, God promised a redeemer, and he has demonstrated in his word that he not only promised a redeemer, that he fulfilled that promise, and that promise is fulfilled in Christ. I want to draw your attention back to the closing of our message from last week. We looked at 1 John 5, verse 8, and this is what the passage said. There are three that bear witness in earth. The spirits the water and the blood, and these three agree in one. John is making a statement there there are three witnesses that God gave during the ministry We mentioned this last week. When he talks about the witness of the Spirit, he's talking about the fact that the Holy Spirit, through prophets in the Old Testament, all the way up to the time of Christ, were talking about the fact that God was going to send Send a savior. the world. In fact, it's interesting in Luke 4. 13. Listen to what happened. This is at the very beginning of the ministry of Christ. He's just been baptized. He's gone into the wilderness. He comes back from the wilderness and he comes to his hometown. And when he comes to his hometown It's the Sabbath day, and Jesus walks into that synagogue and he sits down in the synagogue. But what was very typical on the Sabbath day in those days. Was that there would be men in that group from the community who would have a turn to come and they'd read the scriptures. And so they would go and they would sit down in a place called Moses ' seat. That would be there in the synagogue, they would roll open that scroll and they would read the scriptures to the people. That was what they did. Very similar to what we do here in our church, where we have scripture reading at the beginning of our scriptures. Service, in the middle of our service, and then we have preaching where we read those same scriptures again and we expound those things. This is what Jesus did. Right when he's come back from his time in the wilderness, he's about to begin his ministry. Luke 4, verse 13 says this. When the devil had ended all the temptation, He departed from him for a season, and Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit unto Galilee. This is where Jesus grew up. It says This. And there went out fame of him through all the regions round about. He taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all. And he came to Nazareth. This is where And as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the Sabbath day, and he stood up for to read. In other words, Jesus stands up and he walks to the location where the And it says this and there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Isaiah. Like the size of your Bible. This is this is an extensive scroll. And they didn't have chapter and verse divisions. They just had the text of scripture there. And this is what it says: when he opened the book. He found the place where it was written. Now, if you had a Bible with no chapters and no verses, how well would you have been able to do that? This. He's very, very deliberate in what he's doing. In fact, he turns all the way to where we have in our Bibles, Isaiah 61. So this is at the end of that Isaiah scroll. And it says he found the place where it is written. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. Very important. Because he has anointed me, important, to preach the gospel to the poor. He hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captive, and the recovering of sight to the blind, and to set at liberty them that are bruised. to preach the acceptable year of the Lord. Now you know there were men that would read that passage when they were there in the tab there in the synagogue. But when they would read that phrase, the spirit of the Lord is upon me, they would not have read it like this. The Spirit of the Lord is upon me. They would have never done it that way. Am I correct in that? Because if they did it that way, they would be removed from the synagogue and people would say, you have just claimed to be the Messiah and you are not. Not. Yet Jesus, when he reads it, emphasizes that. And you say, well, how do you know that you it doesn't say that in the passage. Actually, it kind of does. Because notice at the end it says this. It says he sat down, and the eyes of them all were in the synagogue fastened on him. Why do you think they were looking so intently at Jesus? There was something about the way he read it. That they understood he is implying that this is true about him. But to remove all doubts, he says this. He began to say unto them, this day, is this scripture fulfilled? In your ears. Now you can imagine number one, a pin drops, and then number two, people are processing and they're saying Who is this Jewish carpenter saying that he is? Why do I draw your attention to that passage? I draw your attention to that passage to say this. That is one amongst many passages in the When Christ comes onto the scene, there are all these promises all throughout the Old Testament. In fact, last week we looked at a lot of them talking about who Christ is and how he would come, where he would be born, the nature of his life, things that he'd do, things he wouldn't do. They're there in the Old Testament. And so as Christ lives out those things, people go, that's what Isaiah was talking about. That's what Micah was talking about. That's what the prophet Hezekiah Habakkuk was talking about. That's what Zechariah was talking about. That's what Moses was talking about. They understand the implications of what's going on. The Spirit gave witness. He mentions a second witness, and that's the water. And we ref we said last week that that refers to the beginning of Christ's ministry. when he's baptized. There in Matthew chapter 3 it says, after Jesus was baptized, it says, the heavens were open to him. And he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and lighting upon him in lo a voice from heaven saying, This is my beloved son, in whom I am well pleased. Now you know what's amazing? Not only were all the people standing there witnessing this, hearing this, seeing this, but this is a fulfillment of one of Isaiah's prophecies all the way back hundreds of years before. four. How the Spirit of God was going to come upon the Messiah and he was going to do his ministry in the power of the Spirit. Direct fulfillment. When that took place, everybody there knew This is God's stamp. This is the Messiah. We then go throughout Christ's ministry. Not that Christ's ministry was lacking in testimonies of who he was and why he was there. There are lots and lots of those. things. But when we come to that final moment, the capstone of why Christ came, he came to die on the cross for our sins. In Matthew 27, it tells us that at the sixth hour there was darkness over the land until the night. So from twelve noon to three p. m. it's dark. Why? Solar eclipse. That's a very pronounced sign that the people noticed. It says later on when Christ gives up the ghost, that the veil of the temple is ripped in twain from top to bottom. There wasn't somebody standing at the top with a knife and trying to pull it down. God Himself is saying, that veil that separates you from the Holy of Holies, my presence, it's gone because Christ died. And you can enter into the throne room. of grace. What an amazing testimony. But that wasn't it. There was an earthquake. And as the ground shakes at that moment that he's given up the ghost, the scripture Scriptures tell us. The graves were open and many bodies of saints which slept arose. So there were people that had lived during the ministry of Christ. They died during the ministry of Christ. They're there in the grave. These were people who had placed their faith in the Christ. And they're resurrected at the moment that Jesus dies, and they go into the city and they say, Hey, you know what? I'm alive? Because the Messiah has died. And it says that there was a man standing there, not just any man, but the centurion, who was in charge of everything that had taken place, and he says, This Was the Son of God. He realizes who Jesus is. When the scriptures say the Spirit, the water, and the blood testify as one resounding witness to who Christ was. is That's what he's talking about. I want you to realize that that statement is connected to the next. Because our second truth is this: there's a promise to the redeemed. Redeemed. We talk about redeemed, we're talking about people who are saved. People who have placed their faith in Christ. I'm talking about you. I'm talking about people who have understood the gospel. There's repentance toward God. There's faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. They're saved. God has given an unmistakable reference record that those who have the Son have life When you're talking to a person who's struggling, if you're struggling, this verse is for you, and this verse is for them. Listen to what the scripture says. This is the record that God hath given to us. Eternal life. This life is in his son. He that hath the son hath life. I want you to notice a couple of words and phrases here. The first word is record Now he just talked about a record. The record that emphatically states Jesus is the Son of God. Jesus is the fulfillment of all those Old Testament prophets. The spirits, the water, the blood, these are the witnesses that testify and leave this impression, this unmistakable conviction we should have of who Jesus is. This. The very next verse he says this. This is the record that God has given us eternal life. In other words, the same kind of confidence that you and I should have that Jesus Jesus is who he claimed to be, is the same kind of confidence we should have in what he states in this verse. What is the record God gave us eternal life? Life. That word us is important because that word us is qualifying a group of people. John is a part of that group of people, and John believes that those who he's writing to are part of that group of people. These are people who have placed their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Folks, if you've trusted Christ as your Savior, if you are depending upon His work on the cross for you His death and resurrection, his righteousness, and you are complete in his righteousness, not your own. You're saved. You say, well, I don't remember the first moment that I trusted Christ. I don't remember what I said when I prayed that prayer. Hey, listen, the Bible doesn't talk about praying a sinner's prayer, it talks about faith in the Son It talks about depending on the work of Christ. When you called on the Lord to save you, it was a salvation, not because you said words that had some power, but because you believed in your heart unto righteousness. So interesting in Romans 10 it says this Whoever shall call in the name of the Lord shall be saved. It says faith comes by hearing the word of God. He's emphasizing calling because you believe. He says, How can they call on him whom they've not heard? How can they believe in him and whom they have not sin? How they how can they believe without a preacher? The fact is, we are saved not because we pray some words, Words? Because we express that perfect formula, but because we believe on the Son. You might say, I don't remember the exact day. You know, when I look back over the history of my life, I don't know if I got saved when I was seven, when I was ten, or when I was fourteen. Because I remember when I was seven, I came and I talked to my mom and dad, and they went through the gospel with me. I know I prayed a prayer, but when I was ten, I was really struggling with doubts. When I was fourteen, I was getting into the world and I felt miserable and guilty and I was doubting and I was able to get that settled. Listen, whether you got saved at 7, 10, or 14, you know what matters? What you're trusting in today. Are you trusting in the sun? Because if you're trusting in the sun, you have life Whether it was when you were seven or when it was when you were fourteen, if you're believing on the Son today, if you're trusting in his work and his righteousness, you are saved because of his work. The fact is there are many people who are saved today that they cannot tell you which of those conversations as they were growing up in a Christian home. When they truly understood the gospel and trusted Christ. But today they can tell you this. I know there is none righteous, know not one, and that's me. I know that all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. That's me. I know that the wages of sin is death. That's me. I deserve that. I can't earn my way to heaven. It's what Christ did and Christ alone. And I've trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ. I have no hope apart from what He did for me. And I know that. And I'm trusting in that. And I'm clinging to the work of Christ, not the work of me. The fact is, God has saved you. As people get older, there are some people they've lived in the world, they're twenty And when they came to understand the gospel They knew what it was like before. They knew what it was like after. They knew it was going on in their heart that whole entire time that they were coming under that conviction of sin. Where they were struggling with whether or not Jesus really is the Son of God, whether or not He really died for their sins, whether or not He really rose from the dead, whether or not there's really any other way to be saved. They know what it's like to wrestle and to struggle, and when they trust Christ, they have no doubt about the time of that. But when you grow up in a Christian home and you're a kid , Sometimes the waters are a bit muddied. I want to remind you of the simple fact. God promises to you and to me That if you have the Son, you have life. If you've placed your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and you're depending on His righteousness and His work , You are saved. It's that simple. It's that cut and dry. It's that matter-of-fact. It's a record that is sealed and set that testifies God has saved you. 1 Peter chapter 3, chapter 1, verses 3 to 5 says this. Blessed be the God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, who according to his abundant mercy, hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance incorruptible and undefiled that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you. Why does God save people? Is it because they have strong faith? Is it because they said the right words? It's because Christ asked And they came to a place where they recognized that, they understood that, and they turned to him Him and they trusted in his work and they called on him to save them. He saved them because of what Christ did for them. And the way they were united with that salvation, the way they received that gift, was by trust. It says this. They are kept by the power of God through faith into salvation, ready to be revealed at the last time. My salvation is not kept because I'm a good person. It's not kept because I'm a pastor, because I come to church. It's kept by the power of God. I can't add to my salvation. I can't diminish my salvation. It's all because of what Christ did for me. Titus 1, 2. It talks about in hope of eternal life, which God that cannot lie promised before the world began. The confidence that I have that I'm a Christian, that I'm saved. It's because God can't lie. He says, if you have the Son, you have life. If you've trusted in my Son, I have saved you and I will keep you, and you will stand complete in me. Third truth is this the promise to the redeemable When we use the term redeemable, what we mean is you're not saved, but you can be saved. There's nobody in this room that is not either redeemed or redeemed. Redeem a bull. Nobody in this room. If you're saved, God has redeemed you and you're complete in Christ. If you're not saved, you can't be There's no person, no matter how far down the road you've gone, no matter how many times you've resisted. And rejected, and you've doubted, and you've stumbled, no matter how many times, that God can't save you. But I want you to understand something. If you If you don't have the Son, you don't have life. He says in verse eleven, this is the record God has given us us eternal life, this life is in his son. He that hath the son hath life, and he that hath not the son hath not Life. When he uses that word and, he's trying to get our attention. There are some people who are saved and have life, and there are some people who do not have it. And what distinguishes those who do from those who don't is not what they do. It's who their family Faith is in. If you have the Son, you have life. If you don't have the Son, you don't have life, but you can John fourteen six tells us this. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. Second Peter three nine says, The Lord is not slack concerning his promises, as Son of Man counts. But his long suffering to usward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. In Acts 4, verse 12, it says this neither is there salvation than any other, there is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. In 1 Peter, Paul tells, or 1 Timothy, Paul says, you need to pray for King And all who are in authority. And he says, because God desires all men to be saved and come to the knowledge of God. Of the truth. Folks, the Bible is very simple and very clear on this point. You cannot have salvation apart from Christ. There is no side route to get to God. You can't go through your own way. You can't go through your parents' way. You can't go through another religious system. You can't just bury your head in the sand and hope it all works out. You can only go through Christ. That is exclusive. However, there's an invitation to everybody. There's nobody in this room that God says Not for you. You can't come. You can't trust. You can't be saved. It's available to you. The promise to those who are redeemable. Is this? You cannot have salvation apart from Christ. But God is calling you to turn to his Son and to trust in what He's done for you. I ask you this question. This morning. Do you have the Son? Are you trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ and what He's done for you on that cross? The fourth and final truth I want to emphasize is this There's a promise to the troubled. When I say troubled, there are different categories of troubled. There are people who are troubled and they should be They're not saved. They don't understand the gospel. The fact that they have doubts, the fact that they have fear is called conviction. It's God's Holy Spirit trying to bring them to that point where they will see that they need to turn to Christ and try to And the fact that you're troubled if you're unsaved is good. Not that I enjoy seeing you troubled, not that God enjoys seeing you troubled, but what is good is what that trouble can do. It can There are other people, though, that are troubled and it's not good. They're saved. They've trusted Christ. But because of history, because of confusion, because of internal feelings, because of failures, because they've stumbled, they say, I don't. No. 1 John 5 13 says this. These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that ye may know. That you have eternal life, and that you may believe on the name of the Son of God. This is interesting. He says, I wrote these things because I want you to have confidence. I want you to not be troubled. I want you to have joy. I want you to have fellowship. I want you to have a vibrant Christian walk. If you doubt and you struggle and you are troubled, you will not have a healthy Christian walk. It's impossible. Possible. He says, I wrote these things so that you will have confidence. Well, what did he write? He write that he wrote that God has left this unmistakable record if you have the The Son, you have life. If you've trusted in the Son, He has saved you. Anytime you have doubts, you need to ask this question what is the ultimate source of my trust? If that trust is in something outside of the gospel, you have a problem. Problem. If that trust is in what Christ has done for you, you should have confidence. He says, I've written so that those who believe on the Son will have have confidence. confidence But then it's interesting. He says this. And that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God. I have a question. If he says you believe, and he says I wrote this so you'll believe, what What's he talking about? In other words, are there two different kinds of beliefs? And I will say essentially that is the case. Yes. One aspect of belief is you've believed on the sun to have life. aspect is you believe that the son gave it to you. I don't know if you understand what I'm saying. One aspect of that faith is you know there's no other place you can turn to for salvation. You've turned to Christ. You've turned to Him in repentance. You've turned to Him and trusted in what He's done for you. You know there's no other way. You need to turn Trust that he gave you eternal life. I don't know if you understand what I'm saying. That's where that confidence comes. How does a believer have confidence? He takes literally The promise of God. He says, God can't lie. And I believe that. These doubts, these struggles, these Troubles, they're inconsistent with reality. I have the Son, I've trusted in His work, I believe that God is faithful. I'm going to Believe on the Sun in the sense that I have confidence of my position in Christ. I want to encourage you today to think Deeply about this text. It could be that you are in a place where you have no doubt in your heart. You are saved, you're confident, not in an arrogant Way, but humbly grateful to God that He has done everything for you that you can stand complete in Him. That's where we all need to be. That's where I want you to be. That's where God wants you to be. But there might be others who couldn't say that. There might be some who say, I don't think I'm saved. As you've communicated this I realize my trust has not been in Christ alone. I have added some other things. My trust is in other places. I have buried my head in the sand I've ignored this message. I've been rebellious against this message. I have doubts. I'm not sure. I need to be saved. I need to clear this up. If that's you, please don't leave this church building Without getting that matter settled. There may be others who say, I'm the kid that you mentioned that was in the college dorm room. I'm the one I grew up in a Christian home. I remember talking to my mom. I remember talking to my dad. I remember talking to my Sunday school teacher. I remember that day. But I don't Don't know for sure that I really understood the gospel. And from that day till this day, I have been plagued by doubts over and over and over again. When I stop I struggle. What do I do? You need to look at First John 5 13 He wrote these things. Because if you believe on the Son, you have life. And if you believe on the Son, you need to trust the promise. That God says, I can't lie, I've given you eternal life, and I will keep you until the day that you stand before me in glory. May God help us. To be instructed and respond correctly to his word today. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. With your heads bowed and eyes closed, I want to ask just a couple My first question is this. How many of you today could say, Pastor, I know I'm saved? Not because I'm a good person? I know I'm saved because I've placed my trust in the Lord Jesus Christ. And I can give testimony to that today. If you can do that, can you raise your hand just so I can see that? Say, I know I'm saved. I've trusted Christ My saving. Go ahead and put your head hands down. How many say, Pastor? I know I've made a profession of faith. I struggle with doubts. And I want you to pray for me. Not, I won't mention your name. I'm not going to call you out. But you say, Pastor, just so you know, I do struggle in this area and I'm troubled. And I need prayer. Is there anyone like that? Say, Pastor, I I've made a profession, but I really do struggle with doubts, and I need prayer. Anyone like that? I'm gonna ask a third question. Hummy would say, you know, I I'm not sure that I'm saved. This message is exposed to me that I've not been trusting in the gospel and I'm concerned about that and I need to talk to somebody about that. Is there anybody like that would raise their hand and say, Pastor, that's me. I don't believe that I'm saved Okay. Here's what I'm going to do. After we close in prayer, we're going to sing a couple of hymns, a couple of songs of closing hymn. And after the service, I want you, when you come by, shake my hand, say, Pastor, I wish I want to I want to have a time to meet with you. I can meet with you this afternoon. I can meet with you after the service. I can meet with you during the week. But I want to meet with you. I want to sit down with you. Go through the gospel with you. If you're struggling with doubts, send an email, say, Pastor, I need to talk to you. Shake my hand, let me know. Don't leave those things unsettled, folks. Coming forward while we're singing, can you won't be able to focus your attention, could be very embarrassing But on your way out, send me a text, send me an email, shake my hand, send me to talk to you, and we'll set up a time, okay? Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Before we do our closing hymn. Father, I pray for those in our midst who are dealing with struggles and doubts. Pray for those who are not confident they're saved. Help them to have a clear And solid understanding of the gospel, and may they be born again by faith alone in Christ. We pray that it would be something that gives them stability in life. And confidence before you that they're saved. Pray for those who are saved but struggle with this. I'd pray that you would minister to their souls through this text. And Father, I pray you'd help us to minister. Father, may you get the glory in our lives. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.