We're going to open our Bibles to Matthew chapter 2. Matthew chapter 2. We're going to look at just a couple of verses at the beginning of the, mostly the first couple verses in chapter 2 And we're going to look at his star and our worship, his star and our worship in Matthew chapter 2, and we will start in verse 1. It says, Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem, saying , Where is he that is born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him. Let us pray. Father, we thank you so much for this day where we can gather in your house again even this evening as we continue to prepare our hearts. to celebrate the birth of our Savior, your Son. And Father, would we just continue to have these thoughts in our minds, not just on Sunday or on Wednesday? But every day to celebrate the birth of who you are and what you've done on our behalf through your Son Jesus Christ. And would you be with us now as we look at these verses and the truths that are within them? And that you would work on the hearts and lives of your people. And we thank you so much for what you'll do through your word as the Spirit of God guides and directs each one of us through Christ's name. Amen. Now, just by way of brief way of introduction, uh we love Christmas in our house. We're slacking on the tree still, but it is coming. Hopefully tomorrow. No more excuses But on Christmas morning, someone recently asked me just the other day, oh, do you guys have any traditions? And on Christmas morning, uh we do, we have, ever since our kids were little, we make cupcakes and eat them for breakfast. We did this because not that we want to load our kids up with sugar early in the morning, although they loved that. But we wanted our kids to associate Christmas with something special like a birthday. We wanted them to understand that Jesus, it's not just, you know, Santa Claus and reindeer, which we were too selfish. Becky and I, we found those. We bought those gifts. They're from us. Not some old man that you'll never meet in a beard. Maybe that's just selfish. But w after we ate our cupcakes, we would then read the gospel accounts of the birth of our Savior. And when we did, it's kind of the opposite of what I'm going to do today. We would read Luke's account first, and then Matthew's, because chronologically that's the way it fits. Uh, that's the way it works better. And that's because Luke uh tends to focus on the shepherds. Jesus Christ being the Son of Man. Matthew, our text that we're going to look at today, if you read the first part of chapter 1 and all the way up early up until chapter 2, a lot of us focusing on Jesus Christ. He is the Son of David. the son of Abraham. And then it gives all the genealogy after that for much of chapter 1. So the emphasis is slightly different. And it's showing here in Matthew that Christ is born. as king, and we'll look at some of these points upcoming, but to focus on he is the king of the Jews. And as we look at this verse, these couple verses that we already read, we're going to see some special things that took place. and examine a little bit more and maybe to these wise men and look at it and take those truths from history, not just as a story that we like to read to little kids around Christmas time and in the winter. but as truths that we can apply to our lives from the very Word of God as He revealed Himself to man in a great and wonderful way. And so we're going to look at this with his star and our worship, and we're going to first look at the fact that he was born in Bethlehem. In verse 1 it says, Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of King Herod. Bethlehem itself has a great history if we just briefly look at it. He said he was born in Bethlehem. So you not only have God putting on flesh in Jesus Christ, he's becoming a man. That thought of God Humbling himself, limiting himself as a man, Jesus that always has been. We can't just think that Jesus was just born and that's when he came into existence Jesus Christ has always been. He is God. But here what we're going to look at is as God, he humbled himself and put on flesh to limit himself in who he is. So Jesus, God, was born in Bethlehem. And when we look at Bethlehem, so not only did God humble himself and limit himself as a man, taking on the limitations of a man, but it was in the city of Bethlehem. And here in Bethlehem, what was it known for? Bethlehem was about roughly six, five, six miles or so uh from Jerusalem. And it was that way because they would raise sheep. David was known in this area for raising his sheep in this area. And what were those sheep raised for? Being near Jerusalem made it handy. They were raised, they were born, these sheep. So not only was God putting on flesh to dwell among man, he was born in Bethlehem. And I'm reminded here in John 14, John 1. 14, and the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. The glory is only begotten of the Father full of grace and truth. So you have God putting on flesh, being born In Bethlehem, a place where sheep were raised to be a sacrifice. I'm also reminded of Philippians 2. 7, it says, but he made himself of no reputation. But took upon him the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of men. So you have Jesus as God, becoming a man. Born with those limitations as a man in Bethlehem, where it was known as the city of David, and where sheep were raised. to be a sacrifice. And this is why John the Baptist, we I love that cantata and that that thinking sometimes gets overlooked with John the Baptist as the forerunner of Christ and what was his message? Yes, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. But he was to prepare the way for the Messiah. And when he saw Christ coming, what did he say when he saw Christ coming? He said, This is the Lamb of God that taketh away the sin of the world. So John understood this. This is a clear understanding. And we also see this in Bethlehem with John 742. Hath not the scripture saith that Christ cometh in the seed of David out of the town of Bethlehem where David was? Great association with this. An absolute wonderful thing. And as we look at Christmas and as we ponder these truths and consider that Jesus being born in Bethlehem is an amazing miracle in a so every birth is a miracle but you have God putting on flesh and where he was born. Now I don't know about you. I was there when I was born but I had I could not control where I don't know about you, but that's my story. I mean, I didn't tell my parents I'd rather be born in this place or that place. Nope. I just came later and my mom wasn't expected and she got to the hospital as soon as she could. And uh yeah, where that's just history. But I had no choice in where I was born. Now God is sovereign, he's over all these things, but Jesus as the baby Being born in Bethlehem, as just as as a child, just like you and I, we had no choosing or choice where we were born. So just looking at Jesus being born in Bethlehem, there's some great significance there. And also he was born in the days of King Herod, and Pastor summarized that great this morning of King Herod. He was not a nice dude, not a nice king. And pretty ruthless, as we will read uh later in the gospel account of Matthew. But there came wise men, going back to verse 1, it says Behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem. So you have wise men coming from the east, traveling from afar. And what I want to focus here this morning with these wise men is A little more practical for us, what makes a wise man wise? So I'm asking the question, okay, you have these wise men, they travel from afar. And how can we be wise men? What makes a wise man wise? And as I've been pondering this truth from time to time, I thought, what a better place to go than the wisest man that we know of outside of Christ himself, Solomon. So we're going to put together some thoughts of what makes a wise man wise. Why would they be going to this place so they don't know where it is? And they're going to be inquired in the exact location, all these things. But I just want to pause for a couple moments. And just see what the Bible says. What is wisdom? What makes one individual wise? The first thing we look at is what makes a wise man wise? He listens to God. He listens to God. We see several verses from this, and a lot of these are being pulled from Proverbs. A wise man will hear, this is Proverbs 1, 5-7, a wise man will hear and will increase in learning. So he's listening. He's listening to increase, to grow in his wisdom. He's gaining knowledge. A man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels. He seeks others. He's not just wise in his own conceit. As in places in Proverbs we see can get you into trouble. To understand a proverb and interpretation, the words of the wise and their dark sayings. And it goes on to say that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But what's the opposite of wisdom? You would say to be foolish, it says, but fools defise wisdom and instruction. So in these couple verses, it's giving the opposite. What makes a wise man wise? A wise man will hear. He will listen to instruction. You know sometimes that's hard? It is hard to listen to someone else when we think we know what's better, we think we got the whole situation figured out, but we need to, as man, listen specially to God's word Especially to others that are in God's word and giving counsel. And then the opposite is true. So if we're not listening to God's word and we're going to be foolish and we're not going to be wise, we're going to despise instruction. We're not going to listen to God's word. We're not going to hold the importance of coming to church on a Sunday night. Preaching to the choir. I understand that. Wednesday nights. Church itself. And church attendance is one of those things that it's one of the easiest, but sometimes most difficult things to do. Because it takes time. Takes effort. Sometimes you have to plan and but no, I can't do that because that'll take away my time from the Lord. But isn't that part of what wisdom is? Where else do we gather together? It should be as individuals, I understand that, and it should be as families, and those things should be true. But God has designed a church, an assembly, to gather together, to hear from the Word of God, to encourage one another in His house. A wise man, what makes a wise man wise? He listens. He listens to the word of God. And though it's simple, it can be very challenging. What else makes a wise man wise? A wise man will fear God, and in fearing God, he will depart from evil. In Proverbs three, it says this, be not wise in thine own eyes. Fear the Lord And depart from evil. In 14, 16, very similar, a wise man feareth and departeth from evil. But a fool rageth and is confident. So a wise man fears God. And then also, what makes a wise man wise, I put this one here because it ties in with the first one. Sometimes The wisest thing we can do in a situation, as tempting as it is, and I've been here, you want to say something, you want to put in your two cents. Sometimes the wisest thing we can do is say nothing at all And in Proverbs 29, 11 we see this. A fool uttereth all his mind. You just say whatever comes to your mind. I've done that one too many times. I try and get better about it. I try and get more wise. It says, but a wise man keepeth it till afterwards. This is very challenging. This is very hard Especially if you're more of a social person, a lot of your ministry is talking and sharing with others, then sometimes it could be a challenge to listen. It could be a challenge. But what does a wise man do? He departs. He fears God. And in part of that, in fearing and serving God, he departs from evil. It goes hand in hand here. Very quickly moving on to another. What makes a wise man wise? He listens to God. He fears God. What else does he do? A wise man worships God. A wise man worships God. And I'm picking some of these things because I think some of this is involved with the wise men. And is very applicable today to us as we look through Proverbs penned by the wisest man who ever lived. So he fears God and he worships God. Now in Deuteronomy, It says this for chapter 6. Thou shalt fear the Lord thy God and serve him, and shall swear by his name. You live by his name. Matthew 4. 10. Jesus saith unto him, Get thee hence, Satan, for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve. One more, Psalm 29, 2. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness. And the word worship itself, really, if you just look and study the word itself, it literally means to bow down. Really has the idea of submit of authority, to come before someone else. Admitting that you are in more of a lowly state and you are coming to give credit to the one who's receiving your worship, your time, your effort, your commitment. What makes a wise man wise? He understands I am coming to worship, to give praise, to give time, to give talent, to give recognition, to give honor. to the one to whom it is due. So a wise man, he listens to God's word, he fears God, he worships God, bows down before him. And a wise man seeks God. A wise man seeks God. And oftentimes I hear it from time to time, almost every Christmas, wise men still seek Him. And it's true. It is true to seek God. In Proverbs 8. 17, I love them that love me, and those that seek me early shall find me. This is the opposite that you find in Proverbs 1. In Proverbs 1, they will seek him early and not find him, and I think it's tied in because they're not loving him and devoting to him. They're just doing it as a external. But I love them that love me, and those that seek me early. Shall find me. You're seeking for something. Now I gotta pause here on the seeking This was unplanned, but this morning my family and some select others were desperately seeking for something. It was a humbling moment for me. I came in, things were not exactly normal, and we're getting ready to leave. My family and I and they're looking at me. And some of them, which the unique part there's so many unique things. You know usually we drive separately to church in the a. m. service? Because I like to get here early. But we didn't. I was like, we'll go together as a family. We should all be coming and going about the same time today. It's all involved in the cantata. It's a little bit different. So we all come together. We have one vehicle. We have one key. So now it's time to leave. The family's getting hungry. And there was a smell of aroma of other food in the back. And my family's like, Dad, you got the key, we're ready to go. I'm like, yeah, that's right. Hmm. Nope. Hold on, hold on. I know I could find it. And I We are such a creature of habits. I went to the spot that I always put it, because it's not in my pocket. Do you know where it is? My family knows they went and looked. It's at the right part of my desk. That's where I just keep my keys. I just go in there, I take it out of my right pocket, and I just set it right down there. And it wasn't there either. And if you're me, now you're in trouble You're in trouble. Where is it? I don't know. Because it's not in the two places. It would normally it's not in my pocket and it's not right there. Uh-oh. So you know what we did We were seeking all over the place for the keys. Dad, what'd you do with them? I can't remember. I don't remember what I did with them. I was really honestly thinking. I was trying to retrace my steps and thinking. I was like I don't even remember them taking out of my pocket. I I drove and I got out of the car and I usually put them in my pocket. And I for the life I could not remember taking them out of my pocket So me, my family, and select others from the church at the end, we are seeking. We're seeking for something that's of value, seeking something important. Is that who God is to us? Or is it just a casual, I'll just do it when I have time, I'll give God some of my free time? Are we setting a time we are seeking something until it must be found? No, we did not stay and sleep here at the church in the afternoon. We did find them. It was tempting to say , man, I don't know what to do. We'll hitch a ride and we do have a spare key at home. But the the blessing was they were found by someone unexpected. My wife, actually I don't know if she she was going to apologize to him Sentry is in the office. He's like jumping around, trying to look, and he goes, I think I found your keys. And my wife was like, I don't think you did. I mean the way you're jumping and where you're looking, I don't why would they be there? That's where they were. On the cabinet, right by the printer. Sentry found it. I was like, I love that kit. Oh man, it was wonderful. Oh Yeah. But the printer was not behaving this morning and I was helping somebody and uh we we fixed it. But in the process I must have set my keys down and there they sat. But we were seeking diligently. We were looking until we can find it. Because we had a mission, we had a goal in mind. We were hungry. And we wanted to go. Ah But you know, wise men will search diligently for that which is important to them. These wise men Search diligently, and they took time, and we're going to look at it more. But a wise man will seek He will look until he's fine, he's looking for it. When we come to God's word, and as we listen to God's word, and as we are doing our best to fear God, are we seeking his truths? Or are we just looking for academia? We're just doing it to check off the box. We're just doing it because that's what I'm supposed to do. And I understand sometimes we just do things out of duty. But are we seeking the Lord earnestly? Are we in his word diligently? Seeking him. So thank you for that reminder today of seeking. So not only did we see that Jesus was born in Bethlehem, we're going to briefly look the fact that he was born to be king as we look in verse 2 So saying, where is he that is born king of the Jews? So he was born to be king. In his birth, this little baby was born to be a king. And it says here. That we have seen him that was born king of the Jews, and we have seen his star in the east. Now he was born king. Here's what's interesting. It says they've seen his star and he was born to be king, so there's something special about this. Maybe he's not just another baby being born in Bethlehem. There's something unique, there's something different about this. And there's a star that appears the night he was born. And it says, we know from verse 1 that these men traveled from the east to Jerusalem. So if you have a Christmas quiz coming up, they traveled east to Jerusalem. All right? And where did they get this? There's a couple of thoughts with this. Obviously, there could have been some influence by Daniel, which I definitely think was very possible. Daniel influenced, and there was just some word passed down and of some prophecies and things upcoming. It's possible that they had a verse like Numbers 24, 17, or that they at least heard about it or had it. It's possible. And Numbers 24. 17 says this. I shall see him, but not now. I shall behold him, but not nigh. There shall come a star out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners of Moab and destroy all the children of Sheff. It's possible they know that, hey, a star is going to appear somewhere over Jerusalem. Did they have this? I'm not sure. Maybe they had this in a combination of what Daniel said, so they were looking this way. You know what they're doing? They heard instruction. They were listening to the prophets of God. They were listening to these things. They feared God enough to continue to be faithful. They were seeking God looking for this star, looking for something unique. And they were doing it. Why? So they could worship him. They were searching diligently because they knew that there was something different about this baby. And they were searching for a king that they can worship. And also with the idea of the star. So we've seen uh just briefly he was born to be king, but what else was he born to be? He was born to be light. He was born to be light. Now this is kind of hinted at with the star and the light, but it I think with the Christmas time and uh just the the truth of the star and what light can be. And obviously it was a bright light and some kind of star where it says, but he was born king of the Jews, verse 2, for we have seen, that's important, his star in the east. So they saw this star that appeared. There was something special about this. And what's neat about the star, if nothing else, it was a star for men to follow. It could be seen of men And we can go off into all kinds of things with the children's songs of let your light so shine for men. You know, let it shine, your light light shine. But here's some other verses to go with this. In John 1, it says there was a man sent from God whose name was John, and the same came to bear witness of the light. Capital L, that all men through him might believe. He was not that light, talking about John the Baptist, but was sent to bear witness of that light, which is Jesus Christ, that was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world So you have a light, a star, the night he's born, representing here, bringing people to Christ, the shepherds from Luke. And at that time, way in the east, these wise men see that same star, and that's when they start packing their bags. That's when they start getting ready to go. And uh if I ever see a manger scene and I see the wise men like in the manger , Depending on the situation, I'm very tempted. I have done this before, so it's not just tempted. I take the wise men and I'll move them a little bit further away Because maybe that's wrong, but I'm like, hey, the wise I I hate to break the news to you, but the wise men and the shepherds were not there the same night with the star. I mean we read the stars, oh yeah, they're it'll be more obvious here in a little bit But it was not there at the same time. They saw the star, and if you notice to me, it says they have seen. And then they started packing their bags, and they get their gold and their frankincense and their murder, all four of the wise men or however many there were There were three gifts. Not three wise men. How many wise men were there? I don't know. But we know there's three gifts. So all that to say, so some wise men, more than two Possibly more than that, I don't know. But they start travelling and packing their bags to come to see this miraculous king that they can worship and they're following the light of the world. They're following this light to the light of the world, who is Jesus Christ. So he's born king, he's born to be light. And Christ himself, as an adult in his public ministry, says this in John 8. 12. He says, Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world. He that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. The wise men, I don't know what scripture they had or did not have, what exactly they heard, maybe still trickling from Daniel. But they sought the Lord, they heard the instruction, and they followed. They knew that there was a king to be born in Israel that they desired to worship. And they knew something was important. And Christ said again in chapter 9 of John, that he says, as long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. He said, as long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world. And you know what's interesting? We know that Christ isn't here anymore. That's why in Matthew 5. 14, you know who the light is? Did you look around at everyone that was here tonight? Did you see them as the light? Because Christ said, ye are the light of the world. world. A city that is set on a hill that cannot be hid. Christ left us. He is the light But he wants us to bear witness to show via light in the darkness, to reveal truth from error, to point people to Jesus Christ Himself. So he is the light, and now we have the privilege of being that light. And then I want us to jump down to verse 9 and 10 very quickly here. Thinking about this light as we continue with this thought. It says, and when they, the wise men, heard the king, they departed, and lo, the star which they saw in the east, did you catch that? The star which they saw in the east went before them till it came and stood over where the young child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy. When we see Christ and we think upon him, does it bring great joy to us? Or does it bring great shame, doubt, frustration? When we see Christ for who he is, do we rejoice? Are we excited? How do we see him? These men rejoiced. One that rejoiced because this star that they saw, my guess is approximately two years previous. Could have been a little bit less. I think King Herod maybe rounded it up. If I was a king and I wanted to kill someone born in my realm, I'd think I'd round up. But I think that's what he did. So approximately two years, uh, he rounded up when he slaughtered all those children uh there But here do we rejoice when we see the light. So we see that Christ was born in Bethlehem. We see he was born to be king. He's born to be light. What else? Last but certainly not least, he was born to be worshipped. He was born to be worshipped And as we look at this, we see this in verse 2 again. It says, they ask the question, where is he that's born king of the Jews? For we have seen his star in the east and are come to worship him. And if we were at verse 3, it says, When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled in all Jerusalem with him. Well he thinks, wait a minute, you guys traveled from afar to come to where I am king, to tell me that there's a king born in my realm? Now this guy we already covered and we heard this morning. He's not a nice guy. And when he hears there's a king, he's not rejoicing. Do you know what he sees this baby that's born as a king in his realm? Do you know what he sees that as? That is a threat to my authority. That is a threat to my there is no way I'm gonna let this get by. But he says, oh, hey, I tell you what When you see him, you worship him, and you tell me too, so I can worship him too. Yeah, he'll worship him, yeah, with a dagger Okay? He'll worship him alright. He'll take care of business. He doesn't see that as a great rejoicing opportunity When we see Christ, do we rejoice? Or do we act like Herod? Do we worship him? And here's the difference. So let's look at this. When we look at this difference, They obviously these wise men, they were wise. They took time and effort and they planned and they sought and they heard instruction. But they probably didn't have Micah 5-2. Because in Micah 5. 2 it says, But thou, Bethlehem, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall come forth unto me him that is ruler in Israel, whose going forth have been from old, from everlasting. This is probably what King Herod's men and his guys came together and oh yeah, where's he? Oh I think Bethlehem. Yeah, why don't you look around in that area? Yeah, we'll search there. So, they probably didn't have that. But here's the difference in the worship. So you have the wise men that want to worship and Herod that wanted to worship. Okay? The difference is the wise men come to worship. They planned, they packed their bags, bring their whole crew, this whole caravan, who knows how far, of a ways. And when they come, they took time and they give treasure, their gold, their frankincense, and their myrrh. They gave their time of packing, their planning. They worshiped with everything they had with with every with the the the whole preparation in of itself the whole travel And then they continued to seek as a wise man would. They got as close as they could, and then they asked questions to those who should have known. They worshiped with their time and with their treasure. What did Herod worship with? I just put he worshiped with his tantrum and with terror. Of course it had to be alliterated. But he was not happy. He was upset. And obviously we know what he did. He said in verse 8, he sent them to Bethlehem and said, Go, search diligently for the young child, and when you have found him, bring me word again that I may come worship him also. Then later in verse 16, then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise man, no man in authority likes to be mocked, we'll put it that way, especially when he thinks he's always right. Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding wroth, and sent forth and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem, in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and under. That's where I think he rounded up I I that just I could be wrong on that, but I think he rounded up. According to the time which he diligently See, he's trying to be wise too. What is Herod seeking? He's seeking the truth for the wise men for what? For his own purpose, for his own glory, for his own defense, for his own throne, for his own authority. He's seeking diligently too. Whether it's keys or a baby, some of us are seeking. Why? Why are we seeking? Is it for our own means, for our own end, to better ourselves, defend ourselves? Or are we seeking to know the truth and love of God so we can share it with others? Are we worshiping with time and with treasure? Or are we throwing a temperature because it's not going the way that we wanted, and God can never get it on my timeline? God, if you'd ever catch up with me, we can get this figured out. So he, Herod, and he says, according, which he had diligently inquired of the wise men. How do you worship? Why are you worshiping Is Christ the King of your life? Does he sit on the throne of your heart Are we working to be more yet wiser by listening to God's word? Publicly? Privately? Are we fearing him? Seeking him? And are we worshiping him It was his star, but how is our worship? He is the light of the world. He was born in Bethlehem as a lamb born to die as a sacrifice. What does that mean to you? And how does that affect your worship of the Savior of the world? Father, we are so just very thankful for this time. Where we can gather together for this season of celebrating Christ putting on flesh to dwell among us. And we just examine the wise men, What it takes to be wise. Some practical things that we can draw each and every day. And Father, this leads us to, they were wise because they were seeking to worship. But not all today or then are seeking Christ to worship him. Some to mock, some just to ignore and run away, pretend like he doesn't exist. But Father, for all of us here tonight, would we be wise enough to search your word, to search our hearts, to see Christ as the King that He is And he is the light that we can now be a part of, as we too can be a light of the world, pointing people to the light which is your Son Jesus Christ. Christ, would you work in us and through us to worship you with our time and with our treasure, just as these wise men did about 2,000 years ago? We ask all this through his precious name.