Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to very special service, and today we are reflecting on the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And I'm so thankful that we serve a risen Savior. And so the text of Scripture we're going to open up with this morning is from Luke 24. And so if you have your Bible, I'd like to encourage you to turn there, or you can look up on the screen and you'll see the words to this text of scripture that we'll open with. Says the following. This is the word of the Lord. Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared. and certain others with them. And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. And they entered in and found not the body of the Lord Jesus It came to pass as they were much perplexed thereabout, and as they were afraid, they bowed down their faces to the earth, and they said, Why seek ye the living among the dead? He is not here, but is risen. Remember how he spake unto you when he was yet with you in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified, and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words, and returned from the sepulchre and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest. And it was Mary Magdalene and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James. and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles. The words seemed like unto them as an idle tale, and they believed them not. Then arose Peter and ran unto the sepulchre, and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass. This morning we are going to celebrate Christ's triumph over sin and death when he rose from the dead. Please let's all bow together, ask the Lord to bless. This service. And if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, I want to say that we are very glad to have you with us and hope this service will be very encouraging. And if you'd be interested in us reaching out to you at another time, please take a moment to fill out a visitor card and put it in the little back box so that we can follow up with you. Let's pray. Father, we're so grateful for this day where we are reminded that our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, came. He died. He bore our sin debts and paid it in full. And then after three days he rose triumphant from the grave. Today we serve a risen Savior, and we have reason to celebrate because of his triumph. over sin, death, and the grave. I pray that this morning you would take the word of God and use it in our hearts, uplift us. If anyone who is gathered with us this morning or joins us on the live stream does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior. I pray that they would understand what Christ has done for them, and today would be the day of salvation, that they would turn to Him and place their faith in His finished work. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The Lord is with him today, Son of Man and Angel Say, Break your joy and try up time, sing ye have the word. One three me working on the Glory now and Christ that we are exalting him. No, the bitch is a good thing. Good morning and happy Resurrection Day to all that are here in person with us and joining us on live stream. We're going to start the morning service, music service off by turning to page 265. In your hymnal, or please follow along with us on the overhead, page 265. Christ Arose, page 265. Well let's sing out. Please stand with me. Amen. Just a couple uh pages over to two hundred and sixty-eight. Oh, if the uh heavenly choir sounds this good, it's going to be glorious in heaven. Page 268. He lives. Oh yeah, I want to be like a wood. Normally I'd ask you to sit down, but boy, it sounds go ahead, have a seat You sounded good standing up. Page 273. Page 273 Christ the Lord is risen today. Amen and amen. Amen. Oh, I don't want to stop. But we are going to have a second reading of Scripture here. It's going to be in Romans chapter 5. Romans chapter 5. Sitting there. I've got it marked. Romans chapter 5, verses 6 through 11. And the verses say, For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly. For scarcely for a righteous man will one die. Yet, peradventure, for a good man some would even dare to die. But God commendeth his love toward us. Catch that. But God commendeth his love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement. May the Lord add their blessing to the reading of his words. Is from wonder for my sin , Christopher. God 's grace continues from our judges are justified in Christ I live for in my place I pray to God that my will that Jesus was not estranged from God. My life is mine, my all, my brain is mine all to a shall be. For Christ This rose for my work have I would have Christmas in my skirt for the spice hand for its precious words above. I would say by my laws I carry a stand He is rose for his happy. Jesus is crushed, and thus the father is free. I strength as one standard. I could quite fall in charge. Why can't I? I pray to God and my God Jesus for today. Sun is grace from God, but by the sun, my life is not my oath, my praise my own. They wouldn't have something. All right, continuing with our songs, turn with me to page 336. Or follow along on the screen. Page three hundred and thirty six My hope is in the Lord Amen. Okay, at this time I'm going to ask you to take out the blue book if you're going to follow along with us while I get out. The enlarged edition of the song, page 96 in the blue book. If you're going to follow along there, page 96, resurrection anthem, all four verses. And please stand with me on this one. I'm talking about um, uh you've got a span, you've got a twenty millet, you got three minutes or I didn't believe I really don't want to be a little bit more than people. With an Eli Third reading. Or we get going too far. Comes in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 , verses 12 through 22. Chapter 15, verses 12 through 22. The scriptures say, Now if Christ be preached that he arose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then Christ is not risen. And if Christ be not risen, then our preaching vain. And your faith is also vain. Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not. For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. Ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. May the Lord bless the reading of his word. Yeah, that's very card. When climbing stone rose, he turned the tide of human history I see a layout of crushing more to his arch and Before his written glory beach goes the instant day Forever throwing to us savings of We don't want to walk away again, we don't want to live again for leaving the When Christ arose he honored the before to Adam 's race by swallowing the skin of death and Standing in our place, refusing to allow this all we want to see again Our God will make his own com we on has a Again , there's no one alone who lives, there's no one who lives again, there's no one a one who lives again to get the one to spread. When Christ arose he cried apart the iron grip us in and gave us strength to walk on him, we need his price again. The sample self is crucified by resurrection parts in the water. Bring the one who lives again, bring the one who lives again, for crazy can be changed. Well Christopher Rosie fruit has right to never so grace. The highest frame of his great angel ring through endless days. Alone he walked up there, alone a man was there. Every time will be honored today. Again, the story of my game in the one who lives, in the one who lives again, in the one who lives again, the story. I know about you, but that is such a powerful truth and expressed in such a powerful way. And this morning we have considered the reality of the resurrection, we have considered the significance of the resurrection, and we've considered the triumph of the resurrection all in the songs that we have sung as a choir. And so I'd like to ask you to take your Bible and let's all turn together to 1 Corinthians chapter 15, because in 1 Corinthians chapter 15 we see The content that really was the driving point for the last congregational song that we sang. And it's probably one that you're not extremely familiar with, the resurrection anthem. How many of you? You never heard that song before. Oh before today, let's put it that way. All right. Some of you have heard it before that if you're uh if you've been here on Sunday night, maybe when the kids are picking their songs. But it's taken right out of the text in front of us, 1 Corinthians 15. So let's go ahead and read this passage together. We'll pray and then dig into what the Word of God has to say for us on this day that we remember the resurrection of Christ. 1 Corinthians 15, 12. Now, if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead How say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead? But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen? And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain. And your faith is also vain. Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God, because we have testified of God that He raised up Christ, whom He raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not. But The dead, if the dead, but if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised. And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. Ye are yet in your sins. Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Please let's bow together and ask the Lord to bless this time that we'll spend together in His Word this morning. Father, as we open up the Bible and as we look into this text of Scripture, I pray that the Holy Spirit, who indwells every believer here. Would be at work in our midst and be at work in our hearts. If there's someone who's joined us this morning, either in person or in the live stream, who has wrestled with whether or not Jesus actually came. and actually died and rose from the dead. I pray that they would listen attentively to the claim that is so strong in these scriptures. that they would consider the strong evidences that proclaim that not only did Jesus come and die, but that he rose. And that they would understand why that matters for them this morning. And I pray that every believer who has the opportunity to look at this text and listen to this message that as we walk out of this place, Our hearts would be uplifted, that we would be strengthened, and that we would live in the light of the position that we enjoy as your people. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. 1 Corinthians 15 addresses the importance of a literal bodily resurrection of Christ from the dead. And the reason is so that the Corinthians would understand the reality of it and would walk in newness of life as redeemed people. If you remember back to last week, And then the week before we've kind of been dealing with a topic, and the topic is in the church at Corinth, there were all kinds of tremendous problems, horrible problems. And the way that Paul addresses the problems at the Church of Corinth is not to just give them a grocery list of things they're supposed to do better, things that they're supposed to stop doing and start doing. But he burrows down to what is the most fundamentally significant thing that is going to be the basis for all of those things that they must do. And that is the death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ. The fact is that the hope for this world is more than anything else what Jesus has done for them, both in his death. And his resurrection. And if people would understand the gospel and place their faith in Christ and experience new life in Christ, they would be positioned to walk as new creatures, which before conversion they have no ability to do. And so God wants us from these scriptures to convince us of the reality of the resurrection and its power so we will walk in newness of life as redeemed people. I want to start out by reading to you a couple of statements that I thought were very interesting as I was thinking about the issue of the resurrection. The first one that I'm going to quote from is actually a person who's not a Christian. They're a skeptic. They're a historian. But I think it's a great place to start because it shows you that even the skeptic who does not believe in the reality of the death and resurrection of Christ has to understand by studying history that in fact there is a compelling case that something happened and they've got to figure out what it is and how these people responded in such an amazing way. This is what this person, Paula Frederickson, states. I know in their own terms what they saw was the raised Jesus. Now, please understand this is a skeptic and this is not where we end, but it's important to consider this person's words. That when they say, and then all the when and that's when they say and then all the historic evidence we have afterward attests to their conviction that that's what they saw. I'm not saying that they really did see the raised Jesus. I wasn't there. I don't know what they saw, but I do know that as a historian, they must have seen something. Now, why would a person who's a skeptic say that? It's because when they look at the evidence, they recognize there's a very compelling case. They don't want to consider it. They wrestle with it, but they know it's there. Charles Spurgeon, 19th-century pastor, said the following: Our religion is not based upon opinions, but upon facts. We hear persons sometimes saying, those are your views and these are ours. Whatever your views may be is a small matter. What are the facts of the case? We must, after all, if we want a firm foundation, come down to matters of facts. When we talk about the resurrection, I don't believe this is just for tradition. I believe that this is what actually happened. The church historian Philip Schaft said the following, the resurrection of Christ is emphatically a test question upon which depends the truth or falsehood of the Christian religion. It is either the greatest miracle or the greatest delusion which history records. You have to pick a side. Former Chief Justice of England, Lord Darling, said the following, the crux of the problem of whether Jesus was or was not. What he proclaims himself to be must surely depend upon the truth or otherwise of the resurrection. On that greatest point, we are not merely asked to have faith. There exists such overwhelming evidence, positive and negative, factual and circumstantial, that no intelligent jury in the world could fail to bring in a verdict That the resurrection story is true. Pretty amazing statements, are they not? The question is, is this truth or is this falsehood? Is this our one and only hope, or is this a lie, a delusion? I'd like you to see what the Bible has to say about this. And the first thing I want you to notice from the text in front of us is the statement at the beginning of this text. We have testified of God that He raised up Let me say that again. We have testified of God that He raised up Christ The resurrection is an historic fact. Christ is risen. And when he says, we have testified, the question that we should ask is, well, first of all. Who in the world are these people that are giving this testimony? And what was the basis of this testimony? And so I want us to dig down into this for just a few moments this morning. These people were firsthand eyewitnesses of the resurrection of Christ. And we know that because earlier in 1 Corinthians 15, this is what Paul writes. He says, I have delivered unto you, first of all, that which I also received. How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Now listen carefully to the next statement. That he was seen of Cephas Then of the twelve. After that he was seen of about five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present. But some are fallen asleep. After that, he was seen of James, then of all the apostles. Question. If Paul is making such a statement , Could they not have confirmed whether or not what he was saying was true? The answer is of course. In fact, he invites them to confirm and he says, most of the people that bring this witness are still alive. You could sit down with them, you could have a conversation with them, you could hear their firsthand account of what actually took place. The next question is, well, what was the basis of their testimony? I'm not going to read this uh in depth because we've already kind of read this, but in Luke chapter 24 This is how we opened up our service this morning. It says, on the first day of the week, very early they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared. and certain others with them, and they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre. And as you read through this passage of scripture, you see all kinds of details. That these women who went there on the first day of the week discovered when they came to the tomb where it was empty. And the very first thing that these ladies did when they heard the report, from the angels that in fact he's not here. He's risen just like he told you. They go to the disciples and they tell them what has happened. And the fact is that the disciples did not believe them They said, you people are delusional. They didn't use those words, but that's exactly what they were what they were thinking when these ladies came to them. They said, well, you we want to see Jesus. It make you feel good to see Jesus. Maybe you think you saw Jesus, but you didn't see Jesus. So that leads me to the third question. Well, what was the content of the claim? That they bore testimony to. Actually, second question. The first claim is that they said, I saw the resurrected Lord. I saw the resurrected Lord. Now listen carefully. If these people had been brought into a court of law, and they were told to affirm the truth and nothing but the truth, so help them God. Guess what? They would have affirmed this. How do you know that? We know that because of what unfolds after this event. Do you realize that nearly every single one of the original twelve disciples were killed as martyrs for their faith? Do you realize the apot? Well, I don't want to go there quite yet. We're gonna move there in just a second. For instance, notice Mary Magdalene On the first day of the week, she physically saw the Lord after resurrection. John 20, verse 18. It says, Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the Lord. We see that Jesus appears to his disciples several times in John chapter 20, verse 19. It says, Then the same day at the evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut, where the disciples were assembled, And this next statement is important, for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in their midst. They were terrified. They were fully convinced that if they crucified Jesus, they were probably next. Everybody knew these men were They had been traveling around with Jesus. They had been preaching for him, and they had been with him and all those things. People knew who these men were. They were afraid. But there was one individual who was not with them. And that was Thomas. John 20, verse 26, it says, after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them. Then came Jesus, and the doors being shut, stood in the midst and said, Peace be unto you. Then said he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger and behold my hands, and which reach hither thy hands and thrust it into my side and be not faithless, but believing. Thomas answered and said, My Lord, my God. You'll understand why he said that in just a minute And then a third time in John chapter 21, verse 14, it says, Now this is now the third time that Jesus showed himself unto his disciples after that he was risen from the dead. So what this tells us is it wasn't just one time Jesus met with the disciples. It wasn't just two times he met with the disciples. There are at least three occasions that he came in their midst, he had conversation with them, he ate food with them, he said, touch my hands, touch my feet, touch my side. They saw the Lord. Then we have another group, travelers on the road to Emmaus in Luke 24. It says, two of them went the same day to a village called Emmaus. Talk together all of them of these things which had happened, and it came to pass, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near and went with them. So these are some of the examples. We could go to other examples. We could dig further into the details. But I want you to just understand very simply the reason that these people had the right And the confidence, the conviction that Jesus has risen is because they ate with him. They sat down with him. They had conversation with him. Not just on one occasion, but on multiple occasions. The second claim is that their initial response was disbelief, fear, or anger towards that claim. Now please listen carefully. The gospels are so clear that the apostles before the cross did not understand that Jesus was going to die. And that he was going to rise from the dead. And because they did not understand that he was going to die and rise from the dead when it took place, they were convinced that was the end. These are not people who are well positioned to go out and lead this massive revolt to overthrow Rome. These are not people who are going to turn the world upside down. and go stand in the public sphere and say, you crucified the Lord of glory, but he's alive today, and you can't prove that he's not, because there's no body that you can drag out and say, look, here is his body. You can't do it. How in the world could these people Who doubted, who were fearful, who were hiding for their lives, be so bold. It's a really great question. For instance, look at Mary in John 20, verse 15. Sir If thou hast borne him fence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him. What did that tell you? She didn't believe he was risen. Mark 16, 11 They, when they had heard that he was alive and had been seen of her, believed not John 20, 19. Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week when the doors were shut, the disciples were assembled for what? Fear of the Jews. John 20, 25, Except I see his hands and the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe. Galatians 1. 13. This is the Apostle Paul. You have heard of my conversation in times past And the Jews religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the Church of God and wasted it, and profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in my own nation, being more exceeding zealous of the traditions of my father. I got this question. Who do you know that would do what Paul did? For a lie. You know anybody like that? Would you do Would you be willing to leave everything that you had to pursue what you hated? Be willing to lay down your life for a delusional lie? Of course not. What's the point? They saw the Lord, and that's why they believed. They didn't go into this story believing. They didn't understand it. They were perplexed. They were confused. They were angry. They were disillusioned. Claim three, I now understand that this was predicted and fulfilled. Luke 24, 5 He says, why seek ye the living amongst the dead? He's not here but is risen. And this is what the angels say. Remember How he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee, saying, The Son of Man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men and be crucified and the third day rise again. And they remembered his words. That had to be brought to their attention. The fourth claim is God commanded them to preach this gospel. Acts 1. 8. He says, you shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you. You shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem and all Judea and in Samaria and to the uttermost parts of the earth. Now I know that that was probably a lot for us to process. But I did it for a reason. The reason I did that is because this is not just some tradition This is not something that a couple of delusional people started 2,000 years ago. And here we are today on a Sunday morning singing about a risen Savior who actually never really did rise from the dead. And these were just delusional people who saw some things that made them feel happy, but in fact they did not spend time with the resurrected Lord. The fact is, I've only scratched the surface of what is in the Bible laying out the claims for the resurrection. And I've not even touched what we see in the historic record outside of the Bible on this issue. But the second thing I want you to notice with us this morning is a theological fact. The resurrection is not just a historical fact, it's also a theological effect. There is no hope without the resurrection of Christ. And if you look back in the text where we started, in 1 Corinthians 15, verse 17, this is what Paul writes. If Christ be not raised, your faith is vain Ye are yet in your sins, then they also which are asleep in Christ are perished. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most Miserable. Now what Paul is doing here is he is arguing a point by considering what the case would be if it had never happened. And so in verse 17 he says, if Christ did not rise from the dead, then this would also have to be true. The fact that you believe is meaningless. Now I know that in our contemporary situation, you hear this kind of a statement a lot. People say, you know, I'm a person of faith. You ever heard that statement? Of course you've heard that statement. You know, that's my personal belief. That's my faith system. Well, I hate to step anybody's toes this morning, but your faith doesn't matter. And what you believe doesn't matter if what you believe is on something that's not true. In fact, we could almost make the argument that it really does matter because you're building your life on something that's not true. And when you build your life on lies, the end result is devastating. So the fact that they believed something really doesn't matter. What matters is if what they believed is actually true. What matters is if what they have given their lives to actually took place. And the claims that they have made about the significance of that moment are actually true. Because if they're not, then what they're saying doesn't matter. And he makes the point here. In verse 17 he says, your faith is vain, it's empty, it's meaningless, it has no value. If you believe in this as a tradition and it didn't take place, then it is of no value to you at all. That's where he starts. But then he builds from there because in verse 17 next he says, and you are yet in your sins. You know how you feel good, like, you know, I'm right with God. He loves me and he accepts me and I'm his child. He says, well, if Jesus didn't rise from the dead, then it's all a delusion. It's not true. You're still in your sins because there's been nothing that's dealt with it, and there's been no triumph over it. And then the third point is this. To me, this is the most fascinating of all of them. In verse 19, he says, we are of all men most miserable. Now I think typically when we think of that statement, we are of all men most miserable, we say, well, you know, if if if I believe that Jesus rose from the dead, he actually didn't, and I think that my sins are forgiven and they're actually not, then I'm actually a miserable person. But that's really not the point that he's making. Though that would be true. The point that he's making is that the apostles who have given everything up for this message would be the greatest fools that have ever lived. You ever thought about that? He's basically saying we're a bunch of delusional fools if this is not true. So Paul really believes this, doesn't he? He's really convinced that this is true. In other words, he's affirming that it did actually happen. And because it did actually happen, the following several things are true. The first is this: our faith is rooted in a gospel that actually saves us. Because Jesus came, because he died, because he rose from the dead, because we have trusted in it, we are actually saved. Not just we feel like we're saved. We hope to be saved. We wish we were saved. We've convinced ourselves that we're saved. No, no, no. You are actually saved. Our sin debt is actually gone. But that doesn't change the fact that sometimes we have to live with the temporal consequences of our bad choices. But when it comes to standing before God, who we should be most concerned about, when we stand before him, he's going to say not guilty. Not because we didn't do those things. But because Jesus took it on himself, that song that we sang in the middle, his robes for mine. When we were without strength in due time, Christ died for the ungodly. He commended his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, he died for us. Our sin debt's really been taken care of. There might be somebody here this morning that, you know, you don't have that, you don't have that confidence that your sin debt is gone. And you shouldn't because you don't understand the gospel. There might be someone here who, yeah, I made that profession of faith when I was five, but now I'm forty-five and uh Not sure about this anymore. The fact is, when you understand the gospel, you place your faith in the finished work of Christ, he really washes away your sin. The apostles suffered immense loss in life to proclaim the greatest message that was ever preached. Remember what Paul said? He says, For me to live is Christ. To die is gain. He says, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me. I know how to be abase and I know how to abound. He says, I suffer all things for the church of God. And you know what Paul said? He said, it's worth it. All of the suffering and toil and struggle of life that is directly connected to the fact that I renounced what I was and I've embraced the gospel of Christ which I once persecuted. And I've given up everything for it. He said, it's worth it. I haven't lost anything. I haven't lost anything that really matters. What I've gained is eternity with God. Their sacrifice actually was worth it. And you know what's amazing about the sacrifice of these people? They're just little pieces that provide proofs, evidences that demonstrate that this is a reliable record. They were willing to put their lives on the line. And that's what we see in these verses. The third truth I want you to notice is this: it's not just an historical fact. It's not just a theological fact, but it is also an experiential fact. What I mean by that is that we are to have personally experienced The benefits of what Jesus did 2,000 years ago. That's what God wants of everybody in this room. You say, well, do I feel it? Like, how does that work? Can't go back and see it again, can I? No, you can't So how do you personally experience the fact of the resurrection? And here's the statement we read in verse 22. He says, In Adam all die. Even so in Christ shall all be made alive. When I talk about it being an experiential fact, the idea is this: God wants to literally save you from your sins. And give you eternal life. That's what this is all about. This is about God providing a way for sinners who have absolutely no right, no basis. to come into his presence to escape eternal destruction for sinners to be reconciled to a holy and righteous God. That's what this is all about. There could be somebody here this morning they're like, you know what? I've always thought that you know Christmas was a neat thing and you know Good Friday. That's oh it's a little sad and the resurrection, like that's really exciting. But have you understood that's the only way you can stand in the presence of a holy God? Through his death and resurrection? He mentions two realities. The first is this. In Adam all died. You say, well, what does it mean to be in Adam? It's called being born. Every single one of us descends from Adam. He's our father. And when Adam sinned in the garden, guess what? The Bible says, by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, so death passed upon all men. For that all have sinned. When you were born into this world, you were born in Adam. You were born spiritually dead and separated from God. We were all born with a sin problem. And the simple fact is you and I don't have the power to change our nature. That's what we are. We're not just condemned because of what we do. We're condemned because of what we are in Adam. And we're powerless to overcome this. In fact, it's interesting in Ephesians chapter 1 and Ephesians chapter 2 he talks about this. He says, you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. He says In times past you walked according to the course of this world, and you were by nature the children of Wrath. But God, who was rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us even when we were dead Have quickened us together with Christ by grace you're saved. So if you've never understood the gospel and you never place your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, his death on the cross, his resurrection. If you've not believed that these things are true, well, technically speaking, you're either in Adam or you're in Christ. You're in Adam. And that means you're in trouble. And you have absolutely no ability to change that position by giving God something, doing something for God, trying to improve yourself. It says by the deeds of the law, no flesh is justified in his sight. All of our righteousness is as filthy racks. There's none righteous, no, not one. Hephan says there's none. He even understands that. But then he speaks of the second reality. In Christ shall all be made alive. Well, how do you get in Christ? Simple statement. You need to be born again. In John chapter 3, this is what Nicodemus heard out of Jesus' lips. Jesus looked at Nicodemus, this old man who was A teacher, a rabbi, a respected man. He was selected out of all of the people to go and talk to Jesus. How would you like to be that guy, you know? Hey, why don't you go talk to Jesus? No, no, you you go. Let's send Nicodemus. Certainly he can go and talk to Jesus. And Jesus looks him in the eye and he says, Nicodemus, except a man's born again, he won't see the kingdom of God. What? How does that work? He said, I thought you were a rabbi. You don't know how this works? No. He says you have to believe on the Son In the same way that Moses lifted up in the serpent, the serpent in the wilderness, in the same way the Son of Man will be lifted up, that whoever believes on him will not perish, but have everlasting life. You have to be born again. In John 1. 12 it says, As many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that Believe on his name. And the next statement is important. Which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. That's what it means to be in Christ, born again. And he tells us exactly how it happens. You have to receive him, you have to trust in him, you have to depend on what he's done for you on the cross. We do not have the ability to save ourselves. We have to depend upon what Jesus did for us. When we could not save ourselves, God made a way through the death and resurrection of Christ. Listen to this text that we read in the middle of our service this morning. When we were without strength. In due time, Christ died for the ungodly. What does he mean by without a strength? You can't make yourself righteous, you can't change your nature, you can't improve yourself so that God says, okay, I can ignore those sins and I'll accept. You can't do that. We were without strength. He even says, I, I'm one of them. We, me. But God commanded his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. If when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his So you say, well, what's the point? Joel, we've talked about a lot of stuff here. Just make it simple. Tell me what I need to do. Tell me how I need to respond. Okay, I'm glad you asked that question. The resurrection of Christ, number one, is a fact, and it's well documented. Because of the fact, God says, believe it. Number two, this fact, this event, is the most significant event in history. Because through Christ's death on the cross and his resurrection from the dead, we can be forgiven of our sins. Declared righteous in God's presence and be made alive in Christ. It's a fact. And it's your only hope. That's very simple, is it not? It's a fact. It's your only hope. Number three, it's not enough to be just fascinated with the resurrection. I mean, if you're here today, then Easter Sunday means something to you. Okay, it means something to you. Or it means something to somebody who drags you here, okay. But it's not enough to just be fascinated by the resurrection. Well, that's kind of neat. Maybe it happened. It'd be kind of cool if Jesus really rose from the dead. It's not about thinking it could have happened. Maybe it happened. Yeah, I'd like to talk about it. Are you trusting in it? It's your one and only hope in the presence of a holy God, the death and resurrection of the Lord Jesus. It's not enough to defend the resurrection. God wants you to personally experience the saving power by trusting in it. If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, very simple. Turn to Him. Don't leave this place a skeptic. Don't leave this place as someone who got a lot of information that's very interesting. But you just just leave it there. It might be that what you'd really like to do is just reach out and say, hey, I want to talk to you about this. Go for it. Yeah, I'll I'll give you my email. We've set up a time to talk. I'd be glad to do that. But you need to take action on what you've heard. If you've trusted in Christ as your Savior, which is the vast majority of the people here. If you've trusted Christ as your Savior, you are in Christ. And because you are in Christ, he calls you to live like you're in Christ. We are to reckon ourselves dead to sin and alive to God through Christ Jesus our Lord. That's how we're supposed to live. And so I want you to notice how Paul concludes this chapter in verse 58. Don't worry, it's not a second message. I'm just reading it. Here's what it says. Therefore, when Paul says therefore, he finally got to the end. Therefore, well, to the end of that point. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast. Unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. If you're saved, you're saved because you've trusted in a risen Savior. That means you're in Christ and alive. And so he says, be steadfast. Be unmovable. Be always abounding in the work of the Lord. Your labor is not meaningless. May God help us to live in the light of the resurrection. Let's bow together for prayer, please. There might be somebody here this morning who's never trusted Christ as their Savior. And if you understand that, I'm talking directly to you. I don't see you. You're not looking at me, but I'm speaking to you. It's not just me though. God, through his word, is speaking to you. He's saying, don't be a skeptic. Turn to Christ. Embrace the gospel. If you've never trusted Christ, I want to encourage you there in your seat. Do business with God. Confess that you're a sinner. You're unrighteous. You can't earn your way to God. It's only what He's done for you. That today you understand that Jesus really came, He really died, He really rose from the dead, and you realize that's your only hope, and you believe it, and you're trusting in it. And ask him to save you. Ask him to give you eternal life. You say, can you go back over there? I'm writing that down. I need to know what those words are. The words don't matter. It's not a formula. Faith. Is a dependence. And the way you express it, so long as you actually believe it and trust it in Christ, he saves you. Your faith is not vain and you are not in your sins, you are saved. If someone needs to reach out to me, please do that. Don't hesitate. Be very happy to talk to you, even after the service. Sometime this week, reach out. Be glad to talk to you And for all those of us who have placed our faith in Christ, I want to encourage you, let's live as we are, God's children. Let's walk in the newness of life that we have because of our risen Savior. Let's pray. Father, please take your word and use it in our hearts. Convict us, convince us, comfort us, motivate us. We pray that you would get the glory and all that is done as we reflect on these wondrous truths. We ask that if there's someone here who's never trusted Christ, either in person or watching us on the live stream, that you would work in their heart, show them their need to turn to Christ. In humble faith, depend on what He's done for them. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's take out our actually our blue books and the closing hymn that we're going to sing. I absolutely love this one. It's complete in thee. It expresses so very, very well these truths. We 're going to sing all four verses. I want to encourage you to really sing it out as we sing this song complete in thee. Let's stand together and let's sing complete in thee, please. Completed the world. I was falling on thee, and I am now complete. Gave us his heart , it's God, and make it fine and make the rod , thy blood and heart and wrong for me. And all in my I shall be complaining your boy I have a day again. Thy word shall be an earthly, and thy open thee, It just is fine. And then give us one, I was at all and on me, and for embark, I choose the And over pain to me, and now my God has more. I ask no more complaining. Yea, I think God is gone, and we can make the road. I will have thee. And for and I do know thee. That's really singing on the last If they don't see more, I'll try and come up and go , I'll show any. And I don't really find it on and make it far the other way to give. I will tell you, and glory I shall be. Awesome song. Justin, can you please come and close us in prayer? And uh if you're visiting with us, I hope that you felt warmly welcomed. Again, if you would like one of us to reach out to you in the coming weeks, fill out a visitor card and put it in a little offering box there in the back and we'll We'll be glad to reach out to you. And uh we do have service tonight, so I hope that you'll be able to come back as we're continuing to work our way through the story of Samuel. And now we're gonna be introduced to Saul. So I hope that you'll come back for that. Justin. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day. We thank you that we can come here and uh celebrate your resurrection, and we thank you for that sacrifice that you made so that we could be reconciled to you since we have no ability to do that on our own. We pray that you'll bless the rest of this day, you'll bless the fellowship that we have with friends and family, and that you'll keep us safe throughout the week. In Jesus' name, amen