Please turn to the book of First Corinthians. And we are in First Corinthians chapter seven again this evening. And the passage that we're dealing with is Paul addressing Several questions at the church at Corinth wrote him specifically about issues related to marriage and human relationships between husband and wife. And so the passage deals with a lot of issues, a lot of delicate issues, and we're going to work our way through it piece by piece. Probably we'll have uh at least one more week here, more than likely, which is absolutely fine. Okay, let's go ahead and pick up in verse number six, and then we'll read all the way down to verse 17, and I'll kind of remind you what we talked about last week It says, but I speak this by permission, not of commandment. For I would that all men were even as I myself, but every man hath his proper gift. one after this manner, another after that. I say therefore unto the unmarried and to widows, it is good for them if they abide even as I. But if they cannot contain, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn Unto the married I command, yet not I but the Lord, let not the wife depart from her husband, but and if she depart, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband. Let not her husband put away his wife But to the rest speak I, not the Lord. If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him Let him not put her away. And the woman which hath a husband that believeth not, if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else were your children unclean, but now are they holy. But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart, a brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases. But God has called us to peace For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? Or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called everyone, so let him walk, and so ordain I in all the churches. All right, last week we talked about the fact that there are six truths that are laid out in these verses that are meant to provide a balance on this issue of instruction related to marriage. I think it's really important for us to recognize that sometimes when we deal with a concept in the Bible, um in one sitting you're not going to get the full sense of what that concept is really addressing. So someone might say, well I have a question about this, and you answer that question very specifically and they say, well, hold on a second. What about this? And then you go, okay, that's a whole nother conversation. So we go into that issue and then they say, well, I mean what about this issue over here? You end up recognizing that to really understand that concept, you can't just give like one real simple answer, that's the end of it. You may actually have to go into several different subcategories that are a part of that discussion. And then also it is true that sometimes when you present a concept There's also a corresponding side to that concept that also needs to be flushed out as well. In fact, interestingly, when we look at the Proverbs. A lot of times the way the Proverbs are presented is here is a positive and here is a negative, or here's a negative and here's a positive, or here is a general concept and here are some specific applications of that concept. What that shows you is that there are some concepts that you need both the positive and the negative. The negative doesn't give you the whole story. The positive doesn't give you the whole story. We need them together. And in in this passage of scripture We're going to see a bit of that. And the area that's very specifically kind of what we're talking about here is this issue of marriage versus singleness So if you were to talk about the concept of marriage, the Bible is unquestionably presenting marriage as a normative thing. Okay? God created men. He created women. He gave us the responsibility to be fruitful and multiply. If we're going to do that in a godly way, then we have to have marriage. Marriage is supposed to be both between one man, one woman for life. God has a reason for all those things. That is the normative pattern. But then we realize that, well, not everybody marries. The question is, if somebody doesn't marry, are they doing something they shouldn't? And if someone goes, well, if this is normative, then is it okay for somebody to remain single? Well the answer is, well, that depends on their motive. That's really what it comes down to. And so what this passage of scripture is going to do is it's going to give you the blessing of marriage, but also the blessing of singleness. Okay? It's going to present both of those so that a person would recognize that what it ultimately comes down to is that God has a gift for both the married and for the single. God has gifts for those who have children and those who also don't have children. God has gifts for those who are not married now, but are going to be married down the road and those who are married now and then their spouse is going to die and then they're going to be in a season of life where they're not married. And the question is, well Should they remarry? Should they not remarry? Is it okay? Is it wrong? All these kinds of questions. Now I'm not going to say that Paul addresses every single potential scenario here, but he gives us some really good balance in the way he presents this. So last week what we talked about were the benefits of singleness. Though marriage is good, there are also benefits of being single. And I mentioned this last week. I think it's important. While it is true that I would like to really hammer home the importance of our young people preparing for marriage. and think in terms of I I desire to marry, I want to think in those terms. I also recognize that not all of our young people here are going to marry someday. Now, I can't say I know that. I'm saying it's very likely. Okay? Or they may be single for a significant period of time. And I don't want to present this in a way that would make a person think they're somehow doing wrong if in fact God has given them this gift for this season or even for their entire life. And they're going to use that gift for the glory of God. It's important that we provide that balance because the scripture does. So he says in verses 6 through 8, I speak this by permission. Interesting statement. Not by command, for I would that all men were even as I myself, every man hath his proper gift of God, one after this manner, another after that. I say therefore to the unmarried and to widows, it is good for them. to abide even as I. Now when he says by permission and not by commandment, there are kind of two things that he's saying there. One is he's saying Christ never directly addressed this issue in the way that I'm addressing it. That's what he means by not by commandment. And when he says by permission, he's indicating the fact that while it is true that he is genuinely speaking as an apostle, this is an area that is not normative. That's really what he's saying by that. And so we talked about the fact that the statement is not normative because we have the Christian order. We talk about marriage and children being a gift from God. And the fact that there are also commandments that are not addressed with this particular concept. Then we got into the statement, every man hath his proper gift of God And the word gift there has the idea of a person's marital status. Now that mean either married or not married, okay? And when he talks about gift here, at a minimum he's talking about a season of life. So I would say that Everybody in this room who is single right now, that means you're not married, you should recognize that this season of life for you is a gift from God. You say, really? Yes. Now that does not mean that you won't marry someday. But for this period of time, God has given you this gift. And I know that in our church we have several folks whose spouses have passed away. Actually quite a few folks in our church like that. And right now you are single. And you may stay that way the rest of your life. You may remarry. That's between you and God, okay? That's really what it comes down to. But the bottom line is right now for this season of your life, this is a gift for you. In the same way that marriage is a gift for those who are married Because there are certain things that God has for the married that are unique for that particular season and relationship. And the same could be said for those who are single. I also made this distinction last time as well. That when we talk about this gift, we're not referring to someone who rejects marriage because they're lazy. Okay. There are some guys that uh the reason they're that they're single is because they just are not motivated people. And the truth is no woman should ever desire to marry them because they're irresponsible. And if they won't step up and be a man and be responsible, I hope they stay that way the rest of their life so they don't ruin some woman's life. Or have a father-in-law who is uh really not happy, his daughter married them. Okay. I know it's a little blunt, but it's the honest truth. That's not the gift of singleness. That's somebody not stepping up and being who they should be. Or a person who doesn't want to get married because the bottom line is they're just selfish. And there are a lot of people like that. They say, you know, I don't I don't want to be bogged down. I want to I want to enjoy life. I want to travel. I want to I want to have a career where I make a lot of money. I don't want to be bothered by having a spouse. I don't want to be bothered by having children. I just want to live for me. Well that's pretty entitled and pretty self-centered and pretty short-sighted. And that is not the gift of singleness. That's a person who needs a correction in their worldview. The gift is not referring to someone who rejects marriage because they're afraid of commitment. Okay? There's people that want to get married, but the truth is they they really are just when it comes to that moment of I'm going to make this commitment, they back away from it because they're fearful. Sometimes people need to kind of Work through those fears with people that are a little older, a little wiser, and and can help them work through that. Interestingly, there are some people they're like chomping at the bits kit married, you gotta slow them down. And there's some people that they probably they're ready and they probably should take that step and they're just so fearful unnecessarily. And that's why we need good counsel. That's why we need godly people in the church to help our young people. And then the gift is refer is not referring to someone who rejects marriage because I'm scared the gift is referring to someone who rejects marriage for the purpose of investing their lives unrelerved unreservedly and undistractedly in eternal purposes. That doesn't mean that they're going to be a a a missionary in the 1040 window. Okay? It may be that they say, you know what? I believe that God has for me to stay in this position because there are areas of service that would not be open to me if I were married. And so I'm going to focus my attention on that. And you know what? That's exactly what the Apostle Paul. Paul was saying. That's what he was doing. Paul wasn't remaining single because he hated women. Some people might give you that impression when they talk about Paul because he didn't like children. That's not what it was. Paul remained single because he wanted to be totally, one hundred percent, unreservedly devoted to the work of ministry in a way that he could not do that if he had the responsibilities of leading a wife and having children. Interestingly, the Apostle Peter did have a wife, and he was obviously able to do both. So we see that there was something unique about Paul's ministry. So that's what we talked about. Then he says to the unmarried and to widows, it is good for them to abide even as I In other words, what Paul is saying is, I think there are real benefits to being single. So don't, don't feel like your life is miserable and not being fulfilled because you are not married. That's what he's saying. So we move to the second truth here, and that is that the freedom of singleness, the benefits of singleness should not cause someone to feel guilty in their heart if they do desire to get married. This is really interesting because this provides this great balance. So here's this person, he says, it's good for you to remain single for the sake of ministry. Pour your heart into that. But then you have this person who is in that position and they begin to develop a strong desire to marry. He says, if that's the case, then don't feel guilty about that. That's totally fine. There's nothing wrong with that. And that's what he's getting at in verse number nine, where he says, if they cannot contain Let them marry. It is better to marry than to burn. What Paul is ultimately saying is that this issue of getting married is an issue of freedom. You can choose to get married, you can choose not to get married, and what it ultimately comes down to is what has God given to you as the gift of that season? And so you may have a person that for a period of life, they are very fulfilled, they're very satisfied, they're focusing on the Lord as a single individual, and then they meet somebody and things change. And you know what? That's totally fine. They shouldn't feel guilty about that. That is pretty healthy and pretty normal. And uh and what it's really interesting how that could change that quick. And really what it comes down to is they just haven't met the right person for them to marry. And uh God has kept them focused on things that they can do very, very well in the world. That's a really healthy thing. That's really the way I think pretty much our singles should be when it comes to this issue. But I think there are a couple of things I want to address under this point. Because when Paul says it is better to marry than to burn, I think We need to go a little further into that to kind of clarify what is not being stated and maybe what is being stated there. So first thing I want to say about this is this. We all need to develop personal discipline in this area of sexual temptation, whether we are married or not. So a person that thinks, well, I struggle with temptation, so I need to just go ahead and get married, and then I won't deal with this anymore. That's not true. I promise you it's not true. In fact, this is sad, but it is true that many times you have people that out of at a when they are younger adults And it could be a man who does this, it could be a woman who does this, but but they are struggling with sexual temptation, and somebody needs to teach them how to deal with that in a biblical way. But instead what they'll do is they'll say, well, you know, you need to just go get go ahead and get married and then you won't have this problem anymore. And you know what they do? They drag those problems into their marriage and then they have problems within their marriage because of that. And so this is not what Paul is suggesting. He is in no way suggesting that people somehow get this past and they don't need to learn to develop restraint and personal discipline as a single person. I would even go so far as to say it like this. If there is a young woman who wanted to marry a young man, and he clearly had a problem in these areas, I hope that the people around her would say, do not marry that man. Or we could go the other way. It could be a young lady and the young man gets this, uh he he's struggling his heart and he's like, well, you know, she's She's a nice person. I like her. And I know she has these struggles. And if we just get married, they'd go away. Not true. Absolutely not true. And so we go to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4 where it says the following. This is the will of God, even your sanctification, that you should abstain from fornication. This next statement is very important. that every one of you should know how to possess his vessel and sanctification and honor. In other words We need to learn before we're married how to control our sexual passions. That's what he's saying. We have a responsibility as individuals to learn how to deal with temptation when it begins to manifest in our heart. How to say no, how to focus our attention on what is right. He says, not in the lust of concupiscence as the Gentiles who do not know God. And so when Paul says it's better to marry than to burn, he's not suggesting that a person who is clearly not being faithful in this area should just go ahead and get married because now they're not going to have the problem anymore. That's not what he's suggesting. He's suggesting a person who has been content in singleness, but now they really do have a strong desire to marry. It is not an inappropriate desire. It is a healthy, natural, normal to desire, and he says You have the freedom. Do it. Get married. Matthew 5. 28, whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart. That's true for unmarried people. That's true for married people. That's true for people whose spouses have died. It's true for all of us. Lust begins in the heart. Proverbs 6. 25, lust not after her beauty in thine eyes, neither let her take thee with her eyelids. And by the way, lust in the heart is not just a male problem, it's a female problem too. Okay? And people give you the impression, well, you know, men, they're they're tempted with their eyes, women are not. I don't believe that. I don't. You know how I know that? Look at the story of Potiphar. How does it describe Joseph, Potiphar's wife? Well, it says it describes him as an extremely masculinely attractive person. Okay, that's the way that it describes him. And she noticed him. She cast her eyes on him. So the bottom line is this is not just a male problem. It goes both ways. And so when we read this passage of scripture, while we understand that there is freedom, we also need to recognize that we need to learn to discipline and restrain ourselves and conduct ourselves in a godly, spiritually minded way in these areas. Second thing is this, we should never defraud one another in these areas. 1 Thessalonians 4. 6, that no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter. Now the word defraud means it's taking something that doesn't belong to you. I'll just give you an illustration that they gave in Ghana. You walk into the store and you see all the stuff around here. If you want to buy it, you ask how much it costs, and you go and you buy it, right? You don't take it and walk out the store with it without paying for it. Why is that? Because that's called stealing, right? And what basically the illustration is, is that when a person is interacting with another person and they take liberties that are only to be confined to marriage. Then they are taking something that does not belong to them. And that goes both ways. And so the idea is that we must develop discipline, we must treat each other with respect. And honor, we need to conduct ourselves with great care, not just for ourselves, but for others. Treating one another with dignity isn't just about me making sure I think right myself. It's about me thinking right about you. It's about me responding well to you. It's about me loving my neighbor and treating them the way that I should, as A fellow brother or sister in Christ. Thirdly, we should not feel guilty for the natural desire to marry in the will of the Lord. That's an important statement. He says, if they cannot contain, let them marry. It is better to marry than to burn. Interestingly, later on in this passage of Scripture, He makes a statement about those who are widows who remarry. He says they are free to marry only in the Lord. You say, well, what does that mean? What that means is that they need to marry a Christian, a real, genuine believer, not just someone who's willing to uh put on the show because they want to. Or someone who's willing to say whatever needs to be said so that they can put that behind them, someone who really, genuinely loves the Lord and is going to be a faithful, godly spouse. So that's truth number two. Truth number three. We'll get into this one a little bit tonight as well. The duties of marriage. Christ's teaching on marriage affirms its permanence. Now, notice what he says in verses 10 through 11, or 10 and 11. He says, unto the married, I command, yet not I, but the Lord. Now interestingly, notice how he says to those who are not married, and then those who have the gift of singleness, but now it seems that they desire to marry. Now he's talking to those who are married. What are their responsibilities? Well, their responsibilities are duty to God and spouse. He says, unto the Mary, I command, yet not I but the Lord, let not the wife depart. from her husband. But, and if she depart, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband. Let not the husband put away his wife. Now this is an interesting series of statements here The first thing that I want to mention is it shows you that marriage brings unique responsibilities that are unique to the married that are not a part of the married person's thinking on this issue. Unto the married. Second is this, Paul's teaching is built on Christ's teaching. So when he says, I command, yet, not I but the Lord, this is what Paul is essentially saying. What I'm going to deal with here is something that Christ taught. Okay? And you'll see this because when you start working through this, you're going to go, oh, that sounds like something Jesus said. And so he's simply taking Christ's instruction and he's restating it. However, he's also in this section going to go a little further than Christ does. That not contradictory, but he is giving us a little bit more instruction on this issue. Okay? And when he gets into this issue of the responsibility of someone who's married to an unbeliever, he's going to talk about that particular issue, not just how they're to relate, but their attitude, what happens if this person leaves them, because obviously that could happen. He's going to address that kind of scenario. Christ did not specifically address that issue. He talked about the situation we're talking about right here. So that's what he means when he says, I command, yet not I, but the Lord. It's not just Paul's opinion, Paul's teaching. He's saying, I'm literally taking what Christ taught and I'm expanding it to you. Thirdly, this passage clearly tells us God is against the disillusion of marriage When he says, let not the wife depart from her husband, interestingly that word depart is the exact same word that is used in Matthew 19 when Jesus says, what God hath joined together, let not man Put asunder. It's actually the exact same Greek term. So what he's talking about is a person who is essentially divorcing their spouse And so in Matthew 19, this is what Paul is referring to. They ask him a question, is it okay for me to put away my wife for any cause? And the reason that they asked that question was because within the different groups within Judaism, there are arguments. Just like this past Sunday we talked about this issue of You had the Sadducees who believe there's no resurrection. You had the Pharisees who believe there is a resurrection. You had the Pharisees who believe that we have the law, but we also have the The traditions of the elders, and these should be set side by side, and then you have the Sadducees who say, No, we believe only in the scriptures, we don't want that additional teaching. So they have lots of areas where they debated and they reasoned. But let me tell you some of the most personal areas you could ever debate on would be this particular issue. And there were some rabbis who would even tell men they could divorce their wife if she burned burn his toast. That's like shocking to think about. You go, wow, what could she put away her husband for? Well, in their culture, nothing. It's kind of crazy to think about. But that's what they were doing. And so they're arguing about this issue and they're like, ah, we're gonna we're gonna throw this question at Jesus. And we're going to see what he has to say about it, so that we can make him uh in trouble with everybody here. That's what that's what their intention was. And so when they ask this question, this is how Jesus answers. He says Have you not read that he that which made them at the beginning made them male and female? He said, For this cost shall a man leave his father, mother, cleave unto his wife, and they twain shall be one flesh. Wherefore they are no more twain but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder. This is what Jesus is ultimately saying. What Jesus is ultimately saying by this is the reason you're asking me this question is because you do not value marriage the way that God did when He created marriage. it. That's really what he's saying. That's why he's going back to the beginning. He's like, I know there's all kinds of different complicated situations that can unfold in life. But the bottom line is I'm going to affirm that marriage is something that God created, that is good to be between one man and one woman for life, and it is God's will that that not be put aside. That's what he's affirming. And so when he uses that word asunder, and when Paul uses this word depart , That would be the same term. God's will, simply put, for marriage is that it be for life and not be broken by man. So then that leads us to a couple of other questions. Well then why does he go into these other scenarios? And the reason is because even though that's God's will, that doesn't mean people always follow it. Okay? So God can tell you this is what you're supposed to do, but the reality is a lot of people break God's law over and over and over again. And what that does is that puts people in a lot of difficult situations. So what he does is he breaks this down a little bit further. Though God is against the dissolution of marriage, he recognizes there will be times when people will divorce. In fact, we can go to the book of Deuteronomy, and he actually talks about these kinds of scenarios. is. He he put certain parameters to say if this person uh puts away their wife and then they marry somebody else and then they decide, you know, I kind of like my wife, I kind of like to have her back. He can't do that. The question is why? Well the reason he can't do it is because there is a new bond that's been established. Was he right to do what he did the first time? No. But what he's actually doing now is he's adding more trouble. to a situation that's already problematic. And so he puts this parameter here to say, we don't, we cannot permit situations where these kinds of things are going on here. And so we have a situation like that in the book of Deuteronomy. So he's going to address what happens when someone's spouse puts him away. Matthew 19, verses 8 through 9. This is what he says. Moses, because of the hardness of your heart, suffered, that word means he allowed it or permitted, you to put away your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. Another way to put it is that Moses looked at these people and he said, Well, I can tell you what you should do, but I know I can't stop you and I can't make you do it. So at some point I'm just gonna have to live with what's about to happen here. That's really what's going on. In fact, I'm sure there's parents in here who watched their kids at different times. They're going, you know, they they're setting on a course, they want to do something. And you could tell them what is right. You could tell them don't do this. You can plead with them. But at some point you realize you can't turn them. You can't stop them. You're going to have to deal with them where they are when they they take these steps. And so that's essentially what Moses is doing. He is dealing with the inevitable scenarios that are going to come up when people harden themselves against their spouse because of bitterness, anger, whatever the reason. Now, what are they going to do? So he says, Moses, because the hardness of your heart suffered or allowed you to put away your wife, but from the beginning it was not so. I say unto you, whoever puts away his wife, accept it be for fornication Shall and shall marry another committeth adultery. Whosoever marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery. Now, I've dealt with this at other times, but essentially when he talks about this for fornication, he's talking about a breaking of their covenant. marriage. And so he's basically saying, pretty much every situation out there, not only are they doing wrong, but they are adding more problem to it. And so if this kind of a scenario happens, a person's spouse puts them away, what are they supposed to do? Well, he gives three instructions here. Here's the first. Remain unmarried. He says, if she depart, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband. Now, what is the reason? For this person remaining unmarried. Is it to punish them? No. In fact, he's going to tell us why. Okay? What he's going to tell us is so that there is still the potential That they could actually resolve the issue. That's what he's saying. Now, by the way, I could add this here, just as a caveat. Let's say that the person remarries. Can they resolve the issue? I mean they can apologize. They could say I'm sorry. They could say I was wrong. But at that point, they can't resolve the issue and remarry. That's forbidden. The book of Deuteronomy talks about this. But but what he's saying is this Stay in your condition. Remain unmarried. Secondly, he addresses the estrangement and re and reestablishes the commitment to the marriage covenant or reconcile with your husband. Now this is sad, but this is true. Sometimes people go through a season of life where they start thinking a little weird. Midlife crisis. Okay Uh when is midlife? I guess it depends on how old you live to be. Some people it's thirty-five, thirty, forty, forty-five, whatever. But but be but the idea is that sometimes when people get to these seasons of life They make really bad choices. They do very hurtful things. Things come to a head. Their children move out of the house And now mom and dad are by themselves and they they've given all this time and energy to raising their children and they are not very close in their marriage at all. And their marriage begins to fracture, and they go through this season where they walk away from each other. Well, guess what? If one of them remarries, they're not going to be able to resolve that issue. But If they're patient, maybe they can go back and resolve the issue. And many times it happens. And so that's the idea of what he's saying here. Then he has a third statement. This is kind of interesting. Do not send away your wife, leading to the permanent dissolution of the marriage. He says, let not the husband put away his wife. Now it's kind of hard to know exactly what he's getting at here, but this is what I think is going on. You have the wife, she leaves her husband. He says, stay unmarried so that you can potentially be reconciled to your husband. The husband could decide when his wife says, let's resolve this issue, to be a jerk about it, and to say, nope, I'm done with you, and I'm not going to have anything to do with you again. That's what he's talking about here. In other words, he's basically saying: be willing to work this issue out. That is what will be the best for you, your children, your family. Now I understand that there are some very complicated situations out there. And I'm not going to get into all those particular scenarios. But what you see in this particular situation is this. He affirms that marriage is to be permanent. When people go through marriage. fraction and things have broken down, what they need to do is be patient and pray and seek the Lord. And we pray that by God's grace they can eventually resolve their difficulties. And their issues, and they can resolve the issue. And so what is the point here? The point is this: people who are married have huge commitments that they need to follow through with. Fourth truth. And this one is going to be quite involved, so I'm not going to dig into it tonight. But this fourth truth is this: the duties of unequal marriages. What I mean by unequal marriage is a person that is married to someone who's not a Christian. And by the way, this can happen in a lot of different ways. You could have two people who are not Christians. They get married, they have a family, they've never heard the gospel, never came in contact with the truth, and later on in life Husband hears the gospel, wife hears the gospel, she becomes a believer, he becomes a believer, but the spouse doesn't become a believer. And for a period of time, uh the wife's looking at her husband like, what in the world happened to you? You're crazy. You're not the person I married. The things you used to be thinking are so great you don't think they're great anymore and and your life has changed and you're all oriented towards God and you want to go to church and you want to read the Bible and I want nothing to do with this or you can go the other way around. And the question is, in those scenarios, how is a Christian supposed to function that scenario? Or you could have a situation where you have a person who just frankly decides, I'm going to marry an unbeliever and I don't care. And then later on in life they regret that quite a bit because of all the tension that is built into their marriage. Or you could have somebody who presented themselves as a Christian when they got married, but the truth is some People kind of wondered what was going on there, and then down the road you can tell it's really clear where this stands. No matter what the scenario of the cause, he's going to give us instruction. We'll talk about that, Lord Willie, next week. So you say, well, what's the takeaway? Here's the takeaway. The takeaway is that singleness is good, marriage is good. Singleness has freedoms and duties. Marriage has freedoms and duties. And when it comes to these issues, our greatest desire should be to honor the Lord and do what's right with what So if you're married, invest in your spouse. Be a godly husband. Be a godly wife. If you're single, don't waste this period of life. Use it for the glory of God. It might be longer than you're anticipating. It might be shorter than you're anticipating. If a person Is uh being irresponsible and that's why they're not willing to take a step up. I would encourage you to grow up. It's just that simple. I'd encourage that. And uh let God work in your life in that way. May God help us to be faithful in these areas. Let's pray. Our Father, thank you for your word and thank you for this text and all the different things that we've been able to dig into here. I pray that you will use this to be a help to people tonight. And I pray that we would be faithful in our responsibilities. Help us not to waste the seasons that you've given us. Help us to invest wisely in what you've What you've given us. Help us to honor you. And I pray for our young people here who are not yet married. I pray that they would not waste these single years. And I pray that down the road, those who will marry will marry wisely, that they will invest wisely in their spouses, and that you'll give them strong and vibrant marriages. Those whose spouses have died and now they are single, I pray that you'll give them a special measure of grace, and I pray that they would use this season of life for your glory. those who are single and decide they would like to like to remarry. I pray that they would choose that uh choose their spouse wisely and in the Lord and that they would be very faithful in their new marriage relationship. But help us to honor you in all of these things, and we ask it in Christ's name, Amen.