First Corinthians has a lot of delicate and challenging passages, but I think that what we're going to look at is really, really important for us to talk through So let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then after that we will dig into this passage together, 1 Corinthians chapter 7. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather in the middle of the week, and I pray that as we spend time in your word, that you would speak to our hearts. Help me as I work through these passages to handle these concepts effectively, and I pray that you would work in our hearts through it. Bless our time of prayer together. May it be very sweet and Christ-centered Pray for our teens as they're at camp. Thank you for giving them safety and uh the good updates that we've been receiving throughout the week. I pray that you'll just continue to bless and that tonight will be a really special night, especially being in the middle of the week. And uh be with those who might be homesick or discouraged, maybe not with with our children or with our teens, but some of the other teens. I pray that um tonight would be a night where they Just really get focused on the Word of God, and it's a great, a great time for them. And we pray that you'll bless the kids in the back and their classes. And thank you for those who are working with them. And we ask it in Christ's name, amen. Okay, 1 Corinthians 7 is the passage we're going to deal with. And we're going to look at verses 6 down to verse 17. And we'll just kind of work our way piece by piece through what is there. Here's what it says. But I speak this by permission. Kind of an interesting statement for an apostle to make. Not of commandments, for I would that all men were even as I myself, but every man hath his proper gift of God One after this manner, another after that. I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, it is good for them if they abide even as I. But if they cannot contain, let them marry. It is better to marry than to burn. Unto the married I command, not I, but the Lord. Let not the wife depart from her husband. But if she depart, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband, and let not the husband put away his wife. But to the rest speak I not the Lord. If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away. The woman which hath an husband that believeth not And if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife. The unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband Else were your children unclean, but now are they holy. But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases But God hath called us to peace. For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband, or knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called everyone, so let him walk, and so ordain I in all churches. Wow, there's a lot of stuff that uh we have just read in this passage of scripture, and I think it's important just to kind of remind ourselves why Paul is addressing this series of issues that he's addressing. The reason is because there are many questions that the church at Corinth has sent him in a letter. And so at the beginning of the letter, kind of what we've read up to this point These are issues that Paul has heard about problems that are going on at Corinth. He's obviously very concerned about those problems. And so what he's doing is he's addressing them, and he's addressing them very publicly. He's addressing them kind of aggressively, if you want to be very frank about it. And not because he wants to be combative with these people, but he's very concerned about the health of the church. Well, now we're getting into their questions. And a lot of their questions are in this area of marriage. And not just this area of marriage, but also sexual relations. And one of the things that's going on is that there are people that are saying it's It's okay for people to be involved in relationships that Scripture condemns, so he has to address that issue. Then you have people that are going to the other side and they're saying, well, if if this is wrong, then we should just say all sexual sexual relation is wrong. And Paul's like, hold on a second. God created marriage for a reason, and so he actually addresses what we would say is celibacy in marriage. And you say, why in the world would someone come up with such a nutty idea? Well, people come up with weird ideas when they react against things that are problematic. And so that's what's going on here in in on this series of questions. And so he's going to talk about singleness, he's going to talk about marriage. He's going to talk about what about if a person's spouse dies What about if a person is having conflict with their spouse and the person leaves them for a period of time? How are they supposed to respond in these situations? What about if a person's married to someone who's not a Christian? And uh how are they supposed to handle that situation? What if the person is happy to stay with them? What if the person is not wanting to stay with them? What do they do in these situations? And so Paul is addressing Lots of different scenarios. Not all the potential scenarios that we could encounter, but a lot. And by the way that he addresses these issues, we can learn a lot. about what he affirms and teaches about marriage. So what I want to do is first of all just kind of tell you what the truths are that we're going to address and then we'll pick them off one at a time and it'll probably take us a while to do that. So the first truth is this. He talks about the benefits of singleness. And yes, there are benefits to being single. There are also benefits for being married. And he's going to address both of those. He's going to try to put them in perspective. The idea is, though marriage is good, there are also benefits to being single. And Paul is not married, and Paul believes that not being married is what is best for him. in the the calling that God has for him. And he says, I wish everybody was as free to serve God as I am. It would be very interesting to dig into this. And so that's in verses six through eight. He says, I would that all men were even as I myself, but every man hath his proper gift of God. Second truth is this, the freedom of singleness. There are benefits of singleness, but people who choose to get married should not feel guilty that they've done something that is second class. or that's somehow wrong. The desire to get married is not a bad thing. So he's he's not setting aside, well, you know, singleness is is is something that's good for some people, so if you get married, you're like You're not really a serious Christian. And the one of the reasons I asked to address this is there are actually people throughout church history that had such a viewpoint. And uh they really push that on individuals, and it's obviously wrong and very destructive. And so we'll address that. Verse number nine. If they cannot contain, let them marry, it is better to marry than to burn. Interesting statement. 23. The duties of marriage. Christ's teaching on marriage affirms its permanence. And verses 10 and 11, he says, let not the wife depart. from her husband. And interestingly, I'm going to dig into this when we get there, but that word depart is the exact same Greek term that when Jesus talks about the permanence of marriage in Matthew, he says What God has joined together, do not let any man put asunder. The same Greek term to for translated put asunder is the term that's used here. for someone departing. And so it's the breaking of a marriage. And then he goes on to say, um first, uh let her not depart from her husband if She departs, let her remain unmarried. And we'll talk about why that is so important. Or let her be reconciled to her husband. And then he says, Let not the husband put away his wife. By the way, it's a very interesting word. It's the word a fiemate. It's a word that has the idea of sending something away, uh putting it away. Sometimes it's used for forgiveness. It's used a lot of different contexts in the Bible. But in this particular context, it has the idea of a divorce. He's basically saying, if your wife leaves you and stays uh unmarried and then wants to reconcile with you, don't put her away. I mean that's basically what he's saying. Okay? So very very interesting. Then we go to the fourth truth, the duties of unequal marriages. And you say, well, what is an unequal marriage? Well, if we go to 2 Corinthians chapter 6, he says that we are not to be unequally yoked with unbelievers. And we'll talk about that particular concept later on when we get to it. But the idea is what do you do if you have a person who is married to an unbeliever? Should they send them away? I mean look at the story of Ezra. It's one of the most interesting texts in the Old Testament. So you have the captives, they've come back from Persia. And they're there, and they start intermarrying with the people of the land, and they're marrying people that are idolaters. And when Ezra finds out what's going on, he is furious. And you know what he did? He made every single one of those people that married foreign women who were idolaters put them away. By the way, the text never says that God told him to do that. I'm just telling you that's what he did, okay? And what it shows you is that he was very very upset that the people were intermarrying and basically entering into unequally yoked marriages. And so Paul is going to address this issue, and I would even go so far as to say the way things were handled in Ezra, we could probably look at that and go, well, in the New Testament, when he talks about this issue of a person who's married to an unbeliever He clearly tells them, once you're married, you need to stay married and you need to be faithful to that marriage and you need to do the very best that you can to be the right kind of influence. So in my thinking, Ezra did something that was very wrong. But that's what he did. Then we look at the duties within this. The idea is that Paul takes Christ's teaching, he applies it within the context of things that Jesus never directly addressed. He says, if a brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away. Truth 5, a godly disposition and unequal marriages. What's the attitude that a person should have toward their unbelieving spouse? The answer is they should love them. They should do everything in their power to have a strong and healthy, vibrant marriage to the extent that they can with somebody who's not a Christian And if the person walks away from their marriage, they are to be entirely peaceable with that person as they handle that very difficult time. And so in verses 14 through 16, he says. What knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband, or knowest not, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? And there's a lot of interesting stuff we'll talk about. in that section. And then the sixth truth, a godly disposition in all circumstances, Paul taught that Christians should learn to be content in all circumstances. People get saved at a lot of different times in their life. If you get saved when you're a little kid, you grew up in a Christian home, life is a whole lot cleaner than if you get saved when you're 25, 35, 45, whatever. And you have all of these things that you have lived through, and there's a lot of potential entanglements in your life. No matter where you are when you become a Christian, there's a way to live for God. God 's grace is available, not just to give you salvation, but to help you navigate those very complex challenges. And so what he says in these verses is, as the Lord hath called everyone, so let him walk. And so that's where we're going to go over the next several weeks. Alright, the first thing we're going to dig into is truth number one, the benefits of singleness. And I guess it's a little bit weird to do this when all of our singles are gone. They're all at camp. Should I just skip this one and come back to it? Uh no, I think I need to go through it because that's what's in front of us. But I think it's very important for us to recognize that when the Bible talks about this issue of marriage and singleness and all those things, it provides an excellent balance on these issues. If you get the impression from the teaching and preaching of the church that the only way a person can live for God is to get married and have a massive family, Then either we're not teaching right or you're not hearing what we're saying. Okay? On the other side, I think it's very important that we recognize that in our culture there is a much uh there's a tremendous movement towards rejecting marriage and having children. And that's a huge problem as well. In fact one of the things that we probably should ask ourselves is why does somebody want to get married? Why does somebody not want to get married? Why does someone want to have children? Why does someone not want to have children? The truth is there are some people that want to get married, and the only reason they want to get married is 100% selfish. They want to be the king of the universe in their own home or the queen of the universe in their own home. One of the reasons that people have children sometimes is extremely self-centered. They want to have a big family because they want to be like 19 and counting or whatever it was. And if that's why people are having children, or that's why people are getting married, that's wrong. It's not that the action of having children is wrong or the action of getting married is wrong, but the motive is extremely Extremely self-centered. And and I will say this too. When people get into marriage for the wrong reasons, they get a lot of problems between their spouse Because they got a lot of stuff they got to work through. And when people are having children for the wrong reason, they're going to really pay down the road for having sewed in a very self-centered manner. The kids may very well hurt them when they get older because they recognize the reason that my parents had me is for themselves, not for some reason that would be a godly reason. And so it's very interesting what he says here. Though marriage is good, there are also a lot of benefits to being single. Look at what it says in verses 6, 7, and 8. It says, but I speak this by permission. Such an interesting statement. I speak this by permission, not of commandment. I would that all men were even as I myself. But every man hath his proper gift. of God, one after this manner, and another after that. I say therefore to the unmarried and to widows, it is good for them if they abide even as I Now, I think it's important to make note of something. The way that he states this is very important He uses the phrase, I state this by permission and not of commandment. Now, is that suggesting that Paul is going rogue? And all of a sudden the Holy Spirit's not speaking through him, and he's just kind of writing out of his own head, and it's kind of like, here's this little portion of 1 Corinthians. It's not really scripture because Paul is saying, I'm saying this off of my own mind. That is not what he's saying here. What he's actually saying is that what I'm about to tell you is not normative. What I mean by normative is There is a creation order. There's a way that God designed things. And what I'm about to tell you is a very subjective thing, but it is true. Okay? It's almost like if somebody comes to you for advice And you sit down, you hear what they have to say, and you go, well, I can tell you what are clear biblical commands, this right here, and this right here, and this right here. I can tell you about certain principles that apply to your context. You present those principles, they say, well then tell me what to do. And you say, well, I can give you commands and I can give you principles. But I can't tell you what to do. And they're like, just tell me what you think I should do. Well, if I was in your situation, this is how I would do it. Do you understand what I'm saying? In other words, here are the commands, here are the principles. In my opinion, I think this is what would be probably the thing I would do in your situation. I'm not telling them you have to do this, but I'm saying you need to think through the issue. You need to apply all of these principles, you need to think it through, and you need to make this decision based on conviction. I really think that that is the sense of what Paul is saying here. So he's not saying God isn't speaking through me right now. He's saying you need to understand this is not a normative situation. But what I'm saying is true. What is normative? Well, creation has an order. Galatians chapter Galatians. Genesis chapter 1, verse 26. God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. Let them have dominion. And then he says, so God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful. and multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it and have dominion. So when we talk about normative, we realize there are men and there are women. Right? God didn't just create men. He didn't just create women. Now it's interesting how he did it. He creates man, and from the man, he creates a woman, and he brings her to the man and then they enter into this covenant of marriage. It's very interesting how God does this. So you could say that all of humanity goes back to one individual, Adam. And so when God created Adam, he created him as representative. Okay, look at Genesis chapter Romans chapter 5. He talks about the first Adam and the second Adam, and he goes through all these things. Obviously, Eve is the one who sinned before Adam, yet that is not who was held accountable for the sin. It was Adam. Very interesting that God does this this way. But in this you see male, you see female, you see marriage, you see be fruitful, multiply, and subdue. You can't be fruitful multiply without man and woman. Okay? And you can't do it in a way that honors God without marriage. So this is normative. This is the general plan that you would expect to see. And by the way, when you read the Bible, there are very few people that you will see in Scripture that are single and have no children. Very few. Or that are single. Now there are there definitely are people that are. And there are people that God used greatly who were. I mean look at Daniel. Daniel was a eunuch. Okay? No children. Well look at Hannah, she didn't have any children until God intervened. So we we even have Sarah and Abraham, and Sarah has no children until God miraculously intervenes. But what it's showing you is that the typical pattern would be that people marry and they have children. But just because that is the typical pattern does not mean that is the only way that God works. And that is that that is the only way that God works through people. And so it's important that we understand this balance here. Second thing I'll mention is this marriage and children are a gift. And this is in no way negating what he says about these issues. Genesis 2. 18. The Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him and help me for him. Proverbs 18, 22, Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favor of the Lord. Psalm 127. 3, children are a heritage of the Lord. The fruit of the womb is his reward. Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them. So we understand that this is the typical pattern. But what we're looking at here is something that is not command. It's a principle. It's very subjective. We should be very cautious that we don't become overly dogmatic about it. He's simply making the case that there is a benefit for both single and marriage. By ways of the benefit for people that are married with no children. And those who are married with children. Those benefits are different. God can use all of those estates. He can use the single man, he can use the single woman, he can use the married couple with no children, the married couple with children. The person that has had been married all these years and their spouse dies and now they stay single. God can use all different kinds of situations. That's what Paul's drawing attention to. So we move to the second statement that we see here. And that is that every man has his proper gift of God. This is an interesting statement. Every man has his proper gift of God. And the question that we should ask in our heads is, what does he mean by gift here? Well, a gift in this context refers to a person's marital status. And there are two options Married? Unmarried. Okay? Now there could be reasons a person's not married, and there could be reasons that they are married. But what we're seeing is there's one of two situations. And he uses the term gift to refer to their status. At a minimum, when he uses this term gift, he's talking about a season of life for a person. For instance, if a person is single before they're married, that is a season of life that is given to them by God with certain opportunities. Everybody in this room that remembers what it's like to be single and now you're married, there are things that you were able to do as an unmarried person that you are not able to do now as a married person. Or there are things that you were able to do when you are a newly married person with no children that you are not able to do anymore, or you you understand what I'm saying. And so I think that the sense here, at a minimum, is that for the person who is unmarried, that season of life, if it is for a period or if it's for the entirety of their life, Or it's something that they had and now they're married and their spouse dies and they're unmarried again. That is a gift from God. Now, for a person that really wants to be married, they're like, that's not a gift. Okay? But the way that he's looking at it is not the way that we tend to look at it. Because in Paul's mind, it's not about the things you get to do that are selfish, it's about how you get to invest your life in what has eternal significance. And so he mentions two people, the unmarried, assuming single before married there, and then he talks about widows, those whose spouse has died. Gift could also refer to the fact that someone will never marry. And I am going to put this out there because I think it's important to just make a note of it. This gift is not referring to someone who rejects marriage because they're just lazy. I'm telling you there are a lot of young men today that the reason they're single is because all they do is game and look at garbage on the internet and they basically have a part-time job. That's why they're single. That's true. They have no motivation to get up, get a full-time job, move out of mom's house. And actually make something of themselves. They have no motivation to do it. That's not the gift of singleness. That's somebody who's failing to reach their potential. Because just flat out they're lazy. Gift is not referring to someone who rejects marriage because they are selfish and do not want the responsibilities of marriage. A lot of people like that too. They have a good they have a good career, they make a lot of money. They're not living in mama 's basement playing video games all day. They have a career and they're making a lot of money and they're like, you know what, I really don't want to be bogged down by having a wife or having a husband or having kids. I don't want to deal with that. I want to be able to devote all my energy and to make as much money as I can, moving up in the corporate world as fast as I can. I want to have as much influence as I can. And the reason that they're not married is because They do not want the responsibility of marriage. They do not want to be slowed down by it. They do not want the restrictions. That's not what we're talking about here. Gift is not referring to someone who rejects marriage because they're afraid of commitment. And this is the problem, okay? So it's not that the person's lazy and it's not that they don't They don't want the responsibility. It's that any every time they have gone to that threshold where they're about to make that commitment, they back off because they're afraid. They're just unwilling to step out and do this. And uh that is a problem as well. A lot of people are very risk-averse. There has to be some level of risk if you get married. That's just the honest truth. It's worth the risk, as long as you uh did your homework on the front side of it, okay. But that's not what we're talking about. Gift is referring to someone who rejects marriage for the purpose of investing their lives unreservedly and undistractedly in the eternal purposes of God. And if I was to be totally blunt about it, I don't think there's a lot of young people today that that's why they're single. I just don't believe it. But the truth is that there are certain kinds of work that people can do for the sake of the kingdom that it probably would not be advisable for them to get married. The Apostle Paul is a perfect example. Okay? Here's Paul. He can get up and he can move and he can go into uh the synagogue and he can say a bunch of controversial things and he can get thrown out on the street and they're gonna stone him to death and he just gets back up and The apostle Paul was an intense driven guy, and the truth is that if he was married, his wife would probably have died of a heart attack, having to keep up with the guy. Like here you go again, you're gonna go in there and You're going to get thrown out on the street and they're going to throw stones at you and you're going to crawl out of there almost dead, you know, and not a good situation. Not a good situation. And so there are some kinds of ministry that a person would be better off to not be married. Not they're married and they don't want to be anymore, so I'm going to go do this ministry. I'm not talking about that. I mean they make the decision before they take on the commitment. And it's interesting what he says in 1 Corinthians 7, verses 32, 34, and 35. Listen to the way he puts it. He that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord. Verse 34, the unmarried woman cares for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and spirit, but she that is married careth for the things of the world, how she may please her husband. Verse 35, this I speak for your own profit, not that I may cast a snare upon you, but for that which is comely, that you may attend upon the Lord without distraction. Well, it's pretty obvious that what Paul is saying here is that when we get married, our attention starts diverting to the wishes of our spouse. So there are things that a husband would absolutely not do if his wife wasn't like, you're doing that. And he's like, okay, I don't want to make life miserable for both of us. Or there's a lot of women that they're like, I'm not too happy with what my husband do, but I'm just gonna have to grin and bear it, and I'm gonna have to submit to what he's saying, and I'm just gonna have to put up with it And there's times that people make middle compromises, if you will, and they have to work through those things. They have a decision that they're going to make and they have to think through what does my spouse think about this How does this affect them? How does this affect my children? And all of a sudden there are calculations that are going on within the home that you would never have to make if you were only worrying about yourself. But let me just add this for the sake of balance. There are benefits to being able to just make those decisions without any entanglement, and there are also great benefits to having to work through those things as well. And so when Paul talks about this, he's going to present the positives of being single. He's also going to present the positives of being married. And I don't think that we should walk away from 1 Corinthians chapter 7 going, it's only this, or it's only this. We should recognize there's value here and there's value here and the question is what does God have for you? That's really what the question comes down to But unquestionably, Paul is emphasizing that there are certain aspects of ministry that you cannot do as well if you are married. I would go so far as to say. . that when you talk about pastors and deacons, he talks about your household. . How does one rule his household? Well guess what? If a person isn't married and they don't have a family, it's hard to make such an evaluation about them. And so the indication is that when it comes to something like what a pastor does or what a deacon does in the church, that it would be incredibly advantageous for that person to be married so that there is credibility and there's a demonstration of character and some of the qualities that are necessary to work with people in that context are firmly established. And so what it's showing you is that there are pros and cons. Different kinds of ministries for different kinds of people. The third statement that we see is to the unmarried and to widows, it is good for them. if they abide even as I. Now interestingly, he doesn't say you have to. He says it's good. It's a difference. Interestingly, when you go to the pastoral epistles and he talks about widows, he actually says, if someone is a younger widow, I encourage them to remarry. Why does he say that? Because he talks about a scenario where a younger widow is comes in and is is dedicating themselves to the the ministry of the church, and then later on they go back on commitments that they've made because they desire to get married. And he's like, you shouldn't have put yourself in that situation. And so it's very interesting how Paul does it. He's giving us a lot of balance in the way that he presents this. So what's the idea here? The idea is there are real benefits to being single. A person can and should be content in whatever state they are in, whether single, whether married, whether widowed, if God has given them the grace to do it, they can get through that. Thirdly, this teaching provides the needed balance of some context for marriage, is so encouraged that singles become unjustifiably marginalized. And this teaching should never be used to justify selfish lifestyles. And so when we come to this first question, Paul is basically saying, marriage is good, singleness is too. There are certain benefits that you have if you are not married. There are also certain benefits that you have if you are married. So what are you supposed to do? Be all in where you are. If you're single, be all in for the sake of the for the sake of the kingdom as a single person and use that season and that gift to the glory of God to the best of your ability. If you're married, guess what? That is where you need to be all in. And you need to be a faithful spouse. And what's interesting is he's going to get into all kinds of scenarios as we work our way through chapter seven. So I'm going to stop there because there's no way I'm going to get into Truth number two, without being here for another 30-40 minutes, and we don't have that time. So that's the encouragement. I I kind of wish maybe our teenagers could have been here tonight for that, but uh it'll be on the live stream hopefully. And they can uh they can look at that. But it's important for us to keep this balance. It's important and I and I I personally I'm challenged when I look at this passage because I'm reminded, hey, I want to equip our young people for marriage. I want to put into their head, marriage is a good thing, you should desire to have children. But I also need to realize this. That may not be what God has for all of them. It may not be what God has for them at this point in their life, come to a certain level. It may be that God never allows them to have children. I don't want them to be discontented. I don't want them to be bitter at God. I don't want them to think that somehow they're falling short of what God has for them. God has unique gifts for each of his children in lots and lots of different kinds of situations. And we should really emphasize the need to be content and to serve faithfully in those places. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about this passage, I pray that you would help us to think biblically. To strike the right balance and how we present these things especially to our young people. I thank you for those who are single and they are giving their lives to the work of ministry, the advancement of the kingdom. Serving people in the church, serving on foreign contexts, giving of themselves in settings that if they were married and had children and had all of uh all that comes with That kind of a life, they would really not be able to do those things. And so I pray that during the season that you give them as singles, that they would pour their lives very faithfully into that. I pray for those who maybe are getting discontent in the position that they're in in their lives. Help them to recognize that your grace is sufficient. And they can do this faithfully and help them to have eyes to see what is in front of them and what's available to them and help them to give themselves fully to that. I pray for those who are single because they're being lazy, because they're unwilling to make commitments, because they're very selfish. I pray that you would convict people in such a situation. That they would recognize that they're falling short of the potential that you have for them. And they would not waste this precious period of their lives. And I pray for those who are married and have children and Uh the burden of raising young children especially is heavy as they're tired, as they deal with the pressures. Of those different seasons, I pray you'd give them great strength and grace and help them to endure faithfully and help them to do their work as unto you. And I pray that as they remain faithful down the road, they would see the great blessing. of having invested in their children's lives. Bless our time together in prayer, we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.