Okay, let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles again to 1 Corinthians chapter 7. And we are reading verses 6 through 17, and the passage is dealing with a series of questions that the Apostle Paul was asked by the church at Corinth and it's dealing with questions about marriage and obviously we understand what the Bible teaches. about marriage, what God's plan is for people. But we also recognize that in a fallen world there are a lot of complicated situations that people can find themselves in. And so the Apostle Paul receives a lot of questions about this particular issue, and we are looking at the things that he states. there in these verses. So let's go ahead and begin reading in verse 6. I'll remind you of the principles we talked about over the last couple of weeks, and then we will pick up on a fourth truth this evening. Here's what it says. But I speak this by permission and not of commandment, for I would that all men were even as I myself, but every man hath his proper gift of God. One after this manner, another after that. I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, it is good for them if they abide even as I. But If they cannot contain, let them marry, for it is better to marry than to burn. Unto the married I command, yet not I, but the Lord, let not the wife depart from her husband, but and if she depart, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband. Let not the husband put away his wife, but the rest speak I, not the Lord. If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, Let him not put her away, and the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, if he is pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him. For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else were your children unclean But now are they holy. But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases. But God hath called us to peace. For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband, or what knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called every one, So let him walk, and so I ordain in all the churches. Now there were several principles that we have looked at over the last several weeks. The first truth that we saw is that there are benefits to singleness. And so what we see in these verses is that though marriage is good, and it's important for us to recognize that Paul is presenting a balance here. Marriage is good. Singleness is good. Why does he do that? Well, because there are people who are married and they need to realize that this is a good estate and God has a purpose. for doubt. There are also people on the other side who are not married, and some will never marry for whatever purpose or whatever reasons are there And God has a purpose and a plan for those who are not married or who will never marry. And so He wants to provide that full balance of perspective. So though marriage is good And I would even use the word normative. This is the typical pattern that people follow. There are also benefits to singleness. And so he states it like this in verses six through eight. I would that all men were even as I myself am, but every man hath his proper gift of God. And we talked about the fact that your marital status, whether you are single or whether you are married or for those who now your spouse has died and now you are single again, God has a purpose for each of those seasons of life. God has given you a gift, and you are to use that gift for his honor and glory. And you're to be content in that gift as God has ordained it for that period of life. And the second truth we looked at is the freedom of singleness. And the idea is this. Though there are benefits to being single, and Paul really presents those things, a person who is single but desires to get married chooses to get married should not feel guilty in their heart because they chose to get married as if they have somehow taken this second class status. So what you're seeing is this balance. There's there there's a good for being single, there's a good for being married, there's a good for being single, and then desiring to get married. And he talks about all of those things. And so in verse 90 says, if they cannot contain, let them marry. It is better to marry than to burn. And I did mention this Uh last week when we were talking about this, um this is not suggesting that if a person has lust issues, all of a sudden they're gonna magically disappear when they get married and If someone says, well, you know, if you just get married, you wouldn't deal with this anymore. That's not true, okay? Do not let someone convince you that that is true. Um, in fact, we need to learn to discipline ourselves. When it comes to how we relate with one another, when it comes to dealing with sexual temptation, whether we're single, whether we're married, whether a widow, widower, does not matter. The calling of God is for us to walk in obedience to Him in these areas. But it is also true that God has created us with a desire for relationship and a desire to marry. And so We should recognize that that's a good thing and we shouldn't make people feel guilty because they desire to get married and choose to do that. That is the noble and responsible thing to do. And so we see that in verses 10 and 11, let not oh I'm sorry, verse 9, if they cannot contain, let them marry. It is better to marry than to burn. Interestingly, going back to the beginning of chapter 7, verse 1, where it talks about it's good for a man not to touch a woman. And that word has the idea of lighting a fire. You can see the connection between what we see in verse 9 and what we see at the beginning of the chapter. He's talking about this sexual temptation. Then we see the third truth, the duties of marriage. Christ's teaching on marriage affirms its permanence. When God created marriage, the institution was meant to be between one man, one woman. for life. And he we see this in verses ten and eleven. Let not the wife depart from her husband, but and if she does depart, let her remain unmarried or be reconciled to her husband, and let not her husband put away his wife. And so the idea is that there needs to be a desire, even when a marriage has broken down, a desire for reconciliation. And obviously we know that doesn't always happen. It may not happen, but the idea is that he is reaffirming the fact that God's plan is for marriage to be for life. Then this moves us on to the fourth truth, and that's what we're going to pick up with this evening. And that is the duties of an un equal marriage. Now, when I use that term unequal, I I think I have to kind of explain what I mean by that. Okay? What I mean by unequal is this is a person who chooses to marry someone who is not a Christian or someone who before they became a Christian, they married And now one of those two individuals has become a believer, but the other one has not. That is what we mean by an unequal marriage here. And so we look at what he says in verses 12 and 13. He says, to the rest I speak not the Lord. What he means by that is not that Paul's going rogue here. But he's saying, I'm going to expand on some things that Christ has stated. He has not directly addressed this particular issue. We have to realize That it's not like the scripture gives us every single potential scenario and says, all right, in this scenario we're gonna do it this way, in this scenario, we're gonna do it this way, in this scenario, we're gonna do it It's a situation that provides a principle or a truth, and then that principle or truth is to be applied in lots and lots of different contexts. That is the way that the Bible generally addresses these issues. So that's what he means when he says. To the rest, I speak not the Lord. Jesus did not directly address this issue as Paul's going to address it. That is not to diminish the authority of what he's saying. He says, if any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him Let him not put her away, and the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him Now, when Paul is giving this instruction, he's expanding into an area that has not been directly addressed. in this particular way. That is not suggesting that we couldn't look at the rest of Scripture and come to the same conclusion that Paul is making here by simply looking at principles in other areas. He said he's going to state it a lot more firmly for us in this text. So here are a couple of preliminary comments. The first is this, a believer should not knowingly, willfully, choose to marry someone who is not a believer. Very simple, okay? A believer should not choose to marry an unbeliever Now, I would even go so far as to say a believer shouldn't choose to marry a a person who professes to be a believer, but isn't a very serious Christian either, okay? Because you you need to realize that when you have your lives joined together And now you're going to be united for life. All of your values come with that arrangement. Okay? And so there's going to be a massive clash of values. And lots of struggle and lots of difficulties that are going to be a result of making that decision that the truth is that when people are young and naive and they're just in love, okay They don't think about what it's gonna be like to try to raise children with this person, uh choose how you know where you're gonna live, when you're gonna work, all of the the different values-related decisions that you make. They don't consider those things. And because they don't, they bring a lot of pain into their lives. So I'm going to speak to the young people here. Be very careful about who you get interested in. Be very careful about how you pursue this issue of marriage. Because if you choose to marry someone who's not a Christian, it's going to bring a lot of pain into your life. And I'm not saying that because I want it to happen. I'm saying that because it's it's inevitable. Or if you choose to marry a person who does not have good character, does not have good values. A person who claims to be a Christian, but in fact they really don't live like it at all, you bring a lot of unnecessary pain into your life. Listen to what it says in Deuteronomy chapter 7, verses 3 and 4 in the Old Testament. He says, Neither shalt thou make marriages with them, thy daughters thou shalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take to thy son. They will turn away thy sons from following me, that they may serve other gods. Let me pause and say something here. In the Old Testament When God told his people not to intermarry with the groups around them, it had nothing to do with their ethnic backgrounds at all. Nothing at all. The reason he gave this instruction was all about their allegiance to God's. In fact, I'll give you an example. Look at the story of Ruth So when when when when a family goes into Moab, they're going into Moab because they're trying to avoid a famine. And the choice to marry a Moabite who was not a believer in the God of Israel was a sinful choice. But here's what's very interesting. When Naomi is going to go back to Bethlehem. And she's having this interaction with her daughters-in-law who are now widows, young widows. One of the things that she says is this You need to go back to your father's house, you need to go back to your father's people, and you need to go back to your father's gods. Interesting how she said that. And if you look at the way that Ruth talks to Naomi, she says, your people will be my people. Your God is going to be my God. And interestingly, when she goes into the land of Bethlehem and she's gleaning in the field, and then she comes, just happens to come into Boaz 's field, and he has an interaction with her. She he makes this statement to her that you have come to rest under the wings of the Lord the God of Israel. Now why did he say that? Because here's this woman who was Moabite, she was not Jewish, but she had left her father's household and come to be a part of the nation of Israel, and was choosing to come under the care of Israel's God. So God was not against Gentiles coming and being a part of his people at all. What he was against was people intermarrying with idolaters and then getting sucked into idolatry through that. And so we see that in Deuteronomy chapter 7. Or then we go to the story in Ezra, and I'm not going to dig into this passage. But it is a very fascinating passage of scripture because in the time of Ezra, the men were going and they were marrying women from around the community. They were idolaters, and Ezra was very upset about it. And he said, you have to put away your wives who have uh who are involved in idolatry. By the way, the scripture never says that they were supposed to do that. It simply states that that's what they did. But the reason that Ezra made that commandment is because he was so concerned about the effect, the negative effect of idolatry in a home. Now I want you to keep in your mind this because the way that this passage is going to talk about this issue is very profound in the light of the negative warnings. And then we have Malachi 2. 15. He says, Did not he that is God make one? Yet had he the residue of the Spirit, and why one? That he might seek a godly So one of the reasons that God unites people in marriage is he wants them to raise up children and the nurture The admonition of the Lord. Then we go to 1 Corinthians 7. A wife is bound by the law unto her husband as long as he lives. If her husband is dead, she's at liberty to be married to whom she will. And notice the next statement, only in the Lord. That is a statement saying he needs to be a believer That's what he means. Or in 2 Corinthians 6. 14, be not unequally yoked together with unbelievers. What fellowship hath righteousness with unrighteousness? So I start with this to help you to understand that the biblical understanding of how Christians should approach marriage is you should have this firm commitment, I'm going to marry a believer, and not just a believer. But a believer who really does love the Lord and is going to be a faithful spouse. So then that moves us into a second question. What about when a person's married to someone who's not a Christian? Okay? And there's a lot of different ways that that can happen. We we kind of already mentioned that. If God's plan is not for us to marry an unbeliever, then if we find ourselves married to an unbeliever Should we end that marriage because this is now a problem? And the answer is, no, you should not. You say, well, I'm confused. You tell me it's a bad thing for someone to marry an unbeliever, somebody's married to an unbeliever, but you're saying you should stay married to them. Why is that? Well, because that covenant bond is to be honored. And what's very interesting about this passage is he's going to talk about how God is able to use even a situation that is not ideal, he could still use it for good. And God has ways of doing this. In fact, God has ways of taking difficult situations, bad situations, sinful situations, and not somehow making them perfect and taking away the sinful side of it, but still using that to accomplish good. Go back to the story of Ruth I mean, was it a good decision for Naomi 's family to go to Moab? No. Was it a good decision for Naomi 's boys to marry Moabites? No. Did God use all of that? To bring Ruth to the land of Bethlehem ultimately for her to marry Boaz and then for her to actually be in the lineage of Christ. The answer is, yes, he did. And this is the providence of God. This is how God works. We ought to be really grateful that God is a gracious God and that he does these things. So, what should someone do if they are converted and their spouse remains an unbeliever? Well, here are the statements in the verses that should stand out to us. If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, or the woman which hath a husband that believeth not, those are the scenarios. What are they supposed to do? Well, here's the answer. If their spouse is willing to stay married to them as a Christian, then they should be fully engaged and being a faithful husband or wife. Notice the way he puts it. If she be pleased to dwell with him, if he be pleased to dwell with her, stay committed to the marriage, even though they are not Christians. Let him not put her away. Let her not leave him. So here's what he's saying. If a person is in this situation. And they realize this is not good. This is not what I should have done. Or I wish I wasn't in this situation. This is a difficult and uncomfortable situation. But their spouse is fully willing to live with them and be faithful to them, and they desire to continue to have this relationship. Guess what? They need to be committed to that marriage. The question is, why? Why should they do this? Well, one would be because of how God sees the covenant of marriage. This is an arrangement that is meant to be for life. Okay? That would be one reason. But there is an additional reason, a second reason, that is mentioned here, and that is our fifth truth. And I think that this will be very helpful. A godly disposition and unequal marriages. Paul addressed various possibilities and unequal marriages and how believers should think in those situations. Here are the reasons why. I could summarize it with this very simple statement of this. You may be used of God to win that person to Christ. That's really what he ultimately is going to say. Notice what he says, verses 14 to 16. If the unbelieving husband, uh the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife. That's a really interesting statement. The unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else were your children unclean, but now are they holy. Now let's just pause and think about this for a minute. When you think about this issue of why the scripture says don't marry an unbeliever, one of the reasons is because light and darkness don't mix, okay? And if you choose to do what is right, and then you enter into an arrangement where you're married to someone who's not going to choose to do what's right, who's really going to influence who in that situation? I mean, look at the story of Solomon. Here's the man who's the wisest man that ever lived, right? And then he marries all these foreign women who are idolaters, and it says that his heart was turned away. From the Lord at the end of his life. That's what happened. And so when we look at that situation, we see that it does not, what is good is not influencing what is evil, but what is evil is influencing what is good. In the same way that let's say that your uh your hands are dirty. Alright? You have dirty hands and there's a clean cup that's there in the dishwasher. Let's say, you know, I was out there weeding in the garden, I was pulling out all these weeds, I got dirt all over my hands, and I go into the dishwasher nice and clean, and I pull out a clean cup. What did I just do to that cup? I didn't do anything. It cleaned my hand, right? That's not how it works It did not clean your hand. Your your dirty hand made not just that cup dirty, but but whatever was under that cup in there, whatever was around, all that dirt was falling off. Why? Because Impurity causes what's clean to become impure. That's the way that we tend to think of this stuff. Or if someone's sick and they walk into a room and there's a bunch of healthy people, and they're all the healthy people, make them well, right? It don't work that way. No. The one person that's sick in that room is gonna get everybody sick in that room, right? They're all sitting there together. Maybe they're riding on the train into DC or something like that and and you this person's sniffing their coffin and you're just like, Oh, why did I have to sniff? by this person. Oh, but I'm healthy. I'm going to make them healthy. No, it don't work that way. They're going to make you sick. You're going to be the one who's going to be coughing and sneezing. But this situation is different. And notice how he says it. The unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife. The unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. Else were your children unclean, but now are they holy. You say, what in the world is he talking about here? What he is saying in this passage of Scripture is that the influence of the believer in that arrangement has the potential to have a massive impact on this unbeliever. In fact, I'm going to give you an example of this from my own family history. Maybe I say my wife's family history. But my my my wife's grandfather in World War II was a part of several massive engagements. He was at D-Day, he was at the Battle of the Bulls, and one of the things he was at was at the liberation of Paris. And when he was there at the Liberation of Paris, he met him a young lady there in Paris. And guess what? They got married after uh six days of knowing one another. I know it's Yeah, different time back then, right? And I don't know how much they spoke the same language. They figured it out, right? So they got married. And then after the war All those war brides came back to the United States to uh uh be with their husbands to survive the war, and she was one of them. And uh A couple years later, my wife's grandmother became a Christian, and her husband didn't like it at all. He was not happy with her at all. In fact, he made her life kind of miserable. That's my understanding. But she was faithful. And she was a godly example, and through her example, eventually, he came to faith in Christ. That would be an example of the kind of thing that Paul is talking about here. And the truth is this, let's say you have two people that are not Christians and they've been living as non-Christians and Their worldview has been shaped by the culture, not by the Bible. And one of them becomes a believer. They are truly born again. Their life truly changes. They are humble, they are loving, they're the kind of spouse that they should be, and their life has has radically been changed. You don't think that their spouse is going to see that They absolutely will. But here's the fact. Some spouses in that situation will be drawn to the light, and some are going to be pushed away. And you can't control which of those two is going to happen You can't do it. And so what he's saying is, if that person who's not a Christian is content and willing to stay married, be a faithful, godly Christian. so that God can use you to reach that person. Well, what do you do if they uh they don't get reached and they just want to leave? He said, well then let them do it. That's what he says when he says If the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases, but God has called us to peace. What knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband, or knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? In other words, this passage is all about saying, you need to think big picture here. It's not about how happy you are at the moment. It's about God reaching into the life of this person. And even if they push away from you and they walk away and they abandon you, then be peaceable with them. That's really what the passage is all about. In other words, be concerned for the conversion of your spouse. The unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife. The unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband. What knowest thou, a wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? How knowest thou, a man, whether thou shalt save thy wife? Be concerned for the conversion of your children. In fact, there's a great principle here. And it's not just people in this situation, but people in similar situations. Let's say that you have a single mom who's raising kids. Or a single dad who's raising kids. I mean, go either way. Is that an ideal situation? No, it's not. Is is that is that like the normative way that God has planned for children to be raised? The answer is no, it's not. But God is able, by his grace and by his power, And through his wisdom and the strength that he gives people, he's able to use someone who is purposed to do what's right to raise those children up in a godly way. And so we have this situation where you have this family, one person's a Christian, one is not, and the godly influence The godly mom or the godly dad is able to have a tremendous impact on their children. And by their presence in that home, God is able to use them to draw those young people to himself. And by the way, in a situation like that And I know everybody's got a got a will and they can choose to do what they want to do. But the bottom line is, let's say that you have a situation where you've got a mom who's goblin, a dad who's not, or a dad who's goblin, a mom who's not. And those kids see mom and those kids see dad, and they're making conclusions about both of them and how they're living their lives. And you know what? They're gonna see folly and they're gonna see wisdom. And if a child wants wisdom, you know what they're going to do? They're going to reject folly and they're going to embrace wisdom. And that's why it is so very important that parents stay engaged even when they're in tough situations. And so we see that here in this passage of Scripture. Be concerned for your ultimate commitment to Christ. Verse 15, if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or sister is not under bondage in such cases. God has called us to peace. Just because a person is trying to maintain their marriage doesn't mean that they should compromise on what is true and right. And that's really what he's saying. When he's saying let him depart, he's saying this. There's this worldview clash that's going on here, and if you're gonna try to preserve this marriage at all costs, then what you're ultimately gonna do is you're gonna compromise your relationship to the Lord and you can't do that. And so while and and I'll I'll say this too. I think I've got to be careful here. Sometimes people will go, well hold on a second. I'm doing the right thing and they're not and they'll and they'll essentially be able to explain away a situation that is clearly not the case, all right? But what we're talking about is a person who is truly trying to serve the Lord and do what is right, and there is this clash of world views And if a person's going to maintain their commitment to Christ, it's ultimately going to lead to the ending of that union. And so what does he say? Be peaceable and let them do what they're going to do. You should not submit to a master higher than Christ to maintain your marriage. And that's what he means by not under bondage. You should lay aside your rights and be peaceable for the sake of your commitment to Christ. God has called us unto peace. And so the whole tone of this section of Scripture is about being faithful to the Lord, being faithful to your commitments. desiring what is best for everybody, whether it is your spouse who is a stinker or your children, even a person who's walking away, you are still being honorable and peaceable as you deal with that situation. Because ultimately your commitment is to who? It's to Christ. One final truth that I want to hit here, and that is truth number six: a godly disposition in all circumstances. Paul taught that Christians should learn to be content in whatever circumstance they find themselves. And this is the principle that applies to those who are single. Those who are married, those who are in wonderful marriages, those who are in pressured marriages, those who their spouses left them, those who their spouses died, those who were single for a period and now they have married. Whatever the scenario, God calls us to be content and to love him above all else in whatever circumstance we find ourselves. And so in verse 17 it says, as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called everyone, so let him walk. And so ordain I in all churches. Let me just say this. Wherever you were and whatever your circumstances were when you met the gospel Or maybe you got right with God. , Okay? I mean, sometimes you have a person that are a believer for a period of time they walk away from the Lord and then they get back on track. Whatever the scenario, where you are today is where you need to be all in. You need to be faithful. It's easy for people to beat themselves up over poor decisions they've made in the past. And I'm not here for you to be beat up. I'm here to say be faithful where you are today. Grow, blossom, serve God, be all in. Even if life is painful and complicated. And some of that is because of how people have treated you or how you've treated others or whatever the scenario. Poor decisions, God wants you to be faithful where you are. And that is a governing principle that is all over this text of Scripture. No matter your circumstances, you can honor the Lord. Even those who become Christians with a lot of baggage can honor God. Make honoring the Lord your highest party in all circumstances. So let me give you some final thoughts. I hope pull all this together. The first is this. Marriage is normative, but marriage is not God's calling for every believer. There are benefits to both marriage and singleness, and these benefits should be fully realized. Those who choose to marry in the Lord should not feel guilty or less spiritual for that decision. Those who are married should be fully committed to their marriages. Commitment even when their marriages get in trouble. Christians should never choose to marry someone who's not a Christian. Those who are married to unbelievers should be fully committed to making their marriage strong without compromising their commitment to Christ. They should see their lives as a powerful influence for good to point their spouse and children to Christ. If their spouse leaves them, they should maintain a godly attitude. No matter the circumstances and baggage we bring into our Christian life There's always a way to honor the Lord. We've got to be content no matter what we encounter. That's what this passage drives us to. May God help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about the text that we've just worked our way through, use it, please, to encourage and strengthen us. Especially where we landed at the end. Help us to be content people. Help us to be faithful where we are today. Even when we have made poor decisions, even when we have been wounded in life, even when we are in tough circumstances. Help us always to cling to you, to find our strength and nourishment in you, and help us to faithfully serve you in that capacity. Bless our time together this evening as we pray and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.