I want to encourage you to make sure that you pick up your bulletins and look at the activities that we have coming up. I know that March is a very busy month. Uh we have a workday coming up, so uh please do sign up for that. If you're going to be able to help us out with that, also want to remind you that next Sunday We are in spring forward mode, so obviously we have a time change and then after the time change is when we're gonna uh pick up with our Tuesday night visitation again. I do want to remind you if you're interested in going to the rescue mission that this Tuesday is the Tuesday that we go to the rescue mission. So if you're interested in that, please reach out to me and I'll give you the details so that you can come with us to the rescue mission. It's a great time to minister to folks in Baltimore City. If you have your Bibles, let's turn together to Job 19. Job 19 and this month in the month of March, all of our Sunday services, our Sunday morning and our Sunday night services are going to be dedicated to one theme, and that theme is the resurrection of Christ. And we're going to be working our way through Old Testament texts of Scripture that talk about the resurrection. And so I want to encourage you, if you can, be out for not just the morning, but also the evening services. so that you'll be able to follow along as we move our way through some very important passages of Scripture. This passage is the one we'll look at next week, but we will at least mention it. this morning uh during our our service. So Job 19, verses 23 through 27. Here's what the scripture says. Oh, that my words were written! Oh, that they were printed in a book! That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever. For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, Yet in my flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another, though my reins be consumed within me I want to remind you that this statement was made before Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, David, before Isaiah the prophet wrote, this was very, very early in human history. This is a believer who understood the resurrection. So we're going to talk about that throughout the course of this month. Let's bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service as we focus our attention on the blessing of God's grace in spite of our sinfulness. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we are so grateful and humbled that we can join together as a church and we can lift up our voices and praise to you, and we can also lift up our hearts. in worship before you and in prayer. Father, we want to start by magnifying and glorifying you because truly you are worthy of our praise. Father, we're reminded that you are the God of infinite holiness. And it's a concept we can't fully grasp, but we recognize that you are perfect, you are distinct and separate from all sinfulness. Father, we're reminded that you're righteous. And because you are righteous, we can trust that you will always do what is right, and we recognize that we daily fall short of your glory. Father, we're reminded that you are good, and we are so thankful that we serve a God who not only is good, but created a good world and is going to redeem all those who turn to you in repentance and faith. Father, we're so thankful for your patience. We recognize over the course of our lives we test your patience sometimes for decades. Yet you continue to work in our lives. You continue to take care of us. You continue to uphold us. And so we are so grateful that you are a God who is very, very patient. Father, we are also so grateful for your grace. We're reminded that the only reason that we have the guarantee of heaven And that our sins are forgiven, and that we can be sustained in this very difficult world is because you're a God of grace. I pray that this morning as we sing praise to you and as we listen to the scriptures being taught, I pray that our hearts would really be knit together and overwhelmed with tremendous gratitude for your grace. Father, we pray for our nation, our state, our local government. Father, we recognize that as every generation has lived in tumultuous times, so do we. We pray that your hand would be very evidently at work in the lives of those who are in leadership. Whether they acknowledge you or not, we pray that you would guide their hands. Guide their decision making. And we pray that you would continue to preserve the freedoms that we enjoy in this land, and that we would, as your people, be faithful with the use of those freedoms. Father, we pray for those who are persecuted all around the world. As we gather together in freedom, as we gather together and worship you according to conscience in the Bible, there are Christians all around this world. That are either in prison, that are meeting in secret , that are facing tremendous hardship simply because they believe in the gospel. I pray that you would sustain and strengthen our brothers and sisters in Christ all around the world who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Father, I pray that you would be with those families that we are partnered with as missionaries all around the world. I thank you for those who are laboring today, right now as we speak, and some who have labored already and some who will labor later that will gather together with other believers and proclaim the the good news of Jesus Christ and the gospel. Pray that you would strengthen those families and bless them. Thank you that we have the privilege of being partnered with them And then Father, we pray for our church family. We recognize that there are people that cannot be here today because they are suffering physically. Whether it be sickness or whether it be tremendous difficulties, I pray that you would uphold those that we know and love that are suffering. I pray that you would strengthen their bodies, strengthen the resolves within their hearts. I pray that you would bless and encourage them. Those who have joined us on the live stream today, I pray that you would minister to them in a very special way as you minister to us. And we pray that we would truly be enriched and encouraged because of the time we've spent in the Word today. We ask for your blessing on all these things. In Christ's name, amen. Good morning. Thank you all so much for joining us. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number six. I sing the mighty power of God. We'll sing all three verses. Of this hell I sing God, I think I 've got That's when I 'm always singing the part and sing the brother I sing blood for that retail and for now. I said for water where I 'm not. Aaron Ross Powell I never might want to be never. Great singing as As we turn over to him two hundred and sixty-eight. Hymn number two sixty-eight, he lives And we'll be singing three verses from this All three verses I serve a resent of what today I know that need one ever I see this hand of I say, I hear his voice of chill, and just the time I need him is always there. He less Christ is a blessed day. He walks with me and talks with me along my several way. You trust me all the wall be blessed Him all the one around me, I see that while we care and all my I know that they have made it through all the stormy plants, but they are there 's a very He lives, he lives, I see that will today He walks with me and talks with me along my sparrow You ask me all the best In the voice rejoice, rejoice of Christians, lift up your voice and sing , the tongue of Allen. The hope of all mistakes and the help of all right, the number is the way so good and kind. Nip He walks with me and talks with me on all my stuff and so When I went to the war, you are meant for me. Amen. Please be seated as we turn just a few pages back to him 265. 265, we'll sing all three verses thrice in our rose. Sing out this way. Waiting back Jesus my law from the gravy of us I think for your voice was a woman in your card. Jesus, my friend , my black, Jesus my war. From the great he alone with the mighty trial and walls He almost domain And he was forever with Jesus my tord away Jesus my boy Up from the bright me around with all my fate triumph or as long He above the vector from the dark moment Amen. Great singing. We serve a risen savior. Our scripture reading for this morning will come from the book of Genesis. We'll be reading verses Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 through 31. Genesis chapter 1, verses 26 through 31. And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him. Male and female created he them. And God blessed them. And God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth and subdue it. and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb-bearing seed which is upon the face of the earth, and every tree. in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed. To you it shall be for meat, and to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to everything that creepeth upon the earth wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for meat, and it was so. And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word as we continue our singing. This morning we'll turn over to hymn number 273. Christ the Lord is risen today. We'll sing all four verses. Christ the Lord is with Over , Sunday 's name. Praise the word for that. I am lying, I 'm not seeing them , Come up Exploring while three days work is done. So we now wear Christ and Mid life, like and revise, our buttons. Amen. Great singing this morning. We have a new song For the month. Great is the Lord. It'll be page 38 in our blue book. Let's play it through one time, and then we'll be singing all three verses. I'll have you all stand once it's played through. Alright, let's stand and sing all three verses. Here we go. Where 's your embrace was an example? No more time And he paid the voice for breaking cave so mine to God and every side. Lord the brand king , left up your voice and white name Praise the Lord, the breath with the Lord, and praise for me, man. But they let the love of God Sub They give it all Christ, but he was high. To save up for the Left up your voice and badly now. Some praise for me. Exalted and joy Brown before our sovereign king of our things , our worship. Praise the more the same for more and praise more amen. Amen. Thank you. Panie Przewodniczący , Hey man, isn't that a wonderful, wonderful song with some deep and rich truths in it? If you could take your Bibles and let's turn together to Genesis chapter 1 and then the rest of our children ages uh is it three to seven? I forget, uh, can be dismissed to the back for junior church. Those kids know who they are. Parents take your children back if you're taking them to junior church. And the rest of us, let's look together at Genesis chapter 1. And uh one of the things that I want to uh kind of share with you about what we're going to be doing over the next several weeks. is that we are going to be moving our way through the Old Testament. And a lot of times when we read the Bible, we tend to think that the resurrection is simply a New Testament concept. If you were to think about the thinking of somebody like Moses or Abraham or Isaac, Jacob, David, did these people really believe that there was going to be a resurrection? And if they did believe that there was going to be a resurrection, what exactly would they have believed that was? I think sometimes when we read the New Testament, we fail to realize that Old Testament saints understood redemption. They understood that there's going to be a savior. They understood that the Savior is going to die as our substitute for our sins. They understood that he was going to rise from the dead. They understood that this fallen world was going to one day be restored to its original beauty and goodness, and that the curse would be lifted and we would live with God forever. You say, well how do you know that those Old Testament saints believed that and understood that. Well, we're going to look at their own words. We're going to look at the words of somebody like Job who lived Many, many years before Abraham and Isaac and Jacob, the patriarchs, and we're going to see what Job has to say about the resurrection. How he understood that though he would die, there would be a day that he would be resurrected and he would actually spend eternity with God in a real glorified body. He's going to actually proclaim that. And so I want us to begin really with the most important passage of Scripture that we could when it comes to this issue of the resurrection, and that's to begin with the question: why do we need a resurrection? Why is there even any need for us to be restored? Why do we even need forgiveness and cleansing and all those things? Why do we even come and celebrate this time where we remember the resurrection of Christ? The fact is that most people, if they stopped and thought about it, because they haven't thought about the Old Testament context And really the foundational truths that lead us to the need for redemption and the cross and the resurrection, because they've not understood the foundation, really the story makes no sense to them. It's essentially just a tradition that we enjoy in the Western world. Or if you're from an Eastern background, perhaps some Eastern cultures, they remember the death and the resurrection of Christ, but we tend to look at it as simply a tradition. I want you to understand that this is foundational truth to understanding why the resurrection is so important. And so with that in mind, I want to direct your attention to Genesis chapter 1. Verses 26 down to verse 31. This is just going to be a portion of what we're going to look at, not just this morning, but really this evening. This is going to be two parts dealing with a very important foundational text of Scripture. Genesis chapter 1, verse 26 says the following. And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the fowl of the air and over the cattle and over all the earth and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth. So God created man in his own image. And the image of God created he him, male and female, created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth. God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree in which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed. And to you it shall be for meat, to every beast of the earth, to every fowl of the air, to everything that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life I've given every green herb for meat, and it was so. I love this next statement. Because really, this is the summation of everything that God had made. He says God saw everything. That he had made, and behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day You might say, well, Pastor, what is the purpose for Genesis 1, 2, and 3? By the way, if we were to sit down and we were to really dig into Genesis 1, 2, and 3, I think we could spend Weeks upon weeks, digging into the content of this very important foundational portion of Scripture. My main focus today is going to be for us to understand why we need redemption And because we need redemption, what the ultimate cause of that redemption will be, and that is the resurrection of Christ, the triumph of Christ over death when he dies on the cross. I want us to look at what this passage has to say about why that's necessary and really why we should anticipate the resurrection, not just the resurrection that we look back to when Christ died for our sins, but the resurrection to come when we will be glorified and will spend eternity with God forever. What is the main point, the purpose of these three chapters of Genesis? Well here is what the passage is all about. The first three passages of Genesis were written to help us to understand the answer to the four most important basic questions that anyone could ask themselves. And I want you to think about these questions because they're very, very important. In fact, they're questions that I hope you've thought about Not just, I hope you've thought about them, but I hope that you have a biblical fast answer to those very questions. The first question is this. How did I get here? When I mean me, I mean people. Where did we come from? Number two, why did God put me here? Not just I exist, but I have a purpose. Why do I exist? Three, how did this world get so messed up? This is a really messy world, isn't it? I guess people don't read the news anymore, do they? They watch the news, they listen to the news. I remember my grandfather saying, You're from that generation that doesn't know what a newspaper is. I said, Actually, I'm still in that generation. Or I used to be in that generation. But the question is, how did this world get so messed up? I mean, there's a lot of pain. There's a lot of suffering in this world. I mean, as a pastor, I go and visit people in hospitals. I do funerals, I do marriage counseling, deal with all kinds of issues. You know, I watch the news and I see all the conflict in this Country. By the way, one of the most peaceful countries that's really ever existed in human history. How did this world get so messed up? And the third question, or the fourth question, is this is there any hope for me? Those four questions are really important, aren't they? And the fact is that this passage of Scripture, whether you realize it or not, answers all four of those questions. God wants us to understand that redemption and the resurrection are our only hope. And the fact is that when Christians celebrate the resurrection of Christ, And when Christians celebrate that Jesus was nailed to a cross and he shed his blood on the cross and he died for the sins of mankind, when we celebrate those events, We are celebrating really what is the sum and substance of our faith in Christ. I want you to realize that the Christian faith is a faith that is rooted in history. In facts, if you enjoy studying history and you learn about things from the past, we can put the Christian faith in that category It is a faith that is rooted in history. We need to understand why redemption and resurrection are our only hope. and the only hope for the world that we live in. So in order for us to understand that, I want us to begin with a very important truth that I think is foundational for this discussion, and that is that God created a good world. Now we look at this world and we see really kind of a blend of two things. We see order and we see so many beautiful things. I mean I I love the seasonal change. I love looking at the trees and going, you know, I think about Thursday or Friday we're gonna see some cherry blossoms start popping on some trees. You know, the one over there on Ritchie Highway by the mall. That area we're gonna start seeing some trees starting to bloom a little bit. Because as it gets warmer, we can see we're about to erupt into this seasonal change. I love the snow and the cold for a while. I love gardening season. Don't you love that? The fact is, I love the seasonal change. I remember when I was in high school studying science and mathematics, and I actually got to the point where I loved studying science and mathematics because I learned about all these laws. All these things that you can observe and you can synthesize and you can learn. And there's so much stuff for us to know. And when we study those things, we see something. There's order. There's purpose. There's beauty. There are certain laws and principles that are hard and fast. And you ask the question, where does that come from? Does beauty come from chance? Does order come from chance? Does purpose come from chance? It doesn't in anything we observe in this world. Order comes from Creator. Somebody with a mind, somebody with authority and power, someone with skill and someone with wisdom, that individual creates something and we enjoy the handiwork of the creator. I want you to realize that though this world is full of pain and sin and chaos, we see the reflection of the order of an incredible creator. God created a good world. I want you to see a couple of simple facts from the text in front of us. The first is this: God made this world out of nothing. Genesis chapter 1, verse 1 says this. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth You say, well, what is the heaven and what is the earth? It's really the Bible's way of saying God created everything that there is. And then from that statement, God created everything out of nothing. He tells us in a very general sense how we went about doing it and what the progression of that creation was. For instance, in verses 2 and 3, he says, the earth was without form and void, and darkness was on the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters, and God said, Let there be light and there was light. God creates a world And then he forms it and he shapes it and he begins to put people on it. He puts animals on it. He puts plants on it. He puts all these things together. When we study science, what are we doing? We are learning about what God made. And when we are fascinated by science, what are we doing? We're being fascinated by the mind of God that created the order and the systems that we observe. You know, it's amazing that we live on a planet that is perfectly distant from the sun. We 're not burning up. I mean there's some places not nice to live, don't get me wrong. I've been to those places where it's really hot, really humid. Tough to live. Never been in some of those really, really cold places. But the reality is that out of all the planets in our solar system, this is the only one you can really live on. How did it get that way? Oh, it was just chance. No, it wasn't chance. God did that. In fact, number two, he did it by his power for his glory and in only six short days. And the progression of these verses is going to tell us on day one he creates lights. On day two, he creates water in the firmament of the sky. On day three, Pete creates the land and the plants on day four, the celestial bodies on day five. He creates the sky The creatures of the sky and the water, the birds and the fish and all these animals of the sea. On day six, he creates land, animals, and mankind. In Psalm 19, this is what the psalmist writes: the heavens declare the glory of God, and the firmament showeth his handiwork. Day into day uttereth speech, and night into night uttereth knowledge, there is no speech or language where their voice is not heard. In Colossians 1:16 it says, By him were all things created that are in heaven and that are in earth. visible and invisible, whether there be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers, all things were created by him and for him. Literally in six short days, God made it all. And he details it for us in these verses. Like in verse 4 it says, God saw, he divided, he called, evening and morning were the first day. Verses 6 and 8 it says, God said, He made, divided, called, evening and morning were the second day. Verses 9 through 13, God said, He called, he saw that it was good, and he said it was so. God saw it was good, and evening and morning were the second day. Do you get the idea? Do you get the progression? This is how God made the world and everything in it. Yet when we come to day six, God gives us a little bit more information. About one of the creatures that he made. And this creature is different than all of the rest of creation because this creature Was created in God's image. Now all of God's creation is his handiwork I mean if I pick up a phone and I begin to examine the way it's engineered and I think about the way that it's programmed, what I do, I see that the engineers that worked on that project either did a really good job and it was very user-friendly. Or they didn't do such a good job. It wasn't very user-friendly. I can sit in the car and I can examine all these different instruments and all these fascinating things that it can do. And I can say, wow, there are a lot of engineers that worked on this project. Yet, for some reason, when people look at the creation, they come to a different conclusion. Oh, this is all chance. Really? When you get a Tesla Did it create itself? Maybe nobody will get a test without worry about that. I don't know. But really, did it create itself? But though all of God's creation displays his handiwork, there is only one creature that's created in his image. And when it says that we're creating God's image, the Bible never articulates all of what that means. But what it does mean is that there are certain things about God's nature that are reflected through us. We've been talking about the conscience in our Sunday school lessons. And I said something that maybe you thought was a little humorous, maybe you didn't think it was humorous. But I said, you know, you've never seen your dog. Lay on the couch with a compromised conscience because it stole a cookie off the table. It might be sick to its stomach because it stole a cookie off the table. But if your child steals the coffee the the the the cookie off the table and you happen to see your child sitting in their room, you could see it all over them. Guilt Why? Why is there a difference? It's because the child has created the image of God. The child has a moral sense. The animal doesn't We are very different than the rest of creation. In verse 6, he says, God said, He made, he saw, and God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. So God created man in his own image, and the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said, Be fruitful and multiply. Subdue and have dominion. You know what's interesting? Nothing else in the creation did God tell it to exercise dominion or to subdue. He put all of the creation under mankind. We are responsible to manage what God made. It's a fascinating concept. We're not supposed to be wasteful. We're supposed to learn about God's laws. We're supposed to use them to productive means. We're supposed to manage what God made well. Why is there a distinction between the animals under mankind's dominion and the people, Adam and Eve, who are to actually subdue and they're actually to have dominion? It's because God gave us intelligence. And God gave us moral sense. And God gave us the ability and the responsibility to do something that was different than all the rest of creation. Folks, we're not just animals. We are image bearers. And that's what gives us dignity, and that's what gives us value unique from anything else in creation. But then the statement that really stands out to me, God saw everything that he made, and behold, it was very good. That number three, when he finished his work, he stopped to reflect on what he had made and to enjoy it, because in every part it was good And verse twenty-nine he says, God saw everything that he made, behold it was very good. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them, and on the seventh day God ended his work, which he had made, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he made. And God blessed the seventh day and sanctified it because in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made. So did God create the rest day because he was worn out? The answer is no. He actually created for us. To enjoy what he made. To enjoy him. He set it apart as a unique day. But the reason that I emphasize this is because it shows us that what God made was good, and he enjoyed it. He literally was enjoying his creation. At this point, there is no such thing as sin. There's no such thing as death. There's no such thing as pain. There's no such thing as suffering. There's no such th There's no such thing as a need for a cross There's no need for resurrection because there is no death. It doesn't make any sense for something to rise again when it can't die. But here's the question. What changed? Fact number four: while everything God made has value, beauty, and purpose, man holds a special place in his creation. Because he was created in God's image with a moral sense and with a free will, created with intelligence. The ability to know God and to enjoy him forever. Listen to what the psalmist says in Psalm chapter 8. He says, When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained. What is man? You would think he'd say, wow, that's incredible. He says, why did you make me in your image? There is so much glory in all these other things. Why am I created in your image? He says you visit him, the Son of Man. He says you've made him a little lower than the angels, crowned him with glory and honor. Thou made him to have dominion over the works of thy hands. Thou hast put all things under his feet. David is in awe that God made him in his image. Genesis 1. 16, God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. Verses 27 and 28, God created man in his own image, and he blessed them and said, Be fruitful, multiply, replenish, subdue the earth, and have dominion. And verse 7 of chapter 2, it says, The Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. We are not animals. We're not just beasts, folks. We are responsible creatures. We can know what is right. We can know what is wrong. We're going to be held responsible for when we do what we know to be wrong. We can relate to God forever. The fact is that God created us to reflect certain wonderful things about his nature. The second thing that we see though is this: God created man with a free will. You ask, why is it that we have sin in the world? Why do we have death? Why do we have suffering? Why do we have injustice? Why do we have these terrible things? It's very simple. Because Adam sinned. Now I know that this is a question that lots and lots of folks struggle with. How is it that God creates Adam and Adam has the ability to actually sin and mess up all of this creation. Why couldn't God create Adam without the ability to do that? Because if God created Adam without the ability to do that, he would have been no different than your dog. He would have been no different than any other animal. He would not have borne the image of his creator. It is that moral sense, the ability to choose between right and wrong that set Adam apart from everything else. You do not have an image bearer without the ability to make a choice. And with that ability to make a choice came the potential for all the evil we see today. Listen to what it says in Genesis chapter 2, verse 15. He says, the Lord God took the man and put him in the garden of Eden and to dress him to keep it. The Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat. But the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. I want to say a couple of things about what we're looking at in this verse. The first is this, a free will is actually a good thing. How many of you would like to live in a country where you can't make any choices? I mean, if you're afraid that that's where we're going, do you value your ability to make choices? Yes, you do. And so do I. But do you really have the ability to make choices when someone says here's your only option? The answer is no. In other words, the ability to choose only matters if you really can do it. And so when God created Adam, And God created Eve and put them in that garden. He created them with the ability to choose, knowing what they would do Having a plan to resolve the issue, but also giving them the legitimate ability to choose. The free will is something that makes us possible to have a relationship. You can have relationship because you can choose. You can make choices. You can make and delegate your authority that's been delegated to you is actually legitimate. God let Adam and Eve manage. It was one of the ways that they genuinely reflected the Creator. But then it was the potential for evil. And I also want to add this. A lot of times people say, well then why did God put a test in the garden? Like Like you could have given him the ability, but don't put a situation where he could actually choose to violate the will that he's given, that he could actually choose wrong. Well, what's the point of a will if there's not a test? The reality is that the test was essential for him to genuinely have this ability. And so it says that the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil thou shalt not eat of it. The purpose Was to demonstrate he really had the ability to choose. And he was really responsible for what he would choose. And there would really be consequences for the choices that he made. By the way, Jesus was tempted in the wilderness at the beginning of his earthly ministry. Why is that? To demonstrate that Jesus has the ability to choose. And that he is God in flesh who is sinless and righteous. What's the point of the trials that we encounter in life? It's to demonstrate our own character. God even allows the Christian to suffer to demonstrate what he will do with the choices he's given. With freedom comes responsibility. Adam was responsible to God. In Hebrews chapter 9, it says that it's appointed unto man once to die, and after this the judgment, nobody, nobody will escape the consequences of their own sin. They will answer to God 's. Decisions come with consequences. When we make good decisions, guess what? There are good outcomes. When we make bad decisions, guess what there are? Bad outcomes. And so we see in this passage, if he disobeyed, the consequences of this disobedience would be justice from God. He says in verse 17, In the day that thou eatest, thou shalt surely die. That's exactly what happened. We see in Romans chapter 5, by one man, sin entered into the world and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. First Corinthians 15, 22 says, In Adam all die. Romans chapter 8, verses 20 to 22 says that the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him who subjected the same in hope. The creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption and to the glorious liberties of the children of God. We know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now. Someone might say, why does this world show goodness and order and beauty, but also chaos? It's because of the fall. When Adam sinned, it affected every single one of us. When Adam sins, all in Adam die. All of the creation has now been corrupted because of the sin of this man. And a lot of us say, well. Is that fair? What the Bible is going to show us is that it's because one man represented us in sin, one can represent us. It's interesting the passage in Romans 5 where it says, By one man sin entered into the world. It says, by the obedience of one, many are made righteous. Folks, the reason that we can be saved is because one man went to the cross and died for our sins. So that we could be forgiven and cleansed and restored. The reason that we will be able to live forever with God in heaven. It's because one man who went to the cross not only died, but rose triumphant from the dead. You may not like that Adam represented you But I will tell you, it's because of Adam representing you in sin that the Lord Jesus Christ can represent you in redemption. Truth number three, God created man knowing that this would happen. God knew that Adam would use his will for evil. God gave him the freedom to choose. But here is the wonderful, wonderful blessing. God determined to deal with evil in a way that would triumph over sin without violating his own righteousness. And would magnify his goodness. God determined to redeem fallen humanity. In 1 Peter 1. 20 it says, For as much as you know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things as silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ. As of a lamb without blemish and without spot. And then listen to what he says, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the worlds. But was manifest in these last times for you. When Adam sinned, it wasn't like God said, Oh no, what do I do? I've got to come up with plan B. When God created the world, he knew exactly what would take place, and he had determined even before the foundation of the world. That I'm going to send a redeemer. He's going to die for sin. He's going to rise from the dead. Through him, God's creation can be redeemed. Ephesians chapter 1, verses 3 to 7, Blessed be God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestinated us unto adoption by the child by of children by Jesus Christ Himself. according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise and the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved, in whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. What that passage tells us is that God had a plan to redeem his people. God had a plan to remove the debt of sin. God had a plan to justly forgive your sins and my sins. God had a plan to give us life that lasts forever. God had a plan that would make us his children. In other words, God did not create a world without knowing where this would go, but knowing how he would redeem it in the end. When we come to this season as Christians, you know what we're doing? We are celebrating the fact that though God created a world that is now fallen and broken, And it is full of sin and injustice and unrighteousness. God determined to redeem people from sin God determined to restore what is broken. And God determined to do it in a way that was not unjust. That was going to give glory to him and that would demonstrate his goodness and his grace and his love. God loves us in spite of who we are, not because of who we are. God loves us and it's called grace. We stand here today, we assemble together as sinners who are saved by grace. We don't deserve to be in Christ. We're in Christ because of what he did for us, not what we do for him. What does that do? It magnifies his goodness When we think of love, what do we think of? We think of something that we give to people that are kind to us. When we think of forgiveness, we say, well, I'll forgive you if What does God do? He forgives us because of the cross. He loves us because it's within his nature. He is good. He extends grace to us undeserved favor in spite of who we are. That's what this is all about. And it all starts in the book of Genesis. Genesis one, two, and three. If we don't understand these first three chapters of the Bible, then the cross makes zero sense The empty tomb makes zero sense. The preaching of the gospel makes zero sense. You say, why do I need Jesus? Because I'm good. You're not good. You need him. You need what he's done. So you ask the question, Pastor, what is the practical implication or the weight Of these verses, let me share with you a couple of very simple thoughts that I hope will kind of pull it all together for you. The first is this: This world and everything in it was created in perfection with real value and a good purpose. Folks, this creation is actually good. It's broken, but it's good. Has value. You know, why do we believe in preserving life? Why are we pro-life? Because we believe that people have dignity and honor, created in the image of God. Why do we believe that people should be treated justly? Because justice reflects the character of God. Why do we believe that we need to do what is right? Because we were created to reflect God the way that He created us to be reflected. It. Why is there value and purpose in the things that we do? Because God created us with a purpose and gave us responsibilities. Once you realize God created a wonderful world, I'm thankful. For the goodness of God's creation. Number two, it would have been impossible for God to create an image bearer without the potential for sin. Folks, what makes Adam a man created in the image of God Is the fact that he genuinely reflects the ability to make moral choices If God didn't give him that opportunity, if God didn't give him that quality, guess what? He wouldn't be created in the image of God. That's part of what makes mankind unique from all the rest of creation. I know this is something that sometimes people struggle with. Why does God create Adam and give him that ability? Because that's what makes him a man. It's what makes him genuinely created in the image of God. God had to create him in such a way. Number three, man's will would have been completely pointless and hypothetical without a genuine test. If God didn't put that tree in the garden without the tests of how Adam would use his will, guess what? The ability is pointless. It's hypothetical. It's like we're having this conversation, and we start going into this area that is totally hypothetical, and all of a sudden you say, What's the point of this discussion? We're talking about something that hasn't happened. It's not going to happen. It's very unlikely. Why are we talking about this hypothetical? It's a waste of time. God giving him moral choice without a test of how he would use it is pointless. Number four The corruption we see in this world was entirely the result of Adam's sin. God didn't create evil, folks. God didn't create sin. God didn't create death. God didn't create injustice. God created a world that when corrupted would move into those places. And so the result of sin is all those things. Next, Adam's rebellion and all the terrible consequences did not catch God by surprise. It's not like God was wringing his hands in heaven going, what do I do? God knew how to redeem. In fact, what we're going to talk about tonight is that when Adam and Eve sinned, and they're feeling the shame and the guilt and the fear of their sin, and they're feeling the consequences of now being separated from God, guess what God does? He promises redemption. It's like you're dealing with your child. They've done something terrible. They won't even look you in the eye. They feel very guilty for what they've done. You pull them up close to you and you say, I want you to know something, son. I still love you. When Adam and Eve sinned to the garden, that's what God did. He went to them He brought them to himself. Yes, he acknowledged their guilt, but he promised redemption. And from that point until the cross of Christ, all of the Old Testament, all of the Gospels, they are pointing to the fulfillment of the promise he makes in Genesis chapter 3. Folks, the gospel's our only hope. I want to ask you a question this morning. Do you know for certain that when you die, you're going to heaven? Do you understand the gospel? What Jesus did for you? How he died for your sins, how he rose from the dead, how through what he did you can be redeemed to God. And you can be a part of what God is going to do in the future when he makes all things new. Do you have that confidence? You may be here this morning and you say, I have no idea I have no idea what it means to be saved and to be forgiven and cleansed. I don't understand what Jesus said. Please do not leave this place. Without sitting down with somebody with an open Bible who could take the Bible and show you exactly what Jesus has done for you, why it matters, and how you can humbly trust in what Jesus did for you so that you could be forgiven and cleansed. And be made God's child this very moment. I'd like us all to bow our heads together. Before I close in prayer, I just ask one simple question. Is there anybody here that says, Pastor, I don't know for certain that I'm saved? I'd really like to talk to somebody about that. You could talk after the service. We could arrange a time later in the week, but I want to encourage you, do not leave without dealing with this issue of salvation. Salvation. If you say, Pastor, I don't know for sure that I'm saved. I need to talk to somebody. Would you just quietly and quietly raise up your hand so I can see that? I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to point you out. I'm simply going to see that So that I can reach out to you. And we can arrange a time where you can either meet with me or with my wife or another church member, and they can show you from the Bible how to be saved. Anybody like that? If you say, I'm not comfortable raising my hand, I understand that. But you could still reach out, send a text, send an email to the office. If you're listening on the live stream, send us a message through YouTube, Facebook, whatever. We can get it. We can connect with you. Let's bow together for prayer. Let's thank God for what he promised in Genesis chapter 2 and 3. Father, thank you so much for your word. I understand that these truths for some are very simple and they've known these since they were children. For others, this is something they've never heard. But Father, this is foundational truth. This is what the Bible is built on. Nothing makes sense if these first chapters are not understood. Father, I pray that as we move our way through these Old Testament texts throughout this month, that we would rejoice. In redemption. We would rejoice in what Jesus has done for us on the cross. We would rejoice in the empty tomb and his triumph over death. We would rejoice in the promise that He's coming again and that He will establish His eternal kingdom. He will make all things new, and we will enjoy Him forever and in His presence. I pray that every believer here would be strengthened in their faith and encouraged by the things that they hear, and every person who may not understand the gospel. Through the Spirit's work will come to understand it and turn to Christ in faith. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. If you could, I'd like you to take our hymn books out. We're going to turn to hymn 374 for our closing hymn. And again, if you don't know for certain that you're saved, please, when you head out, just come by and say, Pastor, I'd like to talk to you. And I'd be glad to set up a time to meet with you. If you're visiting with us today, um we'd love to get a record of your visit and be able to reach out to you. So if you if you've got one of those visitor cards, I'd like to ask you to just put it in a little box in the back. And uh that'll be a way that we can reach out to you and connect with you and just find out how we can be an encouragement to you as I know this is a tough time for for many, many people. Let's all stand together. We're to sing him 374, Be Thou My Vision. We'll sing the first and the last verses of this wonderful, wonderful hymn. Please thou my vision, O Lord of my heart Not me all else to me save that thou art, thou my best fought by day. Make it for sweeping as my water I can not help me through being done. May I reach heaven 's choice for my son Part of my own heart would have brief? So will be my venation and all you were cover. Say that's one of the prettiest hymns that has ever been written. And I think it is. It is a beautiful, beautiful hymn. Uh Eric Can you close us in prayer, please? And I do want to remind you that we'll be gathering again this evening. And if you can join us, we'd love to have you. We will be having the Lord's table this evening. So uh normally on Sunday nights we Pick favorites and we have testimony time. Tonight we will be just focusing on the Lord's table. I say just I mean very important observation. But I want to encourage you to come back tonight for that. Um and we will reflect on Christ's blood shed and his body broken and really what is at the heart of the the gospel. So Looking forward to that, and we'll continue our study in Genesis chapter 3, moving to uh when we'll talk about Job's testimony of his belief in the resurrection. Eric, if you could close us in prayer and uh please come by and and and greet me if you're visiting with us. Let's pray. Dear Lord, we thank you for this day, and we thank you for this time we've uh spent in your word Lord, and just for your goodness to us. Uh we thank you for uh the season that we can uh uh set aside time to celebrate uh the resurrection, Lord, and we thank you for uh what that means for us in salvation and for your goodness to us and pray this in Christ's name. Amen