The scripture that we're in this evening is Ecclesiastes chapter 8, and seems like we've been there a while, but we're in Ecclesiastes 8 tonight. And we're looking at verses 14, and then we're going to move into chapter 9, and we're going to read all the way to verse 4. So again, that's Ecclesiastes, chapter 8, verse 14. And then we'll go all the way to chapter 9, verse number 4. Here's what it says. There is a vanity which is done upon the earth. earth, that there be just men unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked. Again there be wicked men to whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous Righteous. I said that this is also vanity. Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing under the sun than to eat and to drink and to be merry. For that shall abide with him of the labor of his days of his life, which God giveth him under the sun. When I applied my heart to know wisdom and to see the business that is done upon the earth, for there also there is that neither day nor night seeth sleep For all this I considered in my heart, even to declare all this, that the righteous and the wise and their works are in the hands of God. No man knoweth either love or hatred by all that is before them. All things come alike to all. There is one event to the righteous and to the wicked Wicked, to the good and to the clean, and to the unclean, to him that sacrifices, to him that sacrificeth not. As is the good, so is the sinner. He that sweareth, as he that feareth an oath This is an evil among all the all things that are done under the sun. That there is one event unto all. Yea, also the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their hearts. While they live, and after they go to the dead. For to him that is joined to all the living there is hope, for a living dog is better than a dead lion. Now I know that's a pretty long, long passage, and I probably missed a couple words in there, but this is a really interesting passage for us to look at tonight. I want to remind you that this passage is a part of a context in chapter 8 that's dealing with this issue of how we're to relate to authority. And he talked about human authority, then he moved into God's authority. And then last week, when we were dealing with the last part of chapter 8, we were talking about several things that people people experience in life that in fact they're very difficult for us to understand and make sense of. They're frustrating. And all of us experience these In fact, we're going to kind of talk a little bit about that again tonight because that is part of the context of what he's talking about in these verses. But really the focus of what we're going to be looking at tonight Is this last little section that he that he, the last little statement that he makes in verse number four? This is what it says. To him that is joined to all the living, there is hope. For or because a living dog is better than a dead lion. Very interesting statement. That's really where we're moving tonight. But before we get to that explanation, Let's look at some facts that we find in these verses. First of all, I want to give you a summary statement, and then we'll move through those facts one by one. Here's a summary. Don't fret over what you cannot understand. What you cannot control, instead seize the opportunities that are set before you. I'll say it again. Don't fret about what you cannot understand and what you cannot control, rather seize the opportunities that are before you. And you know one of the great tragedies of life is that there will be people who have something that's set in front of them. It's a it's a real opportunity. It's a genuine opportunity. And instead of them seizing that opportunity, you know what they do? They get upset about what they can't make sense of. They get upset about things that they can't control. They get upset about the things that they wish were on their plate, not what actually is on their plate. And really, this is what Solomon is driving at. This is one of the great tragedies That we see in life. God wants us to be people who seize the opportunities that are before us. He doesn't want us to live theoretical lives. Oh, I wish Or I hope he wants us to look at what's in front of us and take it by the horns and do what we can with what we're given. That's really what he wants us to do. So let's look at these truths or these facts one by one as we drive to this last concluding point. Fact number one, there are some things in life that we will never Fully understand. Verse 14 he says, there is a vanity, and we see that word used a lot in the book of Ecclesiastes And that word vanity means that it's like the wind. That's something you can't hold in your hands. It's something you may not necessarily be able to see It's empty. He says there's a vanity that is done on the earth. The just men and the wicked end up with the same fate. They're both going to die. Again, the wicked man unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous. I said, of this it is also vanity. And then notice the next statement, very interesting. He says, Then I commended mirth, because a man has no better thing under the sun than to eat and to drink and to be merry, for that shall abide with him of his labor the days of his life which God giveth him unto him. Now, before you rush to think about what he's saying, I want to ask you a question. Can you think of another place in Scripture where this little proverb is mentioned? Can you think of an example where that little Yeah, what 's Eat, drink and be merry for tomorrow we die. Now my question is that little proverb or that little statement, was that looked at as a positive or negative thing in the context of You're thinking about. Yeah, in the New Testament. It was a very negative thing. Okay? So the Apostle Paul is saying, you've heard this statement, eat, drink, and be merry, tomorrow we're going to die. And he says That's not the way the Christian is supposed to live. So in your mind you might be sitting here going, okay, hold on a second. So Solomon is looking at the situation in life and his conclusion as Well, I need to just eat, drink, and be merry because tomorrow I'm going to die. Is that what Solomon's saying? Actually, that's not what he's saying. What Solomon is saying is this is how I feel when I see this thing. Happen in the world. Does that make sense? In other words, he says, I see righteous people that suffer I see wicked people that get away with evil and I go, what's the point? Eat, drink, and be merry. Tomorrow we're going to die. That's the way he feels But the reason that we know that this is not the wise conclusion is because he doesn't stop with just that statement. He continues on. Because he says this, when I applied my heart to know wisdom and to see the business that is done upon the earth, For also there is neither day nor night that seeth sleep in his eyes. Then I beheld all the work of God that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the The sun, because though a man labor to seek it out, yet he shall not find it. Yea, further, though a wise man saying to know it, yet shall he not be able to find it. What's Solomon saying? Yeah. Excellent. Yes, excellent scripture. My thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither your ways h my ways say it's the Lord's. Far as the heavens are high above the earth, so far are my thoughts above your thoughts. That's what he's saying. So what Solomon's basically saying is I look at this tragedy, I can't make sense And there's this part of me that just wants to throw out my hands and say, I'm just gonna live like the world around me. Who cares? And then all of a sudden he says, then I stopped and I thought about this a little bit more and I said, you know what? God's in control There's some things I can't understand, and it's okay. I need to submit to God. That's really what he's saying. Let's remember a couple of the things that he mentions That are frustration. Authority that goes bad. In verse 9, we talked about this. One of the most frustrating things that we experience in life is when a person is over us and they abuse that authority. That is very trouble. Or when we're in authority and we get crushed by the work that we're doing. That's very disturbing to us. We talked about that last week. Secondly, this issue of religious hypocrisy and how somebody can use religion and use the Bible and use the church and use this uh the sense of self-righteousness And they can use it to kind of like to get an advantage on people. That's something that really troubles us because it's not right. And it's true, it's not Third, government that neglects its duties. Like God instituted government to protect the innocents, to execute justice. That's why he made the government. And when a government doesn't do its job, the people And so he gives these three examples that frustrate us, that perplex us, that we can't make sense of. But the one that is the greatest of them all is this issue of principled people. Suffering. It's like a person that they they've lived a very uh from our perspective a good life. They've done the right thing and then they end up with a cancer diagnosis. We can't make sense of it Or a situation where someone is tragically killed in a car accident or they have an accident that they never fully recover from. And we see those kinds of things. We go, that doesn't matter Or the person that just seems to get away with the abuse of authority and the abuse of others. And we see those things and they trouble us. And what Solomon's basically saying is when I see those kinds of things I struggle. And there's a part of me that wants to say, eat, drink, and be married, tomorrow we're going to die. I'm just going to forget about living a principled life. That's how we feel. But then he says, you know what, there's some things that I can't understand because God didn't reveal them to me. For instance, in Deuteronomy chapter 29, it says this, the secret things belong unto the Lord. Lord our God, but the things which are revealed belong to us and to our children forever, that we may do all the words of this law. To put this in very simple terms, I hope, there's a lot out there that God never reveals to people. What we have in the Bible is like just a little bit of our understanding of what God is like. His nature, his character, his ways. But what God's given is what we have and it's what we need. And if we would focus on what he's given us, and we would do the very best that we could with what he's given us, we can please him. We can honor him. He will actually be pleased with those kinds of labors because the secret things they're his. They're not for us to know. We need to just leave that in his hands. And that's the point that he's making. And that's really what we see in fact number one. Fact number two. Our lives are all Look down in verse number one of chapter nine. He says, For all this I considered in my heart, even to declare all this, that the righteous and the wise and their works are in the hand of God. the world. No man knoweth love or hatred by all that is before them. You might say, well, what in the world Is Solomon communicating in this last little statement where he says, no man knoweth either love or hatred by all that is before them? I want to get to that in just a moment. But what Solomon is basically saying is this: there's a lot in life that we don't understand. There's a lot in life that doesn't make sense. There's a lot in life that is perplexing to us. But here's what we do know. There's a God in heaven who's in charge. There's a God in heaven who is sovereign and he rules. And so while I can't figure it all out, he's working in ways that I have to learn to trust. It's like the lot is cast into the lap, the whole disposing is of the Lord. We even talked about this past this past Sunday. The fact that when the people, the Roman soldiers, took Jesus up to that cross and they nailed him to that cross. When all these pieces were coming together and they were just working against Christ surviving physically, all right? He's going to be crucified. While all those terrible things are going on, God's in charge. I mean it's something I can't fully grasp and I can't fully understand, but as these people are making all these decisions, God's plan of redemption determined even before the foundation of the world World. Before there was a fall, before Adam sinned in the garden, God already had a plan determined for redemption. And so as these people look at Jesus and lie about him , And as these people bring false accusations unto Christ, and as as you know, Pilate stands there and he washes his hands and he says, It's on your hands, not on mine, and there's this terrible miscarriage of justice. God's still He's still sovereignly ruling in that circumstance. The point is that our lives are in the hands of the Lord. There are times in life that God allows us to get in these difficult places so that we would stop trying to micromanage our own lives and look up and say, God. That's right, you're in charge, not me. I remember that. Please give me the grace to do what is right here. Please give me the grace to make the right decision. To respond in humility. God, I can't do this in my own strength. I need you. That's what God does. Our lives are in his hands. We cannot control with certainty the outcomes of life. But the second thing that's very interesting is we can't predict them before they have Notice what he said in that last part. He says, No man knoweth either love or hatred by all that is before them. I'll give you an illustration. You ever worked in a company where there was a position that needed to be filled? And you found the person that you believed was the perfect fit. Or maybe you weren't in the role to make that decision, but the people that were in the management, the people that were people that were in authority, they said, that guy, that guy, that's the right person, the perfect fit. I mean, when you get their resume, it all lines up and you talk to the people People that uh are their references and it all lines up and you're like, this is gonna be the perfect scenario. Everything looks good on paper. You bring that person into the office and it just unravels piece by piece. piece by piece by piece. Yeah, have you ever seen that happen? I have. I've seen that kind of a thing happen. It's like like when missionaries they have like the the the perfect team of missionaries and then six months later they're in different cities. Like what happened? You know what's interesting? You can't predict how something can turn in that direction where people who they talked so lovingly to one another in the beginning and everything seemed to align so perfectly in the beginning. By the end they don't even they don't even love each other They they despise one another. How many people when they get married have any clue of what's gonna happen in ten years? You know what I'm talking about? You know what's amazing? You can see the opposite happen on the other side. You get somebody who is like you bring them into that office and you're like, this is gonna be trouble. I'm so worried about this. And that person, they weren't And they grow and they mature. And by the end of the process, five, ten years later, this works out so very well. And you're like, I would have never predicted that. You know, these two people that were working together and they had no choice. They had to do it. And it was so difficult in the beginning. They work it out. It's like people that get married and that that first six months is really, really, really miserable and harsh and difficult. And then all of a sudden they start making adjustments and they They start learning how to communicate and they start working together and they start loving one another and all of a sudden this relationship that was so fragile becomes very, very strong. That's what he's saying. He's saying no man knows either love or hatred by all that is before them. You cannot predict that something will turn this way or that way sometimes when it's sitting right in front of you. of you. You say, well, how does it ultimately end up that way? It's the hand of God that turns it to good. It's the hand Of God. It's his grace. It's his mercy. It's his power. And so what he's reminding us is of there's a lot in life you can't make sense of, but one thing you better realize is that God's in charge. Fact number three. There's a third fact that we can all be certain of, and that is death. I know that sounds a bit morbid, but it's true, okay? In our church we've had uh two two funerals In two weeks. Okay? Longtime church member buried last Friday. Longtime church member going to be buried this Friday. Every single one of us is going to receive calls or somebody's going to be calling about us after our church service on Sunday. services. I I learned not to do that. Okay? I learned not to do that. So I go back to my office, getting some things together, pull out my phone, I say I have a missed call. I was like, oh, they left a voice message and I listen. And that's the call. Brother Fred passed away this morning. Somebody's going to get a call about you one day. Somebody's gonna get a call about me one day. That is a guarantee. Unless the Lord Jesus returns before that moment, it's gonna happen to us. And so he says in verse 2, and this is interesting, don't miss what he's saying. He says, All things come alike to all. There is one event to the righteous and to the wicked, to the good and to the clean, and to the unclean, to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not As is the good, so is the sinner. He that sweareth, as he that feareth knows. This is an evil among all things that are done under the sun. There is one event unto all. Yea, also the heart of the sons of men are full of evil, and madness is in their hearts while they live. After that they go to the death Despite everything that happens in our lives, despite all the decisions that we make, despite the way that we grow or we don't grow over the course of our lives, we We're going to meet that day. And you know, you have people that live like completely different lives, but they end up in the same place. When you go to a funeral home There are going to be some people that there they're going to be family members that come in. There are going to be friends that come in. There are going to be lots and lots of people that are going to come in and they are all broken because that person leaves an incredible hole in the lives of all these people. That was somebody that mentored, somebody that loved, somebody that taught, somebody whose life left an incredible mark on all the people that come to see. In that same funeral home, there'll be some where everybody's like, I guess I gotta go. But that guy, he was, he was is really trouble. The same funeral home. Same funeral. Same day it happens. I know we have people that they work in funeral homes. And you see this. The same place. He says you have a righteous person, you have a wicked person. These are two two totally different values of life. They're gonna be in the same place. The clean and the unclean. He's not saying you know people that take showers and people that you know live on the streets. That's not what he's saying. When he talks about clean and unclean, he's talking about the fact that these are people that observe the Jewish laws and customs. You know, some some Jewish people they they ate pork, believe it or not, and others maybe they would never touch it. And he said, guess what? The guy that was very cautious about all of those dietary laws and He made sure that he did things by the book and the guy that could care less. They end up in the same the same day. The one who sacrifices and the one who does not sacrifice. Sacrifice. That person that lived their life as as a as a continual sacrifice before others. That could be what he's talking about. Or you'd be talking about the person that was very conscientious, the sacrificial system, whichever he means by this, this is a person who lived a totally different life than the other person. He says the good in the sinner. I love this one. The one who swears and the one who doesn't. When we use the word swear, we're not talking about somebody who you know speaks like a sailor here We're using the term swear like an oath. And so you have a person that's willing to make commitments And willing to say, I promise, I vow, I'm going to do this. And you have another person that they they don't make commitments. They're afraid of commitments So you have this person, they're assertive and they're gonna do something yet. Oh, I don't know, maybe I'll I'll get around to it. He says, you know, at the end of the day, they both end up in the same place. What's the point? Death is certain. Nobody here is gonna escape it. We're gonna meet that day. Fact number four. These three facts don't stop people from wasting the opportunity. Now I know that sounds really negative and I know that sounds kind of like, oh, that's really that's tough, but that's exactly what the text says. Look at verse number three. This evil among all things that are done under the sun, there is one event unto all. Yea, the heart of the sons of men are full of evil, and madness is in their hearts while they live. There are three facts. Life is perplexing. God is sovereign. Death is certain. And people know this. But it doesn't stop them from making poor decisions. And when he talks about the fact that people are evil, he's saying that our motivations many times are they're very sinful, they're very unrighteous. When he talks about the fact that in the heart lives madness, the idea is people make very foolish decisions. It's like that doesn't make sense. Especially when we're like in our twenties and thirties, right? No, when we're like fourteen and fifteen, right? We make poor decisions, foolish decisions. They don't make sense to anybody The fact is, even though we know that life is difficult, we know that God is in control, we know that death is certain, we still don't utilize the opportunities that we're given. This is a tragedy. Every single one of us is going to look back at some period in our life, some event in our life where we go, yeah, that time I dropped the ball. I didn't do it right. So the question is, what are we doing with what God has given us? Our time, our skills, our relationships, our energy. Energy, the seasons of life that we're in. What are we doing with those opportunities? What are we doing with that time? Are we utilizing it for the glory of God That's the question we really need to ask ourselves when we think about this text. But that moves me to one final thought. And this is really the heart of the whole matter. As long as you're living, you have opportunity. As long as you're living, you have opportunity. Isn't that an interesting, profound, simple thought? Hey, the fact that you're here today, you know, we've all got our regrets in life, all right? We've all got our complicated situations that we've dealt with That it made life more difficult for us in the present. We've all got them. Yes, we do. But if we're alive, we have opportunity. Here's how he puts it. He says in verse number four, to him that is joined to all the living, there is hope. Hope means opportunity. If you're alive, you have opportunity. And here's the proverb that he gives. I love this proverb. He says, a living dog is better than a dead lion. Now I know we got some dog lovers in here. I like I hate to admit it, but I like my dog. Okay. And I if you know my dog, you you're like, yeah, I'd hate to admit it too if I was I like my dog. And we think of a dog, we think of this this fun animal that we, you know, throw stuff to he chases it out in the yard and brings brings it back and this this animal that's like really loyal and it's happy to see us and the longer we're away the more happy it is to see us. You know what I'm talking about? That's the way we think of dog But when they're talking about dogs in this time period, they didn't think about dogs that way. They just did it, okay? And you know how I know that? Because I think about that that that story where Jesus is talking to the Syrophonician woman And basically Jesus says, well, you know, I've gone to the to the Jews. And she says, hey, but you know, even the dogs get crumbs at the table Interesting statement. Why does she use that analogy? Because the dog was the unclean animal. The best illustration I can give of this is Well what I saw when I lived in Ghana. You'd walk down the road and there'd be this trash heap. And when I say trash heap, it's not quite like the trash heaps that you're used to here in the sky States, okay. Not a nice place. You have these bags, all kinds of nasty stuff. And you'd see this skinny dog, you know, that had like fleas and tail And this animal looks mangy and its tail was all tattered, and he'd be like picking around in the trash. And you see this all the time That's what he means when he talks about a dog, okay? He's talking about this filthy animal. This animal that's digging around in the trash. But this is what he said. Very interesting. He says, if you have a living dog, it's better than a dead lion. Now, when you think about a lion, you think about this majestic, powerful beast. Terrifying. Strong. We think of royalty. A lot of these, a lot of the crests that kings and queens used to use, it'd have a line there because it was this picture of this regal, powerful beast, this majestic animal. But if that animal's dead, life is done. That animal's lying on the ground, and yes, it's a powerful Figure of an animal, but it's dead, has no life , has no strength , has no ability. Though it is a powerful beast, or it was a powerful beast. It's over. And that manger little dog digging around in the trash has more opportunity than that powerful lion laying on the side of the street You say, well, what's he saying? He's saying sometimes our lives are kind of like the little dog, but we're in a better place than the person Who's lived their life and they're done. And why I say we're in a better place, I don't mean like, you know, living in this world is better than being in heaven for eternity. That's not what I'm suggesting. But we're saying from from the here and now perspective, your life and the opportunities that you have, they cease when he says And that's really what Solomon is communicating. He's saying, if you're alive, maybe you've made some really bad decisions. Maybe you've made life complicated for yourself. Maybe the people around you have made life complicated for you. But if you're living and you're breathing, you have more opportunities than the dead do. I mean the king who's dead, the president who's dead, the senator who's dead, the billionaire who's dead, their life is finished. It's Over. They don't have any more opportunity. You can take the most powerful, most influential person that's ever lived, once they've passed into eternity, their opportunities on this side are done. You have more opportunity than they do. do. That's what he's saying. And so Solomon is saying, listen, don't live in folly. Don't waste your life. Don't waste the opportunities that are around you. Don't get distracted with all the frustrations and the things you can't make sense of and miss what God's given you. God wants you to seize the opportunities that are before you. And so I'll give you a couple of simple thoughts in closing. Since we know that our lives are in God's hands, Let's view our lives as both a gift and an opportunity. I want to encourage you that way. Your life is a gift. And it's full of opportunities. Maybe not the same opportunities that the guy next to you has. Maybe not as beautiful opportunities as what you thought you should get or what you wanted to have. But they're opportunities. Two, since we know that death is certain, let's be motivated to seize each opportunity because the next is not a guarantee. Like it says in James, what's your life? It's a vague It appears for a little while and it vanishes away. And so so long as I have time, I want to seize the time. Three, since we know that most people don't seize the opportunities before them, let's be the minority. Let's not waste the opportunities that God lays before us. I know that's a pessimistic kind of a statement. But it's true. It's very true. Let's not waste the opportunities. And lastly, since we woke up this morning, let's see today as a gift and an opportunity. Every time that I do a funeral, one of the things that really strikes me is that your life is not very long. The opportunities that you have, they don't keep coming forever. The relationships that we have, the opportunities that we have, we really need to seize them wisely And so I think that's really the sense of the text before us. Let's ask the Lord to help us to do that tonight. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the texts that we looked at. This is a very practical passage. I pray that you'd help us not to waste our lives and not to waste the time that you've given us, not to waste our energy and our strength, and the reason we're I pray that we would not become so frustrated with the complications of life that are certain for all of us the time. but help us to focus in on what is certain what we've been given and that you are in charge I pray that you'll bless our prayer time together tonight may it be very sweet Wait and fellowship to be very rich, we ask it in Jesus' name. Amen