Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our service this morning. I know the weather outside is uh not beautiful, but I'm thankful we can be gathered together and really focus our attention on the Lord this morning. We have a couple of announcements. And then we'll have our opening scripture. And if you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, hope that you'll feel very warmly welcomed. And if you'd like us to reach out to you this week, please take a moment to fill out one of those connection cards. And there's some in the pew in front of you. There's also some in a welcome packet you may have received earlier. And we'll make sure to reach out to you in the coming week. And we have a couple of announcements and we'll get started. Good morning. I hope you guys are staying warm. Coming after that 90 degrees last week into like 50 last night. Quite the adjustment, but I hope you guys are staying warm and we're glad to see everyone out on today a day like today. This upcoming Saturday, we have the ladies' luncheon. There is a sign-up on the bulletin board. If you have any questions, I would recommend having to go talk to uh Mrs. Everhart as she is kind of like organizing and um putting everything together. With that said, there Since it's being catered, it is an opportunity to kind of invite some people to it. There is a cost associated with it, but It is the wrap-up. It's going to be a lot of, I know the ladies are, there's a lot of ladies signed up. I think upwards of 50 people are signed up. So it's going to be a great opportunity, a great time. So I'd encourage you to bring out, and this is for ladies of all ages. to really just be able to be a part of this and just invite some people to our church. May 14th, so not this upcoming Tuesday, but the following Tuesday we have the Baltimore Rescue Mission. Uh we'll be able to, so usually we leave here around 6. 30 and we get back roughly around 9, 9. 15, somewhere in that range. Um we have an opportunity to just give a little devotional and sing with the ladies and usually the ladies will stay on that side and have an opportunity to minister to some of the homeless that are there. And then the guys and ladies are welcome to come over, but we'll Pastor will preach and we'll uh for the men as well and we'll do some singing. Just have a little opportunity to minister there. Again, we'll get back right around 9. And then that Thursday, we'll have the senior luncheon. There's a sign-up there, the college and career, men's breakfast, visitation, team sing spiration. Kind of a lot going on, not this week, but next week. And then again, I want to make a special note to remind that there is a sign-up for the Hem Spring Fellowship that is on the It's on the bulletin board. That will be the Sunday of Memorial Day. So the Sunday of Memorial Day have an opportunity we'll have just a simple devotional, a lot of singing, a potluck in the back that evening service. So if you'd like to sign up I encourage you as there. Pastor Josh. Thank you for those that signed up to host the team demonstrations through the rest of the year. That's very much appreciated. And also a reminder, this Friday I talked to some of our seniors in the youth group about a special activity around. That's why it's called a senior surprise. And it's just that, it's a surprise. The teens don't know. Well some of them, if they're seniors, know, but that's this Friday, 7 to 9. I'm looking forward to it. It's going to be a good time. And that is this Friday for the whole youth group. And the seniors chose some activities they're on, and I'm looking forward to that Our opening scripture reading is found in Psalm 40, and we will start with verse 1. It says, I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise to our God. Many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. Blessed is the man that maketh the Lord his trust. And our focus of worship today is on God's compassions on the hurting. Please let's all bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service. And then I want to remind you we are partaking of the Lord's table this morning. So If you are planning to partake, please pick up your elements during the first hymn if you have not done that yet. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together as a redeemed people. We're thankful that we are forgiven of our sins because of Christ's sacrifice. We are alive in Christ by the power of the resurrection. We have the indwelling spirit who comforts us and encourages us and builds us up as we go through life. I pray this morning as we open up this text of Scripture that the Spirit of God would take the Scriptures And really encourage us and uplift us and comfort us where that is needed. Father, as we think about David and his struggle and how we turned to you and how you strengthened and uplifted him and matured him. I pray that we would see that that is exactly how you work in our lives when we find ourselves in similar places. And as we take our attention and focus it on the finished work of Christ and what he has done for us. We partake of the Lord's table later this morning. I pray that our hearts would be lifted up and that we would be encouraged. Bless our fellowship together as a body. Be with those who are Dealing with sickness, those who've traveled. I pray that you would just minister to them this day. Bless those who join us on the live stream this morning. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Thank you so much for joining us for worship. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number eighty-one, A Mighty Fortress is our God. We'll stand, we'll sing. All four verses of Hem Number Eighty One. Great singing. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number four hundred and fifty-six. 456, I belong to the King. We'll sing all three verses Great singing. Let's turn back a few pages to hymn number four hundred thirty-one. Hymn number four hundred and thirty-one, I must tell Jesus. We'll sing all four verses. I am not going to be able to do that. I must have been to God. I am a little bit more easy to raise the day. Amen. Great singing. Our scripture reading. this morning will be found in the Psalms. We'll be reading out of Psalm number 38. Psalm number 38 We'll be reading verses one through twenty-two. Psalm thirty-eight, verses one through twenty-two. The scriptures say, O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones because of my stent For mine iniquities are gone over mine head. As a heavy burden, they are too heavy for me. My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness. I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long, for my loins are filled with a loathsome disease, and there is no soundness in my flesh. I am feeble and sore broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. Lord. All my desire is before thee, and my groaning is not hid from thee. My heart panteth, my strength faileth me. As for the light of mine eyes, it is also gone from me. My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sword, and my kinsmen stand afar off. They also that seek after my life lay snares for me. And they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things and imagine deceit all the day long. But I, as a deaf man, heard not. And I was as a dumb man that openeth not his mouth. Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no reproofs. For in thee, O Lord, do I hope. Thou wilt hear, O Lord my God. For I said, hear me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me when my foot slippeth They magnify themselves against me, for I am ready to halt, and my sorrow is continually before me. For I will declare mine iniquity. I will be sorry for my sin. But mine enemies are lively, and they are strong, and they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied. They also that render evil for good are mine adversaries, because I follow the thing that good is. Forsake me not, O Lord. O my God, be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Let's continue our singing. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number 99. A shelter in the time of storm. We're going to sing the first two verses, and then we'll take a couple verses. We'll greet one another. We'll come back together and sing the last verse. Number 99, a shelter in the time of storm. Great singing this morning before our preaching we will sing from our blue book, I Run to Christ, number 151. In the blue book, we'll be singing all three verses, and we'll sing the last verse, a cappella. I wise to man , send a change from the needs to break. Amen. Please be seated. Is there a hard or bound by sorrow? Is there a life way down by care? Come to the cross each word and bearing all your anxiety bear All your anxiety, all your care, bring to the mercy seat there. Never a burden he cannot bear, never a friend like Jesus. No other friends so keen to help you, no other friends so quick to you. No other place to leave your burden, no other one to hear your prayer All your anxiety, all your care, bring to the mercy deep. Never a burden he can bear, never a friend like Jesus Come that one step no longer in his intrigue kind of sweet You need not be no disappointment, you shall find me the mercy All your anxiety , all your care, bring to the mercy seat leaving there. Never. Never a friend like Jesus All your anxiety, all your care, bring to the mercy seed leaves there. Never a burden he cannot bear, never a friend like Okay, well those who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back. I believe that the ages are there behind me on the screen. Yeah, look at that. All right. And uh I'd like you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Psalm 38 this morning. And I do have to admit it I was listening to this very lengthy text being read, and I thought, what a dreary, cold, wet May morning. You didn't want to hear such a dark and depressing song. However, I will tell you that this this text is not going to stay in the dark and gloomy, but that is where it's going to start And there are times in our lives where we frankly are exactly where David found himself. And so this text of scripture has a lot. to instruct us with. I'm not going to read the entire Psalm since we've already read that, but I am going to start in verse 1. I'm going to read through portion of this. And I'm going to skip down to the end and then we're going to dig into the text together. As we prepare hearts for the Lord's table. Here's what? The word of the Lord says, O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrow stick fast in me, and thine hand presseth me sore. There is no soundness in my flesh Because of thine anger. Neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. For mine iniquities are gone over mine head As in heavy burden, they are too heavy for me. And then I'd like you to turn to the end of this psalm, and we're going to see what he says in verse number 20. He says, they also that render evil for good are mine adversaries because I follow things that are good. Forsake me not, O Lord. O my God, be not far from me. Make haste to help me. Lord, my salvation. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask God to really speak to our hearts as we dig into this psalm this morning. Our Father, we thank you so much for your word, and we recognize that the scriptures are filled with truths that in different seasons of life we need. There may be someone here this morning who finds themselves in a very dark and lonely and isolated place. They feel broken, they feel miserable, they feel as if there is no hope and no help. And Father, as we dig into this passage of Scripture, I pray that they would be able to see that in fact there is hope for people in all circumstances. Help them to see from this text of Scripture that there is a God in heaven who loves them dearly, invites them to turn to Him and to come into His presence and to lay their burdens at His feet. And to draw upon his daily supply of grace. And Father, as we remember the Lord's table and as we think about the sufferings of Christ on that cross and what they purchased for us, And we think about the wonderful truths that are connected to the gospel. We are forgiven and cleansed and declared righteous and we are A people who have received your spirit, and we anticipate a day when we will experience all the blessings of glorification. May you speak to our hearts in this moment. And Father, maybe there are people here who are not in such a place, and I thank you for that. But there will be days that we need texts like this. And so please guide our thinking. May your spirit take the word and comfort our souls by it in Christ's name. Amen. The text in front of us is a very fascinating passage of Scripture. What I see in these verses are hope for people who are broken. And one of the things that I think sometimes that we give the impression to people about is if you become a Christian, All of your burdens and all of your cares and all your struggles, they're going to go away. You won't deal with them anymore. All of the sufferings that you experience maybe before you're a Christian, they will They will vanish. In fact, I think of that one song where he says, Now I'm happy all the day, and some people they sing that song and they go, I'm not happy today. Can I really sing that song? On that bright and cloudless morning when the dead in Christ shall rise, how do we know it would be bright and cloudless for we are? The simple fact is that there are times in the Christian life that we find ourselves in very dark places. We are broken, we're in misery, we feel weary, we feel as if we can't even lift our head. And the fact is that if that's where you are today, or if that's where you'll be down the road, or that's where you've been at some time, I want you to realize the scripture has very Specific instruction for you in that moment. There is a person, David, who God moved to write this psalm, and this is inspired scripture. God wanted you to know when David was in one of his darkest moments, so that when you find yourself in such a place, you can turn to God as he did, and you can find comfort and strength in his word. I'll summarize the text in front of us in the following way. The following psalm illustrates how sin and painful circumstances disrupt our souls. They leave us broken, without any hope outside of God's compassionate, saving hand. And that's really what the Psalm shows us this morning It shows us a man who is broken and in misery. And each time he turns to God, he is still broken and in misery, but each time he is strengthened just a little bit more. And a little bit more, and then we will see by the end of the sermon where David finds himself a place of joy and strength and comfort. God wants us to turn to Him and find rest for our weary souls when we find ourselves in these places. So let's dig into the text this morning. The first truth I want you to notice from God's Word is that the flow of the psalm calls us to turn to God when we are broken. One of the things that's helpful for us when we read a passage of scripture that is lengthy like this, a psalm It's for us to kind of notice the flow of the thoughts and the flow of the progression that's in that psalm. As David is writing these things, we need to recognize that David was a poet. David was a musician. David was a person that when he's writing these words, it is the Spirit of God speaking through him. But God used a very specific instrument to give us these words the way that they're laid out. And what David is doing is he is praying to God and he is lamenting and he is exposing to us what's going on in his innermost being. The first thing we see in verse number one is that David's prayer is one of emotional brokenness. He says in verse one, O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath. Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. In fact, there is a connection between this Psalm and Psalm 6. And this evening we're going to come back to the Psalm. We're going to look at it again. And I'm going to go to Psalm 6 for a little bit of it because the way that Psalm 6 starts and the way that Psalm 38 starts is the exact same. David is in the exact same position. He is not just in this place once in his life and he never goes there again. But the truth is that there were many times in David's life that he found himself thinking, God, don't rebuke me in your wrath, and do not chasten me in your hot displeasure. David feels as if God's anger is burning against him. The question is, was David's feeling consistent with reality? I'll have something to say about that later. But that's how he felt. And that's how we feel sometimes as well. The second thing we see in verses 2 to 8 is that David laments. And what we mean by lament is David takes the grief of his soul and he lays it before God and he just literally cries out, God , This is how I feel. This is what I'm experiencing. This is the internal misery of my soul. He says Thine arrow stick fast in me, and thine hand presseth me sore. David feels as if God is acting to him as if he is an enemy. Then in verse number nine, we see that David again cries out to God. In his feebleness, he glances toward God and he says, Lord, all my desire is before thee, my groaning is not hid from thee. So we see this slight change in David's first prayer to God and David's second prayer to God. One where God is his enemy and now he says, God, you know what I'm going through. It's like he senses there's a little bit of God's compassion toward him, but he's not really feeling it entirely, but he knows in the back of his mind, in fact, God does look at him with compassion. But it's a feeble glance. David is a weak man. He's broken. He's feeling the weight of this misery. And then in verses 10 through 14, he laments again. He says, My heart panteth, my strength faileth me. As for the light of my eyes, it also is gone from me. David is like I can't even keep my eyes open. I'm in such grief of soul. It's like when a person is so miserable inside that they say, I can't get out of bed. I can't sit at the dinner table with other people and keep my eyes open because all I want to do is I want to sleep. And not think about my sorrow, not think about my misery, not think about it's like I'm escaping from it because I can't face it That is the way that David feels. You say, well, I thought David was a godly man. How can he think like this? He was a godly man, but he was also a man of flesh, like you and I are. He's being very transparent. He really feels as he is expressing. That's helpful for us to understand. Even godly people can get to such places. God doesn't abandon us. He doesn't throw us to the side. He doesn't kick us to the curb. He actually loves us and he comes alongside of us. But sometimes we can't see it while we feel such weight. In verse 15, he faintly remembers God. He says, In thee, O Lord, do I hope thou wilt hear, O Lord my God. Now do you see a little difference there? You're my enemy. Now you know what I'm going through. I'm hoping in you. You hear me. Do you see the change? Now I'm not saying that David is a strong man here. I'm not saying that he's a comforted man. I'm saying that David is a man who is beginning to move a little bit in the right direction. Circumstances haven't changed. How he feels hasn't entirely changed, but his thinking is beginning to shift in the right direction. But then David laments again in verses 16 to 20. He says, Hear me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me When my foot slippeth, they magnified themselves against me. And all of a sudden David not only is thinking about his internal misery, but he's thinking about people who are watching him and they say, I hope David suffers. I hope David gets crushed. I hope David never gets back up. And he hears those people in the back of his mind. And he says, I have enemies that want to see me destroyed. And so he laments, he pours it out to God. And then the fourth time David cries out to God. Verses 21 and 22, his faint yet strengthened confidence is expressed in God, his Savior. He says, forsake me not, O Lord. O my God, be not far from me. Make haste to help me, O Lord of my what? Salvation. Now, what have we seen here? We have seen a psalm where a man lays out his misery. He cries out to God and he pours out his complaint and he strengthened a little bit. And then he cries out to God and then he pours out his complaint. And he strengthened a little bit. And he pours out his complaint again. And he strengthened a little bit. And he cries out to God. This is the way that David experienced suffering in his broken condition. And I would say that there might be people in this room, with all the diverse circumstances of life, the high points and the low points, you've been here. You have been here. And when you were here, you felt as low as David felt. And you would have never wanted to be used of God to write your thoughts on paper. But that's what God did. He did it for our help. The second truth I want you to notice from these verses is that the complex nature of suffering calls us to turn to God when we're broken. Scripture is so transparent about these things. As we read through the Psalms, we see not just this passage of Scripture, but we see numerous passages of Scripture where David and others express that they are in such places. David is lamenting, and his lamentation is explicit, and he connects his misery to his sin. Notice how he puts it in 3 to 4. He says, There's no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger. Neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. My iniquities are gone over my head as in heavy burden. They are too heavy for me. We know this is true, and David expresses it in these verses. that when we sin as a believer, we know it's a problem. And our conscience is alert to that. And in fact it causes us to feel very miserable inside. and very hurting and broken. And we see God, who is our Savior, and who is our Father, and who loves us. We see Him as an enemy because we know that our sin stands between us and Him. And the fellowship is broken. But I do want to make this note. Misery is not just connected to our sin. Look at the story of Job. Why was Job suffering? Well his friends suppose it's because he was concealing some unknown sin to them, but he was aware of it, and that he was somehow resisting God. God was getting even with Job. God was trying to get Job's attention. God was making his life miserable and his hand was heavy on him because of his sin. But we know reading the book of Job that that is not the reason that Job experienced such suffering The reason that Job experienced his suffering was unknown to him. But God was doing something in Job's life. And God was revealing something about Job. And God was teaching us through Job's life. And so the misery that Job experienced wasn't his sin. It wasn't a consequence of some terrible action that he had taken, some injustice that he had been involved in. It was the result of living in a fallen world that is full of evil and full of trouble. Sometimes our misery is not our sin, it's others. People sin against us, and we feel the weight of that. Sometimes we deal with physical weakness and sickness and struggles and difficulties, and the fact is there's no decision that we made that caused that to take place. It was something that was outside of our control entirely. Circumstances, temperament, sickness, the sin of others, these all can play a role As David talks about this and as he pours it out before God, we're going to see that there are several categories of suffering that David experienced. Notice the internal anguish that he talks about in these verses. Verse number six. I'm troubled. I'm bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. He's really in a dark place. Verse 8, I'm feeble, sore broken. I've roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. You know what disquietness means? It means that I've got all these thoughts racing all these different directions. I can't focus my attention. I can't focus my mind. All I know is my mind is racing. And my heart is heavy. That's what David's saying. He says, My heart panteth, my strength faileth me, as for the light of mine eyes, it is gone from me. David is emotionally broken. But he's not just emotionally broken, he's physically weak. Verse number three, there's no soundness in my flesh. Because of thine anger, neither is there any rest in my bones. And by the way, if a person is struggling in their spirit, it affects their bodies. I read an article just the other day that said, the number one cause that you can control, and I guess I put this in quotes, that affects heart health is anger. Angry people are people that it actually affects their body. Affects blood pressure, heart health, cholesterol levels, all kinds of anger. In other words, when my heart is not well, I don't mean my physical beating heart, I mean my my internal who I am internally, that disposition, my thinking, my emotions, when that's not well, it affects my body. Verse number seven, my loins are filled with a loathsome disease. Whew, that doesn't sound very good. That's like one of the darkest statements in the Bible right there. What's David saying? I'm broken physically. I'm broken emotionally. I'm broken physically. Verse number 11, he says, I feel this isolation from other people. He says, My lovers And my friends stand aloof from my sword. My kinsmen stand afar off. He says, people that have been my closest friends. They're not with me. People that were, you know, casual acquaintances, but we were in good good relations. But getting away from me, even my own family, wants nothing to do with me. He feels so isolated from other people. And by the way, what he is describing, this happens in our lives. The next statement is he feels the sense of vulnerability, he says in verse 12. They also that seek after my life lay snares for me. They have they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things and imagine deceits all the day long. Verses 19 and 20. Mine enemies are lively, they're strong. They that hate me are wrongfully are multiplied. They that render evil for good are mine adversaries because I follow the things that good is. Now, it may be that David is uh feeling this way, but in fact it's not technically true that maybe these people, he's not in their head as much as he feels that they're in his head. He's in their head. But the fact is that when my heart is broken and my body is broken and I'm suffering and I take it out on other people, guess what? They pull back from me. It's true, it happens. And then what I do, I feel more isolated. And even if they're not pulling back, I feel as if they are. But here's the one that's the worst of all. He senses a displeasure and isolation from God. In verses 1 and 2, he says, Lord, rebuke me not in your wrath. Do not chasten me in thy hot displeasure. Thine arrow stick in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. Verse 21: Forsake me not, O Lord my God, be not far from me. Do you see how what David is feeling is not just like one thing. It's not like he's just struggling emotionally, but physically he's doing great. And he's he's really struggling physically, but emotionally he's doing great. He's struggling emotionally, physically, relationally, and between him and God This transparency gives us comfort. You say it didn't give me comfort this morning. This is so dark and so difficult. It does give us comfort. You know why? Because it tells us that when we suffer, there are causes. One of the causes that David mentions is his sin. Well, guess what? If there's sin between us and God, we can address that. If there's sin between us and God, we don't have to hide it. We can confess it and we can forsake it. We can come into the presence of God and we can actually see that removed and the fellowship is restored. We can do that. 1 John 1. 9 is in the Bible. This is a condition that is experienced by even the strongest of saints. I think that sometimes Christians, we are We're hypocrites, to be very frank with you, because we don't want people to know that we suffer and we don't want people to know that we struggle. We don't want people to know that we have dark moments. And so we put on this air, especially when we come to church. I'm going to dress nice, shoulder up, I'm going to walk in. And I am falling apart inside, but nobody knows it because I've put on a face. David didn't do that here. David laid it out. And you and I get to read it because God wanted it in Scripture. Reminds us that even people who walk with God and love God and are passionate about serving Him can find themselves in such places. Real Christians can find themselves in such places. But the thing that to me is the most important is there's a way out. You don't have to stay here. If you're here today, you don't have to stay here. If you're going to be here down the road, you don't have to stay there. If you've been there in the past and you've come through it, it reminds you, you didn't have to stay there. You don't have to stay in such a condition. And so the third truth I want you to notice is that the way that God brings us through suffering calls us to turn to Him. when we are broken. I think it's very helpful for us to consider what we read in these verses because they help us to understand how God strengthens us in our walk with Him. Let me give you an illustration of this in just a minute, but I want us to look at the text. David grew as he worked through this low moment in his life And that growth was incremental. That growth was not immediate. That growth was not perfect. That growth was up and down, up and down, but it was gradual and it was in the right direction. I want you to notice that in these verses. His first cry in his misery, all he could see was his sin, his pain, and God's displeasure. O Lord, verse 1, rebuke me not in thy wrath. That's all David could see. That's all David could feel. That was the entirety of his focus. God is angry with me, he's displeased with me, and he's crushing me. That's the way that David feels. That's not true though God wasn't pressing him down. God wasn't crushing him. He wasn't trying to put him in misery. But that's how David felt. Because the circumstances of life were weighing in on him. And he couldn't see past them. And he couldn't see through them. The second time that David cries out to God, he realized that God saw him and was aware of his misery. Lord, all my going is before thee. Verse number nine. My groaning is not hid from thee. Do you see a difference between the first time and the second time? God, you're angry with me. God, you're crushing me. God, you see me. God, you know everything that's on my heart. There's a difference. Now, in verse number nine, is David where he needs to be yet? No, he's not. But he's moving in the right direction. And that's very important. Then we come to verse 15, his third cry. He told God that he was his hope. He knew that God could hear him. He says, In thee, O Lord, do I hope. Thou wilt hear, O Lord, my God. There's a bit of change. He went from your angry with me, in your anger you're just you're displeased and you're chastening me. God, you hear my groaning and it's not hid from you. I'm pouring out my heart before you. God, you're my hope. I know that you hear. There's been a change. There's been growth. You say, well, what caused the change? Well, David was the man who knew the word of God. And every time David pours out his heart to God and he tells God how he feels, there are reminders of truths that come back at where did those things come from? Well they came from the time you spent in the Word of God. The fact is you isolate yourself from the scriptures, the tool that the Spirit of God uses and brings to your mind and brings to bear on you in these moments. They're not there. But David has that. He has that recall. And so what God's doing is he's just incrementally reminding him of little truths and he's beginning to move in the right direction. And then the last time, verse number 22, he was confident that God was his salvation. And he just wanted him to act as quickly as possible. That's a really interesting thing to notice. He says, make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. You are my salvation, and I want you to hurry up. Please, I beg you. That's what he's saying. So what's the point? The point is that David experienced God's strength. David experienced God's grace, and these verses show us the way that that happens. It's not like one day I'm dealing with these miseries, these hardships, these struggles. I cry out to God, I make my complaint, I remind myself of the truth, and I walk away and I'm done. Doesn't work that way. No We cry out to God, we pour out our heart, we receive a little bit of strength, and we end up there again. But the next time we're there, we've changed a little bit, we've grown a little bit, we've matured a little bit. And each time we go through this process, you know what God does? He gives us a little more strength. And he lifts us up a little bit more, and he directs us to the truth a little bit more. And our and our our lives are beginning to mature through this process. You know, a great example of this is what happens when a person exercises, when a person goes to the gym. Maybe it's walking, maybe it's running, maybe it's lifting weights, whatever it is. They always tell you when you go to the gym, don't kill yourself the first day. There's a reason for that. There's obviously some people that have. The bottom line is when you go to the gym, you gotta pace yourself. And the first time you go and you pick up those weights, you go , why can't I do this? I thought I could do this. I used to do this. The first time you got on that treadmill, you're at five minutes. You're I'm dying. I'm dying. I'm dying. So what do you do? Do your five minutes and then you take your cooldown. But the next time you go , increase it just a little bit more. I didn't say like put on 20 pounds. I didn't say go another ten minutes. I said you increase it a little bit And you do it a little bit at a time, and a little bit at a time, and you gradually begin to get stronger. And you gradually begin to increase the stamina. And something you couldn't do when you first walked in, you can do very easily six, eight months down the road. Why is that? Because as we go through the strain of the training process , We build strength. We build stamina. You don't walk into the gym, lift weights one day and like, there you are, you're ready to go. It doesn't work that way. Oh, you may never get there actually But you don't get there quickly. It's a slow and gradual process. It's a tedious process. This is why we need coaches sometimes. This is why we need trainers. This is why we need people that'll, you know, encourage us along the way because we get down, we get discouraged, we don't keep going. Folks, the spiritual walk and our growth into Christ's likeness is no different. And you could put it this way, it is more painful to grow spiritually than it is to grow physically in a gym. It really is. Because what it takes to mature is a kind of pain and suffering that is different than physical pain. There are people who can push through unbelievable physical struggle But they go through circumstances that break them emotionally and they can't handle it at all. Some of the strongest Greatest athletes, they can't handle the most basic things. Why? Because the struggle of growing in maturity is different than the struggle of growing in physical strength. He experienced a very distinct and emotionally draining cycle. He cried out. He poured out his heart. He cries it again with a slightly improved perspective. And the cycle continues until God mercifully delivers him from this miserable state of mind. Whenever he looked within, he experienced trouble. Whenever he looked outside of himself to God, he experienced hope and strength. And here's what happens. When we are in the midst of this, and you you can take this into You know, if you're running and I I like walking, I don't like running, okay? But if I'm trying to run and trying to get in shape, every single step I take, I think about the misery of what I'm doing. I mean like I really do I'm like I hate this step, I hate this step, I hate this step. Turn off the treadmill, go inside, whatever, okay? That's the way we feel. We feel that misery inside Because I'm focused on me. I'm not focused on the goal. I'm not focused on how I'm going to get there. I'm focused on how I feel in the moment. Every time David looked within, you know what he saw? He saw sin. He saw pain. He saw brokenness. He saw misery. He saw no strength. He saw an inability to stand up. Well, he looked to God. He saw strength. He was reminded of truth. He had something objective and something strong he could plant his feet on. And even though he could barely stand when he did it, he put his feet there. That's how God strengthens people. Each time he looked to God, he grew. His perspective matured slightly. There was no moment he completely experienced immediate grief. It was relief. It was gradual with ups and downs. That's how we grow, folks. You say, well, what do you take away from this, Pastor? What I take away is this. Christ is the only sure hope for our troubled souls. Now what's very interesting about Psalm 38 is this is how it ends. Verse 22, make haste to help me, O Lord, my salvation. Question Was David speaking in triumph or in hope? Not in triumph. He said, make haste to deliver. He didn't say, God, thank you for delivering me. Do you see the difference between those two things? And then if you go to Psalm 39, guess what you'll find out? He doesn't say it there either. You say, why is that? Because this is a season You go from chat or from Psalm 38 into Psalm 39, you continue to see the same pattern between those two Psalms. But in Psalm 40, you see it change. You know what that change is? He's on the other side. You say, is there light at the end of the tunnel? The answer is yes, there is. And who is the one who brings you there? It's God. We can learn from David's experience that like David, we will sin. When we sin, we will suffer physically and emotionally, and sin will take a heavy toll on our souls. We've got to look to God in these dark moments, and when we do this, we'll experience a fresh sense of his comfort and renewed fellowship. No quick and easy fixes. This healing and growth is up and down, but the end of it is sweet. Turn with me to Psalm 40. This is where we opened our service. And this is where we will end it. David writes in Psalm 40, verse number one. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. Question. Where is that? Psalm 38, Psalm 39. I waited patiently for the Lord. He inclined unto me. He put his ear down and he heard what I had to say. And he heard my cry. And I love this next one. He brought me up also out of an out of an horrible pit and out of the miry clay and set my feet on a rock. Now today is a great day for us to think of. about what a pit of miry clay would be. I remember when I was a teenager, we went to camp, we were playing so uh softball. It was like the championship game. And they'd had torrential rain the entire day and then the sun peeks out of the clouds and they said, we're gonna play the game. And I remember walking out onto that clay field, and let me tell you, you could not get traction anywhere. You take a step and you lift your foot up and there's like, there's like there's like this cake stuck on the bottom of your shoe and you you slide in the base and I'm telling you just keep going and when you get up it's like covered. I didn't even bother to take those clothes home to my mom. She was just throwing them in the trash because they were so bad. When David says, You brought me out of a horrible pit, out of the miry clay, saying, I had no hope. I couldn't get out of this myself. Think of the story of Pilgrim's progress, the slove despond. That's what he's talking about. He brought me out of an horrible pit, set my feet on a rock, and he established my goings. God brought him through it. But it took it took him two Psalms. This is the third Psalm. Psalm 38, Psalm 39. He wasn't there. He was moving there, but he wasn't there. Psalm 40, he was there. And I love the next statement. And he hath put a new song in my mouth. Do you feel like singing when you're broken? Nope. You sure don't. Why? Because singing is what we do when there's joy in the heart. I think sometimes when we come to church You may not feel like singing. You just hear the people around you and you're like, I need that. I need that so I can open my mouth and sing. He says, you put a new song in my heart. Even praise unto our God. You know what David's saying? Even when you go through a moment like this, that's not the end. You can come on the other side. You can experience health and vitality and strength. You say, I don't feel like it now. I know you don't feel like it right now. But you can. It's there in the Word of God. David experienced it. He says, many shall see and fear and trust in the Lord. People are going to look at David and go, I know what you went through. I know how long it was. I saw the agony of your soul. If God can lift you up, I need to turn to him too. That's what he's saying. Many, O Lord, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done. My thoughts which are to us ther thy thoughts which are to us word, they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. Here's something to think about. What David is expressing in Psalm 40 is not new. It's just that he could see it. Do you get that? Psalm 38, all that was true, but he couldn't see it. You say, why did he open his eyes? He didn't have the ability. He was too low. And this is what we see God do. He comes in and he strengthens and he uplifts us and he does it a little at a time. It's a process And when we come on the other side, you know what we are we're a more matured person. We've learned lessons about God we didn't know before. There's things about our perspective that that will never be the same again. Because we see God as the one who heals and strengthens and uplifts. He says, I can't even begin to count all the ways that you demonstrate your goodness. What a totally different person. So this morning we're going to come to the Lord's table. And I think this is a great psalm for us to think about as we come to the table. God knows that we need to regularly be reminded of what he has done for us. That's why he says, as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death until he comes. This is something we have to do on a regular basis. As a body, as we come together as a church, we need to remind ourselves of his body broken, his blood shed, because that is what gives us salvation. And the Lord's table, there's an element of looking in. We are to examine the manner in which we come to the table. But that's not the primary focus of the Lord's table. This is not a Baptist confessional. This is the time for us to say, how do I come? And then to look to Jesus. The primary focus of the Lord's table is to look out. At what God has done for us. As often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show or you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. Every time we take these elements, we remind ourselves, he died, his body was broken, his blood was shed, and I'm his child because of what he did. And I'm strengthened by that. And my perspective is renewed and it's refocused because of that. That's what the table is all about. We need this renewal often. So I'd like to invite you, whether you are going to partake or not, let's our hearts. Let's prepare our hearts to take of the Lord's table. Take a moment of silence, and then I'm going to ask one of our med to come and lead us in prayer for the bread, and then together as a body, we will take the bread. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer.