Father, thank you so much for your word. Thank you for the opportunity tonight to sit under the ministry of the word. And I pray that you'll just bless our time of fellowship together, and as we encourage those who have graduated, I pray that that would be an encouragement for them, and we ask for your blessing on this whole time. In Christ's name, amen. All right, good evening everyone. I'm surmising that the folks that didn't make it back tonight, I think their tires might have stuck to the pavement. So good thing that you made it out here must have some ice outside. So we're gonna turn to page 258 And we're going to warm this place up a little bit. Page 548. Servants Heart, please stand with me. Make me a servant like you, dear Lord. Living for others each day , humble and meek, helping the week Loving and all that I say Give me Lord a servant's heart Here's my life take every part Give me Lord a servant Servant's heart Help me draw so close to you that your love comes shining through. Give me, Lord, a servant's heart. Give me more at all. Make me a witness like you, dear Lloyd. Showing the love of the cross, sharing your word. Till I 'll heard serving whatever the cause Give me, Lord, a servant's heart. Here's my life. Take every part, give me more , coming up to you , and your life. Just a page over to 550. Now channels only. All three verses How I prayed I don't agree and take a cry and give it a We are winning with all the water All we do I can do Every day and every hour is when we have Please be seated But while doing so, we're going to turn to page 577. Page 577, be strong in the Lord. Hola , chao from digital technique or like a modeling when you actually can be just like a little property. Am I the morning? We 're waiting. I am any doing well that we are. And rejoice your Lord on the blessed. Amen. This time we'll have our missions moment. Both verses He's busy. God has not given us the field, but has given us the strength to obey. With our mind, with all the telling kind, for the God has shine of his way May the noise call , it would be bad In the law find a temple, every day though we live, though we die No man must sing an eye thing to his sight is the soldier who passes for We play all the working , the running is working , be searching his work for his hand May the Lord thindust, they 're worthy of an He 's a poor Haven When they were dying , we all have me dying from expression life to love and blog The light is not well , and all me our heart is gone , if they fall from love. In the Lord signs are spawn, and in his worthy of my In the Lord find us, every day though we live going. Amen. Amen. This is an exciting service for me to have the privilege of being behind this pulpit for many different reasons. Well, one, because we're kinda honoring the graduates. I happen to know one in particular pretty well. And two, I love this service because I mean yes, the teens were at camp, but I'm under the preaching and the teaching all that a lot myself. And sometimes it's uh I kind of feel like uh a service like this, you ever have like one of those pops of you know a soda and it's you know it's one you can shake it up And you have the lid and you know it's gonna get fizzy, so you kinda gotta just gotta let a little bit, because if you open up too fast, it's gonna explode everywhere. That's about how I feel inside right now. You because you're you're so immersed and you're just so grounded in the Word of God and the encouraging things that we heard in the preaching and the teaching and just getting interact with the teens. I've it's very exciting and sometimes Uh and time it's almost hard to like settle myself and be like, let's just focus on one thing. You just want to preach the whole Bible and you just want to just like, yeah, let's just do it, let's just go. So this is just a little like ts. Okay, so that's what this service is for me. So that being said, we're going to attempt to mostly cover just one verse tonight. If you open your Bibles to Proverbs chapter 20, I'm going to relieve a little pressure in the bottle here. But in Proverbs chapter 20, we're just going to look at one verse and kind of dive through it a little bit that hopefully will be an encouraging, helpful verse in Proverbs 20 and looking at verse 24. In Proverbs 20, 24, it says, Man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man then understand his own way? Man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man then understand his own way? Father, we come before you asking that you would just use your word. to speak to believers this evening, to the graduates, to their families, to all that are here, to all that are watching Father, would you work in our lives? Help us to follow you every step of every day with every decision that we make. And Father, would we always have a desire to please you, to fear you, to honor you, and to encourage one another as we're sensitive to the Spirit, doing our best to walk with you. And would you use your word this evening to help your children be more like your son, Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. So I'm going to look at the question tonight. How can a man understand his own way? As a question. It's here in our text as a question. So how can a man understand his away? And I just ponder that thought this last week To be encouraging. I thought it would be helpful to first look at man's goings without the Lord. Because here the first part of the verse, it does say man's goings are of the Lord. But why does man's goings have to be of the Lord? What happens? Why do we need the Lord in our life? So I just want to take some thoughts and go through this and figure out what is man's goings without the Lord. Because if we turn the question around a little bit, we might see, well, you know what? Maybe I really do need the Lord. So man's going without the Lord there in verse 24, and we're going to first look at Why do we need the Lord? Well, one, without the Lord, what is man? Man simply, he has a sin nature. He is a sinner. We know this from Genesis 2. Where it says, But the tree of knowledge of good and evil, and God is telling Adam, Thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Boy, you guys are giving all the verses up there, man. They're getting way ahead of me. Alright. So, there in Genesis 2, we have the pencil of God. Don't eat of it, because you'll surely die. Now this death was not a physical death, it was a spiritual death. Keep that in mind. And we see this take place in Romans 512. I love this verse, Romans five twelve. It says Wherefore is by one man sin entered to the world, and death by sin, so that death pass upon all men, for that all have sinned. So man has a sin nature. We know Adam ate of the fruit. It's not Eve's fault. Okay, it was Adam's responsibility. He knew better. Sin had entered into the world. We know this from Romans 5. So man without God, we have a sin nature. What does that mean? That means that man is always bent, always leaning towards sin. It's kind of like sitting on a chair that's has designed with four legs, but it only has three. If you're sitting on this four-legged chair, it only has three legs. It's designed to have four. It's out of balance. You have to constantly make sure it doesn't fall to that side. In wrestling, uh, I got a chance at the father-son to teach them a little bit of wrestling. And uh when you're in the referee's position and you're in a top position, I was always trained, you break them down, you've got to take one arm away, and then you drive their body to that one arm that's broken down. Why? Because if if they're down on all fours, it's hard to get someone down. But you take away an arm and you drive towards where that arm used to be, they're going to go down much easier. That's our lean. That's our bend. Our nature is sin. Just another example of this. So it was one of the last nights. This is one of the conclusions. Pastor Jeff Redlin, he's up there preaching his heart out, and he's getting towards the end, one of the last lines of the message. And towards the end of the message, I saw this girl that she was in the last row. She was on one of these chairs. So a folding, normal folding chair. And she was kind of like rocking back and rocking back. And I thought, I should say something. I'm like, nah, the counselor's kind of there. There's other parents, you know, kind of here for this service. I thought, I should say something. Because junior high boys like to do that in Sunday school all the time. I always tell them all fours, please, just all fours. I want them to fall, bust their head or something. Right at the end of the message. He's bringing it to an end. She's on a chair designed to be on four legs. She's on not three but two. Slowly just kind of walked and wouldn't she know it? Boom! Splat crash, everyone hears, people are turning around. Pastor just he just kept on preaching, but everyone knew every it was a distraction to everyone. Why? If you're on a chair that's designed for four legs and you're bouncing on two of the four and you're rocking back and forth, what is bound to happen? You're gonna fall. Our sin nature, it is who we are. Without God, we will sin. We will continue to be sinned. That is who we are. We are sinners by birth and by choice. That's what I'm laying down here with us. And we see this in Jeremiah 10, 23. It says, O Lord, I know the way of man is not in himself. It is not in a man that walketh direct his steps. Without the Lord, man, we're just going to wander on. We're just going to do what sinners do. You know what sinners do? They sin. That's what they do. We're not. If we are not walking with the Lord and pursuing him, we are destined to sin all the more. So man's going without the Lord. Well, we have this in nature. Next, sin is what separates us from God. That is what separates us. This happened to Adam and Eve in the beginning. They separated themselves from God, made of themselves of their own clothes and God later made them better clothes and then they were kicked out of the Garden of Eden and we've been trying to get back into the presence of God ever since. Sin separates us. Praise the Lord for Jesus Christ and what he's done on our behalf. So sin separates man from God. In Proverbs 14, 12, there is a way which seemeth right unto a man. And who is man? He's a sinner. But the end thereof are the ways of death, separation. It says almost verbatim, the same thing in Proverbs 16, 25. This principle is almost verbatim. The only difference is there's a way which seemeth right. Proverbs 16 says, There's a way that seemeth right. The rest of the verse is entirely the same. There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death. So mankind on his own, he can think he's doing right, and he can think, oh I'm doing whatever I want, and it's the best way. But without God, what's it saying? The end thereof are the ways of death. Separating yourself from God. They could be a good person. They could be doing some good things. Without the Lord, you will not have a good end. In Matthew 7, we see this. It says, Enter ye at the straight gate, for wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many be there which go thereat. Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. If it was so easy to walk with God And to serve him, everyone could do it. And that everyone has the potential to do it. But in the world we live in, with our sin nature, because of our bend, because of our lean, most are going to continue to serve sin, even after salvation. But without the Lord, when we go back to the question, how can a man understand his own way? How really can he do it without the Lord? It can be challenging enough with the Lord, let alone without the Lord. So we know man has a sin nature. That sin separates us from God. Then man does what he thinks is right. We've already hinted at this, but here's some more verses. To just show what the Bible is saying about our sin nature and what man will do without God. In those days, there was no king in Israel. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And we know from the book of Judges, when it says of men that they did everything that was right in their own eyes, it was not good. It was utter chaos, it was destruction If you ever raise children and you let them make all the decisions in your house and you try and let them get along with it with everything and make all that with the kids amongst themselves, sometimes it doesn't go well. I want this, I want that. I mean you never need to eat anything And they would never and it would the things they do eat would be high fructose corn choke related or have mounds of sugar. Well, you pick your poison, you know. But I mean that 's the kind of things they do. Man left to himself. Without God, he does that which he thinks is right. Without God, it gets worse. In Proverbs 21:12, every way of man is right in his own eyes But the Lord pondereth the heart. So we can think that we're doing right. And when we think we're doing right, that's just pleasing. Self, it's self-centered. Are we asking the Lord? What way do you have me to go? And this will come more into play as I explain these words in Proverbs 20 a little bit more. In Luke 16, 15, he said unto them , Ye are they which justify yourselves before men. Are we good at that or what? If I just pause in that verse, we justify ourselves We are so good at that. Other people can do the same thing, and that's horrible, and that's wicked, and that's wrong. But if I do it, that's okay, because I did it and I have my reasons and it's me. We justify ourselves. Justify yourselves when. But God knoweth. Your hearts. For that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. Man can think he's doing right But without the Lord, and if you're just justifying yourself to point people to you and what you can accomplish and your ideas and your right way, well what about their ideas? What about their right way? And what happens if they have what happened to conflict? Then what way do you go? That's why we need the Lord. So man has a sin nature. Because of that sin, man is separated from God. And we know that man can tend to think that he is right. Man's ways are not always God's ways. Which we can obviously conclude this by now, because man's ways are not always God's ways. In Isaiah 55, for my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are my ways your ways, saith the Lord. I am thankful for that. When you look at the sin nature of man, it's comforting to know that, you know what? I am serving a God who has better ways than what I can muster up That's what I need him to be involved in my life. But without the Lord, if I'm trying to separate myself from him, I'm not concerned about his thoughts, his ways, his truth, and I try and do it my way, it's going to be a mess. We're separating ourselves from God. And it's good to know that, you know what? God does have a better way. And we'll find that He is trustworthy. In Romans 11, 33, oh the depth and the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. I love this in James. James 4 says, Go to now, ye that say, Today or tomorrow we will go into such a city, and we will continue there and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? Is even a vapor that appeareth for a time and vanishes away. So there in James 4. You have these guys. They think they got life figured out. We're going to this city. And the whole idea when you read through and you think through it, these guys, they picked the city. They've picked their occupation. They've even getting their profits and they're accounting their money. They're getting the chickens before they hatch and all that kind of stuff and they're getting all these things going. We're gonna go to this city, we're gonna make this amount of money, oh we need to be there for this amount of time, and we're getting this all figured out And the whole point is, do you really know that? I mean, you think back through your life And if we got everything that we thought we were going to get and everything went according to our plan, one, how boring would life be? But two, does that ever really happen? I mean you could have a plan. I mean even driving home yesterday. I mean I had a plan of like, okay, we'll go this way. I don't like 95. Did I say I don't like 95? I do not like 95. It takes you through the armpit of the country to some of the biggest cities and they expect you to drive on these roads Just a couple million people in her do the same thing, but hey, we'll keep the roads there, you know, and try and do construction on while we're at it. You know, we you think you can have a plan and you're trying to go your way and you think it's right. And man, I had to reroute and my little GPS thing, and I actually was, while I was stuck in traffic the first time, I was like, you know, trying to look on my phone. Don't you love technology? Sometimes. And you know, I'm looking at the map and I'm thinking, okay, we gotta get away from New York. We gotta keep going west. So we hit eighty west and go further away and I found this route. I was like, I think this'll take us down past all the traffic. Did you see all that red? Have you ever seen black? I saw black on ninety-five. I was thinking, that's not the key bridge. You know, I mean that makes sense. It's black. I mean it's not there. I said, but there was like black in the strip of ninety five. I was like, I didn't know they had that That's new. But anyway, so I was like, I gotta get away from that. So I was following. Thought it was this Route 21. I have no clue what these roads are. But this will take us all the way around all the red and that black stuff, and I think we'll make it. You know, and when the when the gas tank is getting empty and the bladders are getting full, you get desperate to lead people to a place of rest and comfort. Okay. So they did good. I don't know what Tori told his van. But the ladies did great. But you know what? If everything went according to our plan and our way one Did we do we really think that we we would get everything that we want and does everything go to our plan? I am so thankful. These guys in James 4, they think they got it all figured out. And what God is reminding us is, you know what, our life is short. And if you think you got all your tomorrows planning out, and you don't even know what you're going to eat for dinner tonight if you've had dinner or for breakfast tomorrow morning, but you got all your yesteryears already figured out and you know from the past and the future, so I know what's gonna happen. Really? Do you know that? So we've seen that man's going without the Lord in Proverbs 2024. Now, number two, I want to look at man's goings with the Lord. Lord. Man's going through with the Lord. I want to look at the verse again and point a couple things out before we get to this point. In 2024, the Word of God says, man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man then understand his own way? And without the Lord, it's nearly impossible. But here's what's interesting. When it says man 's goings, this word for man 's here is different than the man in the second part of the verse. This first word has the idea of a young strong man. And the word goings usually means steps. So you take a young strong man and you're looking at his steps. So it's saying here that a young strong man, his steps are of the Lord. Are they? should be. And then, so we kind of answered the question in that first part, but the second part here is saying it's a different word for man. And it's saying, so then how can a man, this is where the Adam, the normal word, that we would get the word Adam from, like Adam and Eve. How can a man, not a strong one, just a regular general man, how can he understand his ways when a strong man needs to take his steps unto the Lord? So without God, how really can you understand your own way? And the idea of the way here is the path. So you're taking a strong man who's trying to follow the Lord and it's one step at a time. And then the opposite here is, then how can a man Figure out his entire path, his life's journey, his road way ahead. How can he do that? And that's why God's word, it's a lamp unto our feet, and it's a light unto our path. So we see this. I want to look at a couple verses here that goes with a strong man with trust in the Lord. How does a man become strong? We're not talking physical strength. And what's physical strength in wisdom and decisions? You know, you'll pump some iron because you need to make a decision. That might help for the moment and do some stress relieving. But outside of that, in Proverbs, I love these verses. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, and lean not into thine own understanding. You can think you have life's paths figured out and you think you can know the way. In all thy ways, acknowledge him. And he shall direct thy path. He directs your way. You walk with God. You trust in him. One decision, one step at a time. Don't try and figure out all your tomorrow. It's too difficult. It's too challenging. Especially if you're 18, 17, 18, you're 22, 23, and you're looking at the whole world and thinking, I don't know what to do. I'd pull out my hair and mine's already gone. And you're just looking back and going, Whoa! A lot of big decisions and I have to make them right now Not really. That's not true. What you need to do is just take the next step that you know. One step at a time. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart and lean not unto thine own understanding. In all thy ways, acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Verse 7. And be not wise in thine own eyes. Why? To be wise in our own eyes could be foolishness before God. God is in our tomorrows. So why not trust them today? We can trust them today for this step for right now. I like to tell teenagers, I've told them stuff, oh they God's will can be this mystical, crazy thing, and I don't know. I can't understand God's will and his desires. Well there are several things that we know straight, but here's some easy. You know what the will of God is? Wake up in the morning, make your bed, brush your teeth, get dressed, spend time with God. Obey your parents. Seek Him. You just do right at that moment. If you do the little things and you just take that next step, tomorrow's will line themselves up. If you seek God here and now, today, in this step. So be not wise in thine own eyes, fear the Lord and depart from evil We know Ephesians 6:10, finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. Be strong in the Lord, not physically, but by making the steps, being willing to God, allow God to guide you in your next decision. In your next step. Whether you're graduating high school or college, whatever, you are closing that chapter. What you're doing is you're turning to the next page. You are now ready to take the next step. It's just one of those times in life where you have to make a step. First and second grade, okay, not bad deal, okay, it's it's you're going to the next grade, next grade. Then you graduate high school, you finish college There is a urgency in a sense of there is a next step. Like it or not, I have to take it. That's kind of the stress. That's kind of the challenge. Sometimes, I may this sound kind of crazy to me, but I almost enjoy that for this reason. Because it's in those moments where you recognize I don't know what to do. I kind of am freaking out. I'm stressing. I don't know what to do. Trust God. He's got you right where he wants you. If you don't know what to do, great. We've almost all been there. And just briefly, after I got saved, I was 16 years old. I didn't know what the Lord had for me. But I am thankful for these verses where it says man's goings, a strong man and his steps. Taking that next step. The night I got saved. I've heard some people say, Oh, the night I got saved. I knew God was calling me to be an evangelist or God was calling me to be a preacher. You know, and that they I knew from the moment I was saved I was gonna be doing things. I was thinking, not me. I got saved and I was thinking, okay, I don't know what that means exactly where I'm going, but hey Okay, I'm trusting in Christ as my personal savior, I understand a sinner. Alright, great. What that means, I don't know But I am so thankful that God didn't lay out the path right there for me and say, you know what, Josh, I know you're only 16, you just Christ as your Savior. You know what someday you're gonna be in front of teenagers And churches preaching. I've been like, ha ha ha, you got the wrong guy. Nope, not this guy. I'm I was like the leg cleaner. You know, when someone, you know, was talking to your mom. I was a leg cleaner. That's who I was. Even though I was the oldest, on occasion people would ask my younger brother questions. We were all 15 months apart. Sometimes people would ask him a question, I'd answer for him, but that was not always the normal. As I was being a little bit older, but I was younger. I mean, I remember clinging to my mother's leg. That that's who I was. And so at 16, I wasn't the most outgoing. I wasn't the most talkative. I was just the quiet, you know, I was the little guy on campus. I'm just hoping that someone doesn't pick on me. And they just enjoy that fear of, well, he wrestles, so I don't know what that means. You know how much that saved me in high school? They're thinking this guy's gonna quit twisting the knot. And I'm like, if he saddled me wrong, I'd be over Okay. But you know, I am so thankful that God leads one step at a time. Had God revealed to me all of that shortly, even shortly after being saved, I probably would have freaked out I wouldn't have gone to Nineveh Nineveh either. I've been like, no way, I'm going the opposite direction. I am so thankful that God did that. And you know what? It was one step at a time. And it was okay. I think, you know what? If there is a Christian college, I think I want to go to one. That's where my life was at 16. And then that didn't even happen until 18. You know, I'm 18, I'm thinking, you know, maybe I should think about college. I'm 18, I'm trying to figure out next steps, and I don't know what to do. The life is crazy. I'm supposed to make all these decisions now? Really? I'm just so thankful. And so he worked in my life and it was, okay, Christian college. Then he guided me to Christian college at that time. And then after getting there, I changed my major. I thought, I don't know. And then every step along, and it wasn't until my junior year that I realized, like, you know, I think the Lord is calling me to be in the ministry. I don't even know what that means. But I think I'm going to be doing that And then once and then it was okay you need to go on and get your masters. But had you told me at 16 years of age or 18 when I'm graduating high school saying this is your plan and this is where God's gonna take you, I would have freaked out. I would have lost my hair earlier. Okay. That's what would happen. So I am so thankful that a man's goings, that a strong man is strong because he is trusting in the next step, not your tomorrows, not in the whole path. Because how can a man really understand his own way? Really? The God that's in tomorrow's, He will lead you and guide you. But if you don't take this next step, and I've seen many times since then where I've been put in situations where I knew the right decision. And sometimes you wrestle and you struggle with that inside and you're like, oh I know what to do, but I just don't want to do it. But then as you obey, and I have taken that step and I've obeyed and I just did, even if it was hard, there are some times where you have to make some hard decisions. That are going to change the direction of your family. And as a father of four and as a husband of a wonderful wife, you're thinking, oh man, Lord, this is going to be tough. But as you pray about it and as you pour over it, God, what is my next step? And as you ponder his word and you seek the Lord You learn to trust in him and absolutely depend upon him for that next step. But here's what happens. I've seen it time and time again, and the difficult ones are the ones that are more memorable. But you take and you make that decision. And then after the decision is made, not only do you get a great piece about it, but it's like, oh, there's a next step revealed. It's like I wouldn't have thought of that. I didn't see that coming. I can't tell you how many times that's happened in my life. Really? That's how but it wouldn't have happened or a situation wouldn't have unfolded in such a way had if I didn't make that decision when I did I'd still be sure because you're sc how is God gonna lead you in your next step if you don't take the ones in front of you right now? How is God gonna lead you in your tomorrow if today you're not doing what you're supposed to do? Trust in the Lord with all your heart. A man's goings are with the Lord. I love this passage in Jeremiah 17. In Jeremiah 17, 5, it says, Thus saith the Lord, cursed be the man. This is the strong man here. This is the word for the strong one. Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, not the strongest. This is a strong man trusting in the general man, a worldly type more idea. And maketh flesh his arm, whose heart departeth from the Lord. Why is a strong man, one that loves the Lord, giving his advice and following someone that doesn't follow the Lord? That's what he's saying here. He's departing from the Lord. Don't do that. We know those steps, but sometimes people can be so persuasive. Sometimes sin can be so enticing, but it can lead us astray. For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see when good cometh, but shall inhabit the purchase of places of the wilderness and the land and the in the salt land not inhabited. Blessed is the man, that's the strong man, this is the opposite now, that trusteth in the Lord. Whose hope, whose confidence is in the Lord. So where's a strong man? What's his strength? It's in making the right decision at the right time. God, you help me make the right decision right now. And if I do that, then God will give you the next step. You just do what you need right now, today. So if you're just graduating high school or college and there's a next step, see God. It's okay to not know. Sometimes I think that's where God wants us, because then he's saying, Yes, you do need me. I don't want you to put any part. That's a part of growing up too, I think. I think that's why I almost enjoy because it's like you have to depend on God. People are not always going to be there, but the Lord always is. So here, blessed is a man that trusteth in the Lord and whose hope is in the Lord. For he shall be a tree planted by the waters, and that spreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see you when the heat cometh. But her leaf shall be green, and shall not be careful in the year of drought. So you will have strength. You don't know what your tomorrow is bringing, but you can have strength in him from the Lord. Neither shall cease from yielding fruit. The heart is a why is all this happened? The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? Because if you can understand your own heart and where it leads you, that's why you need the Lord to trust in him, and you're blessed if you are. Verse 10. I, the Lord, search the heart. I try the reins. Even give every man according to his ways and according to the fruit of his doings. So if you choose to follow God, and as a man you choose to trust in God, well there will be your fruit. If you choose to trust in a man whose heart is deceitful and wicked, just like our own, well then you're going to get what the fruit that you're choosing. So with that being said, we must move on. A strong man will trust in the Lord And here's what's interesting. I've kind of been talking about this, but I think a next logical step. Man picks his path. You can pick your path. You think you're going as you take a step and you think you know where you're going, but God is going to straighten your step. God, I think this is the way I'm supposed to go. I'm going to take this next step. And I think this is the path that you have for me. And you know what God's going to do is go, okay, thank you for trusting in me And as you step and as you think you know where you're going with the path, God is just going to be there guiding you along the way. No, no, no, don't go that way. No, don't go this way. Obviously, you don't want to do evil and sin. Those are the obvious things. But as you trust in the Lord and as you're walking with him, listen to these verses. In Proverbs 25, 12. What man is he that feareth the Lord? Him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose. As you're walking with God, God will lead you. Psalm 3723, the steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he deleted in his way. See the steps of a good man, they're ordered by the Lord will help you with your steps. Are you going to trust him to take the next one? You know one thing I love about King Camp? Some of the things that they preach, it's like, yeah, we already know that. But in that atmosphere And when you take it and they're just immersed in God's word and they're free from distractions, it's like, yes, I know that. I need to be willing to do it. A lot of it's not like brand new. Oh, I never knew that. Now for some maybe. If you've grown up in church. You know some of these things. Are you going to take that next step? Knowing that God is going to be with you, helping you through the way. And are you going to delight in his way? God, I want to delight in where you lead me and guide me. I'm going to do it one step at a time. In Proverbs 16, 9, a man's heart deviseth his way. But the Lord directeth his steps. So sometimes you can you take that next step and I think this is where this step is going to take me down this path. And God is going to be thank you for trusting in me. I'm going to help you and now I'm going to give you the next step. He's going to guide and he's going to direct. I've seen it in my life. That's how God has guided me. And this is. I think this is one way I can help those. You have a next step. You're graduating, high school, college, your next step is in front of you. What will it be? Trust in him. It it'd be a I s it it makes me want to have one of these moments. You know, congratulations. You're about to make some of the biggest decisions of your life. You just finished high school, you just finished college. It makes you just want to sit down with them and be like, listen, how can I summarize God? How can I summarize what you're supposed to do in your life? There is a God who loves you. There's a God we need to fear. He's given us his word. He has held back nothing for you. You can trust him. You need to fear him. Where will it take you? I have no idea. I had plans for my life Did I end up being a wide receiver in the NFL? Nope. But boy did I want that for a long time. And I was going to play for the Seattle Seahawks, too. Steve Argent was my man. If you don't know who he is, look it up. But you just want to sit down and be like, listen, I can't I can't tell you all of God's ways and all of his future for you. you I cannot. Who really can? What I can tell you is trust in God now. Fear him and the one who loves you far better than I could ever possibly dream of loving you. If you are willing to fear and trust in him, you will have a great delight and abundance blessing and where he takes you. That's what I would love to do with every graduate. You just sit down and just how can you summarize God and His Word in these things? It's difficult. It's challenging. God will guide you and direct you. Now I want to end with looking at taking that first step. Because there is a step in front of you right now. There are March times in life where you have to take a step. This just gets to be the joy of one of them. So I want to share some examples. Of people that have taken that step. In Genesis 12, 1. Now the Lord had said to Abraham, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house, unto a land I will show thee. This is his next step. Did he say exactly where he was going? Did he share all his plans? Did God lay out all his plans for Abraham right there? No, he's just simply saying right there. He's saying, I want you to leave where you're at. Leave your family, leave where you've grown up, and I want to lead you to a land that I will tell you to be of. His next step was start packing your bags. Start walking. That was Abraham's first step. Just do that Later, ten chapters later, Genesis 22, 2, and he said, Take now thy son, thine own son Isaac, whom thou lovest And get to the land of Moriah and offer him there for burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of. Now this is a struggle for all kinds of reasons. But the point I'm making here with taking a step is he says, I'll tell you what mountain. Right now you just need to pack your things. Just start walking. Would God have told him what mountain if he first didn't pack up and start going? I mean it's conjecture at this point, but how can God lead you and tell you the specific place if you don't start obeying right now? If he never left back in Genesis 12, would he have had an Isaac to go to a certain mountain? Well, we'd rarely never know. But the point is you have to take the step you know now. You don't have to figure out exactly every plan in the future. You don't. You take the next step. I love this one In Joshua 3. 5, this one was used at camp, so I just could not not use it. And as they bare the ark that were come unto Jordan. And the feet of the priests that bear the ark were dipped in the brim of the water, for the Jordan overfloweth all the banks, all the time of harvest, that the waters came down from above, and stood and rose up upon a heap. Now here here's what happened. Here, you've got these priests. They're bearing the ark. There's probably about four of them, you know, on the four corners of the ark. They're walking. Their instructions were you keep walking and your feet are gonna get wet. Just keep walking. They had to step into the water. And I can all kinds of things go into the mind. And I can imagine thinking, okay, Jordan's banks are overflowing. See what that means? If it's overflowing, it's gonna start real shallow first. So we'll be okay for a while. But something better happened because we're marching the ark into water. It's gonna be hard to swim with one arm, and this thing isn't light. Takes four guys to bear this thing. But what did they have to do? Sometimes we need to exercise that step and just obeying God in the faith of this next step. They knew they had to walk and get their feet wet they do step into the water and then after after they got their feet wet and stepped in the water then what happened Then it stops and it pile up in a giant heap. Could you imagine that? If they step into the water and they just watch it stuff and pile it up. Wow, that is amazing. Would that have happened if they didn't get their feet wet first If they didn't take that step of obedience and just that next step of getting in the water, would that have happened? They wouldn't have seen the amazing work of God. It wouldn't have happened. Would God continue to lead them and guide them if they didn't first get their feet wet and take that next step? Look at Ruth 116. And Ruth said, Entreat me not to leave thee, nor return from following after thee. For whether thou goest I will go, and whether thou lodgest, I will lodge. Thy people shall be thy people, and thy God my God. You know what this took? This took Ruth literally two steps and I'm going to walk with you one step of the way back to your house and to your people and to your God Her sister walked the other way. Ruth took the steps, literally, and walked with Naomi. That's the steps she had to take. And Esther. And it was so. This is 5-2. When the king saw Esther the Queen, Standing in the court, she obtained favor in his sight, and the king had out the golden scepter that was in his hand. So Esther drew near and touched the top of the scepter. You cannot just go into the king's presence being unannounced. And this is where she, if I perish, I perish. She had to open the door and by faith be willing to take that step in there. Once she starts walking there, her life is now on the line. And as she walked there on behalf of her people, because she believed that was what to do, and then we know such a time as this, but she had to physically walk in. and take the steps and then walk all the way up to the king as he if he did not lower her scepter she would die. Talk about a step of not knowing the future. And what happened? Great blessing. For all end of the people being saved through that. The Jewish people were saved because she took that next step. What happens if she wouldn't have taken that step? Well, in that case, a lot of Jews probably would have ended up dead. Now we don't know these things. The point I'm making is people had difficult decisions. There were some big steps that had to be taken. And I love this one. Matthew 14, 29. We give Peter a hard time a lot of times. But you know what? I really love that I can relate with Peter. Not only did he put both feet in his mouth sometimes, but he just he could be bold. And he said, come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, there's winds, there's wave, it's a mess out there. Jesus is walking on the water. And Jesus says unto him, he says, come out of the ship. And he walked on the water to go to Jesus. How do you walk on the water if you don't get out of the boat and take that first step? To walk on water. I mean who would have thought? Is that even possible? But had he how do you walk on water if you're not taking that first step out of the way? of the boat. We can get distracted, and Peter did. And we know that Christ reached down and picked him up, but the point I'm making is he had to take that first step. Had he ever could I mean If he didn't do that, could he have ever walked on water? No. Would he seen how great and how quick God did to grab up and pulp out of the water? Christ literally did it quickly. But it didn't happen until he took that first step. We have some and you can pick tons of examples. But there's a time in our life When there's a next step in front of us. And how can a man understand his own way apart from the Lord? What makes a strong man Is taking that next step and trusting God. Does it mean you have it all figured out? Nope. Does it mean that you know what's going to happen and there's going to be great bountiful blessings in every step of the way? Nope. But obey God in the next step. If you're finishing high school, going to the college, if you're going into the job, you just walk with God one step at a time So you finish college or your master's and you're going on. You take the next step. Walk with God. Fear Him. Love Him. A strong man's goings are of the Lord. Let the word of God lead you and guide you. One step at a time. I think that's how God works. I know that's how He worked in my life, but I really think as we study this out, one step. What makes a strong man strong? God, I will obey, I will trust, and yes, I will depend on you for the next step. I don't know what that means. I don't know exactly where that goes, but what I know now is To trust and depend upon you, and that my goings can be of the Lord. And what makes me strong is the fact that I am trusting in a God who knows tomorrow He is my strength, and I am trusting in Him. Would we understand that and then for our graduates, you are trusting in Almighty God who's already there. For anyone else that's just living life, we're all here, we're all breathing. We have next steps before us. What to do with my family? What to do with my children? We don't have to have the answers. That's the great thing. Trust in God one step at a time and see where he leads you. Guys, you great things have happened to men and women throughout history because they trusted in God and took that next step. So, how can a man understand his own way? Apart from God, you will not. But a strong man will take that next step by faith, trusting in God. One step at a time. Father, I thank you and just praise you for you being a God worth trusting in. And we really just focus on one verse and one main idea. Father, would you be with those that have some big decisions before them? It is not easy. It's not designed to always be easy. God, in those moments. Would we recognize how dependent we are on you? How much we need to trust in you. We don't have to have it all figured out. Help each one of us, from graduates to all that are watching even online, that as we walk with you, be one step of obedience at a time. Time and watch you work in us and through us as we do our best to obediently by trusting in you and by following you through your word. And we ask you to be with your people. And we ask all this through Christ's name. Amen. Pastor. Thanks for that. One of the Psalms that was mentioned was Psalm 37, and really want to encourage our young people who are kind of at that point where you're starting to feel a little pressure, you know. Am I supposed to go to this school, that school, take this job, that job, those kinds of things? Um encourage you, spend time in Psalm 37. It is one of the absolutely most helpful songs that you will read. And then the second thing I would encourage you to do is sit down with someone who loves the Lord, has biblical wisdom, and can just talk through the issue with. I would really encourage you to do that. And um it is a little bit scary to take steps when you don't know what's gonna go uh beyond. But that's how life is. Every step you take, you do not know what's going to happen down the road. And that 's not something we need to be terrified about. It's in God's hands, and He is going to work through those choices that we make. And when we take godly choices, he works through that. He blesses that. And so don't be afraid. Read Psalm 37. Reach out to somebody who loves the Lord, has wisdom, can talk through that with you, and uh trust God with the steps that you take. Alright, well let's go ahead and pull out our hymn books for our closing hymn, and our closing hymn is 575. Stand up. Stand up for Jesus. Let's stand up and we'll sing verses 1, 3, and 4 of 575. Just your Jesus Jesus. Well, we have a fellowship tonight, so uh when we close in prayer, we're gonna thank the Lord for the refreshments that are back there. And uh if you are a graduate during the prayer time We'll ask you to be dismissed to the back so that you can be back there and folks can just go and share their congratulations and be an encouragement to you. And uh, kids, stay with your mom and dad as you go through the line. Um it's not a lot of food, it's mostly light refreshments, uh, but um Looking forward to a good time. Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to bless uh our graduates as they will be heading off to Some of them new seasons of life, some aren't necessarily set head heading off anywhere, but God will be working in their lives. So let's bow for prayer. Our Father, I thank you so much for The summer season where many of our young people have finished up school, some high school, some college, some graduate school. And I thank you for the way you've worked in their lives. I pray that you'd help them as they have important decisions ahead of them. But they would not get so caught up in trying to figure out the future, but rather they would be concerned about just doing right today. Give them wisdom. Open up doors of opportunity for them. Help them to pursue those things. Help them to endure when they encounter difficulty. Help them to walk in a path that is clearly the kind of path that a Christian ought to walk down. And I pray that you would just bless them and their endeavors, help them to be faithful, young men and young women as they desire to serve you and do what is right. Father, bless our time of fellowship in the back. Bless the food that we'll enjoy. Thank you for the hands that work to prepare that time. And I pray that you would just help us to have a wonderful time of encouragement together. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.