Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, morning reflection. And if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it with me and we will look together at James chapter 2. And we are studying verses 19 through 26. James chapter 2, verses 19 through 26. This morning we are continuing the discussion that we had yesterday on faith and works. So today we'll look at 19 to 26. I'll begin reading. Thou believest that there is one God. Thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. But wilt thou, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Seeest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect. And the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, not by faith only. Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works when she had received the messengers. And it sent them out another way. For as the body without the Spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also Now when we come to this passage of Scripture, let's keep in mind that this is a continuation of our discussion from yesterday. And it's not just a continuation of our discussion from yesterday, but it's really a continuation of the entire discussion that James has been having on this issue of the trying of our faith. and how it produces patients and how we're to respond when we're going through testing. So let me summarize this little section of a big storyline with this statement. The passage reminds us that our profession of faith will convincingly reveal its authenticity before other people when it's tested. And so if people are going to actually believe that what we say about our faith is true, then they're going to make that judgment based on what they can see, not necessarily just what we tell them. And so this is a continuation of that. So let's look at a couple of important observations that help us to understand the big picture here. The first observation is this. Our Christianity must go beyond a simple stated doctrinal proposition. Notice what he says in verse 19. He says, Thou believest that there is one God. Thou doest well. The devils also believe and tremble. Now when James is making this statement, he's referring to something called the Shemach, and that's something we find in Deuteronomy chapter 6, where it says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God is one. It's a statement of doctrinal belief that the Jewish people would have used often. And by the way, the statement is true. The statement's a great statement. It's a great doctrinal proposition. His point though is that your faith has to be more than simply a stated doctrinal proposition. Maybe another way to put it is throughout church history there have been different statements of faith, creeds. That were stated in different churches. We have the Westminster Confession, the London Baptist Confession, the Apostles Creed. These are historic documents that were statements of faith that some churches would even would even actually say them routinely when they were in church services. And his point is that the statement is good. But the statement alone, being able to state it, is not enough for you to actually have genuine faith. In verse 20, he says, Wilt thou know, O man? That faith without works is dead. In other words, this kind of faith, and I put the word faith in question marks, because he's saying this is a profession of faith. It could be genuine, it might not be genuine. That's going to actually kind of flush out by time, and we'll see if it's true or not. But real faith involves more than just a statement of facts. In other words, real faith is not just something that we have with our minds. It's not just a body of facts that we can regurgitate, we can state. It involves the mind knowing a body of facts. Those truths begin to sink into my heart and they move my heart so that I'm actually compelled by them, I'm convicted by them, I'm encouraged by them. In other words, through the preaching of the gospel, I can't just tell you what it says. My heart's been impacted by the gospel. And as my mind knows truth and as my heart is responding to truth, I'm compelled to, from my will, trust in the truth. And that's what faith really is. And that's the point that he's making. Just because you can state something that's true doesn't mean you actually believe it. A second observation that we see, as our faith matures, it convincingly reveals that it's authentic to other people. That means that as I've believed, maybe when I was a child or when I was a teenager, when I was in college, I placed my faith in Christ. I stated, I believe in the gospel, and people said, okay, I accept that. As that faith in Christ matures, as it develops, as it's tested I'm going to be in situations where people are going to be able to see that in fact what I stated to be true is very much true. It's authentic. It's not just a statement of belief, but it's an actual body of facts that have changed to me. And so James uses the example of Abraham. In fact, he's going to use two examples. He uses the example of Abraham to help us help us to understand this simple truth that we just stated. In verse 21, he says this Was not Abraham, our father, justified by works when he offered Isaac, his son upon the altar? Now this is really interesting. We know when God declared Abraham righteous. We know what the basis of that declaration was. We know what the means of that declaration was We go to Genesis chapter 15, and we see that God made a promise to Abraham, and that promise was connected to what we call the Abrahamic covenant, and ultimately it was part of the gospel message. And when when Abraham heard that from God, He believed it, and when he believed it, God declared him righteous. God justified him. God saved him. In other words, the basis of his justification was the coming of the Messiah. The means through which God justified him was his faith in the message of the coming of Messiah. The time that he was justified was decades before the event that James is referring to here. In Genesis chapter 22 is when we find the story of Abraham being willing to offer his son Isaac. So the question is, why in the world does James use That example of Abraham being justified, when clearly the scripture tells us that Abraham was justified in Genesis 15. And it was by faith alone, it was by trusting in the coming of the gospel. Well, the reason that he uses this illustration, that he's looking at the moment that Abraham was declared righteous, he's looking at it in the eyes of the people that are observing. In other words, this is an example of James not looking at the moment God declared him righteous. He's looking at the moment that the observer You, me, Old Testament Christians, the disciples, whoever's listening to this uh reflection of this this this story of Abraham's life, the moment that they become convinced, the observer, Abraham is righteous before God. This man truly believes in the gospel. He's a believer. In other words, his example is not when God declared him righteous. His example is when we, the observer, become convinced that he's righteous. And notice the way he put the way it's worded is very important. In verse 22, he says, seeest thou. In other words, the observer, not God, is the one making the declaration here. Notice the basis of this declaration, how faith wrought with his works and by works was made manifest. In other words, the basis of this declaration that you and I are making about Abraham was not his faith that we don't have the ability to see. It's the evidence of the faith that we can observe. Remember yesterday we saw that the only way to demonstrate an invisible internal quality like faith is to let time reveal its presence through the change that it makes in people's lives. So I can't see if a person has faith. I can, I can, I can hear what they say. But it's something that's internal, it's invisible. But if I watch their life, if I listen to the way that they speak under pressure and in circumstances, I see their responses. I begin to see the evidence of faith that's internal being revealed in what they do. And that's the point that he's making. We become convinced that someone's saved, that someone has faith. when we see the evidence of their faith. And that's the example that he's using here. Abraham's faith matured over time and it manifested itself in an observable way. Unquestionably, we know Abraham's a believer when he's willing to offer his son Isaac. I mean what an unbelievable example of his faith in the Lord. We see this the second example that he uses. At the end, in verse 23, it says, he gives this conclusion. I think it's important that we don't miss this. The scripture was fulfilled, which saith Abraham believed God, it was imputed unto him for righteousness. And he was called the friend of God. In other words, what the scripture said to be true about Abraham in Genesis 15, we now are able to verify in Genesis chapter 2 The scripture was fulfilled. In other words, what God said was true about Abraham, we now see it. We see a third observation. The way that we're declared righteous before God and the way that we're declared righteous before people, it's actually different. Now, someone might say, how how where do you get that from? Well, notice what he says in verse 24. Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only. Now if we look at this as a statement of the way that God justifies people, then that's really in conflict with the rest of Scripture. I mean clearly the rest of Scripture says that we are justified by faith alone in Christ. I mean, Romans 3, 4, and 5. You look at that entire section, and it's very clear that by the works of the law there's no flesh justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. We see that clearly articulated in Romans chapter 3, 4, and 5. So then when he makes this statement, you see that by works a man is justified, not by faith only. You go, well, well how does that how does that connect with the rest of Scripture? And the way that it connects with the rest of Scripture is James is saying this. There are two different ways you're justified. One is before God, and one is before other people. What he's basically saying is God justifies us by faith, which he can see. You can't see a person's faith. I can't see a person's face. There's no way I can validate a profession of faith based upon something that I have no ability to see. But God can see it. And so when Abraham believed in the Lord, God declared him righteous. His righteous righteousness was imputed to Abraham. God said, not guilty, I've saved you. Why can God make that declaration? Because God has the ability to see the heart. He knows what's going on inside. He knows what's going on in our thinking. He knows where our will has set. He knows where our heart is. He knows that Abraham was truly trusting in the coming promise of the Messiah. On the other side, we become convinced of a person's profession of faith by what we can see. That's the evidence of faith. That's what people do. And so verse 24 is basically saying, God declares us righteous on the basis of faith. We recognize that someone is righteous on the basis of what we observe. That's the evidence of their faith. And then he gives the example of Rahab in verse twenty-five. He says, Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, when she had received the messengers and had sent them out another way Basically, what he's saying is that the spies believed or were convinced that Rahab had faith in the God of Israel when she was willing to put her life on the line to assist them. So he's not suggesting that oh Rahab was justified before God when she hid the spies and sent them out. Or Abraham became justified before God when he was willing to offer a son Isaac. That's not what James is saying James is saying, you're convinced, and I'm convinced, that Rahab was a believer, that Abraham was a believer. Because of what we saw, the evidence of their faith that was residing in their souls. Fourth observation. True faith is alive, and because it's alive, you can see the evidence of its presence. In verse 26, he puts it this way. As the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. If something is alive, there will be evidence, there will be signs. That it's alive. And he says, your faith is that way. Your faith is something that's not dead. It's not something that is inanimate. Faith is a quality that produces things. That motivates us to do things and respond a certain way. And so we said, faith is alive, and we need to understand that So how can we apply this this morning? Let me give you a couple of simple applications that I think appropriately flow from this discussion that James has had in this passage. The first is this. Let's take our time with young believers to let the evidence of new life in Christ begin to reveal itself before we rush to validate their profession of faith. Let's say you're working with your kids, and a lot of children that grow up in Christian homes make a profession of faith when they're very young. They're concerned about their soul. They ask mom and dad questions. They ask the Lord to save them when they're three, four, five, six years old. Later on, as they get older, a lot of times they begin to doubt. And you know why that is? It's because they don't remember what happened on that day that they were sitting down with mom and dad. They become very concerned about their souls. Let me encourage you. Rather than taking a child back to that moment when you remember as an adult them praying and asking God to save them, why don't you Give them ask them questions about what they actually believe. In other words, don't rush to give them this confidence. I know you're saved because when you were two and three and four, you prayed and asked the Lord to save me. You don't know what they were thinking at that time You don't know what they believed at that time. You don't know if they truly understood the gospel. You don't know if that prayer to ask God to save them was associated with genuine understanding of the gospel and faith in Christ. Be patient. Take your time. Let what your kids believe begin to reveal itself and how they respond to you and circumstance in Scripture. And always take them back to this question, what do you believe about the gospel? What are you trusting in? Second statement. Let's be realistic in our evaluation of others and realize we can't see the whole picture You know, think about it for a moment. You're watching a a a a football game and you're up in the stands. You are you're pretty far away from what's going on. You see all these players running up and down the field, throwing the ball, catching the ball, tackling, blocking, all those things. You have no question in your mind that all those people are alive and well. And all of a sudden, there's a terrible injury on the field. A player is laying on the ground motionless. Let me ask you a question. Is he alive or dead? Well from the stands you don't know. The only way you know is you gotta go down to the fields and you gotta check his vital signs. The truth is that his vital signs are there, he's just as alive now, laying on that field, as he was when he was catching the ball and running. But the evidence is not as clear from a distance. The truth is that there are many Christians who they're not as healthy as other Christians, and they're not growing as fast as other Christians, and they're not where they need to be necessarily. And so there are evidences of life in them, but they're not as prominent as the person who's maturing and growing. And so I want to encourage you that when we think about this issue of faith and works, we are realistic in how we evaluate other people. Let's not forget that Rahab did lie when she was sending the spies out. Let's remember that that Abraham did a lot of sinful things between Genesis 15 and Genesis 22. Yet Abraham was absolutely a believer. Abraham was a believer when he told his wife, lie to preserve my life. In other words, we need to realize that even people who are genuinely saved uh stumble at times and their faith in Christ is not as apparent because of the circumstance they're dealing with. Number three, let's remember that It's the testing of our faith that ultimately provides these opportunities to give observable evidence of faith, of faith in Christ. This conversation in Genesis chapter 2 about faith and works, it's not detached from what James has said in James chapter 1. When he's talking about the trying of our faith producing patience and letting patience have her perfect work, when he talks about the importance of responding correctly to God in trials, He's connecting that conversation with this one right here. That means that when our faith is tested It doesn't just mature us. It doesn't just teach us things about God. It validates before other people the reality of what we confess to them. That means that when I tell somebody I'm a Christian and then I'm under pressure and they see the evidence of faith in Christ, that's when they become convinced of its reality. And so we need to see that the discussion on faith and works is connected to the discussion on trials and temptation. And lastly, I'll mention this. When we're trying to communicate truth, realize that part of the power of the message is the evidence that it's changed us. You know, think about your children. You tell them that church is important, but you don't come regularly. You tell them that it's important to read God's Word, yet they've never seen you open a Bible and read it. You tell them that you believe in prayer, but you don't regularly gather the family together and pray and see God's work. If I tell somebody to believe something, maybe I'm preaching the gospel, maybe I'm communicating, trusting God in a set of circumstances, and what I'm telling them is absolutely true. But it's not changed me. That really undercuts the power of the message to that person. As a messenger who is delivering truth, I'm actually a stumbling block on some level to the person that I'm speaking to. But when I'm giving truth, I'm proclaiming the gospel, I'm saying this is what God says, we need to do this, and I'm doing it, and there's a clear evidence in my life. That that message has changed me. I believe it, and I'm living in the light of it. That is very powerful. And that is one of the ways that God is able to reach in the lives of people. through the preaching and teaching of his word. And he's able to convince them and convict them and bring them to a right set of thinking where they respond correctly to the truth. It's through the the power of the change that it brings to his servant. And so let's keep that in our minds this morning. If this message, this study this morning has been an encouragement to you, hope you take a moment, just jot down a note, and if it's been a blessing, I hope you consider sharing it so that others can be encouraged by it. It's been good to see you this morning. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then uh we'll catch up with you the next time we're together. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to study your word. Take these truths and implant them in our souls Help us to live in the light of them, and I pray that you would strengthen us through them, and we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. It's been good to see you this morning, and we will see you, Lord willing, next time. For the next couple of days I won't be able to do these devotionals because I have commitments in the morning, but uh on Monday we will pick back up in the book of James. Have a great day. Bye now.