Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our morning service and looking forward to a great week. This is the week of Vacation Bible School. And we'll have a little bit more to say about that later on. But really want to encourage you, please keep our church and family in prayer as we just have a lot going on this week. And also want to encourage you to pray for the Lepley family. as Bruce passed away this week very unexpectedly. If you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we hope that you feel very warmly welcomed. And I hope that you received a welcome packet. And inside that packet is a connection card. And if you'd like us to reach out to you and just be an encouragement to you in any way that we can, please take a moment, fill that card out. and put it in the little box in the back and we will reach out to you. May not happen this week with vacation Bible school going on, but definitely within the next two weeks. And we just hope that you feel very warmly welcomed. A couple of announcements, then we'll open up our service in prayer. Good morning. As Pastor Saying, we have VVS this week. Just an exciting opportunity to have be praying, praying for the weather. Bring for the opportunity to all the kids. I believe we have over a hundred registered teens and children. And that includes for the Sunday, or sorry, during the morning, during the day from 10 to 12. There's also a teen rally. If you are interested in having to invite anyone to the VBS though, there are flyers at the welcome desk. It includes all information, times, and kind of what we're covering, as well as a QR code to scan with your cell phones. on how to register children. But this week, this morning, following the Sunday morning service, down here on the right behind the piano, we're going to have a BBS meeting. This meeting is for leaders and counselors. um only so if you're not one of those two categories you don't have to worry about this meeting. Um vacation Bible school this week is a large, very big exciting opportunity. But next week following the Sunday mor or sorry, Sunday evening there's a teens spiritual And then next week we have senior luncheon, college and career, the breakfast and visitation. There are signups on the hallway. If you'd like to head down towards the Bolton boards and sign up for those, you may, but be praying this week for the opportunities that we have with So many little ones. Open our service with reading scripture out of Psalm forty. We will start with verse 1 of Psalm 40. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock and established my goings. He hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. Many, O Lord my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done, and thy thoughts, which are to usward, they now cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. Sacrifice and offering that dost not desire. Mine ears hast thou opened. Burnt offering and sin hast thou not required. Then said I , Lo, I come. In the volume of the book it is written of me, and I delight to do thy will. O my God, yea, thy law is within my heart. I have preached righteousness in the great congregation. Lo, I have not refrained my lips, O Lord, thou knowest. I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart. I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation. I have not concealed thy loving-kindness and thy truth from the great congregation. This morning we will focus on our worship and rejoice in God's merciful deliverance. Please let's bow together for prayer and to remind you if you're planning to partake of the Lord's table and you don't have your elements, uh pick them up during the first uh stanza of the first hymn. That we're seeing. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we come before you this morning, and first of all, we are so grateful that we come before you as saved individuals. We are righteous in Christ and forgiven. And the only reason for that is the work of Christ. We're thankful for the cross where he shed his blood and our sin debt was paid in full. We thank you for the resurrection that demonstrated his power over sin and death and gives us, gives a basis for us to be made alive in Christ. and become your children. Father, I pray that this morning, as the Word of God is opened, that you would take it and minister very richly to our hearts. Father, I pray that every grieving heart, every hurting heart, every weary heart, every heart that is troubled Would be uplifted and strengthened by the Word of God as it ministers to us. I pray that the Holy Spirit would move in our midst in a way that only you can move. And that we would leave this place having been uplifted and strengthened and blessed. Father, I pray that this week your hands would move in every circumstance that we encounter Father, give us wisdom for every challenge. Give us strength as we deal with heavy burdens. I pray that you would be with those who are in great affliction at this moment. Uplift and strengthen them. And Father, I pray that this day would be a day that is very Christ-centered and encouraging. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning. Thank you so much for joining us for worship here at Anchor Baptist Church. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number 157. 157. Grace. Greater than our sin. We'll sing all three verses. Bray, prayer, so I can 't. I want me to speak in space, but in a following break , praise for me , for a year , And back just one page to one fifty-six How can it be? We'll sing all four verses How it ain't We will have my corn and in the present bleeding on my fruit. Thou cruise as long, turn all thy suffering was for me and read. And Oh my god, if we don't Oh and free from my belly, loving my own. This came to rescue all of the life and be coming. Amen. Please be seated as we turn over to him number two hundred ninety-nine. Arise, my soul, arise. 299. For this one we'll sing the first, second, third, and the fifth verse. All my criticals that goes , I believe we see Amen. Great singing. Our scripture reading this morning will be found in the Psalms. We'll be in Psalm number 40 this morning. Psalm number 40, we'll be reading verses eleven through seventeen. Psalm number forty, verses eleven through seventeen. The scriptures say, Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O Lord. Let thy loving kindness and thy truth continually preserve me For innumerable evils have come past me about. Mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up. They are more than the hairs of mine head Therefore, my heart faileth me. Be pleased, O Lord, to deliver me. O Lord, make haste to help me. Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it. Let them be driven backward and put to shame them that wish me evil. Let them be desolate for a reward of their same that say unto me, aha, aha Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee. Let such as love thy salvation say continually, The Lord be magnified. But I am poor and needy. Yet the Lord thinketh upon me. Thou art my help and my deliverer. Make no tarrying, O my God. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. And Blue James Gully do this? Any ma'am, let's continue our singing this morning. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number 336. 336. We'll be singing My Hope is in the Lord. We'll sing verses 1 and 2. We'll take a break to greet one another on that third verse and then we'll come back together and sing that last verse. First together. Three hundred thirty six, my hope is in the Lord. My brother could be and may not mind. No married by the I only bought it when she was Plan it all in my bright enemy, and my night and work on my Great singing. Our last song before the sermon will be in our blue book, Complete in thee. 192 in our blue books. We'll be singing All four verses, and as per our tradition, we'll sing that last verse, Acapella. Sing out, complete in thee. Complain and be no work of mine, making near war the blame of mine, thy one that water. And I am now not written. I am not waiting and I am we 're not waiting to be away from my life I would say I was a car, but I was not called me alive. We can leave one of mine, and those who are feeling to me I said that I 'm one of me. I am Dear Savior when before I bar, all try and tons of them are Among thy toes, and will I be at thy right hand completely Yes, this part of the bottom, and take it by Thy one but for me and glorified. Amen. Please be seated. There will never be a sweeter story. Story of my Savior's love. Divine love that brought him from the realms of glory. To save a sinful soul like mine. Thou possess the university , thou possess the universe to the for me, don't reach it. Angel failing happy family, my Lord Pendra. A child j'forme. Love beyond all human comprehensive Love of God in Christ thou can be This will be my name and never ending Great reading in love of cavalry. Pss Isn't that a beautiful song? Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back for your class. The rest of you I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn with me to the 40th Psalm this morning. Psalm 40, we're going to read the first section of the Psalm, but we will look at the entirety of the psalm this morning as we think about how suffering shapes spiritual maturity. This is the word of the Lord. I waited patiently for the Lord, and he inclined unto me and heard my cry. He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Many shall see it and fear, and shall trust in the Lord. Blessed is that man that maketh the Lord his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies. Many, O Lord my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done, and thy thoughts which are to usward, they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire. Mine ears hast thou opened. Burnt offering and sinner offering hast thou not required. I'd like us to bow together for a word of prayer as we ask the Lord to help us to have a rested heart and focus in on these truths together. Father, as you think about these powerful hymns that we've just sung of praise and adoration to you for your grace. For your kindness, for your mercy, for your salvation, for the position we enjoy as Christians, for the hope that we have as believers. Our hearts have already been richly fed by the truths that have been expressed in these powerful, powerful songs of praise. Thank you for the special that we just heard. What a great reminder of how great your love is for us. And so I pray that this morning, as we read the scriptures and as we work our way through this text and we reflect on it together, and it is applied and it is laid before us, I pray that the Holy Spirit would take Everything that is said, and use it to minister to our hearts in a way that we need in this moment. I pray that you would provide a great calm and comfort to those who need it A great challenge and encouragement to those who need it. And if someone who is here or someone who is listening, Has never come face to face with the finished work of Christ, his death for them on the cross, his shed blood that provides remission of sins, his triumph over death and the resurrection. And his righteousness that is available to all who will believe, I pray that they would see their need to turn to Christ with a repentant heart and place their faith in his finished work alone. Alone. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Psalm 40 is a powerful psalm. It shows us that God graciously uses some of our lowest moments to shape us into the image of Christ. And he used this process in David's life to point him to the qualities that would ultimately identify the Messiah and define his ultimate redemptive act. You may not have realized this. But Psalm 40 is a richly messianic psalm. In fact, it is quoted from the book of Hebrews as a psalm that reflects on who Christ is who would come as David is experiencing great heartache. And so as we work our way through the Psalms, we're eventually going to come to that point. But we need to first of all understand what this text is saying in the light of the life of David, and really in the way that we need to think about God Himself. And so as we work our way through this passage, we're going to see that what God's desire is for each of us is that we think biblically about this issue of suffering. I wish that I could stand here this morning and say, you know, when you get saved, you don't suffer anymore. But that is flatly not true. And what I'm thankful to say this morning is that God's Word gives us so many important tools That prepare us for those seasons that catch us off guard. And those seasons that we can see coming, but we don't think that we're quite there yet. And those seasons where we just wish that they would end, but they don't seem to. They seem to persist. God's word gives us the tools that we need as his children to work through every single one of those situations. And so this morning, I hope that these truths will really feed your soul. Psalm 38 to 40 documents some of the lowest moments in David's life. In fact, if we really want to understand Psalm 40 or Psalm 38 or Psalm 39, we've got to take the three Psalms together. And read them from the beginning of 39 or 38 all the way through to the end of Psalm 40. As we see this, we see that Psalm 40 is the high point of these grouping of Psalms. And these psalms teach us some of the most invaluable lessons that we learn in life. Let me share with you a couple of them. One is that life is a journey. And there are a lot of high points and there are a lot of low points. And the truth is if we were to remember every single moment of our lives, we would be able to categoric categorize some as being Very hard, very difficult, very painful, very troubling, very concerning, and others being some of the richest and most exciting and most enjoyable moments you could ever imagine that a person could experience Our life is not defined by one side alone, nor is it defined by the other side alone. Nor is it really defined by any one of those moments in our lives. It all is put together and it's the story of our lives. And suffering is an inescapable part of our lives. Because we live our lives in a fallen world And because we live our lives in a fallen world, we desperately need to think biblically. Because we are definitely going to find ourselves in these places. So I invite you to dig into this text with us this morning as we also prepare our hearts to take of the Lord's table. The first truth we're going to find in Psalm 40 is this. Suffering develops resilience. Suffering develops resilience. And we see this stated this way in verse number one. I waited. patiently for the Lord. I waited patiently for the Lord. Now this statement kind of has this idea. As David suffered, he had this earnest expectation that he would be delivered. And you sit down and in your mind you say, how is it that I can suffer but also along the pain that I'm dealing with I also have resilience set side by side. Like how do those two things go together? Well that is what is meant by the statement, I waited patiently for the Lord. And we can see that because Psalm 40 is connected to 39 and 38. And so that statement is really kind of, it is developed in those three Psalms together. For instance, in Psalm 38, we see this transparent documentation. Of how people grow through the process of highs and lows. At some of the points that we read in those Psalms, David is convinced that God hates him. As he thinks about God and he thinks about his circumstances, he thinks about his sin, as he thinks about the feelings that are flooding into his mind, the trains of thought that are going in his head, he says that God hates him. And so in verse 1 of Psalm 38, he says, Lord, rebuke me not in your wrath, or chasten me in thy hot displeasure. Yet we know very clearly the Bible teaches that God doesn't chasten us in hot displeasure, but rather whom he loves he chastens. And so the way that David's thinking is not consistent with reality, but it does not change the fact that he feels it very heavily. At another point, his conscience. is so overwhelmed with guilt that he is physically sick. Has anybody ever been here in that place? You've done a thing Something has happened in your past and it keeps coming to your minds. It's unresolved and it weighs heavily on you, and it gets so heavy that your conscience actually causes you to feel sick and st in your stomach. And all of a sudden you begin to have this misery in your heart. David experienced that. And he documented it for us. Verse 3 says, that there is no soundness in my flesh. Because of thine anger. Neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. David could not sleep at night. Because his heart was so heavy. And his heart was so heavy because of his sin. You and I can't escape the fact that we have a conscience. And God created us in his image, and when we sin, we know it. And we feel the weight of it. Because we are image bearers. And another point, verse 19, he felt completely hopeless and vulnerable. He says, Mine enemies are lively, they are strong. Those who hate me Wrongfully are multiplied. Doesn't sound like a very encouraging psalm, does it? But what does it show you? What it shows you is that David felt pain and suffering, but he turned to God, and every single time he grew just a little bit. He grew a little bit more. Do you realize that that's part of what David meant when he said, I waited patiently for the Lord? You say, that doesn't look very patient. But that's what he's talking about He understood that he was growing. In Psalm 38, or excuse me, in Psalm 39, he documents how this terrible season forced him to recognize his own limitations. In Psalm 39, verse 4, he says, Make me to know mine and the measure of my days what it is that I might know how frail I am. Every person in this room doesn't matter how smart you are, doesn't matter how strong you are, doesn't matter how gifted you are, doesn't matter the opportunities that you It doesn't matter how many people are dependent upon you and how important what you do is in the eyes of the people around you. Every single one of us is going to face that limitation one day. One day we're going to enter into eternity. We can't escape that. And one day we're going to stand before God, the Creator. And David was reminded because of his suffering that he was one day going to stand before God. Because of death. And so that waiting patiently may not look or feel very impressive. He struggled and even failed, but God sustained him and he steadily grew through those struggles. Do you realize that this issue of suffering and how we grow is one of the most prominent themes in the Bible? For instance, in James chapter 1, verse 2, he says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptations. knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work. The idea is that the trying of our faith produces Patience. It's a part of a process. Or in 1 Peter chapter 4, verse 13, he says, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you. as though some strange thing happened unto you. But rejoice in as much as you are partakers of Christ's sufferings. And when his glory shall be revealed, ye shall be glad also with exceeding joy One day we will be glad with exceeding joy, even though we may not be glad right now. And then Romans chapter 5, verse 3, he says that we glory in tribulation, knowing that tribulation worketh patience, and patience experience. And experience hope. And hope maketh not ashamed because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost. Tribulation produces patience. What do all these verses have to tell us? Well, they tell us that God uses suffering to shape us. It's an inescapable part of life. Truth number two, suffering drives us to a deeper dependence on God. In verses two to three, we see this statement. He says, He brought me up Now there are five things I want you to notice about this statement. He brought me up. The first thing is that David's circumstances were completely demoralizing and hopeless. He says it this way in verse 2. He brought me up out of an horrible pit out of the miry clay. Now I get this image in my mind when I read this statement. He brought me up out of a horrible pit. And the Myriad Clay. And this is the image I have in my mind. You know the story of Joseph? When Joseph's brothers despised him and they hated him, and their desire was to murder him. And his brother, one of his brothers, said, let's throw him in a pit and figure out what we're going to do with him. And there is there is this man, Joseph. He's a young man, maybe a teenager. And he's there and it's muddy and it's dark and it's cold. And he can if he can hear anything, he hears his brothers trying to decide how they're going to kill him, how they're going to cover their tracks. What they're going to do, and finally they come up with this plan, they're going to sell him as a slave. That hopelessness that he felt. That demoralizing set of circumstances is what David is talking about. And you might have been in this place at some point in your life, too. It could have been something that happened to you. It could be something that you have done. It could have been the arrangement of circumstances, but like David, you feel this hopelessness and you're demoralized, and you feel like you're in the mud and you have no hope. That's what David felt. In verse 2, it says, he set my feet on a rock. God graciously delivered him and gave him Stability. Can you imagine how comforting it would have been to be in this metaphorically speaking pit filled with mud and you have no hope and someone reaches down, pulls you out, cleans you off, puts you on a strong spot. You say, oh, I can breathe again. There's hope. That's what God did with this man. God does that with us too. He says that he established my goings in verse 2. He used this trying season to open David's eyes to the reality of God's presence and care. Now, this is an important principle for us to understand. Our perception of how God is working is not always, in fact, it is probably rarely consistent with what he's actually doing. We live through circumstances and we are making history, but we don't see it like the historian sees it. We don't know what's going to happen tomorrow. We don't know what's going to happen in a couple of weeks. We don't know what happen is going to happen, say, in the next six months. And so as we live through these moments, we live them moment by moment, day by day, and we really have no historical perspective. But David is speaking as one who says, I now understand what God is doing. I now understand what God has done. He is able to look back and see the hand of God. In other words, God has opened his eyes so that he's able to see what was always true. And you know what God does? He takes some of the most difficult, painful, frustrating, and disheartening circumstances of life, and he carries us through those moments. And as he's doing it, we don't even realize fully what he's doing. And then when we get on the other side, we're able to look back at what he did, and we see the clear hand of God in all those things. And that is what David is talking about. The next statement is very comforting. And verse number three says, He's put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God. Literally, he's saying God did something for me that is quite remarkable. He gave me something that I lost. And that is the ability to sing. The ability to praise God. You say you can lose that ability? Of course you can lose that ability. There may be people who came in here this morning. That as these these hymns were sung, you could not sing them. Not that you didn't want to sing them, but you didn't have the ability to sing them because of the frame of your mind and heart as you came into this place. There may very well be people who initially planned to come to the service this morning and they're on the live stream this morning because they didn't have the will to be here. There may be someone who doesn't have the will to turn on the live stream, but in a couple of weeks they might come to this sermon. Just by accident, but by the province. And they see what's being written in these verses, and it uplifts them and strengthens them. And what it tells you is this: God has the ability to restore joy where it has been lost. And as we read Psalm 38, 39, and 40, what we see is it didn't seem it was very likely that David could have his joy restored, but he did. And he talks of it. And then at the end of verse 3 he says, many will see it and fear and trust in the Lord. And he talks about this stunning reversal of circumstance. And this stunning reversal of perspective that makes people realize God is real. His grace is real. His kindness is real. His mercy is real. He really does work in our hearts. And so in the same way that God worked in David's life, I have good news for you. He works in our life too. He doesn't leave us and abandon us to ourselves He uses everything in our lives to accomplish good. And we see that in this text. The third truth I want you to notice is that suffering develops a matured perspective. When we are children, we are idealists. Everything in life is filtered through this lens. I think about young people when they go to college and they come back. And they talk about the amazing things that they experienced in college, and they have figured the world out, and you just sit back and you're like, uh-huh. Uh-huh. Life's gonna teach you some things. But I'm gonna be quiet about it. I'm just gonna let you enjoy this moment because one day you'll be as creaky as I am, and you're gonna see things from this matured perspective. You understand what I'm talking about, right? But here is the truth. The truth is that we should be able to look at life with a balance of perspective. We see the good, we see the bad. We see the hard, we see the strong. And we're able to look at it objectively, and we're able to see the good hand of God in spite of all the ups and all the downs of life. And we're able to look at our circumstances and the things that are going on around us, and we're able to interpret them in a godly way. That's what God wants us to have. A matured perspective. Nobody develops a matured perspective by sheer willpower. Nobody develops a matured perspective just because they live a long time. Nobody develops a matured perspective because they get an injection. A matured perspective comes through a process. And that process involves time. And that process involves struggle and difficulty and the grace of God and his word and godly people around you who take you through those moments and they walk through those moments with you. And ultimately you come on the other side having learned some things and matured in some ways, and you look at life the way that we as God's people should. And so in verse number four, we see this statement: Blessed is the man. And that little statement, blessed is the man, we see it all over the Bible. Psalm 1, blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the ungodly, or stands in the way of sinners, or sits in the seat of scornful. Or when we read the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus talks about those who are poor in spirit. They are blessed. And he uses the word blessed, blessed, blessed, blessed. What does that mean? Does it mean this is a person that has an easy life? Well, the most simple way to put it is the word blessed means happy. That's literally what the word means. But it's not a trite happiness. It's not a circumstantial happiness. It's describing a rich quality of life that rises above circumstance. It's a quality of life that can only be found in Christ. If you're not a Christian, there is no way you will understand what he means when he says, blessed is the man. You say, why is that? Well, because when you look at these verses, he says, blessed is the man who makes the Lord his trust. Like that's the starting point. Everything flows out of faith in the Lord. That blessedness is not found outside of him. It's found in him. And so this quality of life is only found in the Lord Jesus Christ. And so what we see in these verses is that he saw himself as a blessed man despite all the sufferings and the failures and the misery of that suffering. Because when we look at Psalm 38, we look at Psalm 39, we say That's a mess. And David says, I'm a blessed man, because I trust the Lord. He was overwhelmed by numerous ways God had showed him mercy. Verse number five, he says, Many, O Lord my God, are thy wonderful works. works, which thou hast done in my thy thoughts, which are to us for, they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee. If I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered. Now just pause for a minute. I know it's been like two months since we're in Psalm 38, but in Psalm 38 he says, God, you're angry with me, don't chasten me in your hot displeasure. And he talks about the fact that his conscience was so troubled that he was sick to his stomach and his body was falling apart. And yet he says, many are your wonderful works which you've done. Your thoughts to me, I cannot reckon them in order. If I declared them and spoke of them, they are more than can be numbered. How did David go from, you're chastening me in your hottest pleasure, and I can't even look up at you to So many good things you've done. How did you get there? God's grace. How'd he get there? He brought me up out of a horrible pit and set my feet on a rock. You know what the suffering did for David? It matured his perspective. He saw all these things that God did for him. And all of the hardships of life. They didn't go away. But they diminished its significance. They were secondary. The thing that mattered the most to him was how good God had been. All of these innumerable examples of God's faithfulness and kindness and goodness. And the truth is, if we were to sit here today and we were to reflect on how sinful we are as people , How many times we have violated God's laws, and how many times we have we have taken situations and handled them horribly And then we think about God's love for us and his grace and his mercy and his patience and his forbearance and how he works personally in our lives, and we think about the story of all these different things that God did in our life. despite terrible decisions, things that every single person in this room would be completely embarrassed if they were exposed to this congregation. And God still was kind too. All of a sudden, a mature perspective says, Many, O Lord my God, are thy wonderful works. I cannot reckon them up in order and declare them and speak of them. They're more than can be numbered. That's what he's saying. And David's practice was not superficial. This statement in verse 6 is fascinating. He says, sacrifice an offering, doubt it's not desire. Mine ears hast thou opened, burnt offering and sinner offering hast thou not required. Now this is a fascinating statement because David is making the statement at a point When God told them to sacrifice. Okay? Don't miss that. God had told them that they were supposed to, on the Day of Atonement, kill an animal. When they sinned, there was a sin offering. There was a sacrificial sacrifice system that was there. And David understood something in this moment. One of the things he understood is that it's not just about killing an animal and offering it to a priest. It's about what the animal pictures. It's about the disposition of my heart as I go through that practice. And so David was not approaching his dedication to God in some superficial, careless manner. But there's a second part to it. David understood that the offering wasn't the end. It was a picture pointing to the end. The Messiah. And so David understood that this is no superficial thing. But the practice of offering sacrifices was to come with a heart of belief. An anticipation of the Messiah and a recognition that the sacrificial system was actually deficient on some level. It was only a picture, it was not the end. We'll get there at the end of this message as we come to the Lord's table. Because this is a messianic psalm. Anybody can enjoy the good things of life. You don't have to be a Christian to enjoy fun things. You don't have to be a Christian to get on a roller coaster. Well, I I struggle with the roller coaster thing. But to get on a roller coaster and have an adrenaline rush and go, that was fun. Anybody can do that. But only the Christian can face the hard things of life and say, God is good. And I'm going to be okay. In fact, I'm still blessed. Only the Christian can say that. Because only the Christian can face life's greatest hardships and rise above their circumstances in triumph. Only the Christian can rest in the redemptive value of all circumstances. Circumstances. Why is that? Because when you say, well, it's all going to work out, but you don't believe in God, I'm going to ask the question, how do you know that? Based on what? How do you know things are going to get better? How do you know there's a purpose in that? If there's no God and He doesn't rule and reign, then what you're saying is not true. What you're saying is no different than rolling a dice and hoping it gives you a six and saying you know it's going to. And you get a two, and you get a one , you get a three, you get a five, not a six. Just chance. The fact is only the Christian can rest in the redemptive value of suffering. Because there's a God in heaven whose sovereignty rules. And he has a reason for what he allows. And he takes what he allows and he uses it to accomplish good. It moves us to truth number four. Suffering refines our commitments. In verses 7 through 17, the text says the following: I delight to do thy will. Oh my God. I have learned this in life. That when we go through heartache and challenge and difficulty, it does one of two things. Either one, when we face these challenges, we get angry at God, bitter at God, we see him as someone who's against us, and we rebel against him for some time. And as we move down that path of rebellion against God, what we begin to experience is the natural consequence of really bad, foolish decisions. And as we move down this road one step at a time, as we experience heartache, God says there's a way back. And we experience heartache. He said, there's a way back. And we experience frustration. He said, there's a way back. What's he doing? He's persisting Pursuing us. In his mercy and in his love, he keeps going after us. That's what he does. He might be doing that in your life right now He may be reaching down to your life and as you're pushing in a way that is absolute folly and foolishness and it makes no sense He's pushing you back. And you bucket and he pushes you back. You know what else he does though? He takes the Christian who can't answer every question. He doesn't know all the reasons why God does what he does or allows what he allows. But he takes his heart and he fixes it on what he knows to be true about God. And he rests in the eternal purposes of God God has promised he will never leave me. He'll never forsake me. They remind themselves of all those things in Romans chapter 8 we were talking about today. And as they remember those things, the love of God, and how God keeps us secured in his hand, and how there's nothing that can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Lord. And if he has started a thing, he's going to end the thing. And if it's all of his grace, then we don't have to worry, it's going to be lost. And we could just go after truth after truth after truth after truth. And we rest in what we do know, not because we feel it, but because he said it. Guess what happens? We rise above the circumstances. And we get stronger. We get wiser. We become a much more godly person. We got the same name. We got the same genes. But we are a different person. Because God in His grace is shaping us to become more like Christ. God refines our commitments And so in these verses, in verse 8, we see he says, I was committed to obedience. I delight to do thy will. In verses 9 and 10, it says, He was committed to the proclaiming of the gospel. I've preached righteousness. And the great congregation. I've not hid thy righteousness within my heart. I've declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation. I've not concealed thy loving kindness and thy truth from the great congregation. I think I could probably preach on every single one of those statements. But I don't want you to miss the big picture. He was committed to prayer in verses 11 and 12 he says, withhold not thy tender mercies from From me, let thy loving kindness and truth continually preserve me. Innumerable evils have come past me. Mine iniquity has taken hold on me so that I'm not able to look up. My heart faileth. What's he doing? He's talking to God. It's prayer. He's expressing to God how he's still, even though he's come to the other side, he still is dealing with some of the troubles that he dealt with before. He was committed to an unreserved dependence on God. Verses 13 to 15. Be pleased to deliver me. Make haste to help me. Let them be ashamed who are and confounded that seek after my soul to destroy it. In verse 16, we see that he was committed to considering the needs of other people. Verse 16, let all those who seek thee rejoice. And be glad. Let such as love thy salvation say continually, Let the Lord be magnified. He was committed to a very humble view of himself. Verse 17, I'm poor. Needy, yet the Lord thinketh on me. Man, what a statement. Thou art my help, my deliverer. Make no tearing, oh my God. Now what does that tell us? That tells us that God uses suffering. If you're not a Christian Then there's no reason for you to think that suffering has any redemptive value. Because even what it develops in you now is only good for now. If you're a Christian, you can see that all things work together. Together for good. Whom he fornew he predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son. And God takes all these little things that we deal with, the hard things, the frustrating things, the sad things. The complicated things. He takes them and he uses them to accomplish good in our lives. You say, Joel, how do you apply this? We could be here a while, but we won't, don't worry. I heard my wife laugh. She's wondering if it's true. Suffering is a part of life. But it doesn't have to be wasted. Suffering is a part of life, but it doesn't have to be wasted. God can use all things, even the hard things and the painful things, to accomplish good in our lives. Everything in our lives is meant to point us to Christ and to shape us into his image. Let me say it again. Everything in our lives is meant to point us to Christ and to shape us into the image of Christ. We could spend a lot of time breaking that down. But I want you to notice a couple simple things here. One is this. We can be comforted by this promise. All things were together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose, whom he did foreknow, he did predestinate to be conformed to the empty image of his son. That's a promise. That is Paul writing, I know this because God said it and it's true. And we also recognize that there is an inescapable process. In 2 Corinthians 3 it says, We all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. Romans 12, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed through the renewing of your mind. Here's what the Bible is saying. God has to allow certain things if He's going to take us to that end. That's what it means. God is not going to insulate us from everything that goes bad in the world. He allows us to pass through these waters, he gives us everything that we need to go through those things, and he lifts us up through truth. And he walks alongside of us and he uses them to shape us and to mold us and to make us more like Christ. You know the difference between stones in a rock quarry and stones in a river? One simple difference. Stones in a river are smooth. Stones in a quarry are rough. You ever wonder why that is? It's because there's a process. When stones are in a river, guess what happens? They get pushed around, they knock into each other. Water flows over them. And as those stones rumble down that riverbed for years and years and years, they get really stuck. smooth. But those rocks from the rock quarry, they haven't gone through that process. And so we put them in our concrete. We don't put them on our desk and say, man, look how smooth that stone is. Well the way that God shapes us into his image is through a process. And that process is not easy But this is the part I want us to end on. This psalm is a messianic prophecy. This psalm is not just about David on that day, but this psalm is about Jesus And in Hebrews chapter ten it says the following. Wherefore when he cometh into the world he saith Sacrifice and offering thou wouldst not, but a body hast thou prepared me in burnt offering and sacrifice for sin. Thou hast no pleasure. Then said I, Lo, I come in the volume of the book it is written of me to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first That he may establish the second, by the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Now let me tell you, this psalm wasn't just about David. This psalm was about the son of David, the Messiah. And so what we see in these verses is that suffering is an inescapable piece of the process of being developed into Christ-like character. It is also the primary piece of the platform. Through which real character is tested and revealed. And you know what? We're talking about Jesus, the Messiah, who is what? Righteous. Holy, perfect. When David stumbled, the Son of God never did. When David went through the sufferings, he became a pure vessel. When Jesus went through the sufferings, he showed. There was no purification to be had. It demonstrated who it was. It showed that he is the righteous one, God in flesh. And so this psalm ultimately pointed to the Messiah who would be tested. And demonstrate his inherent righteousness through those tests and humbly go to the cross to establish a basis for us to be sanctified once for all. That's where the psalm ends. And so I want to remind you: we're going to have the Lord's table this morning. So let's prepare our hearts to remember and celebrate the one who fulfilled this psalm. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about the text in front of us, I pray that our hearts Would be comforted and encouraged, that we would think deeply about what is in front of us, and that we would recognize that these verses teach us about our circumstances. And your ways, but they also teach us of the one who died for us, who demonstrate his righteousness And then died in our place. Father, as we partake of the Lord's table together as a church body, I pray that we would be filled with great joy. In gladness as we consider his body broken, his blood shed. That as we partake of this table, we would remember his death until he comes. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.