Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflections, and this morning we are going to be looking at 1 Thessalonians chapter 2. 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 13 down to verse 20. 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, verses 13 through 20. If you have a Bible, I hope that you'll take it and turn there, and this will be a very encouraging passage, I believe. 1 Thessalonians 2 verse 13 says this. For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because when ye received the word of God, which ye heard of us, Ye received it not as the words of men, but as it is in truth the word of God, with effectual worketh also in you that believe. For ye brethren became followers of the churches of God, which is in Judea, which are in Christ Jesus. For ye also have suffered like things of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews. Who both killed the Lord Jesus and their own prophets, and have persecuted us, and they please not God, and are contrary to all men. Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved, to fill up their sins always, for the wrath is coming upon them to the uttermost. But we'd brethren being taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavoring the more abundantly to see your face with great desire, whereof we also have come unto you. Even I, Paul, once and again, but Satan hindered us. For what is our hope, our joy, our crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ that is coming? For ye are our glory and our joy. Well, I absolutely love this passage of Scripture. It is a very encouraging passage of Scripture. And I want to begin with a summary statement, what the main point is that was being communicated in this passage. This section is a further expansion of the reasons that Paul was so grateful to God for the church at Thessalonica. And these indicate the kinds of things that knit their hearts together. And so I'd like us to look at just a couple of simple observations from this passage that I think will encourage you and help you to see that main point that Paul's emphasizing. The first point that we see is this. Their hearts were knit together because the gospel was the absolute center of their affections. Look down in verse 13 if you could. It says this, for this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because In other words, here's an expansion of the reasons that Paul was so grateful to God for the church. And he lists a series of them. Let's begin in verse 13. He says, When you receive the word of God, which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe. The first point that he makes is that there was a biblical authority that ultimately knit their hearts together. In other words, Paul was a faithful minister of God's word. And they received it not as just Paul's opinion, not as the opinion of his team, but as it was the Word of God In other words, because there was biblical authority, because that was ultimately what all of them collectively were submitting to, it really stirred up their hearts. and it knit them together. A second point that Paul brings out is in verse 14. He says, Ye brethren became followers of the churches of God, which are in Judah, Judea, in Christ Jesus. In other words, these individuals were not only submitted to the authority of Scripture, but they were disciples. In other words, discipleship was an important part of their life, and it's what knit them together. They were following the same pattern. As they saw other churches following the Lord Jesus Christ, they did the same thing. In verses 14 to 16, he brings out a third thing that really knit the hearts together. He says in verse 14, For ye also have suffered like things of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews, who have persecuted us. Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved. The third component that really knit their hearts together was that they had suffered in the same way. The Apostle Paul says you looked at these other churches and you followed their pattern and they suffered for the sake of the gospel. And now you're in a position where you're experiencing the same kinds of difficulties And by suffering for the sake of the gospel, it's giving you this mutual appreciation for the importance of the gospel and what it really means to you. It actually knits your hearts together In other words, their same experience was something that knit them together. And then a fourth component that he mentions is this, verse 17. He says, being taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavored the more abundantly to see your face with great desire, but Satan hindered us. A fourth component to what really knit the hearts together of these people was that they had been separated for a season. And this separation had nothing to do with decisions that they had made. It was completely outside of their control. And really what Paul's emphasizing is that this separation was a result of Satan's attack on the church, primarily through the suffering associated with the gospel. In other words, as a result of Satan's opposition to the church, they were not able to see each other face to face. And this gave them a much greater appreciation For that bond that they had in Christ. It established the depths of that bond all the more. We see a second observation, and that's this. Their hearts were knit together because their lives were mutually edified, pressing them on to greater levels of depth and maturity in their Christian walk. He says in verse 19, What is our hope or joy or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ that is coming? What's really interesting is that Paul says what really strengthens this bond that we have and what really helps us to have a deep affection and love for one another is that as I see you grow in Christ You encourage me and you strengthen me in the ministry that I have. In other words, as they're growing, Paul's growing. There's this mutual edification going on. And really what Paul's looking at is not just how they're growing today and right now, but he's looking at what they're becoming. And he's looking at the fact that as they grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus and as they're faithful There's going to be a day when they stand before the Lord Jesus Christ, and Paul rejoices that in that day he will see that his ministry has not been in vain. that these individuals grew and thrived and and and Christ says well done because Paul was faithful. And the reason that Paul's encouraged Not only is Paul being encouraged, but Paul's also being more faithful because this is encouraging him in his ministry. Putting it this way, Paul's fruitful investment in their lives pressed them on. in their growth into Christ's likeness. And this brought him joy. And their growth encouraged Paul in his ministry, making his life more edifying to them. And they're growing together. So we asked the question, how are these truths practical and how do they help us this morning as we sit here and think about our responsibilities as Christians? Well, I jotted down four words or phrases that I think can be very practical and helpful for us here. The first word is scripture. When we're regularly submitting our hearts to the authority of Scripture, we position ourselves to have deeper, thriving relationships with others who do the same The truth is, if I want to have close relationships with other Christians, then I need to be a person who's regularly in the Word of God, submitting my will to God's, and really the people who are doing the same thing, we're going to have this mutual bond. The second word is discipleship. And we develop a pattern of following Christ in our daily walks. We position ourselves to have a deeper, thriving relationship with other people who do the same So as I grow as a disciple, my heart is going to be knit to those who are growing as disciples. A third word is suffering. When we suffer for the sake of the gospel, that suffering will deepen our relationship with other Christians who walk through the same sufferings. Now, no Christian is going to put himself in a place where he wants to suffer. In fact, God doesn't enjoy seeing us suffer He's compassionate towards us, but he allows us to go through those seasons sometimes by ourselves and others to go through at the same time. Because what it does is it matures us, it strengthens us, and ultimately it will develop that bond that we have with other Christians because we have suffered for the sake of the gospel. And the last word is separation. When we're unable to assemble with God's people because of circumstances outside of our control. That distance becomes a tool that God uses to further develop that bond that we have for one another and that mutual love that we have for one another in Christ. You know, we're in the middle of a time of separation. And we have the ability to communicate through technology, and that's an incredible blessing, but it's not the same. as being with people where we see them face to face, we have conversation. And the truth is when we come back together and we're able to meet together as churches And we're able to have those gatherings together where we have that mutual edification , because of this season of separation that has nothing to do with any decisions that we've made. It's completely outside of our control. God's going to use that separation to help us have a greater appreciation for the opportunities that we have to come together. And so as we read this passage of Scripture, we see That if we want to have deep, abiding bonds with one another, we need to be submitted to the authority of Scripture, growing as disciples. Being willing to trust Christ in the midst of suffering and recognize that the separation that we temporarily experience can be a tool that God uses to deepen those bonds that we enjoy as believers. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and thank God for this very encouraging passage of Scripture. Father, we are so grateful that in your kind hand of providence you moved the apostle Paul to pen these words, expressing his tremendous love for the church at Thessalonica and the reasons that he had this deep love for them. Father, help us to recognize that as we submit ourselves to your word, as we grow as disciples, even as we suffer for the Christian faith, And Father, even during our times of separation from one another, all of these tools are instruments in your hand that you use. to further deepen and develop those bonds of love that we have for one another in Christ. I pray that you'll use this passage of Scripture to encourage your people, to edify them today. Pray that you'd give them a wonderful day. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see a couple of familiar faces. I hope that you're having a wonderful day. And I hope that if you missed the beginning of this little section, you'll go back, read over it, and just reflect on some of the truths that we find in this passage. Have a wonderful day, and we'll see you next time.