First Thessalonians chapter two, we're going to begin in verse number thirteen. First Thessalonians chapter two thirteen. For this cause also thank we God without ceasing. Because when ye received the word of God, which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the words of men, but as it is in truth the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe For ye, brethren, became followers of the churches of God which are in Judea and are in Christ Jesus. For ye also have suffered like things of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews. who both killed the Lord Jesus Christ and their own prophets, and have persecuted us, and they please not God, and are contrary to all men. Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles, that they might be saved, to fill up their sins always, for the wrath has come upon them to the uttermost. But we, brethren, being taken from you for a short time in presence not in heart, endeavored the more abundantly to see your face with great desire. Wherefore we would have come unto you, even I Paul, once and again, but Satan hindered us For what is our hope or crown of rejoicing are not even ye and the presence of the Lord Jesus Christ at his coming? For ye are our glory and our joy. Now when we come to this passage of Scripture, I think it's very important, especially at a time like this That we don't exegete this passage or isegete this passage by reading our own set of circumstances into the text In fact, as I read that, I hope that you didn't say, well, you know, our county council member, he is Satan hindering us or something like that. Folks, that's not the way we should take a passage of scripture like this. But what we really need to do is we need to see exactly what's being stated here in light of the context, the exact storyline that's going on. And as we dig into that passage, we're going to understand that there were a set of circumstances that actually were much more severe than any circumstance that we're dealing with today. You know, there are some Christian pastors that are fearful that the government's going to use this to not just temporarily keep us from meeting, but they're just going to shut churches down. I want you to know something. I see no danger of that at the moment. Now I'm not saying that that cannot happen. I'm not saying that that couldn't be something we face someday But I want you to realize that what we're facing today, the overreaches or the the movements that are going on today, they are not in any way on the level of the kinds of things that Paul is talking about here in 1 Thessalonians. Paul is talking about people who are being dragged out of their homes. They're being dragged out of their meeting places. They were being thrown into prison. They were being beaten. They were being maligned in their communities. They were losing their jobs. They were not having the ability. to freely meet and assemble together as Christians. And it's not because there was a pandemic. It was because their government despised the gospel. And not just their governments, but the community around them despised the gospel, and so they were using circumstance to abuse God's people. Because of what was going on, they were not able to speak as freely on the gospel as they wanted to. Paul was not able to come and spend time with them as he wanted to. And Paul knew that this church desperately needed to be encouraged. And Paul wanted this church to understand that he had a deep felt heart, a love for this church. And he wanted them to understand why he had a love for this church. And what's very interesting is as we look at the text before us We're going to see that the distance that Paul experienced between him and those Christians there at Thessalonica wasn't something that separated them. It was actually something that knit their hearts together in a very special way These believers were united in a way that they had not been before, and it was because they had mutually gone through the same set of very difficult circumstances. It was the absence of being able to gather together. It was the absence of being able to be assembled that was the catlass for uniting and bonding these Christians. And the fact is that if God can use very difficult circumstances that are far more severe than anything we're experiencing at the moment , Far more unjust than any argument that you can make about our current situation. This passage is dealing with very legitimate injustice. Paul says the injustices that we faced and the separations that we faced, it didn't separate us in heart. It bonded us And I want you to realize that it can do the same for us. As we have been separated, we have begun to realize how valuable not just being a Christian And being loosely affiliated with the churches, but how valuable genuine assembly of Christians is. The fact that I'm sitting next to someone who has common faith in Christ That we're singing praise to God together, that we're listening to the scriptures being read together, that we're putting our wills under the authority of God's word. that we're participating in the ordinances together as an assembled body, we have begun to realize that is a powerful, valuable thing we miss. We want to be assembled. We recognize the importance of the local church. The truth is that God can use the distance and the pressures that we've experienced. To help us to realize the same things and to bond our hearts together as well. This passage explains why Paul was really so grateful to God for this church. And what it was that knit their hearts together. And God wants us to have the same kind of fervent love that these people have. So here's the question we're going to answer this evening or this afternoon, however you put it at this point. Okay. How do we cultivate this love? How can we have the kind of love that the Apostle Paul said, I have for this church and you have for me? How can we have that one for another? Well, we're going to answer that by looking at the qualities that were there in this passage between these people that we need to make sure in our own lives as well. The first truth we're going to see is this. Their hearts were knit together because the gospel was the absolute center of their affections. You know, when we are people who love the gospel more than we love money and our jobs and our position in society and all these other things, when the gospel is what is the most important thing for us Our hearts are going to be knit together with people who have the same passion. The gospel. In fact, this is the very first thing that Paul mentions that knit the hearts together between him and the church at Thessalonica. Notice what it says. The following section is really an expansion of the reasons that Paul was so grateful for the church. And in verse 13 he puts it like this. For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because First of all, he mentions they had a submissive heart to biblical authority. Verse 13, when you receive the word of God, which you heard of us. You received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe Now, Paul is not just speaking about God's word in a general sense. He's actually very specific about what part of the scriptures He was communicating to them and that they said, this isn't just Paul's opinion, this isn't just Paul's theology, this isn't just Paul's philosophy, this is God's word What was it? What was the truth that was being expounded by Paul to these people? It was the gospel. In fact, you put it this way: it is effectually working also in you who believe. That means when the gospel was preached, the Holy Spirit brought deep-rooted conviction of sin and a convincing of their hearts that the Lord Jesus Christ died for their sins, rose from the dead, his righteousness was the only thing that could give them a standing with God. And that work of the Spirit through the preaching of the gospel brought them to humble repentance and faith in Christ. Paul says that is one of the first things that unites our hearts. The second thing he mentions is that they were committed to being disciples of Christ. Verse 14. Ye brethren became Followers of the churches of God which are in Judea in Christ Jesus. That word follower has the idea of you became a disciple He's saying you looked at the most mature churches that you were able to interact with and you saw the passion that they had for God. You saw their commitment to following the Lord's ways, and you said, I want to be like that. I want to be a disciple The idea is that the mature were mentoring and discipling the immature or the young Just like a a young believer is mentored when they when they trust Christ and an older Christian begins teaching them the word of God, these people are looking at more mature churches and saying, we want to follow Christ like they are. Discipleship. So it wasn't just the gospel that united them, but it was the fact that together Paul and these people were passionate disciples of Christ. The third thing I want to mention is this. They had experienced the same suffering for the sake of the gospel. Now, here is a very sad reality of our time. Lots and lots of Christians don't believe that God allows you from time to time or for seasons to suffer. Now, I wish I could tell you that God never lets Christians suffer. I really do wish I could tell you that. But if I told you that, I'd be lying The Bible is full of examples of people who are very godly, very committed to Christ, and the truth is that God allowed them to pass through very troubling and difficult seasons. In fact, we're going through the book of James right now and we're talking about the fact that we need to let patience have her perfect work and God matures us. And our faith is tested and it is demonstrated to be genuine and real as we go through testing. God lets Christians suffer. And sometimes we don't understand why. Sometimes we never understand why. In fact, one of the most interesting things about the story of Job Is that I know of no point in the book of Job where God said, Hey Job, let me explain to you why you went through everything that you did. Now we know because we've read the book of Job. But Job didn't know. At least we have no indication of Job knowing. You know, that's a very difficult thing for us to be in a situation for a person to be in. But the fact is that God allowed Job to go through those trials to mature him and to test him and ultimately to demonstrate the authenticity and the depth and the maturity of Jabe Job's faith. But one of the reasons that God allows Christians to suffer, is as weird as this would sound, it is true, that when you suffer and another person suffer and you have walked down the same road. And you've walked through the same valleys and you've felt the same pressures. When you've walked through that road, your heart is united to people. In a very special, and you can't even fully describe it, but you are united to people who have walked down that road in a very special way. Do you know what I'm talking about? You do. The truth is that if you have lost a very dear loved one, a parent, a spouse, a child. And there's another person who's gone through the same thing. There's a way that you communicate. There is a connection that you experience, that you do not experience with other people who do not understand. What you have walked through. And so what Paul is saying is, you and I have a connected heart Because there is a kind of difficulty that we have both walked through and we understand it in a very unique way. Here's what he says. You also have suffered like things of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews. Who have persecuted us, who forbid us to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved. It's kind of like Paul says, Hey, you know what? I not only am praying for you, and I not only love you, and I not only want to walk alongside you and strengthen you as you're going through that, but I know what it's like to be in your shoes. I know what it's like to be in the same place. And by the way, you know what's unique about Paul? He not only knew what it was like to walk in their shoes, But he knew what it was like to persecute people who walked in their shoes. Now let that sink in for a moment. Paul Felt very deeply what these people felt. And God has allowed us To pass through a season that is very difficult. This is something that is unique, that in our nation's history, we have never had something quite like this. We've had World War I and II. We've had people who fought for independence from the British. We had a war between the North and the South. We have never, to my knowledge, had a pandemic where the entire society was shut down for two months. And we don't know what lies ahead, and we don't know the duration of these things. This is a very unique time in our history. We are walking through shoes we are walking down paths that we have no precedent for. What we are doing right now is something that we have no precedent for. The fact is that we are living in a time that is very unique, and you know what? We're all walking through it together. And even though we've been separate and we feel the pressures, when we come together, there is something that can bond us in a very special way. Paul says, we have mutually experienced suffering. We have drawn from God's grace, and our hearts are now knit together because we have walked through the same valleys. There's a fourth I want to mention. They had experienced a prolonged separation due to Satan's opposition to the church And verse 17 he says, we've been taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart. He says we endeavor the more abundantly to see your face with great desire. But Satan hindered us. Satan hindered us. I want you to realize that there are times that you and I purpose to do things. They're good things. But we're not able to do them because of something that's completely outside of our control. And I want to mention something for a moment The fact that Satan hindered them did not mean that he was hindering them without God's ultimate sovereign power being at work. I want you to realize something about Satan's power. Satan is mean and he's nasty and he wants to destroy God's work. But Satan is like a rabid dog on a chain. Just keep that in your minds He can bark and he can bite and he can be nasty, but his chain only goes so far. And the truth is that God allowed Satan to hinder Paul from com com connecting with this church like he desired. But God said there's gonna be a day when I tell Satan enough is enough and he can't do it anymore. Isn't that a comforting thought? The truth is that there will be a day that we won't meet like this. There will be a day that we're going to meet again, like we have in the past. We'll be able to connect together. We'll be able to pray together. We'll actually be able to sit next to each other in pews. Go figure. That's going to happen again All right, you're excited about that. I don't know how long this is gonna take, but it's gonna happen. And the truth is that during this time of separation and difficulty God can knit our hearts. And I pray that that's exactly what he's doing. As a result of Satan's opposition to the church, they were not able to see each other face to face. But this Gave them a far greater appreciation for the bond that was established between them and Christ. We then come to a second truth that's very important. Their hearts were knit together because their lives are mutually edified. And they press them on to greater levels of spiritual maturity. Notice what Paul says in verse 19. What is our hope? Our joy, our crown of rejoicing, are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ that is coming I want you to think about what Paul's saying because this is a really interesting statement. Paul is basically saying that this investment that he had made in the lives of these Christians The fact that it was fruitful, the fact that he saw them actually trust Christ, he saw them become disciples of Christ, he saw them maturing in Christ. He saw that they had a genuine, heartfelt love for one another. When Paul saw that, it pressed his heart to be more faithful even than when he was before. You know, Paul was a duty-driven man. There's probably nobody in this parking lot. I should just say, there's nobody in this parking lot that had the kind of commitment that the Apostle Paul had. Nobody None of us are on that level of maturity and and and have that kind of oppress like Paul did. But here's the fact. Paul still needed to be encouraged in the work. He was human. And he said, you know, I've invested in your lives. I've seen you get saved. I've seen you grow. I've seen you mature. And that stirs up my soul with a passion to keep pressing forward. Do you realize that when you receive the word and you grow, it encourages the people that pour into your life? It encourages you when people invest in your lives, doesn't it? And it encourages them when they see that God is at work and maturing. Folks, his point is this. You know what makes me want to press forward? It's that I see what I'm doing is actually accomplishing something. It's actually really impactful in the lives of people I want you to realize that Paul said, I look at the day that you will stand before Christ, and having observed how you live your life, and having observed how you're growing and maturing, I say, on that day You will be found faithful. God is going to say, well done. And that brings sweetness to my heart. That brings joy. That encourages Their growth encouraged Paul and his ministry. The last thing I'm going to mention under Truth 2 is that like a parent finds joy And the maturing of their children, Paul felt the same sense of accomplishment and joy. He says in verse 20, Ye are our glory and our joy. I do not yet know what it's like to watch one of my kids graduate from high school, from college. Get a master's, get a PhD , walk down an aisle and get married, hand me my grandchild. I do not know what that's like. Some of you know what it's like. And you think about what it's like to watch your child's Who is now a man, now a woman, and you realize that where they are is because of your investment. And you didn't you didn't see it all the way along the way There were a lot of frustrating days, a lot of discouraging days, a lot of fearful days, a lot of Where's the money coming from, kind of days? You mean we're out of food again, kind of days? Haven't I told you not to do this again, kind of days? And you know what? You look at them at that stage in life and it just gives you an overwhelming sense of joy. And that's what Paul's saying. You know how you feel when you see that child take that step that you did not see twenty years ago? And you go, Wow, something has happened here. He says, That's how I feel. He said, I have incredible joy over each of you. Comes to a third truth and final truth that I'll mention tonight. We have to take this passage and not just read about it and understand it, but we need to apply it. And I want to give you four simple statements That will help us to take what we've heard tonight and apply it. The first statement is this: we must be fully submitted to biblical authority. When we regularly submit our hearts to the authority of Scripture, we put ourselves in a position to have deep, thriving relationships with other people who do the same thing. The truth is that when we distance ourselves from God's word, when God's authority really isn't a big deal to us, We're not going to connect with people who love the Lord in that way. We absolutely will not. We will not have that bond. We'll not have that connection. Will not have that kind of a love. But when they love Christ and are submitted to his authority, and we love Christ and are submitted to his authority, that bond gets very deep and very sweet. Secondly, we must be committed to being disciples of Jesus. When we develop a pattern of following Christ in our daily walk, we position ourselves to have a deep, thriving relationship with others who do the same. You know, as a pastor, and I remember as a missionary when I was a missionary, I remember sitting down sometimes and just thinking, you know, I am the most blessed person in this world. All of my friends. The people that I have the closest connections with in life, we actually have deep-rooted friendships. We talk about things that matter. We talk about eternal matters, the souls of people, how God's at work, and there is a depth, and there is a richness, there is a sweetness to that relationship, and I want you to realize that's what God gives to people who are disciples. People who follow Him. Thirdly, we must realize that God can take our suffering, use it to develop deep, loving bonds with one another. And we suffer for the sake of the gospel. That suffering will deepen our relationships with other Christians who have walked through the same sufferings. I don't like suffering, nor do you. I would never ask God to put me through trials so that I could love him more and so that I could mature. You know, he knows when it's time. I'm not ready for it. He knows when it's time. I would never ask God for those things. And I hope you wouldn't either. But I will tell you this. When we walk through those times, not in the midst, But when we can look back, there's a lot we can say, you know what? God did some good things there I didn't understand it at the time. I certainly didn't think he would, but he did. The next time you use the phrase 2020 vision, use it carefully. But there will be a day we will look back on this year of our lives and we will see things in a different light. And so I want to encourage you in that way. Suffering is hard, it's painful, but God uses it. The last thing I'll mention, we must realize that though we have been separated from one another for a season, this too can be a powerful tool to develop that deep loving bond between us. You know, a church is a very, very special, special place. One of the things that I think Should stand up and kind of hit you in the face more than anything at this time, is that the world does not understand what the church is The world does not understand what the church is. The world does not understand that the church is not a country club The church is not a restaurant. The church is a body of people who have a unique common faith in Christ. There is a connection between us that is different than any other bond that we experience in this world. This place is very special. This place is very sacred. And what we realize is that when we're separated for a season, We appreciate what makes the church such a special, special place. When we're unable to assemble with God's people because of circumstances outside of our control, that distance can become a tool that God uses to develop the love that we have for one another. I'm hoping that we don't have to do too many drive-in services. Full disclosure, folks, it's true. That's my that's my hope. I'm not here to predict how many we'll have But I am going to say this, no matter how many, it's not going to change the fact that God can take these things and use them for good in our lives. It doesn't change the fact that the church is a very sacred and special body of Christians. And it doesn't change the fact that God in his good time will bring us back together. I want to encourage you, as this text says, that God wants us to have a fervent, loving bond for one another. May we see that continue to develop and grow deeper in our church family I'd like us to bow together in prayer and ask God to do that. And it's been good to see you. And uh I'd like to go by and greet all of you. I don't know if I'm supposed to do that or not. So I'll tell you what, I'm gonna stand over there as you're driving out and I'm gonna say hey to everybody Um but it's very, very good to see each of you. Let's be all together for a word of prayer, and then I guess we'll be dismissed, however that works. Okay. Let's pray. Father in heaven. We are a blessed people. We recognize that though we can't meet like usual, and though there's a lot of frustration associated with this time , You are still on your throne. You still deeply love us. And you are doing good in our lives. Father, help us to trust you and help us to grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. Please mature each of us through these circumstances. Help us to become more like Christ. Father, when we can assemble as normal, I pray that we would have a greater renewed sense of the importance of the local church. And that this would be a very healthy, vibrant, deeply rooted, well-connected, loving community of Christians. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.