Well, good evening. Good to see each of you tonight and uh looking forward to a great service. Uh see a lot of kids. I know We're going to have a lot of kids in the in the back there. So I hope you're ready for this, Katie. But uh let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer. We're going to sing a couple of uh hymns. We'll have one special and then And we'll be right into the preaching. So let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so very grateful for the Lord's Day where we can gather together, we can worship, we can rest, we can focus our attention on you. And I pray that tonight you would especially move in our midst and work in our hearts. I pray that as we sing these hymns, that we would think about the messages being expressed in song. I pray that That our hearts would truly express worship to you, deep felt worship. And then I pray that as Brent preaches tonight, that you guide his thoughts and empower him. And we ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Good evening, Acre Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Good evening To have you with us this evening. And as we start our music services tonight, we're going to take the blue book. Not the red book. The blue book, if you're going to follow along in the book and turn to page 105. Page 105. Stand with me as we sing four verses, all four verses of For Me to Live is Christ. Sing out. Please deploy For me to live destroyed, for me to live , for to wake them on eye as Christ. Okay, remain standing for page 258 in the red book. Or just follow along on the screen. Sing out and make the joyful noise. Page two fifty-eight. There is a All the things which is joy with me. Go by me, for I go my beaway, for my go away, for I come by me, go away. And where may I go by me? Why can't you go with my life? Oh Lord , personally, my call is me, my glory. Man is not being like that , I shall be like, Man shall be to my life. Go ahead and have a seat. As in we're going to stay in the red book, but turn back just a few pages to 243. Page 243. All four verses of When I Survey the Wondrous Cross. And then we'll go back to the blue book. Page 109 for those of you who need to Words and the notes to sing the melodies and harmonies. Page 109. I'll get there in a second. There we go. Our triune God. All three verses. Welcome , pray that is the lady , and all to know to be bad. Amen. That's good singing. That song's a great reminder. Well, for each of the nights that we have our meetings this week, we're just going to do several songs at the beginning. Some nights we may have uh an offertory special, some we will not. But we really want to focus our attention on the preaching of God's Word. And so I'm looking forward to what the Lord has laid on Brother Brent's heart. I do also want to mention, I often forget this, but we do take up a love offering for our evangelist when he comes. And the way that we do that is there's a box in the back if you would like to participate. Just uh whenever you fill out a check, make sure that you write love offering for the evangelist. And uh when the deacons do count that, they'll make sure that they include that. and a love offering that we will give him at the end of our time together. So I do want to mention that if you'd like to participate. We won't pass the plate. There's a box in the back if you'd like to participate. But the Brett, uh, come forward and uh our children can be dismissed to the back for their class and looking forward traping. All right, boy , follow Miss Katie to Special Children's Revival Hour. And they're gonna have an enjoyable time out there. Bye. Hey. Hebrews twelve It's already been a great joy to be here and interact with many of you, get to see uh familiar faces and meet new ones as well. And I pray and trust that the Word of God is going to help meet needs and challenge and convict and encourage people tonight. Because I know my words can do nothing but fail, but God's words can really minister and really change hearts and lives. Here we are in Hebrews chapter 12, and just to set the stage so we're all familiar, the author of Hebrews who is not mentioned, and we could talk about the different theories of who the author of Hebrew is. But the author of Hebrews here has come through the argument that Christ is better. And here he's talking to first-century Jewish Christians who had endured a lot. Their lives when they came to faith in Christ got miserable. It got hard. It wasn't their best life now. Pardon me, Mr. Preacher in Texas. It was hard. It was challenging. And he's setting forth examples of men and women, the men and women who lived by faith and saying, hey, these all died in faith, not having received the promise. But keep going. We're in this together. Keep going forward by faith. Don't give up. In fact, look with me what it says there. It talks about the chastening. Now no chastening for the verse eleven. Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous. I read that verse and every time I read that I go to my, I say to myself, no kidding. Who here enjoys chastening? None of us do It's grievous, it's painful, but nevertheless, afterward it yields the peaceful fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Then he says, Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down in the feeble knees He gives us a very vivid word picture of these people who are just kind of struggling. Their hands are hanging down. The knees are kind of weak. I can't keep going. I I I just Can't I I can't. In fact, that's the whole argument he's making here, lest ye give up and faint in your minds in verse three. Consider him that endured such contradiction in sinners against yourself. The way we fail as Christians is always in the mind because we are more than conquerors. We, through the power of the Holy Ghost, have won. We are seated in the heavenlies. So when we fail, we fail in the mind because we fail to take into account what God has already said about us and how we've won. And he's encouraging these first century Christians, hey I know it's challenging. I know it's tough. But notice where we're gonna we're gonna focus here in beginning in verse 15. Look what it says here. Looking diligently, lest any man fail the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you and thereby many be defiled. Lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected, for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully. with tears. I'm going to be honest. Tonight is a message that every single one of us need. And it may sound a little bit presumptuous, but I know me. I know uh almost fifteen years in the ministry well over fifteen years in the ministry now. I've studied human nature. I'm gonna go out on the limb and it's not even that much of a limb. All of us need the truth we're gonna talk about tonight. I don't know situations, I don't know stories, but God does. Every single one of us need the truth here And there's going to be a bit of a resistance. Some of us may want to, well, no, that doesn't no, that that that's other people. I'm glad so-and-so is here tonight to hear this because they But I will just tell you straight up, every single one of us need this truth. So we have a couple options. You can sit there and say, well, I'll see about this. I'll wait. Or we can say, God, I need truth. We can, as God speaks to us, we can respond correctly. Let's begin tonight with a prayer. And as I pray out loud, would you pray quietly, asking God to help you get tonight what He wants you to get out of this truth, out of this message? And pray just asking God, God, would you show me? Would you illumine me? Would you help me to understand where perhaps I've failed the grace of God? Father, we need you. We pray that you would bless the kids program back in the other room. But Father, tonight, for the next few minutes, would you help us to listen intently to your word? To focus in on what it means. And would we be allowed, would we allow the Holy Spirit to convict us through the power of the Word of God? And to ultimately change us, would we see the devastation that results when we fail grace? And would we clearly understand what the intention of this passage was? And when we take practical steps for remedy, we need you. I need you. In Jesus' name. Amen. If you're taking notes, there's three points, and each one is a down progression. They begin with the little word left, L-D-S-T, and you see three of those there in verses 15 and 16. Notice that first phrase, though, and this is important. We've got to start here. Follow along the Bible. If you don't have a Bible, look on with the neighbor, but look what the Bible says here. Looking diligently. This is not just a one-time deal that check mark done done got that. No. There are things that I learned one time at a, I can remember at a revival service or at a camp service or at a pastor preaching that I I saw one time in Scripture. And I got victory over it, I understood it, I believed it, I got faith, and praise the Lord, I haven't struggled with that. But this is not one of those things This is something that you're going to have to look at diligently. Looking diligently. Not just a one-done type situation. This is something that you and I are going to have to deal with repeatedly. Looking diligently. Now follow along your Bible. Look what the Bible says here. Looking diligently, lest the grace of God fail any man. Is that what your Bible says? Okay, it's Sunday night, and I know the temptation is to sit there and uh you gotta just kinda tell me what No, I want you to participate. You gotta you gotta help me out. Is that what your Bible said? No, because this is doctrinally important here. What does the Bible say? Lest any man fail. Who fails in this circumstance? We do. I have Arminian friends who look at this verse and they say, well, certainly there, you can lose your salvation. No, that's not what this is talking about. This is not talking about losing your salvation. We can take it to other passages and that's a whole nother message, a whole nother doctrinal set that we have to get. But this is not talking about losing your salvation. What is this talking about? Keep your finger here in Hebrews 12 and look over with me at 1 Corinthians. Excuse me, 2 Corinthians 12. Look at what it says in 2 Corinthians 12. Paul's being very open and personal. This is where he talks about the thorn in the flesh. We don't know exactly what the thorn was. It probably had something to do with his eyesight. But anyway, Paul sought the Lord on three separate occasions. In fact, look what it says there in verse number eight. For this thing I besought the Lord thrice that it might depart from me. Paul thought to himself, I could have a better life, I could be more effective, my life could be easier if I didn't have this thorn in the flesh. That's fair What did God say to him? And he said unto me, verse 9, My grace is sufficient for thee, for my strength is made perfect in weakness. Here's the truth we have to understand. In every challenge that you are or will face or have faced, God 's grace is sufficient. Sometimes people pray, I pray God for this family, a double portion of God's grace. I know what they're meaning. I I I I understand their intent. But theologically speaking, we don't need a double portion of God's grace because God's grace is sufficient. I know that's that's cutting hairs. I don't I don't make a big deal about that, but God's grace is sufficient. Every challenge you are facing, have faced, will face, God's grace is sufficient to help you get through that challenge. Now, it's easy on a Sunday night to say, amen. I believe that. Let's be honest. Do we always live that? Challenges come, do they not? Difficulties, problems, interpersonal issues. What's the first thing that happens? There's nothing good that can come of this. There's no good that can come of my situation. This is the end. There's nothing. Wait a minute. Do you guys know Romans 8. 28? And we know that some things work together for good. Yeah. Does that make a difference between some and all? Yes. A huge difference. And we know, can you say it with me? And we know that all? Hold on. What about cancer? Brent, I had cancer and there's nut how big's your God. Brent, you don't understand the issues that I face. You don't understand what was done to me decades ago. I had a family member who I had a And you, I don't understand that. I don't know. But what does Romans 8. 28 say? And we know that all God's grace is sufficient to help us get through every situation in life. But here's what happens. We have to watch out because what oftentimes happens is that you and I We fail grace. Do you remember the story of Joseph in Genesis 50? I would have loved to have been a f- The whole Joseph narrative is incredible in itself. I love reading Genesis 37 through 50. But here 's Joseph. Dad's gone. The brothers come in kind of sheepishly. And they're like, hey, hey, Joe, um You remember that dad said uh to be nice to us, now dad's gone, you're not gonna like because after all we did sell you into slavery which is worse than death, and you lost like 20 years of your life. Sorry about that You can kind of see it. And Joseph says, Fear not. Am I in the place of God? Ye fought evil against me. But, you know the rest of the verse? God Meant it for good. How big is your God? It's a big question. It's an important question. Oh God, there's nothing good that can come of this situation. You don't understand. There's nothing good that can come of this situation. No, no, no, no, no. You just failed grace right there Because we know that God works all things together for good. Our God is big enough to take even evil and use it for his glory. That's a big God. And here's what Grace says. Grace is God I don't understand. This doesn't make sense to me. I I I wouldn't choose this It doesn't seem right, it doesn't seem fair, but by faith, and you've got to do it by faith because the sight doesn't work, but by faith, I know that you're using this difficulty, this challenge, this evil. This interpersonal problem, I know that you're using this difficulty for my good and ultimately for your glory. And so I'm not going to buck against it, I'm not going to push against it, I'm not going to I'm not going to try to get out from under it. I'm not going to press the easy button and say, I'm done with this. I'm not going to blame you and charge you foolishly. No, God, I'm going to choose to believe that you're using this challenge in my life for good. That's what we're supposed to do, right? But let's be honest. Is it okay to be honest on a Sunday night? What do we often do? I can't b uh can you believe what is this stinks, this is not fair. There's nothing good that can come of this That is failing grace. That's exactly what the author of Hebrews is warning these people about. Looking diligently, lest any man fail the grace of God. God's grace doesn't fail. Who does? We do. Be honest, friend. We do this consistently. You can be walking with God, just had your personal devotions, you get in the car, and somebody cuts you off. You just failed grace. Something somebody can say something to you, just little, just just like three words. And you're like We just failed grace. You're leaving and your spouse just says something. Just little. And you're driving away going. That's failing grace, right? I I'm being a little bit dramatic just so we can get it, but because I know this is Sunday night and we're typically just kind of sitting here. But let's be honest, we fail grace often, consistently. And here's the downward progression. Look at your Bible again back in Hebrews chapter 12, and look what it says there. Number one, looking diligently lest any man fail the grace of God. What are some of the things that you can fail grace over? It could be interpersonal. He said, she said, we said, they said type deal. It could be words, it could be actions, it could be uh something that you just wish was different. I just wish my life was different. I've I've encountered this several times in the past year. I've encountered what who people who claim to be Christians recently who just want out of their situation. They want out of their life. They want out of their marriage. They want out of I just I just need a fresh start. I just They wish something was different. They wish they were married to somebody different. That's failing grace. It could be that something happened years ago. If I said the name of a employer or a teacher or a person or a Former family member, right now, if I said their name instantly, you would and you've you've won the argument multiple times in the shower Right? You've been the judge, justice, and jury. And if I said that person's name, and even though it may have happened decades ago, you ago, I was right, they were wrong, they did me wrong. News flash that's failing grace. And I would say you're already at the next step. You're definitely already at the next step. We hang on to things so often when you and I hang on to something, we are there at the next step. Look what it says there. Looking diligently lest any man fail the grace of God, lest any root of what? Bitterness. We don't like to be bit oh no, bitter. I got family members that are bitter. You can't even talk to you. I've been to nursing homes, they're bitter people. cranky old people. They're the bitter people. Oh yeah, we got some bitter people in our church. They they kind of just are nasty and mean. Yeah. But let's be honest. The progression here is by it's by inspiration. It's preserved for us. Lest any of you fail the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up and it troubles you, and thereby many be defiled. Notice how this Sin is described here in verse 15. Lest any root of bitterness. How many of you have ever tripped on a root? Can I see your hand? Okay. I grew up in Florida with with Pastor Joel and we have cypress nubs everywhere. Uh do you have cypress nubs up here in the in the wetlands? Do you have cypresses? They're pro more south, aren't they? In the Carolinas, further south. Okay. We have cypress nubs and they don't grow by seed typically, they grow by shooting up nubs everywhere. I know you have rocks, more rocks up here than we did. We didn't have any rocks, by the way. We're in Florida, it's all sand. But we had roots everywhere. Why do you think the author of Hebrews uses this terminology describing tripping on this this issue? Because all of us have tripped on the root, have we not? That's how easy it is to be bitter. Looking diligently, number one, lest you fail the grace of God, secondly, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you and thereby many be defiled. Years ago I was at a kind of a minister 's conference and the whole theme, it was like a Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and the Thursday night message was a confess your sin. And that's what we did. We gathered as small groups and began to confess how God had spoken to us through the preaching of his word. I remember listening to minister after minister in my small group share and confess that God had spoken to them that night about bitterness. The first guy shared it was bitterness and I was I was kind of shocked. He was he's a mentor of mine, he's an evangelist. And I was like, wow, he's bitter. Second guy's in the ministry, he shared that I've been bitter about the My wife's health problems. Why God have you allowing me to go through this? Third guy was bitter at a previous ministry that hurt him. News flash, ministries are made of people, and sometimes ministries hurt people, don't do they not? Some of us have been in different ministries in our life, and we can attest to that. And some of us may still be holding on to something. Well, that pastor, that that deacon, that that church, that ministry, they Yeah, we can hang on to that. And I'll never forget how shocked I was as four men in the ministry shared that God didn't that night had spoken to them about bitterness. These are not ungodly carnal pagans, these are ministers. Who passionately love God. And I begin thinking right there, this isn't a common problem. And I'm convinced that most of God's people Even here in this room tonight, yes, on a Sunday night service, most of us consistently struggle with bitterness, and we don't know what to call it. We don't know how to label it. We were hurt, we were wronged, we were something happened and we've held on to it and we we we keep it, we internalize it, and we let that bitterness, the word bitterness means poison. And it's the direct result of failing the grace of God. It's keeping that bitterness in. One often described it like this: bitterness is drinking poison hoping another person falls over dead. That's exactly what it is because look at how it's described, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you You know, it can happen so quickly. You can be walking along with God, enjoying joy and peace, and all of a sudden you go through the just go through the emotions of the Christian life, and it's just all it's like morning breath. You know that that taste? It's kind of nasty, isn't it? Sometimes we get that same taste about the Christian life, do we not? It's time to go to church. Gotta read my Bible. Supposed to pray. Hasn't done much in a while, but supposed to do all these things. And we just get this bitter feeling toward the Christian life. That's bitterness. It springs up, it troubles you. Notice again what the text says here. It troubles you personally. So often we hang on to something we think we're justified. We're gonna keep this I I 'm right. Yes, you may have been wronged. But Psalm 66 18 says, if I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me Some of you do not have a relationship with God, and you haven't for some time, even though you are a blood-bought child of God, you haven't had a vibrant prayer life, you haven't had that that communion with God that He's so designed for you and I Why is that? Because you're hanging on to something. My parents, my employer, my spouse, my kids, my s they did something, something, and you're hanging or or it couldn't just be it may not be a person. It may just be something that happened in life It could be something that was kind of random by chance, and yet you're hanging on to something, and in fact, you're kind of bitter at God. Because God who designed this universe, who put it all in play in his sovereign grace, has allowed you to experience or not to experience that which you think you don't deserve or should deserve. And you're hanging on to that. And it's troubling you. Even the secular medical profession has linked many diseases directly to unforgiveness. We know that, Proverbs 11, 17, the merciful man doeth good to his own soul, but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh. Proverbs 17, 22, a merry heart doeth good like a medicine, but a broken spirit drieth the bones. But notice that last phrase. It doesn't just trouble you. Look what it says there. And thereby, the end of verse 15, and thereby many be defiled. You could tell me stories, I'm sure, just like I could. Of one teenager who got bitter and ruined a class at a Christian school, one teenager who got bitter and split a youth group. One parent who got bitter and produced worldly teens as we'll see. One parent who got bitter and their marriage fell apart. One one person or one family who got bitter a little bit miffed at the pastor and As a result that kind of split the church or fractured the church kind of. We could tell story after story of people who have hurt us and as a result we hung on to that or they hung on to it and they they did some things that were just horrible It doesn't just stop with you, friend. If you right now are hanging on to something, if you're keeping that, if you're internalizing that, I am here tonight to tell you by the authority of the Word of God, it's troubling you and no most of you like I know it's troubling me but it's not just stopping with you it's destroying those around you I can tell you story after story after story of parents who got bitter at the ministry, at God, at whatever circumstance came about. And you know what happened to their kids? Some of them are in jail today and they used to sit in our churches. What happened? Their bitterness troubled them, and it troubled those around them as well. It doesn't stop with you and I. Well, I have a right. What was done to me was wrong. I'm not saying it wasn't wrong. I'm not saying you weren't hurt. I'm not saying what was done to you was right. But friend, if you and I fail the grace of God, we let that bitterness well up in our soul, that poison, and we hang on to that, and we become the judge, justice, and juror, and we hang on to that hurt and that it troubles us You don't have a prayer life if you're honest. Because you're regarding iniquity, you're holding on to it. I was wronged. And what's happening is you're destroying the lives of others too. I can tell you story after story in the ministry of parents who got hurt and as a result walked away from church, left, left the faith, left the truth, and you know who paid for it? Their children. And even their grandchildren. Because bitterness just doesn't stop with you. And sadly, there's there's many hurtful circumstances that have happened, but I can tell you story after story of friends of mine, ministers I've known, even within my short 15-20-year ministerial career. who pastors who walked away from church because something got said, something happened. Business meetings went bad. I know that's not going to happen tonight. But I can tell you stories about business meetings. I'm sure some of you can as well. And that put a hurt so badly on the pastor that I can I am thinking of pastor right now. He's lost all his kids. He was in the ministry not too long ago. Because hurts came. And he let that get in there. And it hurts. It wasn't right. It wasn't fair. No, but that bitterness destroys. That's not the answer. And friend, if you're hanging on to something and you're still hanging on to it, you're destroying your own soul. You're killing yourself And you're troubling others. It's not worth it. I can tell you right now, it is not worth it. But sadly, it doesn't stop there. The next verse gives further application, and in fact it gives fruit sins. Lest, verse 16, look what it says here. Lest There be any fornicator or profane person as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. So the biblical example of a bitter person that the author of Hebrews gives here is Esau. Who is Esau? It's not a trick question. Who is his brother? Jacob, does anybody know how old the twins were when uh Jacob deceived Esau? Take a guess. Seven seventy seven five. Seventy seven. Yeah. They had lived in the tent for a while. It's an incredible sorry stop when you can go back and in fact you can look at the narrative in Genesis and do the math and find that number And what is Esau? He was a fornicator and he's a profane person. He's a biblical example of someone who failed the grace of God, who became bitter. And he became either a fornicator or a profane person. Now look at those words again. Fornicator. I don't think I have to explain that. But one of the fruit sins of bitterness is fornication. So often, so often, so often, people become bitter, and the the one of the results from the fruits is that they they justify in their mind, well, my life hasn't been that great, so I'm going to gravitate towards something that makes me feel good I can tell you story after story about teenagers who endured a hardship at home. What went on at home wasn't right. But because of that, they became bitter. They became a little bit upset. And when the opportunity to look and view and think and act out what they saw on their phones took place, they were able to do so. I'm thinking of several teen people young people and then teenagers who got bitter at parents and one of the fruit sins that played itself out in their life was fornication, an unhealthy, wrong desire. For that which God has placed in the bounds of marriage. I can tell you story after story after story. Men, let's be practical. God says to us as husbands, husbands, love your wives and be not bitter against them. Let's be honest. Little things get said, do they not, men? I'm talking to men right now with who are married. You can respond correctly. Little things get said, right? Yeah. Some of you are like, uh she's sitting right next to me. Yes, they do. You know, the temptation is there to drive away or head into work or whatever and think to herself. I wish she would just respect me. I work so hard. I sacrificed for family. I just wish she would respect me. I deserve respect for what I do. Oop, you've just failed grace. You've let bitterness come in. Let's be honest, man. The next pretty face that shows you respect, instantly your antenna up. Ooh, maybe she would show me respect. That's how affairs get started. It starts with bitterness. Women it's slightly different, but very similar I wish he uh I wish he'd just try to understand me. He he just doesn't seem like he dunno he doesn't meet my needs. He just doesn't get it. He he may not get it He just doesn't get it. I wish he would just try to understand. I need a man that would understand and that would meet my emotional needs. What happened? You just failed the grace of God. Probably even just now left bitterness in the door. And your intent are up because then you find a guy who, oh, he seems caring. He seems like he would meet my emotional needs. What is on the door? Fornication. Fornication is knocking. We could go story after story after story. I could share story after story of young people and not so young people who, because of bitterness, justified in their mind and a healthy desire for filth. Somebody goes through the hard times and you know instantly they turn on the movie, oh I just need to relax. And what do they see there? Most oftentimes you see filth, garbage. And many of God's people, men and women, have gotten hooked to for the pornic the pornography, fornication, because they're looking at something and they justify, hey, I deserve this. This makes me feel good. Everything in my life is negative, but this is actually something positive. That's the result of bitterness. But this doesn't stop at fornication. Look at the next word there. Or profane person. What is profanity? Don't give me any, please. What is profanity? It's dirty words. Yes, that's definitely included in it. But the biblical word profane means empty. What was Esau? He was empty. The blessing of the firstborn was important. And it was supposed to be valued. It was a spiritual blessing. It was something to be valued. And how did Esau treat it? I don't care. Sure, you can have it. I I don't care. I don't need it. Whatever. He treated it as common. He treated it as profane. He was empty. He had the attitude toward truth of eh. Whatever. Eh, it's just the Bible. Eh, it's just a blessing. He was treating the spiritual as the common. And it could be tonight that some of you are here and you've let something well up within your soul and you're you're hanging on to something. And you may not be a fornicator, but you may be a profane person. In fact is that you are here tonight And you haven't had much answer to prayer. You haven't really had a spiritual drive. Yeah, you're here Sunday night because there's a business meeting. You've got to kind of figure out what's happening here. But you're you're there's not much spiritual life happening And you can point back to a time, you can look back when there was a vibrancy, when there was an excitement. Could it be that you are a bitter person? That sounds kind of harsh, but let's just be honest because we gotta be honest. Could it be that you're a bitter person and you're you're hanging on to something because uh it just wasn't right and the result is either fornication or in perhaps in your case it's profanity. Yeah, Bible, yeah, church Yeah, prayer. Yeah. Have you ever felt that before? I have. And when I feel that I go back and look, have I failed the grace of God? Have I let something interpersonal come up in between me? And friends, this is not something that, oh yeah, check mark, I I've heard a message ten years ago on bitterness, and I yeah, I appreciate that back too. No, this is something you have to deal with, I would say, on a daily basis If I go through a season where it just seems like, oh, everything's off. Wait, wait, wait, wait a minute. Maybe I'm better right now. Maybe I'm not trusting the grace of God. Maybe I'm a little bit upset. Maybe I'm a little bit jilted because I think I deserve better. I deserve different. Definitely I don't deserve this. God, I again surrender my will to God to you, I realize that I don't have this thing all figured out. God, I realize that your plan is better than mine and your ways are higher than mine. And I surrender my life to you. I don't want to try to push my means on you. God, I surrender again God, I know that what was said, what happened, all the difficulties, the interpersonal problems, I know they weren't fun, but I know you're using them How many of you right now can think of something that was said to you recently that you're still you've chewed on for a while and it hurt? My hand's up. There's a couple things that have been said this past year to me, and I'm obviously not going to name names. You probably wouldn't know them either, but Men who I you know I I know in a ministry context that said a few things and it was like and you just kind of smile and chuckle and go on, but inside you're like, ow You keep thinking on it. Junior high was rough for some of us, wasn't it? And some of us perhaps can even still remember. I can, and I'm not bitter at the man. But I can remember things that got said, done, in a junior high context that hurt greatly. And some of you still can as well. And some of you perhaps can remember something that a parent said or did. That happened decades ago, but it still hurts. And if you're not careful, if we're not careful. We'll let that fester become bitterness very quickly, very quickly. And the result of that bitterness is either fornication or profanity. I didn't put that verse there. God Himself did. And you and I can be guilty so often of dirtiness or emptiness, and it's because we've let something fester inside. And the fruit sin is fornication or profanity. Friends, it does not have to be like that. It does not have to be like that. Look back with me at the beginning of this chapter, Hebrews chapter 12, and look at verse 3. We read it or we quoted it a few minutes ago, but look what it says there. For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. Hey The way out is there for you and I. And that's what the author of Hebrews was so concerned about. Here you have this group of Christians who say, I can't. I just can't. It's been too hard. It's been too challenging. It's been too I just can't keep going Their hands are hanging low, their knees are feeble, they're just oh I can't, I can't, I can't. No, no, no, no, no. Looking unto Jesus, the offer and finish of our faith. The most injust, inhumane thing ever done in the history of humanity was when you and I put Christ on the cross with our sins. And what did he say? Father, forgive. That's a game changer right there. And if you hang on to the hurt that was done to you, whether by parents or kids or employers or employees or whatever, if you hang on to that, you won't make it on the Christian life that God wants you to. You will struggle. It won't be fair. It won't be right. But if we consider Christ, what he went through, was it fair? No. If we consider that, then you and I can forgive. You and I can keep moving on. You and I can find comfort, encouragement, and get those feet, those knees help, and those hands strengthened and walk in newness of life. Friends, so often what do we do? We fail the grace of God. This isn't right, this isn't fair, this hurt, this is painful. God, why are you allowing this guy? God, are you good? Are you there? We fail the grace of God. We let that bitterness well up within. And as a result, as a result, you and I either become fornicators or profane, dirty or empty. Or both. It doesn't have to be that way. What is forgiveness? There's a lot of misconceptions about forgiveness. Some people would say, well, you know, forgiveness is just forgive and forget. How many of you as parents either heard or as the kid either heard that or as parents have used that forgive and forget? Yeah, for the little squabbles that siblings face, sometimes that's what you got to do. Forgive and forget. But some of us are dealing with hurts that we can't forget about because it's physically affected us. Some of you are dealing with things right now that you can't forget and every day you're missing somebody in your life that you didn't think you were supposed to miss. Yeah. Why did you take that person, God? Why did you do it then? And you're dealing with things that you can't possibly forget. Forgiveness necessarily isn't always forgetting, because sometimes you just can't. Forgiveness is not necessarily psychoanalyzing, well, you know They were having a bad day and th this happened and this happened this happened. I understand. And I'm you know, I I just that's not necessarily forgiving either. Forgiveness is not um uh trying to make pretend that nothing ever happened. We're good at that one. Well we'll just kind of wait a few weeks and say hi to them again at church. Hey, so good to see you. Yeah, hey, hey, yeah. And just kind of in the meanwhile we were thinking, you dirty scumbag. Right? That's not forgiveness Forgiveness is a decision to shred the you owe me list. Every one of us has a book within our heart that we heat the hurts that people do to us. We write it down. Kids embarrass me in public in front of people. I'll remember that next time you want ice cream. Somebody says something to us. I'm just being honest. Is that okay to be is it okay to be honest? Yeah. Somebody says something to us. The boss says and we go next deadline, you'll be on your own, buddy. Right? We keep those hurts. We write them down. And we try to get back at people. And you know what forgiveness is? Forgiveness is a decision of the will to say, God, I choose by your grace, because it is enabling me to do so, I choose to take that book of my heart and shred it. Because I don't deserve anything. And what I have from you is all grace. The mercy of God is incredible. That's forgiveness. One author said it like this: When you forgive, you set a prisoner free, then you realize you were the prisoner. I don't doubt for one second that there's someone here tonight who for the past months, perhaps even years, perhaps even decades, you've been hanging on to something. You're hanging on to it. And you're not willing to let it go. It's troubling you. It's destroying those around you. It's resulting in fornication or profanity. And it's destroying your life, your family, your ministry, your marriage, your whatever. It is not what God has intended for you. And tonight you have a choice. Am I going to take the grace of God and apply it to the situation, or I'm going to keep saying, no, it's not fair, it's not right, it's not e this isn't good. You have a choice, friend. We all do. There's things that get said every single day of our life. Little things happen. Little things happen. We have a choice right then and there. Do we dwell on it? I can't believe my spouse did. I can't believe my boss. I can't believe my coworker. I can't believe my kids. I can't believe my parents. I can't Do we fail grace and become bitter? Or do we say something like this? God, that hurt, still does. And it probably will for several years to come. By faith, I choose to believe that you're going to use this challenge, this difficulty, this hurt in my life. You're going to work it together for good, even though I can't see how. So I'm not going to get bitter, I'm not going to get mad, I'm not going to get angry. I'm not going to try to resolve this. I'm not going to get wrath and try to let my wrat have to resolve this no no no god by faith I'm gonna let you work this situation And it may not happen the way I think it should. We like to, God, you should do this, this, this, this, and judge this person this way, this way. No, no, God, it may not happen as I see it, but God, I choose to believe by faith. That you're going to use this situation, this hurt, for my good, for your glory. And that's ultimately what it's all about, it's your glory. And I'm going to keep walking with you. I'm not going to it's not fair. It's not right. I'm not going to This isn't right. I'm not going to sit down and quit. I can't live the Christian life. It's too hard. It wasn't fair to me. No, I'm not going to do that because it wasn't fair to you, Jesus, either. Nothing was fair in your life. I'm to follow you. I'm going to consider you. I'm going to walk with you. I'm going to trust you. Because that's the only sanity we have in this insane world. And tonight the Holy Spirit is talking to some of you. He's being very clear. Hey, you're not willing to get this right. And until you do, you're not going to have that peace, you're not going to have that joy. You're not going to have that vibrant walk with God that God desires for you. you that he wants for you. And so tonight the answer, the the question for all of us is are you going to fail the grace of God? Or are you going to let the grace of God in and apply that grace to your heart and life? I don't know the hurt, I don't necessarily need to. Pastor may know some of the no doubt pastor doesn't know everything, and Pastor may not need to know everything But I do know this: that all of us have, will, and are facing problems, and God's grace is sufficient every time. Are you going to choose to apply it? Or are you going to fail it? And then become bitter. And then your bitterness become either dirty or empty. I don't like those two options, do you? That's not what God wants for you and I either. He wants us to walk in newness of life. So you got a choice tonight, friend. But Brent It hurts. You don't know what was done. I don't know. But God does. And let's stop and back up. Think about what we did to Christ. And what again did he say? Father, forgive them. That's applying the grace of God. As we close tonight, could we all just bow our heads and close our eyes? Thank you for your kind attention. I greatly appreciate it. I want to encourage you to be honest. And not necessarily for my sake, but or pastors or anybody else, because we're going to keep our heads about nice closed. But be honest. If God tonight has challenged, if God has spoken, let me encourage you during these next few minutes. Now's the time to be honest. Brutally honest if you need to. How many say, Brent, I gotta be honest, God spoke to me. I'm a believer, I'm born again, but I have, there's an area that God pointed out in my life where I have failed the grace of God. I see it. God showed it to me. I have failed the grace of God specifically. Or there's areas, or there's a specific time, or there's certain situations in my family that come up and I fail consistently. And God spoke to me about that tonight. God convicted me. Would you raise your hand to that? God challenged me. Amen. Hands all across the auditorium. Praise the Lord. Anyone else? God spoke to me tonight. Thank you. Put your hands down. Second question, let's go a step further. Brent, it's not just failing grace. I see it. I sense it. I know it's there. The Holy Spirit confirmed it. I'm bitter. There's there's there's that poison in my soul. I I know it because I have failed grace in the situation. There's bitterness in my heart toward a person, toward an individual, toward a circumstance, a ministry, whatever. God pointed out bitterness in my soul today. Would you lift your hand in honesty toward God for that? Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Final question. How many say, Brent, got to be honest God showed me, and I see it now. Fornication or profanity, dirtiness or emptiness. I see it in my life And I know why it's there. It's because I've been hanging on to something. I've been mad at something that happened. I've been bitter, and God tonight showed me this is why it's there. Fornication and/or profanity. God showed me, God spoke to me. That that those sins, dirtiness or emptiness, I see them in my heart, in my life. And God convicted me. Would you lift your hand to God for that? Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Amen. Anybody else? Gotta be honest. Amen. The piano is going to play just a hymn of invitation. While she plays, you respond right there. Take a few minutes. Respond correctly to God. Confess, forsake, pray right there in your seat while the piano plays. Father, help us to identify this bitterness in our heart life. We need you. I need you. In Jesus' name. Amen. Pastor. You know, when we hear a message like this, the honest truth is it's very difficult to come to terms with what we know is in our own hearts sometimes. And I want to remind you, there's nobody that knows your soul better than God. Nobody. And when we hold on to bitterness, it's not like God doesn't see it because we hide it in our own hearts. He does, he sees it. When we acknowledge our sin to God, it's not like he goes, oh no, what do I do? My child is is bitter. God doesn't do that. He's not caught off guard. He knows what's going on in our heart. In fact, what he does is he says, remember the cross. Look at what Christ did for you. Says when we confess our sins, he's faithful and he's just to forgive us our sins. To cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so the person that is held prisoner is us, and there's absolutely no reason why we should allow ourselves to be held prisoner. He didn't save us to live a defeated and miserable Christian life. He saved us to walk in newness of life. To experience fullness of joy. And eternal life doesn't start when we die, it starts the moment we were saved. Now, we don't experience it the way we will in eternity, okay? I wish we did. But it starts now. Well, it has started before. Okay. And so when we don't when we don't experience a full Christian life, it's not because of him, it's because of us. And so I really want to encourage you, uh let's really take time to just pour out our hearts to God. Our hearts are often wounded deeply in a fallen world. And this this message does not diminish the pain of when we've been sinned against at all. What it does do is it says you need to process it by turning to Christ. drawing on his grace, reminding yourself of the cross, and letting him carry the burden of making that situation right And we live that way. It liberates us, it frees us to enjoy the Christian life the way He wants us to. So thank you for that very, very appropriate and very pertinent message The song we're going to sing in our closing is hymn 251. And uh I think this is a great song for us to sing as we think about this. Near the cross. I have all four verses down. You want to let 's sing all four verses. Let's stand together and let's sing all four verses because it really is, I think, where we need to turn after a message like this. This one. Two fifty-one near the cross. Let's sing it out. Jesus keep. Leave me near across where we stream. In the cross, in the cross, me my. Ever till my brother 's soul shall die. Let's be on the thing Hier möchte. He starts his beams around me in the cross, in the cross me I will. For me, till my graduate small shall find press me on the window on the turn. Érták az olvak , végzét, mint forni , elimakra még. In the cross, in the cross be my own. For me , kill my grassroots outline , as being on blood. Let's sing it out of power. Here we go. Oh means trusting another till I mean start holding strand Just be on the river in the cross, in the cross Be my glory , shell my soul shall As I mentioned in the early in the morning service, uh if you ever need to reach out about any issue, uh please do that. And I know a lot of times the the most appropriate thing for us to do is not to go any to anybody about our issue but To just go straight to God and deal with it alone with the Lord, and that is sufficient. Sometimes we need someone to talk through that with us. Say, How do I make sense of this? How do I should I go to this person? How do I make this right? What step should I take? How do I get victory over these things? So please don't hesitate to reach out on issues like that. We're going to have a business meeting in just a couple minutes, so let's bow for prayer for our closing. Brent will be in the back where you can go and greet him. Those who have children in the nursery, please go and get them. And then uh we'll have our meeting in about ten minutes or so after we've dismissed. So let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so grateful for the gospel and we recognize that in a fallen world we sin often. And we are often sinned against. It is painful to experience the terrible consequences of others' sins. And these wounds can be very, very heavy. And Father, I pray that you'd help us when we are wounded to turn to you and to process things in a godly manner To pour out our hearts to acknowledge our pain and our suffering and our need for your grace, and I pray that we would draw on that grace that you supply in those moments Father, when we become bitter, I pray that we would have the humility to recognize that and turn to you and confess our sins and to look at the cross and remind ourselves of Christ shed blood on that cross that paid the full penalty for those sins. that are forgiven and under the blood. I pray that we would walk with joy, with a heart that is just free as we consider the power of your redemptive work on our behalf. I pray that you'll bless us as we ponder these things and as we seek to live in the light of them. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.