Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back again to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you've been following us this week, we have been working our way through Romans 15, verses 25 through 32, and we're talking about missions as we have the entire month. And our study this week has been focusing on how the gospel unites people. And so this morning we're going to look at just a simple little statement in verse 32. But before we look at that statement, I'd like to read the entire section. So we can get the context. Here's what it says. But now I go into Jerusalem to minister unto the saints. For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achai to make a certain contribution for the poor saints that are at Jerusalem. It hath pleased them, for verily their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, their duty is also to minister unto them in carnal things. When therefore I have performed this and have sealed to them this fruit, I will come by you into Spain, and I am sure that when I come unto you I shall come in the fullness. of the blessing of the gospel of Christ. And I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake, and for the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in your prayers to God for me. that I may be delivered from them that do not believe in Judea, that my service, which I have for Jerusalem, may be accepted of the saints. that I may come unto you with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed. Now this morning what we're going to focus in on is the last statement that he makes in verse 32. Here's what he says, that I might come into you with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed. I love that last little statement. I want to be refreshed by your presence. Now we've talked about how the gospel unites people One of the things that it does is it makes us have a compassionate or a merciful culture. One of the things that it does is it unites us together so that we are a praying culture. It unites us together so that we are laboring together. These are the things that it does. But one of the most amazing things that the gospel does in the way that unites people is that it refreshes them. It it bonds them with other people. God created us so that we would have relationships. This is this is one of the the most fundamental things about our human nature is that God created us for relationship. And obviously our primary relationship is our relationship to him, but secondarily, and and not of an insignificant portion at all, is our relationship to other people. God designed us so that we could know people and love them and we can invest in their lives, they can invest in our lives. When God created the concept of male-female, family, marriage, and giving children and an extension of generations. That was a concept that God created so that we would have something that bonded us together, united us together, that cultivated deep and enjoyable relationships. And so the gospel makes people who are so different in so many different ways, and it bonds them on the most important levels. And so we see that in the statement, I want to be refreshed with you. Now, when Paul says he wants to be refreshed with them, he's not just saying, I want you to encourage me. He's saying, I want to encourage you. And as I'm encouraging you, I know one of the byproducts of that will be that you encourage me. And that's how relationships are most, are able to thrive the most. When our attitude is not what do I get out of this, but what can I give to this relationship? And when that person is thinking, what can I give to this relationship? Well what you have is the potential for a deep and abiding bond to be developed between those two people. God wants us to be a people that have deep, mutually refreshing relationships. And so I ask you this morning, are you the kind of person that is willing to give of yourself so that people can be refreshed by your life? And ultimately, as you do that, you experience the blessing that comes from pouring into the lives of people. There's a refreshment that comes from comes back. When the gospel is regularly present in people's lives, it is going to create the greatest potential for people to have relationships that have deep roots and ultimately can blossom. And I want to share with you a couple of reasons why I think that is. One of the reasons is that the gospel causes us to develop a deep love for other people because it regularly reminds us of God's love for us. I think about the scripture where it talks about the love of God dwelling in us richly. In Colossians it talks in those terms Or I think about in 1 John, where he says, no man has seen God at any time, but what they have seen is you and me. And when we love other people and our lives actually refresh other people, then one of the things that it does is it reminds people that we are channels through which God pours his love into the lives of other people. Another way that that the gospel unites us and creates an uplifting culture is that it releases our grievances. One of the things that happens when I think a lot about the gospel. is I'm reminded that I have been forgiven of this this incredible weight of of guilt. And so I need to forgive the people around me. The grievances that all of us are very prone to hold on to. We recognize we need to release those grievances. We need to be proactive in seeking to restore with other people who we know we are at odds with. And obviously we can't restore with every single person. There are some situations that we cannot get through. But as much as it lies in us, we need to do the best that we can to restore relationships. And when a person dwells in the gospel, it causes them to do that. A third example is that what it does is it causes us to be more patient and more enduring with other people as they are growing because we understand, you know what, God has been tremendously patient toward toward me. And so I begin to reflect that patience because I'm reminded again and again of how patient God has been with me. A fifth thing that I'll mention is that we value people. And one of the reasons that we value people is because we ponder the weight of Christ's sacrifice. If Christ is willing to go to the cross to bring us to the Father so that we can be given eternal life and become God's children, most certainly if he is willing to do that, that tells us he values souls And if God values souls, we should value them as well. A final thing I'll mention is that we labor together in things that matter and things that will last forever I have learned this in life, that the people that I am the most bonded to in life are also the people that I have invested in the most significant things. with. And so when I have labored with another individual and something that has tremendous value in the light of eternity, that what it does is it bonds me to that person. Obviously that the person that I'm the closest to in life is my wife. Why is that? Well it's because we are together invested in the lives of our children. and the lives of the Lord's work in our church here. Our lives have become interconnected because we are pouring them together in things that matter. I love my children, and the reason that I love my children so much is because I'm pouring into their lives, I'm shaping their lives because I recognize that there is eternal significance to the choices they make and the direction they are going. I think about the missionaries that I served with when I was overseas in Ghana, the people that I serve with here at Anchor Baptist Church. These are people that are very dear to me. Why? Well, because we are invested in the things that actually matter. We've gone on evangelism together. We've sat down in discipleship meetings together. We've prayed for church members together. We have sacrificed. We have labored together. That's what the gospel does. The gospel causes our relationships to establish deep roots and to blossom. So let me ask you this very simple question this morning. Do you have a gospel-centered life that is producing deep and abiding relationships? If your relationships are frayed, then I would encourage you to look to the source of the problem at the root of the plant, not the symptom. Lord willing, tomorrow we will finish out our study by kind of summarizing everything that we've talked about and hopefully leaving you with a couple of things to ponder going into the weekend. Have a blessed morning and Lord willing, we'll meet again tomorrow. Bye now.