Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today I'm going to be doing our study a little bit earlier than usual. But if you have your Bible, please take it and turn with me to James chapter 4. James chapter 4, we're looking at verses 1 through 3 together again. Once again, welcome, and let's look at James chapter 4, verses 1 through 3 today. I'm going to begin reading. From whence come wars and fightings among you? Come they not hence even of your lust that war in your members Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have and cannot obtain. Ye fight in war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not. And ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts. When we come to this passage, uh a very simple summary statement for this passage is the following section reminds us that our fallen nature, our flesh, is the ultimate source of our interpersonal and internal conflicts that leave us unsatisfied in life And I want to remind you that what James has been talking about is this conflict between godly wisdom and worldly wisdom. One form of wisdom comes ultimately from God. It has a God-centered view, it has godly values, it's dominated by the Spirit of God. And the other kind of wisdom is a wisdom that flows from inside the heart of fallen men. It's the common thinking of the day. It's a me first attitude. What I want is best. And so he says that these two kinds of wisdom are in conflict. And James has been talking quite a bit about this throughout the book. Now it's going to kind of transition in this portion from talking about it more from the perspective of just a general understanding of this concept to some practical ways that this worldly wisdom and this godly wisdom are in conflict with one another and how that kind of flushes out in our interpersonal relationships. So let's look at a couple of truths, a couple of observations from this passage that help us to understand really that this internal conflict and the interpersonal conflicts that we deal with are ultimately rooted in our flesh. And if we follow that course of action that we are being pressed by internally, we're going to be left empty and unsatisfied. we will never really receive the satisfaction that we want. Here's the first observation. Our fallen nature stirs up internal and interpersonal conflicts that leave us unsatisfied and empty. Look down with me at verses 1 and 2, and you'll see how he puts it. From whence come wars and fightings among you. Come they not hence even of your lusts that were in your members? Ye lust and have not, ye kill and desire to have, and cannot obtain. Now when we come to these verses, what we're seeing is a shift from a general statement about this battle that's going on between worldly wisdom and godly wisdom. And we're also talking about some very specific contexts where these battles internally begin to flush out in the practical world. He's talking about what goes on within the local church. And what's very interesting is when you read these verses, it's very difficult to c to really determine if James is talking about an internal struggle going on within my own heart. or a struggle that's going on between me and other people. And the truth is that the battle going on within often bleeds out into the battle that I have with other people. In other words, if I am internally troubled, I am likely going to have troubled relationships with the people around me. Really, the understanding of these verses kind of hinges on how we understand the word from whence come wars among you. And he talks about your members. Is James referring to the members within our own person? In other words, this internal battle between the lust and the flesh. Godly wisdom versus worldly wisdom. Is that what he's referring to? Maybe another way to put it is spiritual warfare that's going on within my own heart. Or is he talking about the conflict that happens between me and the person next to me at church, or me and my spouse, or me and my children? Truth is, it's really hard to know which of those two he's talking about. It's possible, actually, that James has left it a little bit ambiguous here. so that we would recognize that there's a very close connection between these two things. And he kind of actually means both. In other words He's stating it sort of in a proverbial way so that we have to pause and think about it and go, is he talking about internal battle or external battle? He might actually be referring to both. So here's the point. The point is that if we will pursue our fleshly desires, at the end of it all, whether it's going on inside or whether it's how we relate to other people, we're going to come up empty. Because notice the last section of what he says. You lust and you have not. You kill and desire to have, but you cannot obtain. In other words, the internal conflict, if the flesh wins, what you do is not going to give you satisfaction If you're going to battle and struggle and fight with other people, ultimately winning that battle with them is not going to leave you satisfied. And that's the point that he's trying to make. A second observation we see, having a genuine need, but a fleshly, arrogant, self-reliant attitude towards God will leave us unsatisfied in life When a person is trying to live life without God, they don't see their need. They don't see a need to actually ask God for anything And so this is what James is going to address next. In verse 3, he says, you ask and receive not, or excuse me, he says, ye have not, because ye ask not. In other words, you have genuine needs. There are things in your life that you need from God, but you are too stubborn, too self-reliant. Too proud to actually admit to God, I need this. Now earlier in the book he said, if you need wisdom, ask God. Why did he say if? Well, he said it that way because he wants us to recognize we have the need, and we have to admit it before we'll actually ask God for it. Well, here he is again saying, you don't have because you don't ask. In other words, you have an unsatisfied life. You don't have some of the things that you really need because you're too proud to ask God for those things. Yeah, this really reminds me of what what Matthew says in Matthew chapter 6, where Jesus is teaching us how to pray, and he says, you need to pray. Give us this day our daily bread. And you would say, well, God's good. Doesn't God take care of people? I mean God takes care of the animals. God clothes the grass of the field. He knows when a sparrow falls. Why do we need to ask God for anything? He knows what I need. He'll just give it to me. Well On a general sense, that's true. But on another sense, there are things that God doesn't give us until we actually say we need it. See, why would God do that? He expects us to ask him for certain things because when we ask him, we are expressing to him that we need his help. We need his care. In other words, a prerequisite for appropriate appreciation to God , a humbling of our heart and saying, God, I need this. And so sometimes God withholds from us things that we need, not because he's evil, but because he wants our hearts to recognize he is the giver and he is the sustainer, and we are dependent on him. God wants us to realize that he is good. And the way that we recognize that is that when we have need and we ask him, he gives to us. A third observation, using God as a tool that we manipulate to get our fleshly cravings will always leave us unsatisfied. In verse 3, he puts it like this, ye ask and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts. James is saying there are some people who don't ask God. There are some people who just demand things from others and they take them by force. They're not satisfied. There are other people that they don't go and take by force. They are self-reliant and they don't come to God with their need. And they are left unsatisfied as well. He says there are other people that don't steal and kill and take They don't hold back and refuse to ask God. Instead, the way that they look at God is they look at him as a tool that they can manipulate. I'm going to use God to get what I want. And he says, if that's the way that we approach God, we will be left unsatisfied because God is not a genie in the pottle. He's not a tool that we micromanage and use to get what we want. What's interesting is Jesus addresses this in the Sermon on the Mount as well. In Matthew 6, 7 and 8, he says, When ye pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard from their much speaking. But know ye not therefore, but be ye not therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him So the point that Jesus is making here is that, one, God wants you to ask. There are certain things he doesn't give unless we ask, so we need to ask. But when we ask, we need to recognize that we're not asking to manipulate God, to force him beyond his will to give us something that's good. We're coming to someone who loves to give good things to people. We're coming to someone who genuinely genuinely cares about us and loves us And so he says, there are people that view God as a tool to manipulate, to get what you want, to pull the strings so that we finally get God to give us the things that we want. It's almost like we take a formula approach to God. He says, don't do that. God is the creator of all things and he's good. And so what James is basically saying is, if in our flesh we view God as a tool that we can manipulate, we also will be left unsatisfied. He is not a tool that we use. He's not a resource that we tap into. He's an all-knowing, infinitely wise, gracious, sovereign over all things And so James is trying to emphasize in this passage that, look, fleshly responses leave us unsatisfied. Fleshly responses that try to take things by force. Fleshly responses that are very self-oriented and said, I don't need God. And self-le responses that say, I need God because he gives me the things that I want. I'm going to manipulate him and by force get him to give us the things that we want. He said All three of those fleshly responses are wrong and will leave us unsatisfied. So when we think about the truths that we've looked at this morning, how do we practically apply them? What are some things that we can take from this study? And just take them throughout the day and meditate on. Let me give you just a couple of simple ones. The first is this. The enemy within us is our greatest enemy. We tend to think that the people around us who cause us grief from time to time are the true enemies. But folks, that's not the case. The real enemy is what's inside of my heart. In other words, that fallen nature, that flesh, is where the internal conflicts lie, and those internal conflicts spill out into my interpersonal relationships I have to recognize that I'm a fallen creature. Even as a Christian, I'm still a fallen creature, and there is a daily struggle, battle within. The battle shouldn't surprise us. The battle shouldn't concern us. It's normal that Christians deal with sin and temptation and fleshly passions. We still live in a fallen world and we are not yet complete before God in a glorified body. And so we need to recognize that reality and we need to be realists and we need to constantly, daily just deal with the battle that we're facing. Two Why would we embrace a wisdom that is ultimately rooted in our fallen nature? And not just our fallen nature, but the fallen nature of all the people around us. When we talk about worldly wisdom We really need to recognize that the root, the source of that worldly wisdom is the fallen nature of man. And the point of this whole discussion, verses one through three, is look, Fleshly responses leave you unsatisfied. You don't get what you need. You will never be happy with what you have as long as your flesh is ultimately what's pressing you to take that thing And the third thing, I need to see God as he is and come to him in my time of need because he is the only one who can truly give us satisfaction You know, if I'm living my life for stuff, if I'm living my life for self, if I'm living my life for the way that others view me. I'm always going to find that life is unsatisfying. I'm going to be frustrated. I'm going to be troubled internally, and I'm going to trouble the people around me. But when I truly find my satisfaction in God and I say, you know, all the things that I enjoy in this life are ultimately gracious gifts from his good hand, all of a sudden I appreciate them. I appreciate them because I I don't actually I'm not entitled to those things. They're actually reminders that he's good And so when we think about this study, this little section, James chapter 4, 1 through 3, I hope we'll take those three very practical, simple things from our study. And I hope this will be an encouragement to you. Again, I did this early. I'm going fishing this morning. That's the full disclosure. So as soon as I close this, I'm going to be heading out and hopefully catch some fish. But I hope that you guys have a great morning And we'll catch up with you next time. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. And if this is an encouragement to you, I hope that you'll just leave a note of encouragement, perhaps share it with a friend. And I hope that you have a wonderful morning. Let's pray. Father, it's been good to study your word. Help us to remember that our fleshly responses will never bring us satisfaction Help us to be a people that recognize that true satisfaction and joy is always rooted in the unchanging person of God. Help us to enjoy you, to delight in you. Help us to respond to you correctly in circumstances. And we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Amen. Hope that you have a wonderful morning and I'll look forward to catching up with you next time. Bye now