Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are back in 1 John chapter 5. In fact, we're in our last section that we're going to deal with in our 1 John study. So today we're going to start 1 John 5, 18 to 21, part 1, and then tomorrow, Lord willing, we will do part 2 So let's go ahead and read the verses together, and then we'll dig into the summary statement and some of the content associated with this passage. 1 John 5. 18. And we know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not, but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not. And we know that we are in God, and the whole world lieth in the wickedness. And we know that the Son of God has come and hath given to us understanding, that we may know him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his son, Jesus Christ This is the true God and eternal life. Little children, keep yourself from idols. Amen. Now when we come to this passage, we're dealing with a topic that is not so common to discuss in an American church and that's the topic of idolatry. In fact, a lot of times we tend to think of our country not being a place where we have to deal with a concept like idolatry. But what we need to realize is that idolatry is something that has been a part of humanity since the fall. And it's still very active and alive. In fact, when we talk about this concept of idolatry, we'll recognize that idolatry is not just something uh that takes place where you have a block of wood that you're bowing down to or a stone or some kind of image, but idolatry has a lot to do with the way that we view God and the way that we view ourselves. So here's a simple summary statement for the passage that we're looking at The purpose of this section, and it's the final section in 1 John, is to close the letter with a summary to the key to having a fulfilled Christian life. That's a life that is full of joy, a life that is in communion and fellowship with God. And remember in 1 John 1, he says, I want you to have joy, and I want you to have fellowship with us and with his son Jesus Christ. So he's going to talk about the key, the final section to having a fulfilled, joyful Christian experience. And the key is that we worship and commune with the one true God rather than worshiping a false view of God and ourselves And so really this passage is going to deal with the concept of idolatry. And the last thing that he says in verse 21 is, little children, keep yourself from idols. So we need to ask the question, what exactly is an idol? What is idolatry? We know in the Ten Commandments we're commanded to not serve any other gods but the one true God, to not have any other gods, not to worship them or not to bow down to them, not to create a graven image or any likeness of anything. in heaven or in the earth. So what is idolatry? Well let me give you a couple of thoughts that are kind of connected to a basic understanding of idolatry. The first thing is this idolatry is the worship of a false god in the place of the true creator of all things. So we have one true God who made heaven and earth. He sustains the earth. He's revealed in his word. We see things about God's character in creation. We see how God relates to his creation in history. And there's one true God alone. Well the thing is that we can worship in our minds a being that is different from the one true God. We may use a different term. We may use the same term. The question is, is the God that we serve the same God that is revealed in the scriptures A second thing I'm going to make is a point I'm going to make is this. We can worship an object, or we can worship through an object. Or we can simply have a pattern of thinking in our minds that is worshiping a God that is created in our own image So when we think about idolatry, we tend to think of an image that's being used, being bowed down to. Or maybe someone is communing with a God through an image. That's the way that we tend to think of it. But really the most common way that a person falls into this category of committing idolatry is that they create in their mind an image that is not the true God. And we're going to talk about that in just a moment. We're going to get down into Romans chapter 1, and we're going to see how God talks about the way that a person creates God in his own image rather than seeing that he a man is created in the image of God. And really where that ultimately leads. But we need to understand that idolatry may not have a physical image. You may not be worshiping an image or worshiping through an image. You may simply be worshiping an idea, a pattern of thoughts about God that are not true. The third point I want to make is this. When we believe lies about God and about ourselves and about how we relate to God , then those lies are going to have very destructive ends. The ultimate place that those lies will lead is going to be some self some self-destructive form of thinking or some self-destructive patterns of life choices. And what's going to ultimately happen when we embrace lies about ourselves and about God and how we approach him is we're going to become bound or enslaved to those patterns of thought that are not true. And ultimately will lead to a greater degree of darkness. In fact, it's interesting. Jesus put it this way, if we know the truth, then the truth will set us free. In the book of Proverbs, it talks about the way of the righteous being as a shining light that shines more and more until the day approaches. And it says that the way of the wicked is as darkness, and the wicked doesn't understand why he's stumbling. But the point is that when we know the truth and when we embrace the truth about God and ourselves and how to relate to God, It's going to give us greater clarity. It's going to bring communion between us and God. It's going to bring fellowship. It's going to bring joy. It's going to bring fullness to our Christian experience. But when we embrace lies, it leads to darkness, it leads to enslavement, it leads to self-destructive patterns of thinking and living. And so when John talks about idolatry, it's something that he's very passionate about. He's passionate about because he wants these Christians to have a joyful experience where they walk with God. And he knows that if they embrace lies, they're going to be bound and enslaved by those lies. Now, when we think about it, John's view of idolatry here in the book of 1 John is not necessarily talking about people bowing down to an image. He's really emphasizing the fact that there are false teachers who've come into the church at Ephesus. They claimed to be Christians. They presented themselves as Christian teachers. Yet they were presenting a view of God, a view of man, and a view of the Christian experience that was inconsistent with reality. Their view of God that was being presented was an idol, not an image that was physical that could be held in their hands. But it was an image of God, a teaching about God that was not true. It misrepresented him It was an image of God created in their minds that reflected their own view of Him, not how He actually is And so when we talk about idolatry, particularly in this book, we need to recognize this was not the same kind of idolatry that we find in the Old Testament where the nation of Israel's bowing down to Baal or one of the gods of the nations around them. But we're talking about embracing lies about who God is. and how we relate to him. This is the kind of idolatry that he's talking about. The second thing I want us to to get in beyond what idolatry actually is, is I want to answer the question, what is the root cause of idolatry. What is it that causes us to fall prey to this sinful pattern of being involved in a form of idolatry? Well, the first thing I'm going to say is that the root cause of idolatry is believing a lie. Now, it could be a willful believing of a lie, or it could be an ignorant believing of a lie. But whether it's ignorant or whether it's willful, it's still believing in something that's not consistent with reality. In fact, it's interesting in verses 18 to 20, I want you to notice how many times he uses the term we No. In fact, when I was reading it, I emphasized he he says it over and over and over again. Why does John say we know and then give a statement of a fact? It's because he's emphasizing that idolatry is believing a lie and the true faith is believing in the truth. What he is teaching is fact-based. It's actually consistent with the reality of who God is. It's consistent with the gospel that allows us to come into communion with God. It's consistent with who we are as human beings. So he emphasizes we know to say, listen, there's a distinction between what is true, factual, and what is not factual, what is a lie. emphasizing the truth because this is really where the heart of idolatry lies. It's either willful willful or ignorant, embracing of a lie about these things. And he actually makes nine statements of fact in those three little verses. He says this, we know that whoever is born of God sinneth not. It's a statement of a fact about ourselves. We know that he that is begotten of God keepeth himself. He's talking about the way this person responds. It's another statement about ourselves. He knows that the wicked one does not touch him. Another statement of ourselves. These are facts. When a person believes something different than what he has stated, then they've embraced a lie. Some form of idolatry as it relates to ourselves, God, and how we relate to God. In verse 19 he says, we know that we are of God. And the basis of being that we know that we are of God Is that we're believing in the gospel and we see the fruits of repentance and faith and regeneration that are flowing out of our lives and how we relate to people is an indication that yes, we are new creatures in Christ who are trusting in the gospel. But he emphasizes fact. He says the whole world lieth in wickedness. And he talks about that. In verse 20, he says, we know that the Son of God is come. And he's emphasizing really an essential aspect of the gospel. Jesus, who is God in flesh, is the Son of God, who is the second person of the Trinity. who died for our sins, who rose from the dead, whose righteousness we can stand righteous in and be justified. He's emphasizing facts about the gospel. He also says we know That he hath given us understanding we may know him that is true. He says in the scriptures we have a perfect record that tells us who God is. Tells us how to relate to him. Tells us what he did for us. Tells us what happens in us and through us when we embrace the gospel. And lastly, in verse 20 he says, and we are in him that is true. This is the true God and eternal life. So when John's emphasizing these things, he's saying, listen, what I'm telling you is factually accurate If your belief system is outside of the truths that we are laying out in this book, and the truths that are being taught in other passages in the scripture, and the truths that are being emphasized by Christ's apostles If you have diverted and embraced the teachings of these false teachers, you are involved in a form of idolatry. You don't See an image in front of you. You're not bowing to an image, but you are bowing figuratively to an image of a thought about God that's not true. There's a second aspect about this. And really we can see that when someone begins to embrace lies, it leads down a very destructive path. And in Romans chapter 1, Paul talks about that destructive path. And I'm going to read a couple of those verses and comment on that because this really does also have bearing. on this concept of idolatry and what is really the root cause of idolatry. In Romans 1. 21 it says this. Because that When they knew God, this means that people had a correct understanding of God's character. They had the facts, they had the basics, they knew it was true. When they knew God, they glorified him not as God. And we're uh neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations. That's a really important phrase That means that their thoughts about God became empty and vain and inconsistent with reality when they did not glorify God as He actually is. And they were not thankful to him when they saw him as he actually is. In other words, people's response to truth And their rejection of truth on its most basic level, not glorifying God, not being thankful to Him caused them to create an image of God that was inconsistent with reality and that was empty, that was vain. It says as a result, their foolish hearts were darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools, and changed the glory of the incorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man. That means that people, as they reject the truth about God, and they begin to develop in their imaginations a different view of God. than he actually is. Their hearts become clouded and darkened and their judgment becomes less clear and consistent with reality. And they begin to become proud and they feel like their view of God and the universe and themselves and how to relate to all these things, they view that as superior to the facts that are consistent with reality. What does the Bible say? They become fools. And they take the glory of the incorruptible God and they change it. And create a view of God that is in their own image. That's what idolatry is. Whether we're bowing down to an idol or the idol's in our mind, we are viewing God as in our image. And that is a a complete contradiction to what God tells us to do. So we see self-centeredness in verse 21. They glorified him not as God. We see ingratitude. They weren't thankful. We see that they want to express themselves. They become vain in their imagination. It says that their foolish hearts were darkened. Literally they become deceived. By those lies, even Satan is planting in their mind these thoughts, but even from their own hearts they're becoming darkened. We see that they become proud, professing themselves to be wise. And then it says they replace the truth with a lie. They change the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like unto corruptible man. So I want to ask this question. This is what idolatry really is. If idolatry is not necessarily bowing down to a block of wood, a stone, or some image that's been created, or or worshiping through that, if idolatry And the greatest temptation to idolatry is really about how we view God , how we view ourselves, and how we relate to God, then how do we remedy this? Well the answer is we have to fill our minds with the truth. In Romans chapter 12, when Paul says that we are to be transformed through the renewing of our mind , And that this is the good, acceptable, and perfect will of God. That means that when we have lies that we believe about ourselves and God, the only remedy for that is for us to be transformed through the renewing of our minds. We need to be in God's Word. We need to be students of the Bible We need to be drawing from resources that are giving us teaching and instruction that's consistent with reality, consistent with scripture, not embracing lies from people's minds. One of the reasons that it's so important that we're daily in God's Word is because we constantly begin to believe lies about ourselves And about God and how we relate to Him. We constantly do it. We are naturally born self-deceivers. We really are. And so we need to be in the Word daily. One of the reasons that we need to be connected to a Bible preaching, gospel-centered, biblically preaching and teaching, expository preaching, I will put in there. A place where the Bible is expounded week in and week out The reason why we need to be a part of a church like that is because in those places we are having the lives confronted on a regular basis. And the more we're in God's Word, and the more that wrong thinking is confronted and uprooted and replaced with truth the more and more we are going to begin to worship God in spirit and in truth as He wants us to. And so I want to challenge you this morning, be a diligent student of the Word. So that where idols have formed in your heart, you can break down those idols, uproot those lies, and replace that thinking with truth. So that you'll see God as He is, and you'll worship Him as He is. And in fact, the result of that will be greater communion and fellowship with God and a greater peace and joy as we know Him as He actually is. That's our challenge this morning. We're going to look at the second part of this as we continue in this concept of idolatry and how it affects the Christian and how it affects our growth and our joy and our communion with God. So I hope that this has been a challenge to you today. I hope this has given you some things to think about. And perhaps you can share this with somebody else, and it can be an encouragement and a challenge to them as well. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then Lord willing we'll see you tomorrow. Father, thank you for the opportunity to discuss a pretty important topic. Help us to be diligent students of your word. Help us to love you as you are, not to create you in our image. but to recognize that we are created in your image and we serve you. You don't serve us. I pray that you'll give us a wonderful day today. Help us to think clearly. And help us to commune with you and help us to rejoice in your goodness. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Bye now.