Okay, if you have your Bibles, I want to ask you to take them. And if you could turn to the book of Genesis. We've been talking about wisdom and work. We started this out last week. or actually it was two weeks ago, we started talking about the the concept of wisdom and work. And we started in Proverbs chapter ten. I'm going to read the verse quickly, but we're going to focus our attention in the book of Genesis. Says this, a wise son maketh a glad father, but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother. Treasures of wickedness profit nothing, but righteousness delivereth from death The Lord would not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish, but he casteth away the substance of the wicked. He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand, but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. He that gathereth in summer is a wise son, but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame. What we talked about last time was that the book of Proverbs has a lot to say about work and a lot to say about work ethic. How we should approach this issue. And before we actually get into talking about those various proverbs, what I wanted to do was kind of develop a biblical understanding of the concept of work I remember when I was probably mid high school or well, early to mid-high school, I remember really being excited about the concept of getting a job. Now, I didn't want to get a job because I loved work. I wanted to make money so that I could do something with the money. And so that was a strong motivation for me. But the truth is there are a lot of people that the desire to make money kind of wears off after a while and they kind of get tired of work and they don't want to do it and they look for ways to get around it. A lot of times At work you have somebody who gets a job and they kind of cut every corner that they possibly can, or they don't necessarily do their work in an excellent manner. They only work when the boss is looking over their shoulder and then they complain that he is. Okay. Well the truth is that the book of Proverbs says a lot about work. A lot about our character and what is shown in that particular area. But to understand those Proverbs, I think we need to begin with the big picture about what the Bible says about that concept. So let me kind of run through a couple of simple principles or truths that we learned last time. The first truth we found in Genesis 1, God created me with a purpose. And part of that purpose was one to magnify God, and the other was to manage what God puts under my care. Manage some part of God's creation. We talked about those purposes. Then we looked at the third purpose. It was to discover the use of God's creation and to take those purposes and use them for productive ends. We also saw that work has multiple dimensions to it. In other words, God is the one who put Adam in the place where he was going to work. God was the one who gave responsibility to Adam and he was to manage those responsibilities. God wanted Adam to develop skills and so he created him with the ability to To learn and to get better at what he was doing and to become more efficient at what he was doing. God put Adam to the test to demonstrate whether or not he was fit to actually manage the creation. And that is really what the the uh the test in the Garden of Eden was all about. That's the reason there was a tree there. Not because God wanted to see Adam fail, but he wanted Adam to demonstrate, was he fit to manage the creation? Obviously he didn't do that well. And we'll talk about sort of the result of that. Dimension five, God created Adam with a need to cooperate with another person. And so God creates Adam and then God creates his wife Eve. And he didn't just create them and put them in together in the garden so that they could reproduce and so that they could have a marriage, but it was so that he had somebody to work alongside of him. They were supposed to cooperate one with another. And we talked about that And then the sixth dimension was that God wanted Adam to use not just his physical body in the labors, but he also wanted him to use his mind. And so he's taking care of the creation as a farmer, but he's learning about the creation. He's naming the animals. His work involved both physical and a mental dimension. All of this happened before the fall. Now, what happened when Adam sinned? We could look at that question from a lot of different angles. We could look at the theological side. When Adam sinned, he died in trespasses and sins. He separated from God. And now Adam's going to pass along a human nature that is fallen. And so because Adam sinned, guess what? I sinned too. In fact, Adam actually represented all of humanity when he sinned there in the garden. So we could look at it from a theological perspective. But today what I'd like us to look at is how this affected man's work. Because what's interesting is that this issue of work and authority and responsibilities, that was the main thing that was actually talked about when God deals with the effects of the fall. Not just the spiritual dimension, that Adam is now separated from God. He needs to be redeemed. But he's going to talk about how it affects His relationship to his wife, his relationship to his work, his her relationship to what she would be doing in the creation, all this was affected. I want to comment on that. So truth three, the fall complicated our work. Look down in Genesis 3, verses 16 to 19. We're going to look at what is stated there, and then we're going to break it down into its parts. So that we can see some of the various ways that work was complicated by the fall. Verse 16. Unto the woman he God said. I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception. In sorrow thou shalt bring forth children, and thy desire shall be to thy husband. And he shall rule over thee. And unto Adam he said, Because thou hearkenest unto the voice of thy wife, And has eaten the tree of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it. Cursed is the ground for thy sake. In sorrow thou shalt eat of it all the days of thy life. Thorns also, and thistles shall it bring forth to thee. And thou shalt eat the herb of the field. In the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat bread till thou returnest unto the ground. For out of it what 's thou taken, for dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return. Now what's very interesting about this passage here is that God talks about the curse that is associated with Adam's sin. Now some people would believe that God literally Cursed the creation. In other words, so Adam sins and now God says, now I'm cursing this and this and this and this. And that is part of it, okay? When Adam sinned, all the creation was affected. So the ground is not as productive as it used to be. Some of the animals that lived in the creation, their nature became changed from what it was initially to what it would be after the fall. But I think one of the biggest things that changed after the fall is what took place in the heart of Adam and in the heart of Eve. In fact, when he talks about the statement, your desire will be to your husband, we're going to explain what that means, that had something to do with something going on inside the heart of that woman. When he says that you're going to sweat and toil and you'll eventually return back to the dirt, he's basically talking about the fact that Adam's work is going to be frustrating. In fact, in some ways you could even make this argument, eventually it'll kill him. Kind of an interesting statement. The woman is going to produce children. But that reproduction of children is going to be associated with pain and with sorrow. Sorrow because she's going to actually see one of her children die. Not witness with her eyes it happen. But one brother will rise up and kill another brother. It's not just talking about the suffering of going through childbirth and and all the things associated with that, but he's also talking about the fact that your children are going to be sinners. And they're gonna do dumb things, they're gonna do evil things. You're gonna have to witness those things. And it's gonna complicate what God meant to be good and blessed. So what are some of those complications? Let's talk about them one by one and understand how they affect our work and how we look at this issue. Complication one is this. The fall brought pain. to work that was meant to bring joy. Now when Adam did his work in the garden before the fall I believe that he would have had the ability to have complete satisfaction in what he did. He did not experience the same kind of frustrations that you and I experienced. Now this year I went all out in the garden. And generally speaking, it's been a great experience. Generally speaking. There have been multiple uh woodchucks that I've had to eliminate from the creation. And there's another one that I haven't quite got to yet And I'm waiting. I'm waiting, I tell you. I tell you, this animal will come in every day. And he does it on Sundays. Three times on Sunday. So in the morning, fill in the holes, block the holes. Come back after church. There it is again. Fill in the holes, block the holes. Come back in the evening, fill in the holes, block the holes. He knows that on Sunday it's the time to come around 'cause nobody's around, right, you know And you know, some things grow up. And there there is a joyful side to it. But it doesn't come without its frustrations. hasn't come without some nicked knuckles, some nice cuts, a lot of sweat, back aches. Stomach aches. Lots of frustrations. Lots of little worms. All kinds of things. Mildew. The fact is that the creation doesn't produce after the fall like it did before. Adam didn't experience those frustrations that you and I experience. The second dimension is this. God dealt with Adam as excuse me, let me he says, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow. and thy conception and sorrow shalt thou bring forth children. He says that to the woman. He talks to Adam about the fact that he's going to do his work by the sweat of his brow. What's the point? The point is this bring a child into the world. It's one of the greatest blessings that a person can experience. I remember holding my son for the first time, and it was a really like There are a lot of complicated emotions I felt. I just I don't know how to put it into the way. There was this like this wonder and awe. There was this terror and fear. There was like Wow, he really is gonna start crying a lot. This is not good. I'm gonna have to feed this kid, I'm gonna have to clothe his kid, I'm gonna have to pay for his schooling and all kinds of stuff. Very complicated But the fact is what was meant to be full of joy is now it's complicated. The wife experiences that when it comes to this issue of child Bearing, the husband experiences it when it comes to providing for his family. The fact is that a lot of the pressures That we face in our daily lives, they really do come down to this issue. The kind of complications that come into a marriage as a result of the children dynamic. The children coming in, sometimes losing a child, the health of your children, the tensions that children have one with another, all of the complications that are associated with that. That's part of the what happens after the fall A lot of the pressures that we experience at home men is in the area of providing for our family. We face major pressures at work. We face pressures that we're working hard, but maybe we're not making enough to make ends meet. We'd like to get this, but we can't pay for it. We can't afford it. We have this pressure and that pressure. A lot of pressures come as a result of how this dimension affects work. Dimension two, or complication two The fall brought up the desire to abandon our God-given role. This is a very interesting statement that God makes to Eve. He says this, thy desire shall be To thy husband. Now there is a little bit of a debate about what that phrase means. Some would say, basically what it's saying is The wife is just going to have to be like a doormat to her husband, and she's going to have to bend her will to his will, and that's going to be complicated. That is a possibility, but I'm not really convinced that that's actually what it's talking about. I think what it's actually talking about is this. She's going to struggle with the role that God has given her within the home. In other words, she's going to want to come and usurp that role, and there's going to be a pressure to take responsibilities that God has given to her husband. Just being totally blunt about this, I think that that's a major problem in lots and lots of marriages. When marriages come under pressure, That is one of the areas that tends to be a big area of of trouble. In other words, the the wife looks at her husband, she's like, he's not leading like I like he should. So boom, she's gonna jump in and she's gonna take his spot. And what does he do? He gets frustrated. He's like I'm supposed to be leading this home, I'm supposed to be the man of the house, and my wife doesn't respect me. And all of a sudden you have this complication Basically what he's saying is because you have a sin nature now, you're not going to be content in the role that I've given you. You're going to want to force yourself into a position that you are not supposed to be in. I think that's ultimately what he's saying. And it's interesting when we go to the book of Colossians and we go to the book of Ephesians, when when Paul is writing to the wife, what does he do? He talks about her position under the authority of her husband, how he has the responsibility to lead the home, and he's responsibly before God to bear the brunt and the weight of those decisions. And that really is what I think is going on. Paul has to address that issue because that is the primary sticking point for a lady. But the point is this That role that God puts you in, whether you're a man, woman, wherever that is, in your workplace You, because of what goes on inside your heart and inside your head, and it's me too, all of us are this way. We struggle with that role and we want to come out of that role and we kind of want to enter into a role that wasn't given to us. And that's really what's going on, a complication. On the other side, complication three, the fall brought a tendency to abuse our God-given Responsibilities. He says, He shall rule over thee. Now listen, Adam already had authority in the home. When God created Adam, Adam was the head of the home. There was an authority structure there. That's not something that was part of the fall. In other words, when Adam sinned, God didn't say, okay, now I'm going to establish structure in the home. It was already there. In other words, it wasn't a bad thing. It wasn't a response from God to the fall. What did change is the way that Adam was going to govern in that position. All of a sudden he was going to abuse that authority. You say, why is that? Because it's in the heart of man And how many times? We talk about the fact that a wife will push to usurp her husband's authority, and how many times does a husband push his wife around? You know, a strong guy Who will dominate and really be abusive in his authority? How many times you have a person who is a boss in a workplace They have authority, it's legitimate, it's supposed to be there, and they abuse that authority. It's like it goes to their head and everybody's like, that guy, he's like he's full of himself. She's full of herself. They're abusing their authority. Where does that tendency come from? It comes from our own hearts The fall brings a tendency to abuse our authority. Complication four. The fall made the management of our resources far more difficult. He says, cursed is the ground for your sake. Now when we talk about a farmer, a farmer is managing resources. He has land. He has seeds. He has an ability to water it and he has an ability to feed the soil. He's taken the resources that are available to him. He's managing those resources. You know, the kind of land that you own determines how productive your farm is. It really does. You can have two farmers, they do the exact same amount of work, and they don't have the same product. Why? Because they're not dealing with the same kind of soil Before the fall, Adam's work was very productive. After the fall, that productivity went down. It was kind of interesting. I had a conversation with my wife the other day. We were talking about how much of American society is dragged down because of interpersonal conflicts. How many people don't get as much work done in a day because they fight with their kids, their wife, their husband, and they're not in the right frame of mind when they go to work? I mean it would be shocking to think about it. How many people are not very productive because they're an alcoholic? If it wasn't for the fact they're an alcoholic, they would they have a good solid mind. They're a strong person. They have physical ability and they have knowledge, but because of their addiction to alcohol, they don't get stuff done like they should My point is this, because we live in a fallen world, we are not as productive. We don't manage our resources nearly to the extent that we could if we were not fallen creatures. And it complicates her work. Complication five, the fall makes her work part of what wears our bodies down and eventually leads us to death. Now I I know that's pessimistic, I'm sorry. I'm not trying to be, you know , super pessimistic here. But the bottom line is this Eventually, we're gonna rust out. We're gonna wear down. We won't be able to do what we're doing. I mean I'm I'm a young guy, but I just think back ten years ago and there are things that were a lot easier to do back then. You know, I was a little bit lighter A little bit more limber, didn't have to stretch. Go to the gym, you don't have to even stretch. You just go out there and you do it. And now it's like, I can stretch and it don't even matter. Well, he's talking to somebody who's a farmer. His physical body, oh, it took him over 900 years to wear down. But he wore down. He says, In sorrow thou shalt eat of it all the days of thy life. In the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat bread, till thou return unto the ground. He's basically emphasizing the fact that you're going to work and eventually that work is going to wear you down and you're just going to you're going to die. You say, why do you bring up all those things? It's not to be overly pessimistic. That is really not my intention. I do actually want to be positive, and we're going to become positive a little more positive in the next little section. But the point is this, your struggles and my struggles when it comes to this issue of work are really connected to these complications right here. It comes down to the fact that we are not able to be as productive as we'd like to be and that frustrates us. We don't like the position that we're in and we want to take that other person's role and it causes contention and it frustrates us. We get in a position of authority and we try to dominate the people that are under us, or we're getting dominated by the person over us, and it frustrates us, it complicates our work. We go out there and we work and it's tiring and we feel lazy and we don't want to do anything. We're done with it. The fact is all of those dynamics come back to the fact that we are workers living in a fallen world. But here's truth number four. This is very important. And this is very important for our study of Proverbs. God rewards the faithful labors of his people. If there was no God, if there was no judgment seat, if there was no eternity, then I would ask the question, what's the point of working? You find the easiest way you can possibly get and just coast through life. You let other people pay your bills, you let other people Do all the work, you enjoy life, and you get by with whatever you can. And there are a lot of people that live that way. Hopefully not in here Okay. And I you know, not really. I mean, this is a hard working group of folks. But if it wasn't for God and the eternal dynamic, then it would be kind of like, what's the point? What is the motivation for me to get up in the morning and go do my work? Yes, there are some there are some rewards to working. In other words, I can and and by the way, living in this country, you have more reward opportunity than many other countries in the world. There are people who are struggling and suffering and do anything to be a part of this nation. Because of the opportunities that are available to them. But apart from the physical reward, why work and why labor, go to Colossians chapter 3 and we'll look at this quickly tonight. Colossians 3 verses 22 to 23 it says this. Servants. And by the way, I think That word servant has domesticated that word a little bit. Okay? When he uses the term servants, he's talking about people who are truly slaves in the Roman Empire. They did not have the normal rights of a citizen. And a very large percentage of people living in the Roman Empire were not citizens. They were in that category of being a slave. More people living under Rome's oppression had no right than those who did. He says, servants, obey in all things your masters According to the flesh. Not with eye service as men pleasers, but in singleness of heart fearing God. Whatsoever ye do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not unto men, knowing that from the Lord Ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance, for ye serve the Lord Christ. But he that doeth wrong shall receive the wrong which he hath done, and there is no respect of person. Now let me talk a little bit about some of the details. First of all, I am very thankful that we live in a free society. I am very thankful for that. But when Paul's writing to these people, there was no way out for them. If they were a servant in someone's home, they had no legal recourse that they could take, they could not fight them off. They were in a very desperate situation. They were dependent. It was a hard place to be. And you say, what does Paul tell them to do? Does he say, hang it up and just quit and end your life and don't deal with this nonsense? He doesn't say that. Here's what he says. Number one, truth one, God cares about people who labored in obscurity. God cared about people who worked as servants in Rome. They're the first people he addresses. Servants. Just pause for a moment. There may there are times that we go in life that the work we're doing seems very noble and very good, and there are times that our work seems like This is a real drag to my time and energy. This isn't fun. Just paying the bills The fact is that God notices our labors. And even those who labor in obscurity, God is taking note of it. And God is going to do something about how you work. It's very interesting. You might say, well, I'm just a teenager. I'm just working at Chick-fil-A in the kitchen. I'm just cutting people's grass. Who cares? God does. God cares. I think about my kids in the morning when I get ready to come over to the church. I say, boys, listen, your work today is to obey your mother and to work hard in school. That's your work. Sometimes that talk works. Sometimes I come home and I gotta deal with problems. It's always good when I don't have to deal with problems. But I emphasize this, this is your work. Second grader, fourth grader, K4, that's their work. Doesn't seem like a big deal, but God takes note of it. Their character is being molded and developed, even at that young an age. Truth too, God cares about the primary motives that drive our work He says, do your work not with I service as men pleasers In other words, he says you're not doing your work ethically, honestly, hardworking, you're not cutting corners, you're doing your work in the very best way possible. You're not doing it because your boss is looking over your shoulder Or because you're hoping to get a raise. Now, this is interesting. You work hard. If you've got a boss with some good sense, he's going to go, that guy needs a raise. I don't want to lose him She needs a raise. I don't want to lose her. You know, if they're doing a good job here, I'm going to give them more responsibility. A smart person's going to say, hey, there is a benefit to being a hard worker, but the truth is this You need to be motivated by something higher than yourself and the person looking over your shoulder. He says, Don't do your work with eye services men pleasers. Don't do it just because he's looking over your shoulder, she's looking over your shoulder. True three, God wants us to be most concerned with his favor, not our boss's favor. He says, do it in singleness of heart, fearing God. In other words, he's saying, do your work for the audience of one, God. You know, there are times when we do work and the person over us doesn't appreciate it. They don't understand it. They are demeaning of the work that we're doing. That's not cool, is it? Very frustrating. But we have to come to the place where we say, you know what, my biggest concern is, am I doing this? In a way that honors the Lord. What you will find out is that a person is very conscientious and is guided by that principle that I want to honor God and my work. It's amazing how people will notice that. You know, we're getting to a point in our culture where it's hard to find good work. You know, you try to hire somebody to do a job for you at your house A simple job, an electrical job, plumbing job, cutting your grass, simple things. And you go out there and you look and you find out cutting corners here, cutting corners there. Not doing it right here, not doing it right there. You find those kinds of things. When you find somebody that is conscientious, you like that. You hire them again. You recommend them. There are benefits to having a good work ethic, but our primary motivation needs to be that we want to honor God in our work Truth four, God wants our entire life and our entire person to be God-centered. He says later on in this verse, he says, whatsoever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord, and not unto men. Every aspect of our lives needs to be focused and driven and God-centered Whatsoever you do. Truth 5. God wants us to be passionate about our work because we see the eternal value of what we're doing. He says, do it heartily as to the Lord. And nodded to men. It's really difficult sometimes when you're doing certain jobs to say, God really cares about this. Give you an example. I remember when we were living overseas and we were having a plumbing issue. It wasn't just that we had a leaking faucet or something like that. that when we would put water down the sink, we noticed stuff bubbling up out of this hole in the ground. And what we discovered, or I discovered, was that there was a blockage going from everything draining out of the house into our sepstic tank. Well, I had to go out there and get a hose and get water and spend an entire day dislodging all the nasty nasty and I mean nasty, let me tell you The nasty things that were not flowing through that pipe to get down in the septic tick. And I remember the smells. And all those things, and I remember saying they 're going, what am I doing? I'm a missionary. I'm supposed to be telling people about Jesus. I'm supposed to be working with the church. I'm supposed to be telling people how to how to order their lives. And I'm doing what? I'm cleaning nasty stuff out of a pipe from my house into that septic thing And you know what? It was my responsibility. And God was watching. And God was taking out of all of that. And what I needed to remember on that day is this, as the head of this household, my job is to take care of my family, and this is part of it. This is part of it. Yes, going and getting that plunger. Unclogging the toilet. Because my kid's too young not to clog the toilet, but to know how to unclog it. And he's gonna eventually get there. We'll get him It's my job. It's my duty. And the fact is, we need to recognize there's eternal value in what we do. God notices it. God cares about it. True six, God wants us to be motivated and encouraged by the reality that He will reward our labors at the judgment seat. He then says this, do it hardly as to the Lord and not unto men, knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward. The reward for what? All the times. But you did the right thing. Nobody cared. Nobody saw it. You know, there are people In this church, who do things that nobody else knows about. I just I'll say it like that. I don't mean like spooky things. I mean That was not what I was suggesting. They do a lot of work behind the scenes and nobody knows about it. See, I I'll be walking down the hall and I'll be like, Oh, what happened there? There was a hole there. It's gone. Huh. That's interesting. Somebody took care of that. That little windowsill over there, it was there was nothing there and Somebody somebody did that. That little area over there is you know that that need to be painted. Somebody did that. Nobody sees that stuff. Those gutters out in the back, what in the world? They're they're clean They didn't just happen themselves like that. Somebody did that. There are people that quietly behind the scenes do things that nobody knows about. Maybe somebody will pick up on it from time to time. But a lot and and you know what? They don't even want people to recognize what is going on. They just want to do it out of faithfulness to the Lord. The truth is, if we didn't have people who picked up trash and took care of little Nixon and all these kinds of things in the church, you'd be amazed how unorderly this place would look. There are people. It's not their job. They don't get paid for it. They don't even get asked it. They just say do it. And somebody says, well Is anybody ever going to say anything to them about it? God will. That's important. God will. Whether somebody here notices it, whether somebody here recognizes it, whether somebody speaks up and says, thank you for doing that, God sees it and God will deal with it. The fact is there are times when we go through serious seasons. You think about a parent. Some of the things that a parent puts up with for the sake of their children. And their kids don't know it, all right? I'm not trying to feed down on any any young people here. You're gonna be a parent someday too, and you're gonna go through the same thing. And that's when you're gonna realize that your parents did for you. Kids don't say thank you. In fact, they get frustrated. Mom and Dad, why'd you do this? Why'd you do that? Why'd you do this? And then one day they realize my kids doing the same thing I did. And all of a sudden they realized how much of a sacrifice mom and dad made so they could go to school in this place, or so that they could have that opportunity, so that they could get this position. Mom and dad or a grandfather, an uncle and aunt, somebody did a lot that they had no idea about. You have your first child, all of a sudden you go, I should have honored my mother and father a lot more than I did Because I don't sleep very much now. And they didn't either. God is going to reward the faithfulness of his people. And that is a very important principle. For us to remember. And lastly, this God wants us to trust Him to right the wrongs that we will experience in our daily labors. It says this, but He that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done. And there is no respect of persons with God. You know, I think about the person who was receiving this book from Colossians, and they were working in a household of some guy that was a real jerk. Okay? That guy was he was not nice. He wasn't nice to anybody. He was especially not nice to that Christian who was being told he needed to obey his master. And he needed to do his work hardly as to the Lord and not unto man. And that guy goes through year after year after year being a faithful servant of Christ. And he asked himself, is God ever going to take care of this? Let me tell you, he will. There are a lot of people that when they stand before God someday, they're going to have a lot to answer for. You know, it's interesting that, you know, and there's been a lot in the news about Jeffrey Epstein. And I heard this comment many times. He got away with it because he took his life. Folks. That's a lie. That's a lie. He put himself to stand before his creator. And that's not good. Because there's no respect to persons with God. God is going to deal with that man imperfect justice. Just because he took his wife, or so they're saying, don't know what really happened there. We'll just leave it at that. Whatever really happened, he's he's he's gonna stand before God And while he may have escaped justice on this side of the grave, he's going to face swift, eternal justice. For his sins against God and the people he's wronged. The bottom line is that as we go through life, people will treat us wrong. And there are times that we will look at people and say, they got away with it, and that really bugs me. But the fact is this, they did not get away with it for good. And we have to trust God to settle those issues on the final day. He that doeth wrong will receive the wrong which he hath done. There is no respect of persons with God. If you don't believe in God, Jeffrey Epstein got off. But if you believe that there is a God who will judge the quick and the dead at his appearing, that man didn't get away with anything. Now I'll tell you, as a Christian, that truth is a comfort. It releases me from having to Get even with everybody and settle every single dispute that somebody's had against me. I'm I'm I can let those things go. I'll let God deal with them. He'll do far better than I will I conclude with this thought. God wants us to do our work passionately for his glory. Let's apply what we've seen today. We're going to get into some proverbs, but I think that this is a really important thing for us to kind of look at as we look at those proverbs in the light of this perspective or this theologi theology of work, really is what it comes up down to. to. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, help us to do our work heartily ask to you. And not unto men. Realizing that we will receive the reward , those who are unjust will be punished by you. Help us to be faithful and help us to be diligent. Help us to see the value of what we're doing when we get discouraged and weary. Father, help us to recognize as fallen creatures in a fallen world. Our work will get complicated. I pray you'd help us to keep a balanced perspective as we think about these things. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.