Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to a new week and another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And if you joined us this past Sunday, you know that we were in Romans chapter 15. So I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Romans 15. And we're going to dig into this passage of Scripture all throughout this week. And today we will look at just a simple summary of the passage. And then we'll look at the first of the things that we will see from this text what the gospel cultivates in the lives of churches. So, Romans chapter 15, excuse me, we'll begin in verse number 25. Now I go to Jerusalem to minister unto the saints, for it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achai to make a certain contribution to the poor saints which are at Jerusalem. It hath pleased them verily, and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, their duty is also to minister unto them in carnal things. When therefore I have performed this, and I have sealed to them this fruit, I will come by you into Spain, and I am sure that when I come into you I shall come in the fullness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ Now I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake and for the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in your prayers to God for me. That I may be delivered from them that do believe and that do not believe in Jerusalem and Judea, and that my service, which I have for Jerusalem, may be accepted for the saints. that I might come unto you with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed. I love this passage of Scripture because it is such a missions saturated, such a missions-focused passage of Scripture. And out of all the passages in the book of Romans, I think a lot of times we fail to really dig into this final portion of the book. We focus a lot on the exp uh the expounding of the gospel in Romans 3, 4, and 5. We look at Romans chapter 6 and the implications. We look at Romans 8, probably my favorite chapter in all the Bible. And then we look at uh his his conversation about to about the nation of Israel and the church in 9, 10, and 11. But in 15, we're dealing with a very practical topic. And so this week we're looking at how the gospel unites God's people and what the gospel actually produces in the local church. So first of all, I'd like to start with a summary statement for the text in front of us. Paul's final words to the church regarding his desire to partner with them in his ministry to Spain beautifully illustrate how the gospel unites God's people. And so as we dig into this passage, we're going to see that what God ultimately wants, and really the heart of the book of Romans, is that he wants the gospel to be the priority, wants it to be the focus of our thinking. And when the gospel is in that position, it will motivate us in a way that unites us with other believers to advance the gospel. And so the first piece to this passage that we're going to look at is how the gospel cultivates a merciful culture. Let's look down again at 26 to twenty eight he says, It pleased them of Macedonia and Achai to make a certain contribution to the poor saints at Jerusalem. It pleased them verily, and their debtors they are, for if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their saints, spiritual things, their duty is also to minister unto them in carnal things or physical things. When I perform this and have sealed to them this fruit, I will come by you unto Spain. So what Paul is ultimately talking about is how the gospel produced in these churches of Macedonia and Achai, and what he also wants to be the effect in the church at Rome is a culture of mercy. a culture that looks at the plight of others, and in fact it's moved with compassion. And I love the way that he describes how the gospel produced a merciful culture in these churches. We say, well, what did he say? Well, the first is he talks about the godly affections for these other believers that were produced. He says that it was a pleasure to them, it pleased them. And so when they thought about the people at Jerusalem, they didn't see this as just a burden. They did see it as a duty, and we'll get to that But it wasn't just strictly a duty. There are some things that we perform as duties and we feel the sense of responsibility in those duties, yet we do them with delight and with with joy and with passion in our hearts. And that is the sense of the first thing he says. The second is that these godly affections caused the church to become willing to give of their material possessions for the good of those people. It was a sacrificial offering of resources. He says it this way. It was to make a contribution to the poor saints in Jerusalem. A contribution means that they were giving them materially. They were giving them money to help alleviate the pressures that they were experiencing because of the difficulties of their circumstances. The third thing that we see. Is that the gospel humbled the church and caused them to see that in fact they were unworthy and they felt a sense of indebtedness both to God and to those whom God had used to get the gospel to them. And so he puts it this way, it pleased them for their debtors they are. Now when he uses the word debtor, he's saying that these churches in part gave and were motivated to give and were compassionate because they felt indebtedness. It's almost like when we look back at some of the sacrifices that people before us have made, perhaps It's our mother and our father. Or perhaps it's a mentor, someone who taught us. Maybe it was a pastor from our past. Maybe it was an athletic coach. It was somebody who made great sacrifices. for our well-being. When we think about how we have our Bibles today, and it was really, it was translated and it was distributed really on the backs of people who suffered, even paid the ultimate price of death. When we think about those things, the gospel humbled them and they said, we feel an indebtedness to the church at Jerusalem. The fourth thing, it caused them to think practically about their duty. He puts it like this. If the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, their duty is also to minister to them in carnal things or physical things. So he says, look, if if you have the gospel today, because there's somebody who gave it to you, and they made sacrifices, and they set aside time and energy and blood, sweat, and tears, So that you can have the gospel. The least that you can do is make sure that those people are taken care of in time of great need. There is a principle in the Bible about giving in the Old Testament that the Levites were to live off of the tithes and the offerings of the nation of Israel because God was their portion. They didn't have land that was their portion. Their life is supposed to be dedicated to preaching and teaching and giving the Word of God to God's people. In the same sense in the New Testament, that is what a pastor is supposed to be. He's supposed to be someone who lives with the gospel. So as the gospel is being presented, and as a pastor studies the word and teaches the word , and and provides leadership in the church, the church is supposed to make sure that those who minister in the Word are properly taken care of. And so that's really the sense of what Paul is saying here. You should think practically about the fact that you have received blessings, and so because of those blessings, you should take care of those whom God has used in that process. The last thing I'll mention here is really kind of a summation of the whole thing. These powerful qualities and the godly responses that were that were seen in this passage of Scripture are ultimately the byproducts of the gospel's work in God's people. He says that he sealed to them this fruit. And that word fruit is an interesting word. In other words, it is the life-giving work of the Spirit. And is the cultivating work of the Spirit that produced the desire and the willingness to do what they did. And so Paul calls it a fruit because it is a byproduct of the gospel's work in these people. The Spirit works through the Word to produce these kinds of responses. The second question I want to ask this morning is, well, why did the gospel produce this response? Well, the reason that the gospel produced this response is because of the nature of what the gospel is itself. The gospel attacks our sense of pride and our sense of entitlement and our self-righteousness It does that by saying the law says you are guilty. The law says that you are condemned. The law says you have no hope in your righteousness. and no hope in your works and no hope in your good deeds, but Christ took care of it in full. He went to the cross, he died for your sins, he rose from the dead. He triumphed over sin and death, and he provides his righteousness that can be imputed to you as a gift by faith alone. And so when a person understands the gospel, it goes after the sense of pride and entitlement and self-righteousness. And you know what that does? That produces in people a willingness to give of themselves. and a compassion and a love for other Christians and a desire for the gospel to go forward. Secondly, it attacks our baseless prejudices against others. When we talk about the Jews and the Gentiles, these were people that did not naturally go together. There were some very significant prejudices on both sides of the equation. There were Jews who had tremendous prejudice towards Gentiles. There were Gentiles who had tremendous prejudice towards Jews. There was distrust on both sides. Their cultures were different. And God says that it is the gospel that unites the Jewish believer and the Gentile believer. And these baseless prejudices that stand between them are eliminated by the gospel's work in us. The third thing is that it turns our eyes toward an eternal focus. All of this said in people who are so consumed with the petty little issues of the day, the little things that bog us down in life, those things now are not of significance. They are secondary. They are not carrying the weight of our hearts. In fact, they're on the peripheral. And now we look at what is eternally significant and we focus our attention on that. That's what the gospel does. And the last thing I'll mention is that the gospel stirs up these deep-rooted passions for other people, Allah for them. a genuine Christ-centered love where he begins to work through us to will and to do of his good pleasure I want to remind you from the text in front of us that the very first thing that the gospel did in these believers was it cultivated a merciful culture. And I will tell you that when a church is focused on the gospel, and that is what is most important to them, they are a church that is filled with mercy. Mercy towards other Christians. Mercy on the lost who needs to be saved. Mercy on people who need to grow. Mercy on people who are in difficult circumstances. And so I hope that this morning, as we go throughout the rest of the day, this principle will fill our hearts, and we will say, God, fill my heart with a love for your gospel. fill my heart with an overwhelming sense of what the gospel has accomplished for me and what the gospel can accomplish for them. And may that gospel-centered focus be something that presses my heart to be filled with mercy towards others. That gives us something to think about this morning, doesn't it? I hope you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our series as we study how the gospel unites God's people. Have a blessed day. Bye now.