Well good morning. Welcome back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, More and Reflection. And if you've been joining us this week, we're in Romans chapter 15. And the section that we're looking at is verses 25 through 32. And this morning what we're going to do is focus in on verses 30, 31, and 32. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to encourage you to take it and let's all turn together. and look at this very important passage of scripture that we've been dealing with this week um as we talk about how the gospel unites god's people. Use what the scripture says Now I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake, and for the love of the Spirit, that you strive together with me in your prayers to God for me. That I may be delivered from them that do not believe in Judea, that my service which I have for Jerusalem may be accepted of the saints. that I may come unto you with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed. This passage has been giving us several ways that the gospel changes churches. and what the gospel actually produces in churches. And so on Monday, we talked about how the gospel produces a merciful culture. And then on Tuesday, we talked about how the gospel causes the church to have a giving culture. Well, this morning, what I'd like us to focus our attention on is how the gospel causes us to have a praying culture. And a major part of partnership with missionaries is prayer partnership. And I want you to notice some of the details that are connected to this concept that we find in these verses. First of all, he wanted them to partner with him in prayer. And he's going to express this this way. You know, prayer is a vital part of any healthy church culture. A church that is healthy is a church that is healthy because God in His grace is working in the church. And one of the reasons that God works in the church is because the church is humble. and praying church. And so one of the ways that the gospel we could say causes us to have a praying a praying culture is that it's people acknowledging that they have need. And as they acknowledge that they have need, they're saying, God, I need you to work on my behalf. I cannot, you can't. The gospel produces that impact. It prepares us to direct praise in the future. When I'm praying, not only am I saying I have a need, I believe that you commit it, and I'm asking you to commit it. But when you do meet it and when you do work and you do move, well I'm going to have no other choice but to express that in fact you have worked and I am I am I'm saying thank you Lord for the work that you've done I'm praising you, I'm glorifying you. That is at the heart of what's accomplished when we pray. And then also I'll mention that it really shapes our heart toward God and towards other people. When we pray and we express our burdens to God, one of the things that it do, that it does is it connects us to Him. It causes our hearts to be inclined toward Him. And when we pray for other people, one of the things it does is it causes our hearts to be inclined toward them. We are burdened for them. We love them. We have an affection toward them. We want what is best for them. And so prayer has that sense. Paul wanted these people to be prayer partners We also see that not only did he want them to be prayer partners, but he wanted to shape the way that they viewed prayer. And so we see that in the way that he speaks. For verse 30, he says, I want you to strive together with me in your prayers to God for me. That word strive is an important word. What it shows us is that prayer has a discipline aspect to it. And so we must learn to cultiplate cultivate this discipline. As we pray, we're going to have to persevere in prayer. We're going to have to endure through prayer. Times where our faith is tested, we begin to doubt. God wants us to develop discipline, to strive together with other Christians in prayer. A second way that he shapes their prayer is in verse 31. He says, that I might be delivered from them that do not believe in Jerusalem. When Paul states this, it's his way of saying you need to have a sense of urgency. When we pray, it's not just this casual duty that we perform. It's something that we feel a sense of urgency with. Paul is going to Jerusalem. There are people who are enemies of the gospel. There are people that will desire to do him harm. that will desire to disrupt the work that he's doing. And so Paul is saying, you need to have a sense of urgency when you pray for me. There are people there who do not believe, and you need to pray that I will be delivered from these people. And by the way, Paul prays this way, he asks churches to pray from in other passages of Scripture, not just this Romans text. The third thing that we meant that I'll mention is in verse 31. that my service, which is for Jerusalem, may be accepted of the saints. An amazing way to put it is that he is praying that God will move hearts. He's praying that when the Jerusalem church receives this gift from these Gentile Christians in Macedonia in Achai , that they will not be proud and they won't be a a little bit distant, but that their hearts will be moved with compassion and they will be so thankful for the the mercy and the goodness and the kindness and the giving of these churches in Macedonia Cai. And so when Paul is saying, pray with me, he's saying, strive, feel the urgency, and pray that God moves hearts. Pray that these people in Jerusalem will be moved by the giving of these other Christians. The fourth thing that is mentioned. is that he's praying that they will be willing to submit to God's purposes. In verse 32 he says, and that I may come to you with joy. And this next little statement is important. By the will of God. You know, when we pray, we're not manipulating God. We're not telling him to do something and he's obligated to do it When we pray, we are saying, God, we recognize that we may not know what is best. We don't have all the factors in our minds. And there may be some things we don't understand. And so we're asking you to work according to your will. According to your wisdom, according to your goodness, we're asking you to work in the way that you desire because you know it is best. And so prayer is not something where we're pushing God. Prayer is something where we are appealing to Him and we are recognizing that in fact He is good and He is wise and He will do what is best. for us. And then lastly, it's a prayer that's filled with confidence. In verse 32 he says, and I may with you be refreshed. He has this confident anticipation that in fact God is going to work according to what they are praying, according to what they desire. He's going to work. And so Paul says that I may with you be refreshed. I believe this is going to happen. I have confidence that it's going to happen. So we need to have an anticipation of these things. I don't know about you, but I'm thankful that when we can't physically go to places and we can't physically do certain things, we can always partner with people in prayer. We can strive with them. We can feel this sense of urgency. We can pray that God moves the heart. We can submit to God's ultimate purposes and we can pray with a confident anticipation. Prayer is an important part of our ministry as believers. It's an important part of our ministry. in missions. And so I want to encourage you this this morning, spend time in prayer for our missionaries. Spend time in prayer for other Christians. Spend time in prayer for those who are not yet Christian. Spend time in prayer for those who minister to you in the Word. God wants us to be a praying church and where the gospel is working in hearts, the gospel cultivates a praying culture. That's all that I have for you this morning, but it's a lot for us to think about, and we need to act on it. I hope that you have a great rest of your morning, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again as we continue our look into this passage in Romans chapter 15. Bye now.