And let's all turn together to the 25th Psalm. Psalm 25. And this is part of our series through the Psalms, where we've been working our way through each of the Psalms. And this particular Psalm, this is actually the third. pass uh section of the psalm that we've looked at and it's a little bit lengthier psalm and it's a very rich psalm and so I think that As we look at this passage, our hearts should be very well prepared to come to the Lord's table and to remember the death of Christ. And his body that was broken, his blood that was shed, and as we partake together, we remember really how much he has done for us. And how the reason that we can stand in the presence of a holy God is because our sins were placed on the Lord Jesus Christ And our forgiveness is entirely in him, our righteousness is entirely in him. And that position we have is all of God's grace. And so I think that this psalm that we'll be looking at this morning will really help prepare hearts. for that observance together. Psalm 25, verse number 8 says the following: Good and upright is the Lord. Therefore will he teach sinners in the way. The meek will he guide in judgment, and the meek will he teach his ways. All the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies. For thy name's sake, O Lord, pardon my iniquity, for it is great. What man is he that feareth the Lord him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose? His soul shall dwell at ease, and his seed shall inherit the earth The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him. He will show them his covenant. Now the way that I'm going to approach this passage of Scripture is a little bit different than the way that I've approached most of our messages. Usually I kind of give you a summary statement, and then that from that summary statement, we kind of dig into the passage. But what I'd like to do today is simply ask you three questions about this passage of Scripture. Now just because it's three questions doesn't mean we won't expand it quite a bit in our answer, but these three questions are extremely important in us understanding what this passage is all about. So the first question that I'd like us to look together at this morning is how does this passage describe God? Now, if we look at Psalm 25, we see lots and lots of explanations of what God does. And we have reasons that we come to him anticipating that he will work in a certain way. But the question I want us to zero in on on the beginning of this session here is what does it say about God? What's interesting about what the passage tells us about God is that it describes them with simply two words. Now we talk about God's character, his nature, who he is, the fact is that human words can't fully describe his nature. But the two words that he uses, I think, are very, very helpful to us as we think about what God is like. The first word is the word good, and the second is the word upright. And in just a moment, we're going to dig into why that's so important for us to understand that God is both good and and upright. But before we do, I want us to talk a little bit about this issue of understanding God's nature. I want you to realize this morning that the way that we think about God, it matters a lot. The way that we think about God is really the foundation upon which our lives are built. We think about that illustration that Jesus gave of a man who built his house on a rock. and a man who built his house on the sand. And at the end of the rough times of life when the storms came and blew on those houses, the house that was founded on the rock stood. The house that was that was built on the sand, it collapsed. Really, this is a great picture of the fact that the way we think about God is a foundation upon which our lives are built. If our understanding of God is sound, then we will be able to navigate the challenges of life because our life is built on a solid foundation. The second illustration that really comes to mind is that of a river or a stream. We think about how a river is something that feeds and how it nourishes. And if you were to look in a desert area where a river is passing, Everything around that river is lush and it's fertile. The reason is because its life-giving substance comes from that river. Well, the source of that river is where everything flows from. And when we talk about our view of God, our view of God is like the source of a river. If we are resting our thinking on a right view of God, then our lives are going to be well nourished. There's going to be a fertiless in our hearts. We're going to have of mind that is built on what is true. But if our view of God is deficient, our lives are going to be parched. They're going to be like a barren land with no source of life. The fact is that our delights and our comforts and our motivations and the stability that we have in life, this really all filters down to what we believe about God. And if what we believe about God is true, then we will have a delight for our soul that never goes away. We'll have a comfort through the most difficult seasons of life. We'll have something that presses us and motivates us, something that gives us stability no matter what we're dealt with in life. But if our view of God is deficient, we will not have those things. If our knowledge of God is deficient in any way, it actually affects negatively the experience of the eternal life we enjoy in Christ. Eternal life is a gift. It's something that God's given us. When we trust the Lord Jesus Christ as our Savior, we have the gift of eternal life. But the enjoyment of that gift is something that is dependent on what we do with what God gives us in this life. We want to have a rich and a full experience of the life that we have in Christ. And the fullness of that experience is connected to what we know and believe about God. He must be our greatest passion and the focus are of our attention. God made us so that we can know Him He made us rational creatures and he communicated his nature to us through his word so that we could dwell on who he is. We could think about it. We could meditate upon it. And as we know God personally, he nourishes and enriches our souls through that knowledge that we have of Him. There's nothing in this world that is of greater good than God. And so there's nothing that has the potential to give us a greater delight than knowing God as He is. Listen to some of these scriptures that talk about this idea of having a full and rich experience of the eternal life that we have and how it is connected to knowing God as He is. 1 John 1, verse 3, it says this. That which we have seen and heard, we declare unto you, that you may have fellowship with us. Truly, our fellowship is with the Father and with His Son, Jesus Christ. These things write we unto you that your joy may be full. Do you see the connection between knowing God, fellowshipping with God and his people, and having a full joy? John 17, 3, this is life eternal, that they might know thee. The only true God in Jesus Christ whom thou hast sent. John 10, 10, the seed cometh not but to steal and to kill and to destroy. I, Jesus says, have come that they might have life, and don't miss this next statement, life more abundantly. So he's not just talking about giving you life that doesn't end, but it's a life that is rich and it is full. It is full of joy. That joy is connected to what we know about God. And so I ask this question: Do you know God? I don't mean do you know Him as fully as you can, but I mean does the pattern of your life demonstrate that you are growing in a knowledge of God's nature? And you are growing in this knowledge of God's nature experientially because what you know in your head, you are actually applying it as you walk through life and you go through the circumstances of life. That's the question I want us to think about this morning. And so we see those two words that are used to describe his nature, the words good and the words upright. There are a lot of different synonyms we could use for this word good. I think of words like gracious or benevolent or kind, but when the Bible talks about God as good. I want us to kind of contrast for just a moment the goodness that God has versus the goodness that you and I have. For instance, listen to how the scripture describes God's goodness. Psalm 107 verse verse 8 O that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, his wonderful works, the children of men. Psalm thirty one verse nineteen O how great is thy goodness which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee, which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee. before the sons of man. Psalm 33, verse 5. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of God. We talk about God as being good. God is good in an inherent sense. What I mean by that is that is his essence. That is his nature. God isn't good because something has been given to him that makes him good. God isn't good because he's done something that is good. In other words, God isn't like become more good or less good. This is a part of who he is. It's a part of his unchanging eternal nature. You and I are very different. Than God in this kind of a way. Our goodness is not inherent. Our goodness is reflective. Let me give you this illustration. When you go out at night, you look into the sky and you see the moon, do you see the light of the moon? The answer is, well, it depends on how you describe the light. Because the reality is that the light that you see is not actually the moon's light. But it's the light of the sun that's reflecting off the moon, and when you see it reflecting off the moon, you're seeing a reflection of a different light. In other words The light of the sun is something that comes from it as a source. The light of the moon is something that reflects off of it from another source. The goodness that you and I enjoy as people, it's like that. By the way, the light of the moon is not as bright as the light of the sun, because it's a reflective kind of a light Anything that you and I have in us that is good is a result of something that's been given to us by God 's. Don't miss that. Every good gift and every perfect gift comes from the Lord's. If you can see goodness in a person, you're seeing a reflection of the fact that God made them in his image, and you're seeing a proof that God is working in them and growing them into Christ's likeness. We talk about God as good. That is his nature forever. We talk about human goodness. It is a reflection of our Creator. And it's a proof that he's working in us. For instance, in Genesis 1. 27, it says that God made man in his own image. Interesting way to put it, isn't it? In other words, God wants to display his goodness through people. We're not the source, we're the reflective peace, like the moon reflects the sun's light. 1 John 4 12, it says, if we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us And so when we talk about a person who is a believer that loves another person and we see that beautiful and noble quality being displayed in that person's life, we're seeing proof that God is working in that person , and God is loving someone else Through that person. Do you see the reflective nature of God's goodness being reflected through our lives? God created us to display his goodness. Does that make sense? He didn't create us to display our own goodness. This is why pride is such a horrible sin. Because pride is all about me displaying who I am and how great I am. I'm supposed to humble myself and recognize I exist to reflect his glory. And that's a wonderful position for us to be in. God is good. No matter what you're going through right now in your life, no matter how you feel at the moment about God's nature, he is good. That is unchanging. That is constant. And when you and I enjoy good things, it's simply a reminder of the fact that every good gift and every perfect gift it comes from above. The second word that's used to describe God's nature is the word upright. And there are a couple of different synonyms we could use for this word upright. For instance the word righteous. And that's probably the word that we tend to think of the most with this word upright word, just. Or we could put it this way, he is the standard of what is right. So if you want to know what is right, then you go back to the nature of God and you say what is right is directly connected to his character, his unchanging nature. This is why we say that's right because God says it's right. Or that's wrong because God says it's wrong. There's a basis, there's a standard. He is the standard. Psalm eleven verse seven says, The righteous Lord loveth righteousness. His countenance doth behold the upright. Psalm 20 92, verse 15. The Lord is upright. He is my rock. There is no unrighteousness in him. But just like I contrasted God's goodness and our goodness, I want to do the same thing with this issue of righteousness. The Bible has a lot to say about God's righteousness and man's righteousness. And God's righteousness and man's righteousness are not equivalent at all. This is a very important principle for us to understand because really the nature of the gospel hangs on us understanding God's righteousness is perfect, my righteousness falls short. How does the Bible reveal our righteousness as people? Let me give you a couple of examples. Isaiah 64, 6 says it this way. We are all as an unclean thing. All our righteousness is a filthy rack. That's not a beautiful description of people, but that is what the Bible says. All of our righteousness is as a filthy rack. It falls short of the perfection and the purity of God's righteousness. By the way, if you want to know what he's really communicating there, go get up a commentary and read what he's saying there, and I'll just leave it at that. Romans chapter 3 verse 10. It says that there is none righteous, no, not one. When he says there's none righteous, he's saying there is nobody that is righteous like God. Falling short means that there is not even an approach to the righteousness and the purity and the holiness of God. So the question is, what kind of righteousness do you have? A righteousness God doesn't accept. A righteousness that falls short of his glory. And so the way that a person becomes a child of God is they need the righteousness of Christ to be given to them. The word is imputed. It's been credited to them. That's how we can stand righteous before God. It's only through the righteousness of Christ who is outside of us. In Philippians chapter 3, this is what Paul said. He says, I count all things but dung that I may be found in Christ Not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith The only way that I can be called righteous, or that you can be called righteous, is if God declares me righteous based on my union with Christ. There is no other way that God can look at me as righteous or you as righteous. Our righteousness falls short His righteousness is perfect. So when the Bible describes God as good and as righteous, we need to recognize that there is no person that even comes close to helping us understand this level of purity. And this level of goodness. And by the way, understanding God's character, being good and righteous, it informs everything else about how we think about Him, or it should. So here's the second question I want us to analyze this morning. How does God's nature guide the way that he works with people? Think about that question for a minute. Who you are has a lot to do with what you do. Does that make sense? This morning we were in Sunday school. We're going through Proverbs chapter 4. And in Proverbs chapter 4, it talks about how we're to focus our attention on keeping our heart with all diligence, because out of the heart flows all the issues of life. So if you want to deal with behavior and all you do is deal with behavior and behavior and behavior, you'll never deal with behavior unless you go to the source of where behavior comes from. So we go to the heart and we deal with the heart What's going on inside determines what we do. God 's character, his nature, guides the way he deals with people. This is very important for us to understand. And when we read the Bible, we see example after example after example of God's goodness and God's righteousness demonstrated on page after page after page. But these verses give us some very specific details about how God's nature shapes how he deals with people. Let me give you an illustration as we dig into it. You know the story of Jonah. This is a story we all learned when we were kids in Sunday school, right? And in the story, we tend to focus our attention on the fact that, you know, Jonah disobeyed God, and because he disobeyed God, he ends up being swallowed by a fish, and then he spit out of the fish, and then he goes to Nineveh, and all these people get saved. But you know what the real focus of the book of Jonah is? It's that God's people had no compassion On those who didn't know him. That's really what it is. Because at the end of the book, we have Jonah complaining that a gourd has been eaten by a worm. And he's saying, God, I wish I would have just died. And listen to what he says. He says, I knew, Jonah chapter 4, verse 2, I knew that thou art a gracious God. And merciful, slow to anger and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil. You know why Jonah didn't want to go to Nineveh? He was afraid that God was too good to destroy the city. That's really what it was. It's true. He said the Nineveh 's are horrible people. He knows history. He knows about prophecy. He knows that one day the Assyrians are going to come in, they're going to destroy Jerusalem, and it's going to be an awful thing. And he knows how they dealt with their neighbors. And he says, God, I don't want to go to that city because I don't want to take the chance that you might show mercy on these people. I know you are gracious and merciful and slow to anger and of great kindness. Question Is that how you view God? Do you see God this way? I think a lot of people don't view God this way. As soon as something difficult comes in their life, they immediately believe God is about to crush me. I know it. I can feel it. Yet here is Jonah, a prophet of God. He's afraid to go to Nineveh, a very, very wicked city, because he's like, I'm afraid that you're going to be kind to these people, because if I preach and they repent, you might not judge them. What a totally different view. His view of God was correct, but his application was wrong. A lot of times our view of God is Very far from this. We don't see him as the gracious God, the merciful God, the slow to anger God, the God of great kindness, but that's who he is. Notice what it says in Psalm 25. We'll see it laid out. The first thing that I want you to notice in verse number 8 is that it says that God pursues sinners. In verse number 8, it says, Good and upright is the Lord. Therefore will he teach sinners in the way. Now, if someone is sinning, is the way that they're walking in a good way or a bad way? It's a bad way, okay? He's teaching sinners in the way that they're walking. In other words, God pursues sinners in their sin. People are not naturally looking for God. Romans 3. 10. There's none righteous, there's none that understandeth, there's none that seeketh after God. Their ways are by nature a rebellion against God. In Ephesians chapter 2, it says, In times past we walked according to the course of this world. We all had our conversation in the past, fulfilling the lusts of the flesh and the desires of the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath. People are by nature spiritually blind, not looking for God, stumbling in the darkness, but God loves them anyway. And God pursues them in the darkness. And God pursues them in their rebellion. And God pursues them as they're pushing away from God. Because what it tells us in this verse is that God is good and upright, and that is why he teaches sinners in the way. I think about Ephesians chapter 5. It says God pursued Ephesians chapter chapter 3 Well two, excuse me. Where it says, God who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead and trespasses and sins, he has quickened us by grace. That 's what it says. Romans 5, it says that when we were without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. This is the God that we serve. This is the God who made us. This is the God who works in our life. But that's not the only thing the Psalm tells us about God's goodness and his righteousness and how it affects how he deals with people. The second thing he mentions is that God governs this world with compassion. I just have to ask this question for you to consider. If you could put yourself in God's position and you could see all the nonsense that goes on in the world, what would you do? You ever thought about that? Whew. What would you do? Think about all the terrible things that go on in the world. You have the power to stop it, just like that. What would you do Think about how upset we get over like little petty things. I can tell you this. We ought to be glad that God's not as petty as we are. I'm serious. We ought to be glad he's not as petty as we are. He governs this world with compassion. Notice what he says in verse 10. He says, all the paths of the Lord are mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies. Now I know the focus of verse number 10 is on those who are in relationship with God, but one of the things that we will see in Scripture is that God does not just govern compassionately towards his children. He is kind to all people. He makes his reign fall on the just and on the unjust. You know, there's a passage in Matthew where Jesus talks about those who are peacemakers are called the children of God. And then he says, he makes his reign fall on the just and on the unjust. And he basically says this. When you're a person who is a peacemaker as a Christian, and the reason that you're a peacemaker is connected to your your walk with God and your view of God. You are demonstrating the kind of compassion that God demonstrates. You're reflecting in a very small way the way that God deals with people and people see that and they go, huh That person must be a Christian because that's not natural. That's not normal. God governs this world very compassionately. He works mercifully in his people's lives. You and I can't even begin to understand how much God protects us from. You know, sometimes something really bad will happen in our life. And we can look at it two ways. Well, there's a couple ways to go like it, but I'll give you two possible ways you can look at it. One way you can look at it is God, why in the world you let this happen And we do ask that question, and I don't think that it's totally wrong to ask that question, as long as at some point we realize now I need to table my question. But there's another way to look at it. God, how many times have you stopped this from happening before this moment? You ever thought that? Like all of a sudden you start feeling vulnerable because you realize, man, my health is like It could go at any moment. The opportunities I have they can go at any moment. And all of a sudden you realize how delicate the balances in life are, and you start realizing something. If it wasn't for God's merciful and kind providence in my life, these things would have happened a long time before. God protects us from all kinds of evils. God limits the potential extent of evil God always uses difficulty to accomplish good ends in our lives. Listen to some of these scriptures. Psalm 76, verse 10. It says, Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee, the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain. It's an intriguing verse. It tells us that God allows evil if he can accomplish good through it. And there are times he says no. Second Corinthians 4 verse 17, it says, Our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more and exceeding eternal weight of That word for means that God allows certain things to happen to accomplish goods. Romans 8. We know that all things work together for good to them that love God. To them were all the called according to his purpose, whom he foreknew he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. So we see that God pursues sinners, and we see that God governs this world with compassion. We see thirdly that God forgives sin. Proverbs, Psalm 25, 11, he says, For your name's sake, O Lord, pardon mine iniquity, for it is great. I want you to think about something for a moment. God reveals his goodness, and one of the ways he does it is he steps into the lives of people who are in rebellion against him, who are spiritually blinds, who are going their own way. And God steps into their life through bringing a friend into their life, through a parent, through a gospel tract. He has all kinds of different ways. And he begins pressing that person's heart, and he begins drawing that person to himself. He begins convicting them of sin and righteousness and judgment. And showing them through his word that Christ died for their sins, he rose from the dead, they can stand righteous in Christ, he convicted them them of their need to be saved and he shows them what Christ did and through that work of the gospel coming to them God brings that person to see the truth and they trust in the truth You say, why does God do that? It's because God is good, and one of the ways he shows that he's good is he demonstrates it in the lives of people like you and me. We say that God saves people to glorify himself. Another way to put that is: God shows us how great he is and how good he is by how he deals with us in these moments. Like in Romans 5, verse 6, when we were without strength, Christ died for the ungodly. God commendeth his love toward us. You know what the word commend means? It means to show it and to say, take a look at this. This is beautiful. This is glorious. This is amazing. God commends his love toward us that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. That's what he did. He said, I want to show you how great my love is and how great my goodness is. How great my compassion is. I'm going to save somebody who doesn't deserve it. I'm going to show my goodness. That's what we mean when we say that the gospel glorifies God. It reveals in a visible way how good He is. Don't ever get over that. Don't ever get over His goodness. Lastly, it's is this in verse number 14, he invites people into his presence so they can know him personally. Listen to verse 14. It says, The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him. The Lord He will show them his covenant. Now, I don't think anybody in this room is uh is famous in the sense of like celebrity famous. If you are, tell me about it later. I didn't know that you were. Sorry to disappoint you, right? But one of the things that you can observe about people who become very famous and very well known Is that the more well-known they become, sometimes the more reclusive they also become. And the reason for that is because everybody's out to get something from them. I want to get a picture with you. I have this financial hardship. Can you help me? I want to kind of prop up my ego by getting a picture with you and then posting it on Instagram so everybody can know I got to sit with this person at this particular place. The more known a person is, sometimes the more they withdraw from people. But the God of the universe chooses to invite people like you and me into his presence. Pretty amazing to think about, isn't it? He literally comes to us and he establishes the only basis for us to come to him And he invites us through the gospel, and we place our faith in Christ, we become his children, and then he begins to reveal himself to us through his word. And through the way that he works in our lives, from the time we trust Christ till the time we go into glory. God literally invites us into his presence And he reveals himself to us in a very personal way. Notice he says, the secret of the Lord is with them that fear him. Who do you share secrets with? You share secrets with the people that you trust, the people that you draw close to yourself, your closest companions and friends. By the way, God knows human nature, so it's not a basis of trust. But the point is this, he invites us into his presence like someone would invite a dear friend. He allows us to know him in a very personal way. What do all those things tell me about God? They tell me something very simple. He's good and he's righteous. And because he's good and he's righteous, he pursues sinners. Sinners who don't deserve to be pursued. He governs this world in tremendous compassion and kindness, and he invites people into his presence to know him personally. These verses also show us some very unique and special blessings that are associated with being God's child. So, what are the unique blessings that he mentioned specifically about God's children? I'm reminded of Ephesians chapter 1, where it says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in Christ. Every spiritual blessing we enjoy is in Christ. We don't have anything outside of Him. It's all root with him. And here's what it says. In verse 12, he says, Every moment in our lives they serve some redemptive purpose. Verse 12 he says, Him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose. God chooses to take his children through all kinds of different circumstances of life. And as we walk through these circumstances of life, he comes alongside of us and he teaches us his ways. That's what it's saying. In verse number 13, it tells us that we have a personal comfort that's rooted in him. His soul He's not talking about a physical prosperity here. He doesn't say his body dwells in ease. He says his soul will dwell in ease. He's talking about the fact that what's going on inside of him can be settled and can have stability. Because as God's child, he has a very special privilege of being close to the Lord In verse number 13, it also says that our lives can actually contribute to the advancing and the filling of God's kingdom. It says, His seed shall inherit the earth. And thinking about this is an amazing thing to consider. When you and I lead a person to Christ, we have the opportunity to see the kingdom of God advance. When you and I lead our children to Christ, we get to see a person who would never have existed apart from that union. Enter into God's kingdom. Isn't that an incredible thing to consider? When we get to lead our own children to Christ, we not only are the reason God gave them life, He gave them life through that union, but we get to see His kingdom advance. And I think that's really the sense of what's going on. He's saying God's people get to be a part of something a lot bigger than just this moment. Verse 14 he says we get to know God in a very personal and imp intimate way. He says the secret of the Lord is with them that fear him. And last in verse 14, we belong to God and we get to learn to enjoy the exclusive benefits. Of that relationship with him forever. In verse 14, he says, he will show them his covenant. A covenant was a legally binding agreement. But it was a legally binding agreement that had a relational dynamic to it. We talk about covenants, the covenant that we most think about is the covenant of marriage. It's not just that you're legally bound to your spouse, but you're legally bound in relationship to your spouse. Before gods. And so when we talk about this concept of a covenant, he's saying you will get to know the very specific benefits of being in such a relationship with your gods. What's the point of the Psalm? The point of the Psalm is pretty simple. We've got to know God as He is, because if we know God as He is, we'll know how He relates to people. And if we know how God relates to people, guess what? It'll completely shape our perspective in life. I want to challenge you in this way. Let's make our highest passions know God. There is nothing in life that is a greater privilege than knowing God. If you can read and you have a Bible, then you need to do it every day. Why? Because that's how God's revealed Himself. We need to continually meditate on His word so that it's not just something in our head, it's something that actually takes root in our hearts. It actually shapes our thinking and it shapes our disposition. It shapes our passions. We need to learn to look for what God is doing in us as we walk through life's difficulties. Whenever we go through a hardship in life, we've got to learn, once the noise settles, to ask God, God, what are you doing in me? Help me to learn and help me to respond properly to what you're doing in me. We need to rejoice in what He has accomplished for us in the gospel. Forgiveness of sins. Rejoice in what he's given to us in the gospel. Rejoice of what he's accomplishing in us in our sanctification. We need to prepare hearts to partake of the Lord's table with this kind of a mind. God, you are good. God, you are righteous, and you are so kind to me. And this remembrance at the Lord's table is one of the greatest ways we remember what he has done for us and how good and how righteous he is. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to really help us to have settled hearts, to focus our attention on him, and then we will take a few minutes to partake of the Lord's table together. Our Father, as we think about these verses and we think about the Lord's table , I pray that you'd help us to have two. Predominant themes in our mind. You are good and you are upright. And Father, help us to rejoice in how you've demonstrated that By sending your son to die for us, he was wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities. The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. He became sin for us who knew no sin, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. Help that to be on the forefront of our minds. As we eat this bread and we drink this juice, may we rejoice in the tremendous weight of the cross, the power of the resurrection, and the position we enjoy in Christ I pray that if there's anybody here this morning that does not know the Lord Jesus as their personal Savior, that through the things they've heard they would recognize salvation is a free gift. And they can receive it if they will trust in the finished work of Christ. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.