Good morning, I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of Our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And it's Friday, and I hope that you've had a wonderful week And I hope that you've really enjoyed the studies that we've done on this passage of Scripture in Mark or in Romans 15, talking about missions and how the gospel unites God's people. And I just want to remind you of a couple of the details that we've talked about this week. We talked about how the gospel has to be at the center of everything. If someone's going to be a healthy Christian, then they have to continually remind themselves of what Christ has done for them and why that matters. and what the implications of that message are. And if a person's going to be a healthy Christian, then they're going to desire to be a part of a healthy church. And a healthy church is a church where the gospel is continually being emphasized. In everything that is done in the church. It is at the heart. It is at the foundation. And so this week what we have seen is that that gospel message unites us in several different ways to be involved in the Lord's work. One of the things that it does is it cultivates a culture where people have compassion and mercy and a genuine love for others. Another thing that it does is it causes people to be giving and they're willing to give of their time and their resources, their energies, and their financial resources so that they can be involved in the Lord's work. It stimulates a praying culture where people desire to uplift others in prayer. And obviously our focus has been on missions this week and throughout the month. And so missions is at the heart of where we pray. And then yesterday we we kind of closed it out where we talk about how the gospel uh just continues to develop a culture where people are uplifted in their encouraged and their their hearts are stirred up with passion one toward another and ultimately towards eternal matters. So what I'd like to do is I'd like to give you a couple of final thoughts that we can chew on, meditate on throughout the rest of the weekend. And also, these are things that I shared with our church. And so obviously, if you're a member at Anchor Baptist Church, I'm encouraging you to think of this in light of you know, in the context of our own church. But if you're not a member of our church, I hope that you'll think of these things in the light of the context of the church that the Lord has brought you to and that you are you are bonded together with. And so here are some things to think about. A couple of practical ways that we should pray for our home church. If it's Anchor or if it's another church, how you should pray for your church. We need to be a people who pray that God is going to provide opportunities for us to bless others in need. And this past Sunday we shared a video of an opportunity that we had to be a blessing to to the church in Ghana. It was neat to see how the Lord is blessing that ministry and what he's doing. I was encouraged by, I think our church members were encouraged by it. And we should ask the Lord to give us opportunities, the eyes to see, a willingness to actually step up and do it. The second thing is that we should pray that God will allow us to increase the partnership that we have in this area of missions. So for our church, I would love to see us be able to take on maybe a new missionary family. And if you're part of another church, I hope that the Lord will allow your church to be able to take on a new missionary or maybe several missionaries, depending on how the Lord is blessing. And so we should pray that way and we should also be willing to to contribute to what it takes to be able to do that. A third thing, we need to pray that God will deepen this issue of prayer partnerships in the coming year. We pray for other people. We shouldn't just say, God, bless uh bless such and such a missionary or just uh bless this person or that person. Hope they have a good day. We should go a lot deeper than that. We shouldn't really feel the weight of the burdens that these people are facing And we should bring these requests to the Lord and pour it our hearts before Him and say, God, I plead with you, work in this particular situation, and you know it is best, but protect this individual in the situation. Give them wisdom in this situation. Open the heart of this individual who needs the Lord or who is really not growing the way that they should. Whatever the situation. We're specific. We feel the weight of these things. We're deeply burdened. We need to pray that the Lord will help us, that this year, when we pray for others, that it will be a genuine, legitimate partnership. And the last thing I'll mention here is that we should pray that the church will develop a very loving culture that has deep rooted relationships where people are truly being strengthened and they are being stirred up to love and to good works, provoked to love and to good works, as it says in the scriptures. You say, well, well, how can we take these practical ways of praying and actually put it into, we could say, put some feet behind what we're praying? I want to encourage you this week, if you haven't already done it, and people in our church probably have already done this, I've encouraged them to do it, but I would encourage you to set aside some time, perhaps today, later in the day, over the weekend to actually calculate your involvement in missions this past year. Now I'm not doing that for the sake of your pride, okay? Perhaps you're heavily invested in missions. Perhaps you've written letters, perhaps you've given gifts, perhaps you regularly give to your local church in the area of missions, designated for missions. Perhaps you pray regularly for your missionaries and you are truly engaged in that. I'm not asking you to write this down for your own sake to think about all the things you're doing. It's to ask the question, are you really doing what God wants you to do in this area? In other words, are you falling short of what you should be involved in? And a lot of times we fall short not because we have conscientiously determined we don't want to do something. I think it's because sometimes we just get distracted and we don't think about it and actually take the time to reflect on what's going on. It's important in life for us to take stock of what we're doing, where we're going, and how we're going to get to the places that we desire to go in life. And so this is an area that I want to encourage you with. A second thing Prayerfully consider what God would have you to do in the next year in these areas. I mean, like, really look at what you've written down and say, God, is this is this really the level of commitment that I should have? Or should it be greater? Are there areas where I should expand? Are there things that I have neglected to do that I really need to do in these areas? Ask the Lord for wisdom. Ask him to stir up your heart, to prick your conscience if necessary. The third thing, I want to encourage you to purpose in your heart to do what you believe the Lord is directing you to do. And then I want to encourage you to write it down. Write it down so that you can go back in another time and actually remember what you have purposed to do And I'm not doing that because I want it to be some legalistic ritual that you follow or something that's going to be a weight to you the rest of the year. What I'm saying is a purpose is saying, God, by your grace, this is what I desire to do, and this is where I'm moving in this direction And it's not a solemn promise where I know I will not fall short in any way. That's not what we're saying. We're saying purpose. It's desire. It's what you're wanting to do. It's what you're committed to to attempt for the Lord in this area. And then the last thing I'll mention is this. Keep your perspective or keep your commitment in perspective. In our church, there are a little over a hundred families. And when I say families, I'm also including our single adults who are not married and don't have children. It's over a hundred people. If just one, if each person said, you know what, over the past year, I would like to just I don't know. And the next year I'm gonna I'm gonna add to that, that last year's uh what I did in my missions giving. I'm gonna add five bucks I mean, five bucks is it's about a dollar a week. Uh $1. 25 a week. It's not a whole lot. I mean, we don't even think about it. So for five bucks extra in your giving commitment, our church could take on a new missionary at $500. That's pretty significant. That'll be a significant percentage of most missionary support. That would be an incredible blessing to be able to do that. And so I want you to put it in perspective. It's just a real simple thing. I said I could do more than five bucks. Well, I mean, if if you believe you can and you think that's what the Lord wants you to do, go for it, do it. But I'm just trying to say, look, a small thing like that can go a pretty long way So this is my encouragement to you this weekend. I hope that you'll take what we've heard, what we've seen, what we've read, and you'll not just be a hearer of the word, but you'll be a doer of the word. That's the challenge. Hope you have a wonderful weekend. Lord willing, we'll meet again on Sunday or next week on Monday when you follow anchored in the Word again. Have a blessed weekend. Bye now.