Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And this is our final section in our study on 1 John. So the next time that we come together next week we'll be in a different book of the Bible. And I hope that you'll continue to follow our studies, but this is our final study in 1 John. We're back in 1 John chapter 5, and we're in verses 18 to 21. Let's read them together. We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not, but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not. And we know that we are of God and the whole world lieth in wickedness. And we know that the Son of God is come and hath given to us understanding. That we may know him that is true, and we are in him, that is true, even his son, Jesus Christ. This is the true God and eternal life Little children, keep yourself from idols. Amen. Now as we were looking at this final section, we focused on the fact that John is addressing the issue of how embracing lies or a false view of God can affect our joy and our fellowship with Him. And really the the kinds of lies that we might embrace without even realizing it or stubbornly embracing them, they're varying degrees of how m how severe the consequence of those lies will be. But the reality is that we are embracing some kind of a view of God that we could call an idol. And so yesterday we talked about that concept. If you'll remember, our summary statement was that the purpose of this little section to close out the book of 1 John was to show us that the key to having a fulfilled Christian life, one that has joy that's overflowing, one that has communion, fellowship with God, is that we worship the one true God in spirit and in truth. And we do not embrace false views of God Himself. And so I want us to continue in that thought by looking at the context of this statement, little children, keep yourselves from idols. When John makes that statement, what are the exact areas that John would be thinking of when he talks about idolatry? A false view of God and a false view of self and a false view of how we relate to God Well, really the best way to do that is to go back on a simple summary of the book of 1 John. And I'm not going to go chapter and verse in every single place, but I'm going to hit those key thoughts. that we find throughout the book so that you can kind of understand what he means when he says, don't embrace lies about God. Let's go back to the very first part of the book. Chapter 1, verses 1 through 4, he says this That which is from the beginning, which we've heard, which we've seen with our eyes, have looked upon, which our hands have handled of the word of life, the life was manifested, and we have seen it and bear witness and show unto you eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us. That which we have seen and heard, declare we unto you, that we may have fellowship with us, and that truly our fellowship is with the Father and with his Son Jesus Christ. These things write we unto you that your joy may be full. He's basically saying what we're testifying of, we being the apostles is that we've walked with Christ and we want you to understand who Christ is and the implications of a healthy relationship with Christ If you will embrace what we're telling you, which is ultimately God communicating himself through the apostles. He says, if you'll do that, you'll have fullness of joy. You'll have fellowship with us, fellowship with God, fellowship with one another. There's going to be a healthy, vibrant Christian experience. But if you embrace the lies that are infecting this church, the church at Ephesus, then what's going to happen is that joy is going to be diminished A communion with God is going to be undermined, and you're going to have a lot of turmoil and difficulty in your Christian experience. So what are the things that John addresses from chapter 1 to chapter 5 where he says, this is how you have fullness of joy. Keep yourself from idols. Well the first thing I'm going to mention is he talks about false views of who Christ is. He emphasizes the fact that Jesus is fully God. He's fully man. He actually came in the flesh. He actually died on the cross for our sins. Jesus is distinct from the Father in person, but the same in essence. Jesus is God. He's the second person of the triune God. This is a major emphasis in the book of 1 John. The reason that he addresses that It's because this is the heart of the gospel. If we have a false view of Christ and we embrace a Jesus that's not the Jesus of the Bible, then we haven't really gotten the the gospel right and we're not trusting in a a gospel that can actually save us. We don't have a new nature in Christ. We have to trust in the true Jesus who the Bible presents. And so Christ's nature is an important part of this. And so if we're serving and worshiping a Jesus that's different than the Jesus presented in the Bible, we're worshiping and serving an idol. The second thing that he emphasizes is false views of the holiness of God. He talks about how sin affects our fellowship with God We can't just indulge in our fleshes, in our flesh, and just ignore the holiness of God and walk in fellowship with Him. He says light and darkness don't come together. And so we have to walk in holiness if we want to fellowship with God. And he also talks about the fact that we can have our fellowship with God re-established even when we've sinned by coming to him and receiving his forgiveness, that relational forgiveness when we've sinned against him. He talks about false views of our bodies. And the fact is that some people were teaching that the body is evil. Well, the body is fallen. We have a fallen nature, but the truth is that this body that is fallen and lives in a fallen world can be used for the glory of God And the truth is that a body is neither good nor bad. It's what you do with your body that makes those actions good or bad. It's about the the the reason that you're doing what you're doing, the things you actually do. He talks about how we actually communicate with God and how God has communicated with us. And he emphasizes the fact that we don't need this information from other teachers that is apart from the scriptures. He really emphasizes that the scriptures alone are final rule for understanding who God is. He talks about different aspects of how God communicates. He also talks about how God relates to people. In other words, God can save people. He has saved people through the work of Christ. He talks about the fact that some people think that God doesn't want to save them, or that God doesn't care about sinners, or that we are irredeemable He addresses all of these lies that people believe. And he talks about the fact that while God is holy, God also loves people. He wants them to know him. And so that's what the cross is all about. So we have all of these different false views or lies that people could potentially embrace about God, about the nature of the gospel, about themselves. how they're to relate to God, how they relate to those things in the physical realm. All of those things, John confronts them in the book. Why? Well he does it because he wants us to keep ourselves from idols. He doesn't want us to embrace a view of God that's wrong, that's not based in the truth, but based on a lie. So let's think about how we can practically apply this. How is it that these lies that we could potentially believe, how do they actually affect us in a very practical way? Well first of all, think about this this concept of creating God in our own image. versus us seeing God as he actually is. Many times we can have a very unbiblical view of God's love. And by the way, we can go to two different extremes. We can go to the place where we think that God is harsh God doesn't love people, and obviously the scripture tells us that Christ does love us, and we see that his love was demonstrated in the cross. On the other side, we can get a view of God that his love makes him so permissive that he's not actually holy. The truth is God's holiness and God's love work together. They're not in conflict with one another. We think about a concept like God's mercy. We can have an imbalance where we don't see God as merciful at all. And on the other side, we see that his mercy is the only aspect of his character that he has. And so God doesn't actually judge people. The reality is God does judge people. We can have an unbiblical view of God's providence, that God is not sovereign, or we could have a view of his sovereignty that becomes warped and twisted. We talked about God's wrath and his justice and holiness. All of these aspects of God's character have to be understood in the light of Scripture. not based upon what we want them to be or how we feel them to be or how we don't want them to be. We have to view God's nature from Scripture. And so we have to recognize that if we're if we're worshiping a God that's made in our own imaginations, that doesn't reflect the God that's re that's pr pr presented to us in Scripture. then we know that it's not true. We also think about how embracing rivals to those affections for God can be. He talks a lot about worldliness. And he says, don't love the world. Instead, love the Father. And he talks about the world passing away and its lust, but he who does the will of God abiding forever. The truth is that idols can grab a hold of us and we can set our mind on the things that we can handle rather than what's eternal. We can relate to people in the wrong way. We can have dreams that uh are not uh set inside with the scriptures. We can have an unorthodox view of God, circumstances, so many different things. The point is this, we need to be a people whose hearts are grounded on truth. We need to be a people who are not embracing lies and living in the light of lies, but living in the light of truth. So I want to have one final question that we look at this morning, and that's this. How do we help people who have begun to develop or have had for a long time a false view of God, a false view of self, a false view of circumstance. How do we help people like that? How can they be delivered from this position of being self-deceived, either willfully or ignorantly self-deceived? Well the answer to that path that question is found in 2 Timothy 2. Because in 2 Timothy 2, Paul instructs Timothy how he can help Christians who are bound by deception and lies. And what's really interesting is that when Paul is writing to Timothy, he's writing to Timothy, who is at Ephesus, the very church that John was writing to in 1 John. And this is what Paul tells Titus, or excuse me, tells Timothy as he's serving in the church. He says in 1 Timothy, or 2 Timothy 2, verses 24 to 26, the servant of the Lord must not strive. But he must be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient, in meekness instructing those who oppose themselves. If God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who has taken them captive by his will The idea is that there needs to be compassionate, skillful instruction with a humble dependence upon God to work in the hearts of people. In other words, there's compassion, there's patience, there's teaching, there's taking the scriptures and presenting them to people who've embraced lives and allowing the truth to confront lies so that those lies can be drawn to the surface, they can be recognized to be not true, and then they can be rejected. The person that is doing this also has to recognize they don't have the power to get into a person's heart and to change how they believe or how they feel. God's gotta do that work. We see that concept of compassion. We have to love people who are self-deceived. If we're the one who's self-deceived, then we need people in our lives who love us enough and are compassionate enough to tell us the truth, to take the word of God to us and to present it to us in compassion. And we see that communicated where he says he he he must not strive. He needs to be gentle. He needs to be patient. He needs to instruct in meekness people who are opposing themselves. We see the compassionate side of helping people who've embraced lies. We see the skillful instruction side. In other words, this person needs to know God's word. They need to teach God's word. They need to be able to communicate it effectively. Notice what he says, be apt to teach. Instruct them. If God will give them repentance, repentance is emphasizing the fact that the way that I'm thinking has to change radically. And so this person has to have the ability to effectively communicate the truths of Scripture so that God begins to work in the heart and repentance takes place. where the thinking is changed about the areas that the person is deceived in. He talks about a person acknowledging the truth and recovering from the snare of the devil who has taken him captive. And so Satan's lies have oppressed and bound and held down this person. How does our fellowship with God get undermined by embracing lies? We become captive to the lies that Satan ensnares us with. And so we need to be free from those things. And then we see the last part of dependence on the Lord. There needs to be a prayerful dependence. It's God who ultimately brings people to this point. Opens their eyes, changes how they think, and helps them to have victory. He calls us the servants of the Lord when we're in that position. He says it's God who gives them repentance. The idea is that God draws them to the truth. He convinces them. He convicts them. He helps them to see what they should be able to see, but apart from his work, wouldn't see. The idea is that when we talk about this issue of deception, idolatry, believing lies, we need to recognize it's ultimately God who delivers us from that position. And God uses his servants. His servants may be pastors, may be parents, they may be friends, they may be co-workers, they may be people that we interact with within our local church, but God brings people alongside of us who love us, who are skillful in the Word, and God uses them to help us to see the truth clearly. By the way, this is so important on why it's so important for us to be a part of the local church It's so important for us to be a part of the local church because in isolation we do not have the people that we need to help us to see those things. And so within that context of the local church, we have more matured believers. We have those in church leadership who are supposed to be Skillful, compassionate, dependent upon God, and God uses those people, not just pastors, but pastors, deacons, Sunday school teachers People that are in our lives who are more mature Christians, God uses them to help us to see these things exposed so that we can be where we need to be. As we come to the end of this section and the end of our study on the book of 1 John, I want to conclude with this final thought. God wants every single one of us. To have a fulfilled, joyful Christian experience. That's his desire for us. And the fact is this: God has done everything necessary so that that's possible. He sent his son to die for our sins. He rose triumphant from the grave. We can be justified in his righteousness. We can be regenerated, made spiritually alive by the power of the Spirit through the work of the gospel. We can become new creatures in Christ where old things pass away and all things become new. We have the ability, because of the work of Christ, to have a relationship with God. He has removed the sin debt that is held against us by his work on the cross. And then God tells us that once that sin that has been removed and we become that new creature in Christ, and God declares us righteous, and he calls us his child. And we have the ability now to walk in fellowship with him. From that moment forward, God begins this work of purifying the way that we look at life. It's called sanctification. He confronts the lies that we've believed our entire lives, the lies that we begin to believe because of certain crisis circumstances. And he confronts those lies and he shows us the truth. And little by little we are transformed through the renewing of our mind. And as we are transformed through the renewing of our mind, what happens? We grow in communion with God. That fellowship with Him becomes sweeter, it becomes deeper, it becomes more matured, and the fruit of that relationship is a joyful, healthy, thriving Christian experience. That's what God wants for all of us. And so as we think about this study in the book of 1 John, I hope that that is your experience. And if it's not. I . want you to realize it can be. And so I want to encourage you to take to heart the things that the scriptures teach us here and to apply them so that that can be your experience. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. If this has been a blessing to you, I hope that you'll share that. And just leave a comment in the comment section. And Lord willing, the next time we come together, next week, we will be in a different book of the Bible. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study a very practical and important book, the book of 1 John. Help us to be people who have a vibrant and healthy Christian experience I pray that you'll bless each person who is listening, who will listen, and those who will come in contact with these truths. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning. I hope that you have a wonderful, wonderful day and a wonderful weekend. And Lord willing, we will catch up with you next time. Bye now.