Please take your Bibles and turn to the book of First Corinthians. First Corinthians chapter 15 And we are doing a series on Sunday nights dealing with important , very, very important topic, and that's the gospel, the nature of the gospel. And our Sunday school class was what do we believe about salvation? And I was like, there's a lot we can say about that, isn't there? And so on Sunday nights we're going to deal with that very, very important topic. And there's a reason that I want to do that. The reason I want to do that is that I feel that In our contemporary setting, when it comes to our ability to communicate the gospel, we really have a lack of clarity in a lot of our churches. In fact, when I was spending time in Ghana, one of the reasons that I think it was so essential to have folks coming as missionaries and giving the gospel was not because there was a lack of evangelism in the country. There was a tremendous amount of evangelism. If we were to do a survey of our of our community, our city, you would be shocked by the number of people that claimed they had made Christ their Lord and personal Savior, that they had been saved. In fact, it was it was probably in the 90 plus percentile in our community of people that we asked. But when you got down to basic questions about the nature of the gospel, How to be saved, those kinds of things, there was a tremendous lack of understanding. The thing is that a lot of people what they were trusting in was not the gospel. And so this evening, what I'd like us to do is answer a very simple question, what is the gospel? It's a simple question, but it's an important question. So with that in mind, let's look in our Bibles at 1 Corinthians chapter 15. We'll read verses 1 and following. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel, which I preached unto you, which also you have received, and wherein you stand. By which also ye are saved if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye believed in vain. For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, How that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. That he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve. After that he was seen of about five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present But some are fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James, then of all the apostles, and last of all, he was seen of me also, as of one out of due time. And then Jude 1, verses 3 and 4. Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you. that you should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints. For there are certain men crept in unaware, who were before of old ordained to this condemnation Ungodly men turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness and denying the only Lord God and our Lord Jesus Christ. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, as we open up your word and as we look at what is a very simple yet a very important message, I pray that you'd help everyone here tonight. to grasp the significance and the weight of each aspect of the gospel that we will discuss tonight. Father, help us to realize that if we cut short the gospel in any way, we have an unsaving gospel. If we add to the gospel in any way, we have an unsaving gospel. Father, help us this evening to have good clarity on this issue. Help us to be better in our ability to communicate the gospel. And I pray that if there's even one person here tonight who's trusting in something other than Christ alone, and this gospel that was once delivered to the saints, That you'll help them to see that and help them to understand the nature of the gospel as it is as it is presented in Scripture. And I pray that they would place their faith and trust in the Lord Jesus Christ alone. for the saving of their soul. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I think we can summarize these two verses with a very simple statement. God wants us to articulate the gospel with clarity so that people can be saved through the preaching of the gospel. God wants us to articulate the gospel with clarity so that people can be saved through the preaching of the gospel. Let me just ask you this question. I'm not going to ask anybody to get up and do this, but I want to ask you to think about it. If somebody says, can you please give me your testimony of salvation, what will you tell them? Well, let me give you the most basic way that people tend to give their salvation testimony. They'll talk about a time period in their life where they were going through maybe a great struggle. They'll go through a time period when they are going through a lot of internal turmoil. And they'll begin to talk about all the things that they felt and all the experiences that they had. And by the end of their conversation, they'll say something like this, Well, I gave my life to the Lord, or that's when I got saved, or something like that. I want to encourage you to do something when you give the gospel or when you give your testimony in the future. This is something that one of my pastors when I was a young guy, when I was like a kid, teenager, maybe later in my teen years, was really emphasizing. When you give the gospel, give the gospel through your testimony. Explain how you came to understand point one, if you will. Point two, point three, and point four. And so what I want to do tonight is I want to talk about what the gospel is, and then at the end of the time, I'm going to give my testimony. And give the gospel in it. And I want to encourage you that whenever you give your testimony, that you would do it in that kind of a way. So that what you're focusing on is not, if you will, the experience. but the substance of what it means to be saved. The first question that I want to address this evening is this: why do people sometimes, or what do people sometimes confuse with the gospel? If you went out into the community and you asked them, can you please tell me what the word gospel means? What would people tell you? Well, some of them might be like, well, isn't that like a like a style of music or something? Or isn't isn't isn't that like And they'll give you some kind of, I don't know, it's got nothing to do with the Bible, it's got nothing to do with the message we're going to talk about this evening, but they'll give you some kind of statement that is nothing to do with this text. Some people might give you a religious experience that they had. They might say, well, back when I was a teenager, I was going through this very difficult time, and I thought I was going to die. And in the midst of that circumstance, I experienced some kind of vision. And it's like God was talking to me. God was trying to get my attention. Or you know, I was I was 18 years old, I was twenty-one years old, I was driving in a car with some people, we should have all died and we lived, we survived, and they begin to say, because of that, I know God's got a purpose for my life. Well, that's true. God's got a purpose for your life. But that's got nothing to do with the gospel. Someone might talk about some miraculous experience. But again, we're not talking about any kind of doctrinal content there. We're talking about experience. Some people might say, well, I remember when I was baptized. And they'll go back to a point in time, maybe when they were a kid, or when they were a teen, or when they were a young adult, and say, Well, I got baptized. I didn't ask about baptism. That's an important thing. I asked about the gospel. They might talk about when they joined the church. Maybe if they come from more of a Protestant back background, or maybe they come from a Catholic background, they'll say, well. I was confirmed when I was, and they'll talk about the class that they were a part of. Some people will say, well, isn't that what the Ten Commandments are all about? Aren't we supposed to love God and love our neighbor as ourself? And we're supposed to honor our father and mother, we're not supposed to steal, we're not supposed to lie. Again, those things are important, but that's not the gospel. That's the law. Some people might say, well, isn't that why you go to church and pay your tithes? Again, the kinds of things people confuse with the gospel. Some people may point to a point in their life where they experienced a complete transformation of the way that they were living. And maybe they connect it to struggles they were having at home in their marriage. with their kids, in their business. They lost their job. They're going through hard times. And they say, at that point I went through some kind of an experience and my life changed and I've never been the same since then. And that's what they go back to when they talk about the gospel. Some talk about when they had victory over some kind of life-dominating sin or some kind of an addiction. Now I want to say something tonight, and I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying. Those things may be associated with your conversion. It may be that you were going through struggles in your marriage, in your work, and you were going through that, and God used that set of circumstances. to bring you to conversion, to bring you to repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It may be that someone who was in some raised in some Protestant church who didn't understand the gospel, had a teacher or had someone who was teaching catechism and explaining doctrinal truth, and they actually came to understand the essence of the gospel and place their faith in Christ in a confirmation class. That's possible. It may be possible that a person is going back in history to a time and what they're talking about is part of that story. But my friends, that is not the gospel. The gospel is not about experience. The gospel is not about the change that took place in your life. The gospel is a specific message that has nothing to do with you. It's all about somebody else's story. It's God 's story, not your story. Did you catch that? The gospel is God 's story, not your story. The gospel is not about what you do for God. But what he did for you, and it's about what he did for you two thousand years ago, and and actually it's more than two thousand years ago Okay? The bulk of the story is 2,000 years ago, but it really goes way beyond that The gospel is about God saving a sinner through the work of Christ. Why is the gospel so important? That's our second question. Why is the gospel so important? The gospel is so important because if we fail to communicate the essentials of the gospel with clarity, we are creating potentially false conversions. You know, I try to keep an eye on the tracks that we have in our lobby. And I think it's great for people to pass out tracks. But let me tell you that there are a lot of tracks out there that don't give all of the gospel. In fact, if you pick up that track and if you read it and if you prayed that sinner's prayer at the end of that track, the reality is you don't have enough information in that track to really be saved. You haven't been taught what the Bible says about your sin. You haven't been taught what the Bible says about who Christ is. You haven't been taught what the Bible says about the resur Section of Christ It could be that that track is deficient in some way. As far as I know, the tracks we got here give the message pretty clearly. But I want you to understand something. If we don't communicate with clarity, and we encourage people to embrace the message that we're presenting to them, and they do it. They could be lost. Because what they're trusting in isn't actually the message in its entirety. Secondly, if we fail to embrace the essentials of the gospel ourselves, then we're in danger that we're not truly converted ourselves. There are many people, and I've heard many stories of someone who was a kid, and they grew up in church, they were in Sunday school. And at some point in their Sunday school time, lots and lots of kids in that church started raising their hands and they wanted to get saved. And those kids started getting baptized and they started You know, getting in the tank one after the other. And this little boy or this little girl sitting there going, I kinda like to get up in front of the church myself I'd kind of like to get in that tank too. And so they raise their hand along with their friends, and they pray a sinner's prayer with their friends, and before long, they're in that tank too. And everybody's talking about how they got saved. But then when they're 14 or 16 or 18 years old, all of a sudden they begin to have huge doubts. Huge doubts about their salvation. And they go through great turmoil inside. And they don't want to tell people about it because that's something that they're struggling deeply with. And they don't want to be embarrassed and they don't want mom and dad to be like, oh you got saved when you were six. What are you talking about? And so they they keep it inside. And they struggle and they doubt and they go through this in their heart. But then as they read the scriptures later on, they begin to realize, you know what? There's a lot I didn't understand about this message. And through God's work in their heart, they come to a complete understanding of the gospel. They trust Christ. And maybe as a 22-year-old, they they tell their church, I think I just got saved. And they want to get baptized again. Anybody ever heard a story like that? It could even be one of your stories. You know, it's very important that when we deal with an issue like the gospel, We articulate it with clarity for those whom we're working with, and that we understand it with clarity so that we know for a fact what I am trusting in is the message itself. It is the gospel that saves. It's the message that Paul is proclaiming in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. The nature of repentance is contingent on these essential gospel elements. The nature of faith or trust in the gospel is contingent on that. When we get into this topic of repentance on another on another date, we're going to talk about some specific aspects of the way that we think that has to become aligned with the scriptures in order for us to be saved. If we're not thinking correctly about this fundamental issue related to the gospel and related to ourselves, we aren't saved. If we're not trusting in a message that understands and embraces that truth and that truth and that truth, we're not saved. This is very, very important because it affects what we call repentance and faith. If we add to the gospel, what do we have? We have a tradition. If we take away from the gospel, what do we have? Theological liberalism. There are a lot of people that love to talk about Jesus as he was this good man and he died on the cross, but they don't want to talk about a resurrection because they don't even believe in it. Or they don't believe that he's really God in the flesh. Or they don't believe that he really died and shed his blood for the sins of mankind, that God really poured out his wrath on God. There are lots of people that would love to use the term Christian and use the term gospel, but they redefined their terms and they don't want to touch with a ten-foot pole those aspects of the gospel that the world says are foolishness. They don't want it. And so whether it is through carelessness, a lack of teaching, or whether it is willful Sometimes people trim the gospel or add to the gospel and become either traditionalists or liberals and they don't even realize that that's what they're doing. I want to use an illustration tonight before we talk about the essentials of the gospel. I have a chair, alright? Now this chair has four legs. And I want to use the illustration of a chair with four legs probably a couple of times throughout our series study because I want us to recognize that each of these legs is a very important part of this chair. Okay? Let's say that I was going to take one of our kids and say, hey, there's a light there's a light bulb in one of these rooms I'd like you to change that light bulb. Can you use this chair? Maybe I could ask like Drinian. I'm not going to actually ask you to do it, Drinian. But maybe I said, hey Drinian, I want you to go and change that light bulb. Use this chair. He takes the chair and he sets it down. He says, okay, this looks pretty strong. It kind of leans on it a little bit. It seems firm. And I'm not reckoning recommending you do this because it's not the strongest I mean the most stable chair. It's a little tall and you know confined and all. But He could stand on the top of this chair and he could do that. The chair is sound. Let's say that his brother decided to be a little bit mean to him one day and he knew he was using this chair. And he got a hacksaw out of his dad's car. You got a hacksaw in your car? Okay. He's got a hacksaw somewhere. And he just cuts a little bit off of this one leg right here Okay, he just he cuts it off. Does this chair look a whole lot different? Does it look he just he just cut off that much of that one leg, right? And he puts it down there and he he kinda rotates it so that you can't see the part That has been cut short. Now, as it's just sitting there, you really may not notice the difference at all. But what's gonna happen the moment that Drinian stands on that on that chair to change the light bulb? It's gonna fall right over, isn't it? He only removed that much. He just removed that much of one of the legs. He didn't like remove the entire leg He didn't like cut off two legs. He just he removed like an inch or two of the one leg. You say it's not a big deal. It's a huge deal because the stability of that chair is rooted in all four legs being the right length. And some people take the gospel and they trim it. They cut out some essentials without realizing it. And then they present it to someone and say, respond to this message. Trust in this message. You're saved. Let's do another little scenario. Let's say that one of These kids out here decided to be real funny, and he removes this cap and he put one of those little caster wheels on this Just one just one. You know. He added something to the chair. He didn't cut away from it. He added to it. And he puts that on there. What's gonna happen when Drinian gets up there to change that light bulb? It's gonna have another problem, right? So whether we take away a little bit or whether we add something to it, either way we have a problem. All four of those legs are absolutely essential to the stability and the strength of this chair. So let's talk about what the gospel is He actually tells us exactly what it is in this passage. Let me read it again, and then we'll look at those elements. There are four He says, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preach unto you, which also you have received and wherein you stand. This is what he says. I delivered unto you first of all that which I received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures. And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. There are four, if you will, legs. to this message. And each of those four legs is extremely important to the stability and the ability of that message to save you. The first leg that we're going to look at this morning or this evening is the leg of who the gospel is about. The gospel is about the Messiah. He said, I delivered unto you that Christ died for our sins. That first word is very important. Christ. The word Christ is the word for the Messiah. And we need to understand that a major aspect of the gospel message is not just the cross and the tomb, but it's the nature of Jesus. Who Jesus is is a major, essential element to the gospel. If we don't explain to someone that Jesus Christ is God in the flesh, then we have done them a great disservice. There are many folks who will claim to be Christian, but if you probed them on that issue and said, Who is Jesus? You know what they'd tell you? He's just a good guy. He's a lot more than that, my friends. If he's just a good guy, then you aren't saved from your sins When he uses the term Christ, there's a whole lot of Old Testament information that tells us who we are to understand the Christ, the Messiah, to be In fact, to give you a good example, when we went back in our Sunday school lesson several weeks ago, we talked about Trinitarian doctrine. And one of the first things that we discussed when we talked about Trinitarian doctrine was the nature of Christ. And we said, Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. And we showed that this issue of the Trinity is in a critically important issue. If we fudge on this issue, if we ignore this issue, we are ignoring an essential to the gospel. Who was Jesus? Jesus was the fulfillment of the prophecy made in Genesis 3. 15. I will put enmity between thee and the woman and thy seed and her seed. Thou shalt bruise his head, and it shall bruise thy heel. He is the fulfillment of that prophecy. Jesus is the fulfillment, if you will, of the Passover Lamb picture You remember when Jesus is coming to be baptized by John, and John looks at Jesus and he's been preaching, Repent, the kingdom of heaven is at hand, and here comes Christ and he says this Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. There he is. He's coming this way. When he used that term, the Lamb of God, he's referring to that Passover lamb. And the picture that is there in the Passover limb, that Passover limb that died and shed its blood so that the firstborn could live. And when that blood was applied to the door, then the the angel who was going to come through and kill all the firstborn in every house would see that the blood had been applied, that that lamb had died in the place of that firstborn, and he passed by. And that's the ex the illustration of what Christ would do for us. He would die in our place. And so when he talks about Christ, the Messiah, he's talking about the fulfillment of that initial prophecy. He's talking about that picture that we see in the Passover. In Isaiah 9, 6 and 7, he describes the nature of this person. He says, Unto us a child is born, a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be Wonderful Counselor, the Mighty God. The everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Upon his kingdom, there shall be no end. Forever. That's who we're talking about. He's the suffering servant. That's described in Isaiah 53, the one who is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, who we hid our faces from. He's borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. And we looked upon him and we said, Who is this? God looks on his son and says, I've seen the travail of his soul and been satisfied. It says, By his knowledge my righteous servant shall justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities. When we preach the gospel, when we teach the gospel, when we communicate the gospel, we must make sure that we understand that this message is about Jesus the Christ. The Messiah, God in the flesh. And I want to encourage you that when you are giving the gospel to people, you don't cut short on this issue. Make sure that you communicate to them who it is that died for their sins. Make sure that they understand. That it is the Messiah. It is God in the flesh who has died for their sins. That isn't essential to the gospel. If we're preaching a gospel that's just an ordinary Jesus, who is not that unique person come in the flesh, the eternal Son of God, we are preaching a deficient message. The second thing that we see is this. The gospel is not just about the Messiah, but it's about the Messiah's death on the cross. Notice what it says. I delivered unto you that Christ died for our sins. In 1 Corinthians 1. 18, it says that the preaching of the cross is foolishness to them that are perishing. But unto us which are saved, it is the power of God. Think about what the Bible says in Galatians. It says, He became a curse for us. And it says, cursed is everyone who hangs on a tree. You know, when Jesus was nailed to that cross, nobody there thought that that was a triumph. Those Roman guards mocked and laughed at him. Those religious leaders said, huh, save yourself. Take yourself off that cross, if you will. Lots of people scorned him and mocked him and spat upon him and gloated as they looked at him. Those Roman soldiers were actually gambling for his garments, just dividing it up. They didn't see him but anything but a common criminal. Yet as he hung on that cross, he was bearing the weight of our sin. The Lord was laying on him the iniquity of us all. Romans 5. 8 says that God commendeth his love toward us, that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. If when we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. You know, we live in a modern world where people say, I don't like Christianity, because Christianity is a bloody and a nasty and a wrathful-filled religion. That is the mentality of many, many people today. But we shouldn't shy away from the fact that Christ went willingly to the cross and laid his own life down on our behalf And he was beaten, and he was mocked, and he was bloodied, and he was nailed to that cross, and he shed his blood on that cross, and it is because of what he did. That we have redemption and forgiveness of sins. You know, imagine those those Jewish believers, if you will. Obviously, not all the Jews were believers, many were not. But when they would go to that temple year after year with their sacrifices, When they would sin and they would have to put their hand on an animal's head and that priest would have to cut the throat of that animal and bleed out that animal and then would burn that animal as an offering for that person. There was a picture in their mind. The wages of sin is death. My sins are serious to God. My sins are a tremendous offense to God. God's wrath presses against my sinful condition. And if I am not saved, I will face that wrath in eternity. The gospel is about Christ dying for our sins. Isaiah 53. 10 says, It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sea for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied When we talk about the gospel, if you will, that first leg is who is Christ? The second leg is what did he do? He died on the cross for our sins. There's a third leg, and this one's extremely important, and that's this. The gospel says something about my own depravity and my own condemnation. You know, a lot of times you'll pick up a gospel track, and this is what it'll say: God loves you. He has a wonderful plan for your life, he wants you to be saved. God does love you, okay? He absolutely does. He does want to work in your life. There's absolutely no doubt about that. But that track many times will say very little about sin. It'll say very little about God's holiness. It'll say very little about God's justice. It'll say very little about the fact that we are condemned and we deserve God's wrath. It'll say very little about that. And it's extremely important that we understand when we come to the gospel, the third leg is this. You can't save yourself. Because you're a sinner under wrath. You are completely unable to make yourself acceptable to God. In verse 3 he says this Christ died for our sins. That says something about you That's just something about me. Romans 3 10 says that there's none righteous, no, not one. There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God. destruction and misery are in their ways, and the way of peace they have not known. There is no fear of God before their eyes. We know that whatsoever the law saith, it says to those who are under the law, that every mouth will be stopped And all the world will be guilty before God. By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. When that verse says, Christ died for my sins, implied in that statement is, I'm a sinner, I can't save myself. If he didn't die for my sins, I'd have no hope. That's what's implied there. That's what he's stating. None of us are acceptable to God apart from the finished work of Christ and his righteousness being imputed to us. We have to, when we present the gospel to people, tell them who Jesus is, tell them what he did, and tell them why that's so important. We cannot be saved any other way. There is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. But there is a fourth element. And this one is perhaps the most glorious of all. And this is the one, believe it or not, that I think a lot of times gets left out when people are given the gospel. I don't know why that is, but that's that Christ isn't dead. He rose from the dead. The gospel is about the Messiah's triumph over sin and death and the curse. He doesn't just say Christ rose from the dead, end of story. He actually goes on to elaborate that truth significantly. Look in verse 4, it says this that he was buried. That he rose again the third day. He really physically died. He was really laid in the grave. There was not some swoon through, if you will. That oh Christ passed out, but he was really still alive. No, that's not the case. He laid dead in the grave for three days He rose again the third day according to the scriptures. He's saying this is verifiable because God has moved his apostles to pen the record of these details. But he doesn't stop there. He says this, he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve, and after that he was seen above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remained to this present He's saying not only do the scriptures tell us that Christ rose from the dead, but Paul can or Peter can tell you that he rose from the dead. All of the twelve apostles can tell you that he rose from the dead. And oh, by the way, there's 500 people living today that actually saw him. Well, okay, maybe a few of them have died since then, but most of them are still alive. You could sit down and talk to them. You can actually listen to the account of the eyewitness if you want. That's what he's saying. He says, last of all, he was seen of me as one born out of due time. Why is the resurrection so important? Well he tells us in verse sixteen. If the dead ride not, there's then Christ has not been raised, and if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain. Ye are yet in your sins. If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept. For since by man came death, by man came the resurrection of the dead, as an Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive. Do you not get the point? The resurrection is very important. You know, folks, I brought the stool up for a reason. Every one of these four legs is important. If you want to use this stool and you add something to it, it's not safe. You cut off the whole leg, it's not safe. You cut off an inch of the leg, it's not safe. Just one leg. You just trim it a little bit. And the gospel is like that. If you want to be saved, you've got to embrace the essentials. You can't look past some element. You can't say, well, you know, I believe that a guy named Jesus died and rose from the dead, and he died for my sins, but I don't believe he's actually God. You can't do that and be saved. You can't say, well, a guy named Jesus really died, but he didn't rise from the dead. You can't say that Or, oh, I believe that a guy named Jesus, he really lived. He was a historical figure. But you know, I'm not really a sinner like the Bible says. I can contribute to my salvation. I can do something for God. It's not just what He did, it's what I'll do. And we blend those two. You can't do that. All four of those elements are critically important to the gospel message. So I ask this question tonight. Are you trusting alone in the gospel that Paul preached for your salvation through Christ? Are you communicating this message with clarity? Let me give you Just an example of what I want to encourage you to do. I'd encourage you to sit down when you go home and think about how you communicate your testimony. Okay? I know every single person in this room who's joined our church has given a testimony of salvation. And obviously you gave a clear enough testimony that everybody said, Oh, we believe you're saved and you've been baptized. You can join our church. No big deal, right? But that doesn't mean that you're giving the gospel with the kind of clarity that you should hope to be giving it with. You know, when I was a little boy, I grew up in a Christian home. My mom and dad love the Lord. They're not perfect, but they tried to raise me the right way. They took me to church. They took me to Sunday school. And I remember very well around the time that my little brother was born. He was uh probably about the age of Caleb. I don't know what it was that got me thinking about this, but I started thinking about eternity. And I started thinking about the fact that, you know what, if I died, I wouldn't go to be with the Lord. I knew I was a sinner. Why did I know I was a sinner? Well, my parents taught me what was right and they taught me what was wrong. They taught me God's word. And they disciplined me when I did wrong. And my dad would sit down and he'd say, Not only did you do something that has earned punishment from dad, that's sin. And God hates sin. And sin's serious to him. And so I began to develop, if you will, a consciousness of sin. And I began to be concerned about my soul And I remember one day after church on a Sunday morning coming to my mom. Went to my mom because I was a little nervous about going to dad about it She's cooking rice and you know beef at the in in the kitchen. Hey mom, I I I I want to talk to you about salvation. And she said, I think your daddy would really like to talk to you. So she took me today. And then we had the conversation. And I remember my dad taking out his Bible and going through the scriptures and explaining to me Christ died for my sins. That he rose from the dead, and that through what he did for me, if I would trust in his work alone, God would save me. Now you know what's interesting? As I look back on my life, I know for a fact that my dad and I had that conversation. I know for a fact that I made a profession of faith when I was six. But I can't tell you a hundred percent sure I know that's the day I really got saved. It's the truth. I'm just being very honest with you, okay It wasn't until I was a little bit older that I began studying the Bible, and I remember reading the book of Romans. I was probably about fourth grade. Had us had a teacher at school who encouraged us to read our Bibles. And I remember reading the book of Romans and just verse after verse that was emphasizing that I was a sinner. That was emphasizing that because of my sin I deserve God's judgment. And was emphasizing that Christ died for my sins, he rose from the dead, and that through trusting in his finished work, God would save me. And you know what I said to myself, God, I don't know for sure if when I was six years old I really trusted you or not, but I want to get that settled today. I never went to my dad and talked to him about it. Never went to my mom and talked to her about it. I can't tell you for sure if I know when I was six or if when I was a little bit older that that's when I truly got saved. But I can tell you this. I know for a fact that the gospel was clearly presented to me. I understood it and I responded to it. And my trust is not in the very moment that I know I got saved, but it's in the fact that I'm trusting in the finished work of Christ and what he did for me on that cross. And his resurrection from the dead. Now, not a perfect testimony, okay? But I'm trying to communicate something to you When you tell the story, put the facts of the gospel in it. Communicate to someone. This is a great way to talk to somebody about salvation. You know, you can pick up your Bible and preach a dissertation to somebody and they're gonna be like, huh? Or you can tell them the story. If your story is all about how you felt and all these things that have nothing to do with the doctrines of the faith, guess what? At the end of it all, they're going to say, oh, it's a nice story. But if your story is rooted in the gospel itself and the doctrine of the faith, And you say the reason that I'm saved is not because of how I felt when I was ten. It's because that this Is my final argument. I need no other argument. I need no other plea. It's enough that Christ died. And He died for me. And my hope is in what He did. Not what I do. And you fix it on the scriptures. You quote the scriptures. That is how we can effectively communicate the gospel to people. I want to really encourage you this evening to ask the Lord to help you to be articulate, I don't mean in the sense like theatrically articulate, but precise. And how you communicate the gospel to people. You know, God can use us even when we stumble in these kinds of things. There are people that have come to place their faith in Christ in spite of my weakness as a communicator, and in spite of your weakness as a communicator. But you know there are folks that have been misunderstanding the gospel for many, many years. And because somebody came along and really laid it out simply and clearly for them, the light So I want to encourage you with that. You're working with kids, your own kids, the kids of this church, co-workers, communicate the gospel with clarity. May God help us to be people who understand, embrace, and proclaim the gospel with clarity. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, you are worthy to receive glory and honor and power. You in your infinite grace have pursued us. Brought the gospel to us with power. Through the preaching and teaching of the gospel, you've opened our eyes to understand the significance and the weight of these truths Through your Spirit's work in our hearts, you've convicted us of sin and righteousness and judgment. And we have turned to you in repentance and placed our trust alone in what Christ did for us on the cross. And the fact that he triumphed over death, and we stand righteous in him, not in ourselves. Father, help us to be effective communicators of the gospel. And if even one person here tonight has come to the conclusion that the faith that they have has not been rooted in the gospel, but an experience and an emotion, something outside of Christ and Him crucified. I pray that you'd help them to come to face that reality and respond in humble repentance and faith to this message. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.