Take your Bibles and turn to 2 Corinthians chapter 4, please. 2nd Corinthians chapter 4. And there were three words mentioned in that song that really should ring with our hearts. Go, be, and say. Are you willing to walk across the street and engage the person next door to you in conversation? Is your life consistent enough that what you say won't be compromised by what you tell them? That's a really important thing for us to contemplate. May the Lord help us to be the kind of people that He wants us to be, be willing to serve wherever He places us, and be willing to speak up when the opportunities arise. 2 Corinthians chapter 4, we'll look at verses 1 to 7 this morning. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we've received mercy, we faint not. But have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully. But by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, in whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants, for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness Has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels. That the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Let's bow our hearts together again this morning and ask the Lord to really help us to focus our attention on an extremely important text. Very impactful section of the Word of God. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, as we open up the text and as we read it, I pray that you would stir up our hearts. Father, help us to delight in the glories of your word this morning. Help us to be overwhelmed by the tremendous grace that we have received in the position that we stand in in Christ. Father, help us to glory in your grace, in your mercy, in the wonder of your love for us. And the fact that you've chosen us to be the instruments through which you reach the world in which we live. Father, help us to be humbled by these glorious truths. Help our conscience to be pricked if that's necessary. Help us to be worshippers of you today as we bend our wills and say, Lord, help me to apply the text. Help me to live in the light of these glorious truths. Help me to present it in a very simple and clear manner. May what is said be consistent with the intent to which you move Paul to write this. Some 2,000 years ago. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. I could think of very few passages in the Bible that have had a greater impact on me personally. In the text I read to you today. I remember when I was in college, we were having a missions emphasis week. Actually, it's probably a month, not week. I don't even remember now. But one of those college chapel messages, there was a man, he'd been in the ministry for many, many years, he'd been a missionary in Mexico. And he opened up his Bible to 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and 2 Corinthians chapter 5. I don't remember anything that he said in that service. Nothing. I don't remember his points. I don't remember his illustrations, but this is what I do remember. After that message, I went back to my room. I had a break of time. And I went back and I began to read 2 Corinthians 4 and 2 Corinthians 5. And I read it, and I read it, and I read it. And the more I read that text, the more it gripped my soul. The more I began to realize the weight and significance of those truths. And I remember it was like the Holy Spirit just grabbed a hold of my attention and said, Joel , What Paul is saying, you need to listen to. This is what you need to do. Perhaps God will do that in someone's soul today. This passage is a foundational passage to Paul's ministry. In fact, it's interesting when we come to the book of 2 Corinthians. Paul is writing to a group of people that he dearly loves, he spent a lot of time with, but they're a very stubborn group of Christians. Of course, we're not like that, thankfully, right? But these Christians were exceptionally stubborn. Paul had to deal with unbelievable problems with this group of people. But it did not for a moment affect the fact that he loved these people dearly, that he was willing to pour out his heart to them, that he was willing to sacrifice his time and his energy, that they were on his heart constantly. And the first letter that we read that Paul writes to them is a stinging rebuke in so many areas to this church. In fact, as Paul wrote those words, we know because of 2 Corinthians that Paul grieved as he wrote those things, though he didn't grieve that he wrote those things. He was in a very complex situation emotionally. Because he says, I know these people don't want to hear what I have to say. I know it's going to sting their conscience. It's going to hurt them to some extent, but it's exactly what they need to hear. And so God was moving and pressing his heart to write those things. And there was a dialogue between Paul and the church at Corinth. Well, at some point in there, the people got to be very perturbed with the Apostle Paul. They didn't appreciate his stinging rebuke very much. His tears that he shed as he wrote these words. They did not all appreciate it. And in fact, there was a bit of a coup going on at Corinth when it came to Paul. They did not like Paul's ministry, and some people within the church in a very self-serving manner, were beginning to stir up the congregation against Paul. And Paul's apostleship is even being questioned. And it's being questioned pretty strongly. And so a major part of 2 Corinthians is Paul presenting a defense of his ministry as an apostle. In fact, when we come to the beginning of 2 Corinthians, he says Paul An apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. There's a reason he said that. Because he wants them to understand that when he's writing to them, he's writing as an authority. Who deeply loves them, and they need to listen to what he has to say. And so Paul begins to step by step lay out a case for the kind of ministry that he had amongst those people. He even says, You are an epistle, known and read of all men. Examine yourself and see if you're in the faith. Because if you are, it's the message I preach to you, that is the foundation upon which your position in Christ stands If you're a Christian, it's because I preach the gospel to you. That's pretty pretty intense if you think about it. Well, nestled in the midst of Paul's presentation of his position as an apostle. Is 2 Corinthians chapter 4 and 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Some of the pinnacle truths that he's going to lay out in this book about his ministry. This passage can be summed up with this little statement: if our gospel be hid, it's hid to them that are lost. Paul has been viciously criticized. He's laying out a defense for his position as an apostle. But he's doing all this because he wants the people to understand that he has done the work of the ministry in a very pure and a very humble manner, in a very self-sacrificing manner. He has labored for them , not for himself. You realize the Apostle Paul did not even take money from the church at Corinth, though he had every right to expect for them to financially support him because he knew they were so carnal that they would use that as leverage against him. It's an amazing thought. What does God want us to understand from this passage? Well, I'll put it in the simple terms. God wants us to have a genuine heart. For the lost world around us. As we read this text, we're going to see that's exactly what Paul had. He's laying out a defense for what he was doing as an apostle And by means of implication, he's telling you and me that's how we need to be in our ministry as well. No, we're not apostles. Nobody in here is. Nobody's seen the resurrected Christ. No one's going to have the ability to write scripture. No one has the ability to do the signs that accompany an apostle here. We're not apostles, Paul, was. But Paul's ministry and the way we do our ministry has a parallel effect. How can we serve the Lord with a genuine heart and love the lost around us? Well there are three truths I want us to see from the text today. And I'm going to go one by one through them. Truth one is this, our pin our position in Christ demands our diligence. Our position in Christ demands our diligence. Look down in verses 1 and 2, and notice what Paul says. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, and the question is, what is the ministry he's talking about? We'll find out in a second. As we've received mercy, we faint not, but have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness. Not handling the Word of God deceitfully, but by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God There are several phrases in this section of this statement that are significant, and I don't want you to miss those statements because they're incredibly important. All these statements tell us that Paul was diligent, that Paul was pressed in his soul, that Paul was motivated to do his work for God. And I want you to notice what it says. The first statement is this. We have this ministry. What's the ministry that he's talking about? Well, in the big picture, he's talking about the ministry of apostleship. But if we look at the text And we look at the verses preceding chapter 4, what we'll see is he talks about the ministry that God has in our hearts And that is the Holy Spirit coming and changing us into the image of Christ from glory to glory. In fact, this morning's Sunday school lesson. if you will, was an exposition of exactly what Paul is talking about. So the glory of God has been Veiled from you. In fact, he talks about Moses. When Moses went up to the mountain and he came down and his his face shone so much that people could not even look at him face to face. The glory was so great because he'd been in the presence of God. And so what did they do? They made him wear a veil over his face so that people could look at him. And he basically says this, in the Old Testament, what you saw was the glory of God veiled, like the children of Israel who looked at Moses. They could not look at him directly because the veil was there. They could not handle the glory of God. He says, Guess what? That Holy Spirit now indwells here. And not only does he indwell you, Christian, but he is progressively changing you from glory to glory. You are an image bearer, but the image has been marred by the fall. And so when people see you, they see a reflection of God to a degree, but it's marred by sin. It's marked by the fallenness of this world. And so the Holy Spirit who indwells you is changing your character. He's changing your thinking. He's changing who you are so that you reflect your savior the way that you should. This is the ministry he's talking about. We have this ministry How is it that you are changed by the Holy Spirit? It's through the preaching of the Word of God. It's through the teaching of the Word of God. And so as you sit here today, the Holy Spirit takes the word of God and he changes you as he presses your soul and as he shapes and molds you as a person. That's the ministry he's talking about. That ministry is significant to Paul. This ministry presses Paul to do the work that he does. He then says, we've received mercy. Paul realizes that God has given him so many blessings. God held back his judgment on Paul while Paul was a blasphemer. A persecutor of the church, a man who was injurious towards the church of God. God withheld from Paul what he deserved. While he blasphemed the name of Christ, God showed restraint. And mercy on Paul. And at that time when Paul was on that road to Damascus, what does God do? He knocks him to the ground. And Christ says, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he is gloriously transformed by the gospel. He says, I've received mercy, and so have you, Christian. As you sit here today, as I stand here today, there have been a lot of times that God should have crushed me. And a lot of times he should have crushed you. A lot of times he should have set me to the side and said, I'm not dealing with you anymore. Too stubborn, too lazy, too selfish, too proud. I don't need to use you. I'll use somebody different. He did the same thing with you. He showed us mercy. And he says, we faint not. You know, the work that Paul did was really hard. It's hard to raise kids. It's hard to be a teacher. It's hard to do your job. Let me tell you, it's hard to be a minister of the gospel. And when Paul says he didn't faint, it's his way of telling the church, as much as you despise what I've done, what I've said to you, what I've written to you, I haven't slowed down a bit. That's what he's saying. Why? Because he was motivated. He was diligent. He then says, we've renounced the hidden things of dishonesty. You know, Paul said, I have purposed to live a very holy and a very godly life. I don't want what I say to be compromised by the inconsistencies in the way I live my life. And so those hidden sins, I kill them. I put to death my flesh daily so that I can do the work of the ministry The way that God wants me to. He says, I've not walked in craftiness. By the way, when he states that, he's actually kind of Saying something beyond I haven't walked in craftiness. He's saying, You've accused me of walking in craftiness. And there's some people in your midst that are walking in craftiness, but I haven't done that. That's what he's saying. He says, I've not handled the word of God deceitfully. You know, somebody says Paul, he doesn't know what he's talking about. Paul just wants to lift himself up. Paul just wants to dominate this church. He says, that's not true. I haven't handled the word of God deceitfully. I'm not doing this work craftily. And then that last statement that he makes is really significant. He says, we commend ourselves to every man's conscience. What does he mean by that? Here's what he means. I've set aside my rights, my sole liberty. To work with people who have differences of opinion on matters of conscience. That's what he's saying. To the Jews, I became a Jew Do you realize that he told Timothy when Timothy came to work with him that Timothy, as an adult man, you need to get circumcised? So that you will not be an offense to the Jews that we're going to be ministering about. That's the kind of stuff he's talking about. At the same time, Paul, who had never in his growing up years ever eaten pork or shellfish, Could sit down with a Gentile believer and eat that food and receive that hospitality in his house because of the sake of the ministry. That's what Paul was like. And folks, that's the way we need to be. I'm afraid a lot of us aren't that way, though. We don't commend ourselves to other men's consciences We are very self-serving in the way that we do the work that God calls us to many times. May the passage rebuke our souls. We come to a second truth, and this one is extremely important as well. The condition of the world demands our compassion. The condition of the world demands our compassion. Just picture in your minds, not that you've ever seen anything like this before. Somebody who pulls out their phone. Nobody's using the phone right now, I hope. I'm looking around now. We gotta turn the Wi-Fi off during the church services, guys. Come on now. One of these days I'm gonna do that. You'd be like, what in the world? You know, you got this kid. He's walking, he's just and there's a road right here. And he just walks right out in the road. He doesn't even know what's going on. You ever seen something like that? I've seen it. Well let me tell you when I lived overseas, I saw it a lot. Like people did not care about traffic at all. I've seen people doing their phone thing and just walk right out into a road and expect people to stop for them. Well what is that? That's called being distracted. Nobody's ever been distracted by the phone before. You know, somebody invites you to your house to the house, you're eating a meal, and what the guy's like Just Facebook and you're like, did you invite me to your house to have a conversation or watch it get on your phone? Come on now. You know it's it's not funny though. Some of us live our lives this way. I'm not talking about the phone. I mean, we do that too sometimes, right? But I mean we live our lives without any thought of the people around us. People who have tremendous hurts, people who are walking in spiritual darkness, people whose souls are in the balances. People who are dealing with incredible loads and we don't even think twice about it. You know, it's interesting. Our brother yesterday at the breakfast made a comment. about German culture. And one of the things that he said was that in German culture, people take a while to become close. But once they become your friend, it's it's deep. It's serious. It's it's like you are brothers. You can share very deep and personal information with one another because you know there is a heart. that loves you and cares about that information and is going to bear that load with you, there is a closeness there. And he mentioned that in American culture we don't see that. He is absolutely true about that. It's the truth. We are very good at having very superficial relationships. We will not share information with folks. And I I'm guilty of this too. But it's hard. We're private individuals. But the Word of God teaches us to be communal. It te it teaches us to be in community with one another. To bear each other's burdens, to think about what's going on in each other's lives, to pray for one another, to be burdened with the needs of others, to think about the world around us. That's what the Word of God calls us to do. Notice the text, verse five, or verse three, sorry. If our gospel be hid, it's hid to them that are lost, in whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. Lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. Now let's look at a couple of phrases in this passage that are significant. If the gospel is hid, it is hid to them that are lost. What would happen if you went to a grocery store, you had you had your three or four-year-old walking along beside you, you you reached down and you picked something off of the the the aisle side, you put it in your cart, you started pushing your cart, and all of a sudden you're like, uh and your kid was gone. How'd you feel about that? It can happen really fast, can't it? You'd be terrified. You'd be ready to tear down the store trying to find your kid. And then you find out they're hiding, you know. But you have no idea where they are. What about if you've been going along and you don't realize that that child is there and now the child is gone? And the child is lost. You know how terrifying it is for a kid, how terrifying it is for a parent. The truth is, whether we realize this or not, the way that Paul talks about the world is they're lost. They are wandering. They don't even know where they're going. They can't make sense of the world that they live in. They're confused. In fact, he goes on to say this. The God of this world has blinded the eyes of them which believe not. Now, you know, all of us as people living in a fallen world, when we're born into this world, we're sinners by nature. We have a bias against God's truth. We have a spiritual darkness because we're not in Christ. But in addition to that, our natural disposition as lost people, Satan has blinded our eyes. He's brought all these things into our lives that take our attention away from truth, and we don't have the ability to recognize and see what's going on. He said, that's the world around you. He goes on to this. He says this, lest the light of the glorious gospel should shine into them. They can have the gospel. They can see clearly. They can be in God's presence. They can enjoy his glory. They can become image-bearers who are growing into Christ's likeness, not image-bearers whose image is marred by the fall. Restoration of what God is doing in their life. They can be that way, but what's the key? They've got to hear the gospel They've got to see your life. They've got to have it presented to them so that God can work through that message, bringing them to repentance and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. The gospel demands, or the world's condition demands that we have compassion. I want to ask you this question. How often do you think about the lost people around you? When's the last time you initiated giving somebody a gospel booklet track? We can really become so focused on very superficial things. And the souls of men don't even matter to us. We care about little nitpicky things that have no value at all. But the souls of men, it's like they don't even matter to us. This is the generation we live in. But it's not just this generation, it's been like that throughout all humanity. Folks, we've got to think about the people around us with compassion. You see someone whose life is steeped in sin. You see the effects of a life of debauchery, and you scorn that person. I don't want to come in contact with them. I'd never invite them into my home. Sit next to them in church. I don't want them to affect my kids. Hey folks, this is a messy world. If it wasn't for the grace of God, you'd be like that. We've got to have compassion on the lost world around us. We then come to a third truth, and that's this: the nature of the gospel, it demands self-abasement. Verse 5: we preach not ourselves. But Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants, for Jesus' sake, God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined into our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God into the face of Jesus Christ. We have this treasure in earthen vessels that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Some wonderful statements in this little section. The first one is this. We preach not ourselves. How many people do you know The reason they do the things that they do, it's all about self-promotion. They don't care who's in front of them, who they step on, who they crush, who they destroy. It's about getting power. It's about getting position. It's about being respected. It's about getting more money. It's about this. All about self-fulfillment. And the more people they step on, the more they realize that, you know what, I need something more. And they step on more people. They destroy more lives. They become more self-pleasing and self they live for self. But what does Paul say? That's not how we do it. We don't preach ourselves. When I go out and I preach, it's about Jesus. It's about him. It's not about me at all. It's not about me getting respected by people. It's not about me getting anybody's money. It's not about me getting a position. It's about Christ getting exalted. And in the process, people may hate me. In the process, I may lose a lot. I may lose everything But it's about Christ. We don't preach ourselves. By the way, when Paul says this, in his mind he says this, you know, the people that are talking about me and saying I'm not a real apostle, that's what they're doing. That's exactly what they're doing. Why are they trying to get your ear? Because they want power. Because they want to push me out. They want to live however they want to live. They are pressing you. For their own reputation's sake. He said, I'm not like that. We don't preach ourselves. He then makes this statement. He says, God commanded the light to shine out of darkness. And it has shined into our hearts. Do you know what Paul's remembering? He's remembering how he got saved. What was Paul doing when he was converted? He was going to Damascus to grab Christians, drag them out of their homes, drag them back to Jerusalem, and have them Well, killed, thrown in prison, whatever they had the ability to do, he was going to do it to them. And so what happens while he's on that road? God commanded the light to shine in the darkness. God throws that man on the ground. He grabs his attention. He is blind for some days. That's how he got saved. Now maybe your conversion wasn't quite that dramatic, but here's the truth. The reason you're saved is because God sent the light to you. You were stumbling in the darkness. I was stumbling. Maybe just as a kid. The person that God sent was your mom, your dad, your Sunday school teacher. Somebody you knew in college. Could have been any number of people, somebody you worked with in the service, somebody that you worked with in your job, who knows who it was, a neighbor, a pastor in the area. God sent the light to you And the point is this, Paul wasn't seeking light. God sent it. You weren't seeking light. God sent it to you. That's about self-abasement. He wasn't even proclaiming a message that he had sought out. He was proclaiming a message that he had once hated And despised and took people into prison because of that message. And then he says: this we have this treasure in earthen vessels. I guess maybe one of the best ways to to illustrate this is we have two kinds of uh utensils we use in our homes, more than likely. Okay? In our in our uh kitchen we have these blue plastic bowls. And uh we use those blue plastic bowls because if they fall on the ground they don't break. You can stomp on them and they don't break. They're very hardy. They're very simple. There's not a lot of value. If for some reason they broke, we can very easily replace that. And then there's another kind of stuff you use. Like you drop that on the floor and your mom kills you. She comes close. She doesn't kill you, but she wants to kill you. Because of the value and how much that uh is worth to your mother and to your grandmother, and it was her mother's as well. There's a difference. One is what you put out for the honored guest. It's what you cherish. It's what you put the best out for your guests with The other is what you give your kids when they get up in the morning and they're stumbling around and you don't want them to smash it on the floor, and if they do, it's okay. Whatever happens, happens. We are not the fine China, folks. We are the plastic plates. That's basically what he's saying. God chose to use you. God chose to use me. And he uses us because he gets the glory, not us. Because of the kind of message he's proclaiming and the kind of messengers he's using. You know, if you become a kind of a negative person, you'll begin to realize something. There is nobody in this world that meets your expectations and you don't meet theirs. Is that true? It's true. Nobody meets your expectations and you don't meet their expectations. You ever looked around and said, how in the world could God use that guy right there? That girl right there and this guy. And you just start looking around and you're like, how in the world can God use these people? Look at all the problems they got. Stop for a moment and ask the question. What are they thinking when they look at you? The same thing, guys. Okay? We are earthen vessels. Nobody in this room has arrived. And when you arrive, it's going to be because you died and God gave you a glorified body. As long as you're on this side of the grave, you're a clay pot. And God chose to use you, and God chose to use me because he gets the glory when he works through the clay pot. You and I don't. One of the reasons that Paul was so burdened for this church is because there were people that thought they were fine china when they were clay pots. So I want to conclude with a couple of questions. Do you recognize the depth of the responsibility that you have? It's huge, isn't it? Are you diligent in the service of Christ and his kingdom? Are you pressing forward in the midst of discouragement and weariness? Hey folks, we all face that. Some days we wake up and we feel like total failures. Feel like we've accomplished nothing for God. Well, that's okay. Get up, keep going. Are you handling the Word of God with tremendous care? Well, I'm just teaching little kids in Sunday school, hey, listen, those are souls, guys. You know, Christopher Hutchison got saved when he was a little kid in our in our youth ministry. Today he joined the church. You're dealing with souls. Someday a kid may join the church and say, I got saved when I was in junior church or when I was and they tell the story. Is your heart affected by the terrible condition of the world? Are you doing the work of the ministry humbly? Are you doing the work of the ministry for God's glory and not your own? May God take this text and stir up our hearts with it. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Father, it's been good to be in your house. It's been good to be with your people. What a blessing to see what you're doing in Germany. Thankful we can be a small part of it. Pray you'd strengthen the Sendal family as they continue to labor in a very needy place. I thank you for this church you've raised up so many years ago. I thank you for how you've sustained this work, how you've continued to build it and work in this congregation. Father, help us to take this text Help us to apply it to our souls. Help us to be humble. Help us to be teachable. Help us to be willing to sacrifice. Help us to labor and press forward when we're discouraged. Father, help us to think about the people around us. I pray that you would be exalted in this congregation as we do what Paul did, as we follow him as he followed you Pray you'd bless this afternoon and bless as we return in the evening. May you truly bless this day of rest and focus on Christ. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen.