Luke chapter 22, and we're going to pick up in verse 23. Here's what the text says. And they began to inquire amongst themselves which of them it was That should do this thing. Obviously, we're talking about Judas there. And there was also a strife among them which of them should be accounted the greatest. And he said unto them, the kingdoms of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them. And they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. But ye shall not be so. But he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, he that is chief, as he that doth serve, and whether is greater he that sitteth at meat, or he that doth serve. Is not he that sitteth at meat, but I am among you as he that serveth. Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations I appointed unto you a kingdom as my father hath appointed unto me, that ye may serve and drink and eat at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. The Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat, but I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren He said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee both into prison and to death. He said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, before thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me. Please let's be add together and ask the Lord to speak to our hearts through his word. Lord, as we dig into this passage of Scripture, I pray that the Spirit of God Would take the truths of Scripture and really press them into our souls. As we work our way through the various statements of Christ, as we think about the way that the disciples responded to him, as we think about the overall context. Of what is going on. I pray that all these things would be instruments in your hands, that your word would speak to us. This is your truth. This is your word. May your spirit move in our midst and move in our hearts. Father, help me to communicate the word of God with simple clarity. And may the Spirit of God take this word and use it for your glory. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is an interesting passage because we know, as we've been spending quite a bit of time in Luke chapter 22, that Jesus is about to be betrayed. And not only is he about to be betrayed, but he's going to stand before several mock trials, and then ultimately he's going to be crucified very unjustly, and even as Jesus is being dragged out of the city, the people will say that it is good for Jesus. to be killed. And in fact, they are celebrating and they are even triumphing in the unjust, horrific treatment of the Lord Jesus Christ. The Romans are going to scourge him, they're going to mock him, they're going to laugh at him. The people are going to reject Barabbas, a murderer and a thief, and they're there are they're going to reject Christ, and they're going to take a murderer and a thief, Barabbas. And they're going to say, we want him to be released rather than Christ. And as we work our way through these verses, what we will see Is that trials, struggles, injustice, these are an inescapable part of our Christian experience. But God uses all of them to serve a powerful, powerful instrument in his hands. And he uses them for our good. God uses trials to shape us. That's what this passage is all about. We're going to see that as we work our way through. It's very interesting because there are lots and lots of different components and there are lots of subtopics that are a part of the text in front of us. But what we're going to look at primarily is how we must allow God to shape us through these struggles. So with that in mind, let's begin working our way through the text in front of us. First thing I want to draw your attention to is the context. of what Jesus is saying here. And in verses 23 and 24, we see the following statement that kind of gives us the summation of what's going on. It says, there was also a strife among them which should be accounted the greatest. Now here are these men. Who are there up in the upper room. And if you remember from last week, we spent a lot of time talking about what they were doing in the upper room. In verse 15 of the same chapter, we see that Jesus makes the following statement. With desire, I have desired to eat this. Passover with you before I suffer. So what is going on in these verses? The answer is that they are celebrating the Passover. But not just any Passover, it is the one that Jesus describes as this Passover. This is the fourth of the various Passovers that Christ celebrates with his disciples. And this one is significant because this is the one that is going to be the capstone. This is going to be the culmination of all the various Passovers that Jesus has celebrated with his disciples. This is the one right before he suffers and he fulfills the Passover picture. And Jesus even takes that moment to describe how this is going to be a change in orientation from looking back at deliverance physical in Egypt, but now looking back not just at deliverance in Egypt, but deliverance at the cross. where Christ dies for our sins and we can now be forgiven and cleansed and justified because Christ paid it all. That's what this is all about. But mixed in this conversation that Jesus has with the disciples, and mixed with this celebration that Jesus has with the disciples are two warnings that are given. The first is in verse 21, and the second is in verse 31. And the first is heavier than the second, but both are significant. Look down at verse 21, he says this, Behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me at the table. Notice not the hand that's going to betray me, but the hand that is already betraying him, because Judas has already gone and met with the religious leaders. They have covenanted together. Money has been exchanged. He's been seeking opportunity, and he's waiting. This is the moment he's going to take Jesus and deliver him to the Sanhedrin. And then in verse 31, he says the following, Satan hath desired to have you. that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. This second warning is directed to Peter And we're going to break down what Jesus is saying to Peter, why it's significant. But we see these two warnings. One is a warning of betrayal, and the other is one of weakness. One that says, I don't know this man. He denies that he knows the Lord. But both are warnings. But then there's a third piece of the context that's very significant. And that is the shocking way that the disciples respond to everything that they're observing. And if we look back in verse 23, coupled bet or kind of set between verse 21 and 31, listen to what the text says. This is amazing. It says, and they began to inquire amongst themselves which of them it was that should do this thing. And there was also a strife among them which of them should be accounted the greatest. Do you not get the sense that these disciples do not get what they are living through? And you know what? We're like that too sometimes. There are many times in our lives that what God is doing, we are completely oblivious to it. We do not see the signs. We do not see the warnings. We do not see the encouragements. We do not listen to what God is saying. And he gives us wave of wave of wave of opportunity to change course, and we just don't do it. And so we see the disciples are in that position. That's the context. Second thing I want you to notice in these verses is the great contrast that is laid out between two different worldviews. And in fact, these two worldviews you could almost say is the worldview of Christ and the worldview of the disciples. Now, the disciples at this time I believe are true believers. And I'm going to get into this in just a moment. Because Jesus does say to Peter, when you are converted, then you need to feed my brethren. Are your brethren? And you go, well, hold on a second. Are you converted or not converted? We're going to get into that in just a moment. So just table that But I want you to notice this contrast between the thinking of Christ, a biblical worldview, and the thinking of the disciples, a very worldly worldview. We see this in verses 25 through 27. It says, He that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger, and he that is chief as he that serves. What an interesting statement. The greatest is to be like the younger. You say, like siblings in a house? Well, yeah, that might work. Actually, it's a lot heavier than that. Because we're talking about an ancient Near Eastern time period, first century Judaism, where your age had a lot to do with the clout that you brought to the table. We're not just talking about siblings spatting in a car or sitting around a dinner table saying who's going to get to uh take out the trash versus who's going to get to go and uh play. We're not talking about that. We're talking about people that have to humble themselves. So what is this contrast? First of all, notice what he says about this world system. In verse 25 He describes it as a domineering approach to leadership. In verse 25, he says, the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them. Now, I think it's important for us to just think for a moment about the historical significance of what Jesus is saying. If you were to look back over the Jewish history, you would see their very first king was a man named Saul. And what was Saul? He was a domineering, oppressive individual. And then we can look over the course of Israel's history, and we could see lots and lots of kings who would fall have fallen into such a category. But he's not talking about the Jewish people. He talks about the Gentiles. And then we think about the Assyrian Empire who came in and they absolutely destroyed the northern kingdom. Or then we think about 150 years later how we don't have the Assyrians, now we have the Babylonians, and they lay siege on the city, they destroy the city, there's nothing left, all the walls are broken down. All of those gates have been burned with fire. The temple has been completely decimated. And we think about how the Babylonians and King Nebuchadnezzar takes all these people into captivity. How they just slaughter people in the city, and whoever is left, they basically live as servants on their own land. Then we think about all these different empires that rose and fell and rose and fell and rose and fell all the way to the time of Christ with the Romans. And who were the Romans domineering over the Jews at this time in their history? Those who were of Jewish power were people who were in league with the Romans. And so when he says that the kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them, they understood that very well because they lived it. Exercise lordship means they're domineering. They lord it over. They're oppressive. They use force and power to establish Their authority. These are ambitious people who seize power by force. They use manipulation amongst the people and they maintain that power and they expand that power in the exact same way. You know what's amazing? It's not just world empires that do that. You can even see it in an office situation. You can see how people move and how they manipulate and how when people get in power, they domineer and they maintain that authority. This happens on every single level of society This happens in families. This happens in the workplace. This happens on the national, on the state, on the local level, all over the world. Why is that? Because lost people believe this is all there is And they don't think about a God in heaven that they're answerable to. And so what do lost people do? They take by force, through manipulation, and they control and they domineer. And that's what Jesus says the world does. But he goes beyond that. Not just domineering. This is very interesting. They expect to be honored while they do it. At verse 25 it says, they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors. You say, well, what is a benefactor? A benefactor is a title given to someone who has paid a great service to another. Now just kind of think about the irony of what's being stated here. So here are these people that are domineering and they're abusive and they're manipulative. They seize power, they expand power, they control, and all the while they expect the people that they are taking advantage of to say you're a great and you're a noble person and thank you for all the good things that you're doing for us. And what is that that that is people expecting to be treated as honored when they're not honorable Isn't that crazy to think about? But don't you see it all over the place? The answer is yes What's going on when a person speaks all this praise to a person that's over them? Sometimes it's a genuine thing because they really do appreciate that, but you know a lot of times it's not a genuine thing. It's just straight up flattery. It's trying to get a person's approval because you don't want to make them angry because it might disrupt your position. That is exactly what the Sanhedrin was doing with Christ. They wanted him dead and gone so that they would not have to deal with the consequences of disruption and lose their position with Rome. And while their subjects fear them very much, they flatter them to keep them happy. And you know what Jesus says? He says, that's the way the world does it. But ye shall not be so. Verse 26. He has this one system laid right beside a second. One that is to be totally different. Hey, guess what? As Christians, we're supposed to live different, folks. The way that we think, the way that we relate to authority, the way that we handle authority, the way that we pursue authority. All of these things are to be distinctly different. We should not think and act and manipulate and maneuver the way the world does. We as Christians are called to a different position and practice. And so notice the way that he describes the kingdom of God, which is in complete contrast to the way of the world. Verse 26 says, but You shall not be so. Everything you saw on the one side, you're the opposite of it. That's really what he's saying. How does the world do it? The Christian is supposed to do it? Completely different. And he lays out some various ways that this is true. And verse 26 says, He that is the greatest among you. Now, when the Bible talks about authority and structure, that's not a bad thing. I mean it is God who creates authority and structure. There's authority in the home. There's supposed to be authority in society. There's supposed to be structure. That's not a bad thing. It's the abuse of authority. It's the abuse of power. It's the lust for power. That's where the problem lies. What this text is saying is there are some people they are in positions above others because God put them there. And that's an important thing for us to recognize. While the world manipulates and works to take authority, the Christian simply exercises whatever has been given to them. There's a really big difference between those two things. And thirdly, godly leaders don't seek the preeminence. He says in verse 26, he says, let him be as the younger. Now we understand this and we're talking about the kids growing up, but that really is an inadequate illustration of what Jesus is communicating here. He's talking about a society where how old you are, how experienced you are, gives you tremendous clout. I don't think that's the way it works in American society. It really doesn't. We have gotten to a place where when an older man walks in a room, the younger people don't stand up and say, Can you take my seat? They just keep going down their phone. Okay? I mean that's kind of the world we live in today. But in those days, if you were a younger person, you didn't have honor and respect and clout in that community. Those who had a life experience the elderly, the seasoned, those who had lived through life and knew things. Those people had great honor. And what Jesus says is this. You, if you're gonna be a leader in God's kingdom, have to assume the position of someone who's younger, not the one who takes honor, but the one who gives it out. That's a really amazing thing to think about. That was a very radical thing for these people to wrap their minds around. Obviously, they weren't wrapping their minds around it as he's saying it. And they're willing to do it. Because it's what leadership does. In fact, also in verse 26 he says, and they're willing to do the lowly things. He that is chief as he that doth serve. So the way that it typically works in life is that once you get power and once you get authority, you make all the other people do all your dirty work. But in God's system, if you're in authority and you're in leadership, you're giving of yourself constantly for the people that you serve alongside and that you actually have a delegated authority toward. In fact, we really get the sense of this in 1 Peter, where Peter writes, Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly, not as lords over God's heritage, but as examples. To the flock. And so we see this contrast between the way of the world and God's way. Christ is the perfect example. You will never have a perfect example on this side of eternity. You may have a very noble father or mother. You may have a very noble individual that you serve under or that you work for, whatever the scenario. Those people will always let you down on some level. And the standard is always Christ and not us or them. Christ is the perfect example. In verse 27, he says, I am among you as he that serves. What's he saying? You need to look at my example. He set himself up as the example in John 13 when he gets down and he washes the disciples' feet. You know what's interesting? Luke doesn't really focus on this so much. But John takes a lot of time to talk about the interactions that Jesus has. He expands them quite a bit more than Luke does. Because he has a different intent, a different focus. But listen to what it says in John 13. Jesus says, if I, your Lord and Master, wash your feet, so you ought also to wash one another's feet. I have given you an example that you should do as I have done. Christ is the perfect example. Or in Philippians 2, Paul writes, being in the form of God, he thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but he made himself of no reputation. He took upon himself the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of men. Being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. What's really interesting about that passage is when we go to it, we tend to think of it in theological, Christological terms, and that's true because that's there, but when Paul is giving this example, he's speaking of Christ person, he's God in flesh. He's speaking of Christ's humiliation, he's speaking of Christ's sacrifice, but he's doing it in the context of practical example of how we're to relate to other people, how we're to lay aside our rights, and we're to love other people and we're to work with one another in a humble manner like Christ. And so that's the contrast. Third thing I want you to notice is that Jesus gives them some tremendous comfort in these verses. Now, I think you'll notice as you read through these verses and as you step back and you reflect on it, there are a lot of different themes that are being communicated. There's a warning theme, there's a comfort theme, there's a lot there. But one of the things that I really love about the way that Christ dealt with people, and the way that Paul dealt with people, and the way that we should deal with people, is that when we have a hard thing to say, we always set the hard things next to the comforting things. And you know what he does? He lifts them both up because both are true. Here's the hard stuff. Here's the comfort. And here's the comfort in verses 28 through 30. He says, I appoint unto you a kingdom as my Father hath appointed unto me. Now, he breaks it down quite a bit more than just that statement, but I want you to notice some of the key elements there. The first is in verse 28, he is assuring them that he sees them as true believers. Verse 28, you are they which have continued with me in my temptation. In fact, this reminds me of John chapter 6 in verse 66, where there was a controversy between Jesus and those who were casually following him. And this is what Jesus, or this is what John records about this interaction. It says, from that time many of the disciples went back and walked no more with Christ. Then Jesus said unto the twelve, Will you also go away? This is a great question. Look at all these people leaving me. They can't handle what I just said. Are you going to go with them? And Peter, of course, you know Peter, he's always going to be the one to say something, right? That's what I love about Peter, and that's what also gets Peter in trouble. Then said Simon Peter, Lord, to whom shall we go? Thou hast the words of life We believe and are sure thou art Christ, Son of the living God. That is a beautiful picture of what faith is. You know what faith is? Faith is not, I have everything figured out perfectly. Faith is, you've given me enough to be convinced I need to trust you, and I'm gonna do it. That's really what it is. Peter is saying, you know what, there's some question marks that these people have, and there's some question marks that we have, but what I do know is that you are the Christ. You are Messiah. There isn't another one to turn to, so I'm just going to keep on following you. And I'm going to keep on listening to what you have to say. I'm going to keep on asking those questions because you're the real deal. That's what he's saying. And you know, over the course of our lives we experience this too. When you place your faith in Christ as a little kid, do you have everything figured out? No, you don't. You know what you do know? I'm a sinner. Christ died for my sins. He rose from the dead. If I place my faith in Christ, I'm forgiven. I'm God's child. He gives me eternal life. You say, well, that's kind of simple. It is simple. And over the course of your life, as you mature and as you grow, that faith is going to Grow and mature and have more depth and have more content and you will understand God's ways better. But you'll never get to the point where you figure it all out. Because God didn't intend for us to figure it all out. He intended for us to trust him with what he gave us And so what we see here is that he is giving them this comfort, you are real believers He also in verse 29 says, you are going to inherit this kingdom that you're looking for. He says, I appointed unto you a kingdom, as my father has appointed unto me. What a great comfort. You're a real believer. You're going to experience the kingdom. The one that you're looking for, the one that you haven't figured all out all about entirely, but it's there. Though they were going to stumble in their practice, they would not stumble in position. Their position was secured. I think about John 5. He says, Verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word, believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, he shall not come into condemnation. He has passed from death unto life. So these are people that knew enough information, they trusted in that information, and they passed from death to life position. That is the comfort that they're given here. Thirdly, they're going to have a rich eternal experience in that kingdom. This is interesting, verse 30. He says, you're going to eat. And drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit at thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. You say, so what is that all about? He's emphasizing two aspects of God's kingdom. One is the aspect that you're going to have real life, eternal fellowship with the one true God. Eat, drink at my table in the kingdom. Think about some of the most personal moments we enjoy. It's when we eat and we eat with one another and we have conversation around the table. One of those times of Communion, fellowship. Well, sometimes it gets a little tense depending on your house dynamics. But if you have people over to the house, of course I can get it tense too. More than likely, some of the greatest times of fellowship you have with people are around food. And you know what he's saying? You're gonna be in the kingdom. You're gonna have fellowship with God It's pretty awesome to think about. But there's a second aspect to this. And you will sit on thrones and you will judge the twelve tribes of Israel. You'll actually have something to do in that kingdom. And so all of this is simply put like this. He's comforting by them by saying, You're real believers, you're going to be in the kingdom You're going to experience fellowship with God forever, and you're going to have something to do, real-life authority for all of eternity. What a great comfort. But then we see a fourth thing, and that is the word conversion. This is not the end of what Jesus is going to say to these people In fact, this is not the end of what he's going to say to Peter. He's going to be the one he focuses in on. Why is that? Well, because Peter is the most outspoken out of all the disciples. When Jesus is crucified and when he rises from the dead, which of the disciples is going to say, let's go back to fishing? It's going to be Peter. And which of those disciples is going to be preaching at Pentecost? It's going to be Peter. And so we have Peter the first to fail, and he's also the first to step back in line and get on track of what he's supposed to do. And so this is the kind of person that Peter is. He's an intense thunderous individual. God used him mightily, but he was not without trouble, not without flaw. And so Jesus addresses Peter in verses 31 to 33. Notice what he says. He says, Peter, Simon, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat. But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not, and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Now, if you're Peter and you're hearing this, Probably what you wanted to hear was, Satan desires to sift you as wheat. I have heard your prayer. He won't be able to touch you. That's not what he said He probably wanted to hear something like, he's gonna test me and I won't fail. That's not what he said. He said, I pray that your faith will not fail. And when you're converted, strengthen your brethren. There's a lot that Jesus is communicating in that little statement right there. Say, what is it? First of all, he's emphasizing how dear Peter is to him. Whenever you read the Bible and you see someone's name stated twice, Simon, Simon, or Saul, Saul, why do you persecute me? When you see that, what you need to understand is that that is a Jewish way, first century Jewish way, actually going back into their culture, a way of saying I love you and what I'm about to say might be hard, but I care deeply for you. That's really what it is. Not like when mom used to say your first and last name and the middle in between. He's saying, I want you to hear what I have to say. It's hard, but I love you. Christ addressed him in the dearest way possible, not as an enemy, but as a friend. While what he's about to say is going to come across pretty harsh, it is in love. And that's the way he meant it to be communicated. Second thing is this, he and the other disciples were the object of a calculated focus. attention from Satan. Verse 31, Satan hath desired to have you. Now you can't see this in your English translation, but you will see it in the Greek text. The you is plural. Now the reason that matters is because it's true he's talking to Peter. But he's talking to Peter and he's addressing all the other disciples too. It's not just Peter who's going to be tested. It's not just Peter who's going to run. It's not just Peter who's going to hide. It's not just Peter who's going to be trembl All of the disciples would find themselves in this position And so he's letting them know your pressure is coming from Satan himself. Peter and the rest of the disciples were about to face the greatest test of their faith at that point. There's a reason that Jesus tells them in the garden, watch and pray lest you enter into temptation. The reason he does this is because it's going to happen, and he wants them to be ready for the test. That statement to sift you as a weed is actually an idiomatic expression. The way that we would describe it in English is you're going to get picked apart. Kind of like some of the uh Some of the football teams yesterday, their defenses got picked apart by really good quarterbacks, like my team. Sadly, right? He says Satan is going to target you. He's going to break you down. He's going to pick you apart. And he's just salivating at this opportunity. And I'm not going to stop him. I'm going to permit him to do this. It's very similar to what happened to Job. By the way, tonight. Sir Montesa right here. We're going to talk about a passage of scripture that talks about Satan moving one of Israel's kings. And the point is this, God permits Satan to do such things in certain circumstances. And sometimes we go, why? And he says, because there's a bigger purpose that I'm about to accomplish. And so he says, I've prayed for you that your faith will not fail when you are converted. Strengthen your brethren. The next thing we see is Christ praying that his faith would endure. In other words, God is not insulating them from the test. He wills for them to face it and endure triumphantly. He prays that their faith will be strong. It will be strengthened, and though they will stumble, they will get back up. Here's what's very interesting about it. If you were to just look at the story of Peter and that was it, and you didn't look at the rest of the Bible, then you'd say Peter failed and that's the end of the story. But that's not what happened. He stumbled, he fell, but he got back up. And he got back up because Jesus went to him And Jesus strengthened him and he encouraged him. And so that is a part of what Jesus is saying. He is predicting that Peter is going to stumble, but the stumble won't be the end. He's going to recover. He says when you are converted, that means you're gonna fall, but you're gonna get back up and you've turned in the wrong direction, you're gonna get turned back around in the correct direction. So though he would stumble, he would be restored. He would need to be restored. He would be restored. You know, every single person in this room who is a child of God either has or will. Find yourself in a position where you have gone through a season and you have fallen down. Sometimes it's quite severe. Sometimes it's not, thankfully, but it's still going to happen. And when you stumble, the question is this, do you stay there? Do you walk away? Or do you let the grace of God minister to your heart in that moment? Guess what Peter did? He let the grace of God minister to his heart in that moment. And he stood back up. You know what I really love about what Jesus is saying to Peter? Even though he's telling Peter you're going to stumble, he's saying, you are going to get back up. It's going to happen. And Jesus saw to it that it happened. He predicts the stumbling and he reminds them that God will still have a purpose for Peter. In verse 32, he says, when you're converted, strengthen your brethren. The word strengthen means to establish one so that they are strong in faith again. Peter would stumble and he would be shaken, but that weakness would not lead to an abandonment of the faith. His weakness would lead to a strengthened, tested confidence that would enable him to minister. And I have learned this in life. That when we go through great turmoil in life, it could be health-oriented, it could be relational oriented, it could be that our faith literally is broken down and we are in a very low position and we are really struggling through this. When God lifts us up out of that miry pit and he sets us back on that rock, on the other side of those details, you will be a stronger, wiser, more resilient, more well-prepared person to serve God in a capacity that helps people. It is true over and over and over again. You'll be more compassionate, you'll be more patient, you'll be wiser, you'll be stronger, you'll be more resilient. It's a part of how we grow. And that's what Peter is hearing from Jesus. And then we ask, well, what about this conversion thing? What does he mean by that? was emphasizing the difference between what we would call a positional conversion and our progressive growth into Christ's likeness and maturity. In John 5, he says, whoever hears his word, believes on him that sent him, has everlasting life, will not come him into condemnation. They have passed from death to life. That is position. When you trust Christ as your Savior, you have eternal life. Nothing will change that. Nothing can pluck you out of the Father's hand. God's love holds you. We talked about this in Romans chapter 8, this morning in Sunday school. That's the positional side of conversion. And many times when we talk about a person's salvation, we'll say, I was converted at 15, or I was converted at 10, or I was converted at 45, or whatever it was. And what we're saying is that's when I heard the gospel, I understood the gospel, I repented, I believed, I trusted Christ. I experience God's forgiveness. I experience what it means to be a new creature in Christ. Conversion in the positional sense. But from that day till the day that you die, you will go through a process of growth and maturing in that experience. And that is what what Jesus is referring to when he talks about after Peter is converted. He's not suggesting that Peter is lost. and will be saved, or that he's saved and will be lost and will be saved again. It said he's a saved man, but he's going to get turned around in the wrong direction. And he's going to stumble, and God's going to pick him back up, and then God's going to move him in the right direction. That might be you this morning. You might find yourself in such a place. Listen to some of these scriptures that really communicate this concept. 2 Corinthians 3. 18. We all behold as in a glass the glory of the Lord. We are changed into the same image. from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. That's what he's talking about. Or 1 Peter 5. 8, this one is really great because We see the concept of the devil attacking the Christian, the stumbling of the believer, and how God uses it. He says, Be sober and vigilant, your adversary, the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about seeking whom he may devour. whom resist steadfast in the faith. But the God of all grace, after you have suffered a while, make you perfect. Stablish. That's the word that really is being talked about here when he says strengthen the brethren. Stablish, strengthen, settle you. That's what God does. And here is this man, Peter, who stumbled after Christ was betrayed. He says, I don't know him. He says, I'm going back to fishing. And Jesus goes to him. And he calls him and he says, Do you love me more than you love these? He says, Yes, I do. And he says, let me ask it to you again. Do you love me more than you love these? He says, Yes, I do. And he says, how about a third time? Do you love me? More than these. Guess what Jesus said three times? Feed my sheep. Feed my sheep. Feed my sheep. Why? Because Peter needed to hear feed my sheep again Three times. As if Jesus didn't communicate it the first time. And what is the point? That man, Peter, who heard Jesus say, feed my sheep three times Knew it is like to pastorally minister to the hurting soul of someone who had stumbled. He knew it was like to shepherd a congregation, not as a Lord. But as an example. Why? Because of what we're reading about this morning. That is what made this man the man that he was. The fact that he was pressed, and the fact that he stumbled and the fact that God lifted him back up, that is what made him the man that he was. And that's what makes all of God's servants the people that they are. Some of the most wounded and hurt servants of God, when they come through those periods of darkness. And difficulty when they're lifted back up, they become the strongest, most resilient, most compassionate servants of Christ. And they don't like what happened, but they like what God did through it. That's the God we serve. James 1, the trying of your faith works patience. Let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. 1 Peter 1, the trial of your faith being more precious than gold that perishes. though it is tried with fire, might be found into praise and honor and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ. Our faith will be tested, and when it is tested, it will be purified and strengthened if it's genuine. God uses our failure and weakness to develop maturity and strengths and to strengthen our confidence in Him. That is really the heart of the text in front of us. And you know, it's not a testimony to Peter. It's a testimony to his Savior. And whenever you and I can get up out of the out of the dust and we can move forward, it's not a testimony to our resilience, it's a testimony to our Savior. And his grace. So, how do you apply such a fantastic text of scripture? Let me give you some final thoughts. The first is a word of comfort. God's love for his children is consistent. And secure, even when we have stumbled or will stumble. Jesus knew exactly what Peter would do. And he looked him in the eye and he says, when you're converted, strengthen your brethren. Now you and I, I don't think we'd do that. We would be we would not be in the sweetest of frames of mind knowing what Peter was about to do if we were in Christ's shoes, but that's not our Savior. We must take great comfort in our Savior's consistent love even when we have stumbled. It's a word of comfort. And that is really the predominant piece of this text. The second is perspective. Tests and stumbling are an inescapable part of our Christian experience. I wish we could go through life without pain. I wish we could go through life without struggle. I wish we could go through life without people treating us wrong. But that's not the way it works in a fallen world. And the great comfort we have is that God uses these things for something bigger than what sometimes people mean and what they do. Satan is a fierce yet limited foe. He cannot go beyond the bounds that God has permitted. Yet God wisely permits a limited suffering and hardship to accomplish good in our lives. I'm amazed that Jesus didn't say he has desired to sift you and I'm not going to let him touch you. He says, when you're converted, strengthen your brethren. I pray that your faith would not fail. Sometimes that's what God does. He demonstrates the genuine nature of our position through those seasons. He builds us and equips us for future service through them. We must face life's trials with a matured and biblical perspective. I want to give you one final thought of encouragement. He is always for us when we suffer. He always provides what we need to escape. He always lifts us up when we've stumbled. He continually reaffirms his purposes for us in our lives. And we need those encouragements. That is the way God works in our lives. So don't allow yourself to accept the lie you can't get up if you've fallen. Don't do it. It's a lie. It's not true. Do not accept the lie that he's abandoned you. The truth is that when we suffer, we think, where's God? And that's a very natural place for our minds to go. And he says, I'm actually right here to give you the grace you need to endure. Do not accept the lie that he has done with you. When the text talks about Peter denying the Lord three times. In Luke he records after the third time he caught Christ's eye. The other gospels don't don't record that But Luke does. I mean it happened, but Luke decided that's a piece that you need to know. And you know what it says when he saw his Savior's eyes, he went out and he wept bitterly. Why did he go back to fishing? Because he thought that Jesus was done with him. Sometimes that's where we get to. And I have good news for you. We serve a gracious God who's able to do amazing things in our life even when we've stumbled. May God help us to remember his word this morning. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, this passage is so filled with rich truth. I thank you for how it describes our Savior's love for his people, his mercy, his patience. His long-suffering care in our lives. I thank you for the way it describes your grace. And Father, I pray that you would take this word that has been presented this morning and use it in every soul. Whether it be to prepare for some difficult season that one will encounter. Whether it will be to minister to one who's in the midst of a difficult season, whether it be to help someone who has passed. some time ago through a difficult season, may you use your word to minister richly to hearts. May we find strength and comfort in you alone. May ask this in Christ's name. Amen.