We're going to be in 1 Kings 19 tonight, 1 Kings chapter 19, as we're keeping our study going through Elijah and now going through Elisha. And before I even read my text, just to make sure things are straight, if I say the wrong name, we all know that Elijah is the older one that's transitioning off of the scene. He's the prophet that just called down fire and with the prophets of Baal. And we all know that Elisha is the younger one whom we're going to meet tonight. So if I, by chance, the likelihood is great that I mix them up, you know what I'm talking about. So I'm just setting it down now and getting it straight. And my wife is probably really laughing inside because my wife is a twin and she's known since probably since we've been engaged. It's like if we ever have twin boys. I know what I want to name them. Elijah and Elisha. She goes, no. I'm like, yes. She says, no. Well, the Lord never saw fit to give us twins, so we didn't have to worry about it. I probably should I tell her I would have given in? I don't know. But it would be funny. But it is a tongue so it's easy to get these mixed up. And just to help me, I'm kind of weird sometimes, but the J comes before the S alphabetically. So Elijah comes before Eli Sha, so that always helps me to at least get the order right. Okay, the one that comes first alphabetically is the one that's older and that we learned about first in scripture. So if that helps you, great. If not, I'm just weird. But that's okay. And also, what's very interesting as you study these two prophets, one comes onto the scene. Right in front of the king. The other one is kind of broadened a little more gently. And I've kind of thought of it this way, Elijah, he is really like He's like a giant like firefighter the big fire work, you know, that just you don't really see it and it's just boom and it's like pickets up whoa that was really cool. Elisha, he's more like gonna be the doctor. Or he's like the firework. Did you ever watch it like streaks up orange? And you're like you're watching it go up and just And it does a you're like, oh wow, that was really pretty. And all of a sudden there's the big boom over and you're like what that okay that's the contrast of these guys' ministry. One is like a big bang, it's like in your face, it's fiery, it's rushing in, and we're gonna, you're all gonna die, and the other one is like, now that that's done, I'm gonna take care of you. And we're going to love on you and be a doctor. That's kind of the ministry difference between a lie ja and a lie shia. And we have the privilege this evening of being introduced. to Elisha just a little bit as Elijah is kind of coming off of the scene. So what we're going to see here is transition. And I know in life we have transitions. Uh people come, people go, there's empty rooms in the house, there's empty beds for different reasons. It could be passing of loved ones. It could be you just sent them off to college. But whatever it may be, we have transitions in life. And what we're going to see here is that transitions are just a part of life. And we handle it in different ways. And we're going to see from a couple of different perspectives how that's going to work tonight as we look at both of these men. God uses different people for different purposes. and different personalities, but God is at work through them all. So that's just a little bit of runway, a little bit introduction before I even get to the text. So let's look at this now. A shorter text in 1 Kings 19, starting with verse 19 to the end of the chapter. So he departed thence and found Elisha, the son of Shaphat, who was ploughing with the twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth. And Elijah passed by him and cast his mantle upon him. And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah and said, Let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow thee. And he said unto him, Go back again, for what I have done to thee, for what have I done to thee? And he returned back from him, and took a yoke of oxen, and slew them, and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen And gave it unto the people. And they did eat. And he arose and went after Elijah and ministered unto him. Father, we are so thankful for this text, for the privilege of meeting in your house this evening, and would the Spirit of God use the Word of God to speak to your people here in person or even online. Father, would you do your work in each one of us that we may glorify you, that we would do our best for you each and every day. Even in the difficulties and the challenges of transitions that you may bring into our life, that we can see you through it all and just trust in you during those times. So we thank you and we praise you for this. Through the name of your Son, our precious Savior of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. So first in verse 19. I have three verses. So it's very easy. We have three points, one for each verse. Okay. I thought really long and hard about that. So the first verse here in 19, we're going to see how Elijah casts his mantle. Elijah cast his mantle. So he departed thence. He just left. And he finds Elijah. He's been told he's going to anoint three people. His pastor ended last week. He's going to anoint three. Very interesting there of who he's going to anoint. They're not even all in Israel. So he just leaves from that, being told these instructions. And now he's going. And it says he finds Elisha. Now here's where the challenging comes in. The question with this first point, as Elijah casts his mantle, as we look at this verse 19, what's interesting here for the generations that are wiser or older? Are you willing to be replaced? This is very challenging. This is very difficult. I know from our perspective, Elijah had a very short ministry. Like I said, it was a big bang. There's a lot of things happening. And it just seems like there's great things going through his life. But all of us are here for but a time. And what he's doing now , he was told that you're going to anoint this guy and he's going to take your spot as a prophet. He could have shaken his fist at God. He could have said, My time is not yet. There is no way. But sometimes in life, you have to get to that point where you recognize I am truly only here for about a time. Am I willing to teach, to train? Am I willing to be a man of God, an employer, or even a father that's going to train and invest in someone else to take my place? That is hard. You're a businessman. You started that thing. You got it up and running for 20, 30 plus years. And now you expect this young whippersnapper to come and take your spot over my dead body. Some of us would like to think. I built this thing. And now this guy is going to do that. It's a challenge. It's a transition. I've known men, they start churches. They'll be there for decades Health is declining. The church is getting older. He's hanging on, though he can barely get to the pulpit because he started that church and he's not leaving it. What are we doing? Are we training? Are we teaching to replace ourselves? And ask yourself this. Why am I doing what I'm doing? Especially when it comes to the church, it's not the pastor's church. I don't think you bled and died for it Now he's shepherds over it. He's the under-shepherd under the word of God, but this is a challenging part. Here when we see That Elijah, he finds Elisha. The question is, are you willing to be replaced? Are you even looking? That's a hard place to be in. And I don't know what's going to happen. I'm obviously not there in my life as far as that's concerned. But as a father , We're training the next generation, hopefully, to exceed, to go beyond where we are. That's where we find ourselves. If we put ourselves in a lie -just situation. And he is out seeking this young man, knowing that this guy, I have to find him to take my spot. Humanly speaking, that could be a very challenging, difficult transition in life Sometimes we just don't want to admit it. Other times we're in denial. But especially when it comes to the church, the preaching, the teaching, it was wonderful having interns this summer. It was a great reminder to me Not only were they about the same age as my children, which I took a couple weeks not really to sink in. Sometimes you look at people and you think, we're we're like they s I think I'm like the same age as everyone sometimes. It's not true. I mean the obvious part is I have less hair than them. That's just a given. But when I look at people with age, sometimes I forget I look at the teens. Sometimes I I I don't know. I don't even know how to explain it. Sometimes I think I'm a TJ teenager. Other times I still think I'm you know in my mid-20s. And then I play a sport and I'm like, I'm not in my mid-20s anymore. I forgot to stretch. So I'm reminded, but at the same time, I just I don't I don't know what it is. But whatever happens, we have transitions like what are we doing with our are we taking our lives to invest them? Are we looking? Are we seeking to replace me? And that gets extremely difficult when it is all about me. When we stop and look at the bigger picture. This is Christ's church. This is the next generation. If we're not teaching them to serve God, if we're not giving them with the little bit of wisdom we have and getting them to follow God's wisdom, what am I doing here? Because eventually I'm probably going to be getting in the way. Transitions are tough and it's hard. So right here, what we see is you have the man of God, a prophet, wonderful. Everyone knew who he was. And yet he's seeking, he is looking for his replacement. That's just on the human level. I find that already very amazing what he's doing right here. So he's he's departed thence, he found Elisha. And what was Elisha doing? Sometimes in life, we're looking, we're seeking, we're digging, and we feel like God's will is this big mystic cloud of nothingness. And if I keep digging and clawing, eventually it might just hit me or God's going to write it in the clouds. You know, sometimes we just do what we're supposed to do every day for that day and watch God unfold things. Just slow down and I tell teenagers, you know what you wake up, you brush your teeth, you make your bed You do your school. That's a part of what they're supposed to do every day. You obey your parents. You do that day in and day out. And you know what? God is going to unfold his future for you. God's will is not going to seem like some crazy impossible thing to find, like you're searching for this thing that's never going to happen. When we look at Elisha, he's being sought after, doesn't even know it, doesn't even recognize it, and what's he doing? Let's see what he's doing. He's plowing with oxen that are before him. And Elijah passes by him, and he casts his mantle upon him So you have this young man, he's working. He's probably been doing that for who knows how long. He's doing what he always does. He's helping his parents farm. He's out there plowing the fields. Nothing different than he would have normally done. He's not out trying to seek Elijah and be like, where's that man of God? He's looking for a replacement. He's getting older and I heard rumor that somebody's going to be anointed to be the next prophet. I'm going to go find him. That is not what's taking place here. Alisha's just doing his normal thing. He's just out working the field doing what he's doing. It sounds like fishermen. They're just out fishing. And some man comes by the seaside and says, follow me. They're just doing what they do every day, and then God takes the normal and he can step in and take you to the next step Whether it's plowing a field, whether it's fishing for your next meal, to get your next paycheck, God sometimes intervened. What we need to do, trust God today. Just obey God today. That's what he's doing. And to the young men, it's okay to work. It's okay to listen to your parents, to sweat a little bit. We don't have to be hiding in the house. Do I have to go out and work? Yeah, no, you get to. You get to. Okay. Our grass is very tall after being gone for just that week, I tell ya. Which made it almost two weeks because it rained right before we left. We couldn't do it. So I know what my boys are doing tomorrow. With a happy heart. Okay. But to work. That's what he's doing. He's doing what he does every single day. And then Elijah comes and casts his mantle upon him. And look at verse 20. And he left the oxen and ran after Elijah. Now here's our second point here. So first point was Elijah cast his mantle. Are we looking to be replaced? Are we looking to be replaced? Are we willing to be replaced? And then two here, Elisha kisses his parents. And the question we'll get here is, are you willing to follow and are you willing to learn? So let's look at this. Elijah comes up, casts his mantle on him. Verse 20, Elisha. Leaves the oxen and ran after Elijah. And after thinking of those texts, I want to pause here and it says, he ran after Elijah. Now, I don't know exactly what happened, but as I'm thinking and pondering and thinking about this scripture, I always just imagine my mind as you hear this, so this is a very familiar one. A lot of us have shared it in Sunday school and junior church, and he casts his mantle, and sometimes I've heard this preached and he immediately obeyed and he's gonna kill those oxen. He did everything immediately around. I thought, well wait a minute It says he cast his mental on him, and then it says he ran after Elijah. So to me, I'm kind of simple sometimes thinking there was time involved here. If he just casts his mantle on him, hey buddy, why don't you come with me? He gives the mantle. All right, sounds good. See your parents. Well I'm following this guy. Sometimes we get that impression, but that's not what happened. He casts his mantle on him And here's probab possibly, I don't know, this is some options. I'm just thinking through to add some humanity to the black words on a white page. So he gets this mantle and one he either knew Elijah at least knew the name and did not recognize him. And someone from AF came up to him and said, Do you know who that was? No, some nice gay this nice cloak. Look at this. Do you know who that was? Nope, never seen the man before in my life. That's Elijah. You should probably go follow him. If he's giving him your mantle, that's probably you should probably at least go check out and see what's going on. Oh, you know what? That's probably a good idea. So he has to run over and catch up to this guy. Hey, now I know who you are. You're the prophet. If you gave me this, what's going on here? Something happened Or it's possible. That could be one. You can take your pick. I'll give you two options. There's probably more. But this is just going through my crazy head. Or it's possible that Elijah's walking by, casts his mantle on him, and tells him, God had told me to anoint you to follow me. The big gulp? Okay. By the way, I want you to know, um uh I've mortar mortared 450 guys. I'm sought after For 450 life sentences, the queen is trying to seek my life right now and kill me. I'm running as a fugitive from her. Do you want to follow me? Because you'll be less likely to die if you do. Why don't you take some time and think about it? I'm gonna go this way Oh, that's nice. And I get a cloak out of the deal? Really? So the fact that he had to run to him, he probably had to process something, whether he recognized him, whether he didn't, whether he I I mean really? I mean do you want to follow a guy that's got, you know, the leader of the country's bounty on your head? Let's follow that guy. I don't know if I'd be so quick to do it either. But whatever happened, however, maybe it's choice C or three, whatever it is. I don't know. None of the above. But what we see here is So there was a time that took place. Whatever took place, he takes the mantle and he runs, Elisha runs to Elijah, and he says, Let me at least go tell my parents goodbye. And tell them that I'm going to follow you. So whatever happened, sometime passed, what happened, I'm not sure, but he goes to do this. The difference here is, at least it came to my mind. Is that this is different than the passage that we see in Luke 9. In Luke chapter 9, starting with verse 59, we see. That people are going to Christ. And they said one to another, follow me. They're coming different people are going to Christ. But he said, Lord, suffer me to go and bury my father. Jesus responds to this young guy and says, said unto him, let the dead bury their dead, but go and preach the kingdom of God. The situation with this is quite different because in Luke 9, basically what the guy is saying is, oh, I'm going to bury my father. And Jesus and people around him saying, but your father is not dead. Basically what he's saying is, I want time, I want to do it, let me just enjoy the fortune of the family, let me get a little bit older, wiser. Maybe I'm just a little thinking about it right now. So there's some time he's trying to put between it. The time that Elijah here is thinking about it, or Elisha, there it is, Elisha is thinking about it is much shorter He's not making excuses. He's made his decision. He had to process some things. He made his decision. He's telling them, look, I'm gonna let me at least go tell my parents what's going on. Let them know I'm trying to be respectful towards my parents. It's not an excuse. It's let me try and do this the right way. And you can see in his response, he's like, hey, don't let me get in the way. If you want to do this, I understand that that would be fine. The Lord told me to do this, so that's what we're going to do And also, from Elijah's perspective, he cast his mantle on it and apparently he just kept walking. This guy is going to have to think about it. You know what that tells me about this? Are you willing to let God work an individual? Sometimes we can know the right thing, for someone else even, or for ourselves. But to allow them to come to decision on their own, especially in a transition, especially when things are about to change, these are some big decisions in life right now. Sometimes we don't want to be told what to do. People might make suggestions. People might tell us one or another, we think you should do this, do that, but if that individual willingly makes that decision on their own, it will be all the greater. God didn't run around through Christ and drag the disciples to follow him. He wanted them to willingly follow him. Follow me. If we try and force what we think may be a good idea on others, sometimes it doesn't go as well. Elijah just cast his mantle and said, hey, you think about it, I'm gonna keep on walking. Now he probably knows. This guy's going to follow me, because I know the Lord and his word. If I can be sustained by a widow, and if God can use me to call down fire to slay these 450 men, and if God can feed me with ravens, Certainly this guy is going to follow me because that's what God said is going to happen. He said to anoint the guy, I'm going to do it, but he's got to do it on his own. I know it just might not be my timing. So he trusted in God to do it Elijah, on the other hand, has some things to process, and he has to trust in God, and he has to be willing to follow himself. So there's a willingness on both parts. Neither one are trying to force the issue. One might be a little more confident the other. I'm sure Elijah was more confident. I know this is going to happen. I might just need to give some guys some space On the other hand, the young man has to process, am I willing to learn from this? Am I willing to put my life in danger? Am I willing to change My lifestyle of plowing the field, I've got a nice income. To be plowing with ox, it's not like he's doing it with donkeys or horses. This is like he's got the nice plow he's working here. Okay, he's got the brand new one. This is not the old one that grandfather was using that barely works. So there's a willingness on both ends here. So he goes and when he kisses his parents, he's telling them what he's going to do. And he's basically getting their approval. So it's not like excuses in Luke 9, but there's certainly a willingness. To follow. There's a willingness to learn. So we've seen in verse 19 that Elijah casts his mantle. We see that Elisha kisses his parents. Then in verse 21, we're going to see that Elisha kills the oxen. He kills the oxen. Let's look at it, verse 21. And he returned back from him, and took a yoke of oxen and slew them, and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and gave unto the people, and they did eat. Then he arose and went after Elijah and ministered unto him. This too is very interesting. So he returns back. What's interesting about this, first off, is did you notice what is missing in verse 21? What did he say he was going to do earlier? I want to basically say goodbye to my parents. Who is not mentioned in verse 21? His parents. So that just helps me to think he's not creating excuses. He's not trying to go out of his way. You know, maybe I'm hesitant. Nope. He made his decision. He's going to stick with it. But he's not going, he didn't go back. There's no mention of the parents. I just think that further emphasizes he's not making the excuses. He's made his decision. He's know what he's doing. He knows the cost. He's going to follow. His mind is made up. He's come to it on his own. But he returns back from him, and he took the yoke of oxen, the ones that were just laboring for him, these oxen that he had been behind for who knows how long, ploughing fields. He kills them and he uses those oxen to feed those around him. And he gave it to the people that were probably his fellow co-workers, family friends, maybe even his family, maybe even his parents. Maybe they had a feast. I'm not exactly sure what all took place, but he kills them. What is he doing? By doing this, he said, you know what? I made my decision. I don't need these oxen anymore. And I'm not just killing them as an excuse of I'm not turning back. I'm doing this as I want to be a blessing to those as I depart. Because he feeds the people with them. He's not being selfish. He is being a blessing in his departing. I'm letting you guys know. I'm leaving. I don't know when I'm going to see you again. I don't know how long I'm going to be alive, honestly. But I'm not coming back. You're eating the oxen that I've served with for these last years. I mean, think about that for a minute. He has no decision of turning back and going to the lifestyle of plowing the fields on the family farm anymore. And they did eat it. And here's what's very interesting. Not only did he give this to the people, and they eat it and they enjoyed it. He arose and went after Elijah. Was there appointed time and place? Maybe when he ran and chased them down, he said, listen, if you want to do that, that's fine. If you change your mind, I completely understand. But you meet me at this place around this time. You say goodbye to your folks. You want to kill the oxen, have a little feast, that's fine. But I'm gonna meet you at this place at this time. If you're there, great. If not, great. You make the decision. So he just goes and it says he went after him. I don't think I mean I don't know what it is since COVID, but fast food is not fast anymore. And you get impatient. I mean, there was one time we stopped at this I didn't know should mention the name of the restaurant, but one of these fast food places and it has red on this the sign. So that narrows it down a little bit But we'd gone there before, no problem. You go through the drive-thru, you get your stuff. I mean, it took forever. We were there, it was it was like twenty-five minutes. Easy twenty-five minutes. So much time had passed that people we almost watched a fight take place in the line in front of us I was like, really people? Are you that hungry? Has it really been that many days since you've eaten? I couldn't believe it. I was ridiculous. Fast food isn't fast anymore. Especially since COVID, customer service has really maybe it's just me, but I think it's really gone down. Why do I say all that? I said that to say because I'm not sure exactly how long it takes some of these restaurants to, you know, kill the cow and to you know dice it up and to cook it and all these things. But I do have a feeling that it's quicker for them than it is to slay these oxen. I don't think this is 20, 30 minutes later. I mean, I've never personally slain an oxen. Nor have I cut it up and fed my family and friends with it. I have not had that privilege. I've known some farmers that have done it with pigs. It's not like a quick 20-minute process That much I do know. What I'm saying here is he's taking time. He's slaying these oxen, he's being a blessing, and then after however long that took, I don't think it's just 20 minutes. It could have been a couple of hours, it could have been a couple of days, I am not sure. But it took time. He's being a blessing to others, and then he went to meet Elijah. He's had time to process this. He's being a blessing to others. And there's a lot of time taking place. I know we're just like three short verses, and we read through this and sometimes we read scripture. We're saying, okay, yeah, I got it, okay, I got it. And we used to move on. There could be days, there could be hours, there could be months, there could be years from one chapter to the next. There could be centuries. But sometimes as we read, we just kind of skip and go the next thing and next thing. So there's some time involved, is what I'm saying. How much? I don't know. But it wasn't 20 minutes to kill the oxen, to feed the family, and to cook it. Okay? So there, and then he went after Elijah. And this I think is hugely important and very interesting in of itself how this verse ends. So some time has passed. He's being a blessing to the family, to his friends. He's saying his final goodbyes. It's not swaying him. He's made his decision. He's doing it on his own. He's being willing to follow this man of God. He knows that probably at this point that he's going to be the next prophet to replace Elijah and really to replace Elijah. To think that, man, this guy was by himself a lot. He was kind of a loner. I mean, he's underneath the tree, he's by a brook, he's with this widow for all these years Am I willing to do that? Apparently so. But like I said, we know his ministry is going to be different. We're going to get to that in the weeks to come. God is going to use different people with their different purposes and their different personalities to accomplish God's bigger plan. So here he went after Elijah, and what did he do? Show me your tricks. Show me how to get this great power of God. It reminds me of when I went to college. One thing that lured me to go from a public school to a Christian college was being under an Olympic wrestling coach. I'm like, that is gonna be cool. I'm gonna learn special moves. I'm gonna get to know all the secrets. Basically you knew what the secrets were? Work hard, sweat your brains out, and drill the basics. I flew 2,000 miles to hear that? You did. And I love my family? You did. Wow, thanks for the advice. Wow, just drill the basics. Work hard. Conditioning is number one. All right? Pastor knows that too. Conditioning is number one. But what did he do? We're not going, he's not following him to learn some new tricks to the trade. What did he do here at the end of the verse? I think this is key to really kind of explaining the rest of his ministry. Not only did he take the oxen and he's feeding and being a blessing to others, he's serving others. Look what he does once he leaves and goes with Elijah. He says, and ministered unto him. Did you catch that? He is going to serve this guy. Not learn the new tricks and the bells and whistles and not the how did you ran down fire and you took out all his prophets? Man, that is great. How do you do that? He's, I want to serve, I want to serve you. I believe he had a servant's heart, and we're going to have a difference in the ministry that we're going to see in the weeks to come. And how God used him in a great different way. He is a servant. He's working the family field. I get the uh the feeling. He didn't have to, he's working with the servants. In his departure, what's he do? He serves other by killing others by killing his own oxen and serving them, being a blessing of them on the way out. Then as he leaves and he's on his way out, what is he doing? He's going to the man of God, and he wants to serve him and to be a blessing to him. Completely different ministry, a completely different personality, and God is going to use them greatly. Then it reminds me of Matthew 28. It's worded almost exactly the same in Mark 10, 45, so either one. Even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many. The God of all creation, who spoke everything to existence, becomes a man, and does not come as royalty, you must bow down and serve me, but instead he is healing, he is feeding. and scrubbing dirty feet and encouraging them after they deny him He came to seek and he came to save, he came to serve. Elijah has that same mentality. It also reminds me of Philippians 2. 7. But he made himself of no reputation. and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men, obviously describing Jesus Christ, Philippians chapter 2. Sometimes when we run into transitions in life, we get too focused on me, myself, and I Why would I train someone else to replace me? They can't do what I've done. They will do it different. They're not going to do it the same way, and that is an easy trap for any of us to fall into. What helps us to escape this temptation? What can help us is to recognize God is the one in charge. Especially in the church, this is God's church. And if we are not teaching the next generation to follow God, not follow individuals , Although you can learn from individuals. Elisha is going to learn from Elijah. But his mentality in going into it is I'm going to serve, I'm going to learn, I'm going to be a blessing to him. Christ came not to you're going to serve me, but I'm going to serve you. The humility is the opposite of pride. When we come to challenges and difficulties in life, Sometimes we let ourselves get in the way. Elijah could have done that. Why would I want to go seek this guy? Why would I want to even find him? He wanted to obey God He recognized I'm not going to be around forever. I need to invest in someone else. And if you want to be bummed in life, try and do everything yourself. Try and make it all about you. And as Christians, shame on us because the heathen can do that. An unbeliever can live life for himself. We need to invest in others. No reputation. To serve, to be a blessing to others. That's a hard discipline. I don't see that in either one of these. What a smooth transition. This text is actually very unique, and this is one of the smoothest transitions you have from one to the other. If you look at other passages of scripture and other transitions, they don't go so great. I mean, Moses and Joshua, you know, that went okay. David and Solomon, you know, you can argue. Paul did encourage Timothy. That was good. But you know what's another unique thing? Sometimes when it comes to these transitions and you're training your children as a father, it can be easier because you want what's best for your children. But if you're like an employer and you're training up someone else that's not related, why would I do that? This guy, I'm training to take my job Well how long are you going to be around? Thirty, forty, fifty, sixty years? How long can you are you capable of doing that Who's gonna do it after you? I never thought about that. I'm too busy thinking about myself and my income and my family and my your your what? Your your everything I think this is a unique part of this is a very great smooth transition on both ends between both of them. And it wasn't even a family relations. It's like I'm gonna try this is my boy, and he's gonna take the kingdom after me. Mm-mm. That's not what this is. Are we willing to be replaced by training someone else? And the other end, are we willing to follow? Are we willing to learn? And as a coach, I have enjoyed having different players, particularly soccer. If I would rather take someone that has less skill, that's willing to learn, and be a better teammate, than the guy that thinks he's got it all figured out and has better skill. Every time, give me someone that's multiple and willing over the great athlete that already knows everything. And he's 12. Okay. That's really bad. But that's part of serving him is recognize the world's not revolving on you, buddy. And try my goal is to make him a team player. But are we willing? Are we willing to follow? We're mentioning someone else. Let's put ourselves in. Are you willing? Because at different stages we're going to have transition in life. Are we following? Are we willing to be the follower? The one that's learning? It's not going to always be easy. You might have to do it someone else's way for a while. You might not agree with everything. Are you willing to follow? Because if you are, God would be willing and delighted to use you. Don't compare yourself to others. Oh, they did it this way. I'm not going to be as good as them. Don't worry about that. God created you and designed you. Elijah is not going to be like Elijah His ministry is gonna unfold in a entirely different way. Like I said, some fireworks bust up really big and they're really loud and that was it. Others you can watch them go up and they spray and they spray I mean can you see it as it can come in? They're both cool for different reasons. Don't compare yourself to the other. God can use you for his purposes and his ways. Are you willing to either be replaced? Are you willing to learn and follow? Are you willing to love God more than you love yourself? Let us close in prayer. Father, it is truly a blessing to go through this text and just to ponder these short verses. To think about the truths that are within them. Sometimes it's so easy to follow after self and what we want. Father, we can serve you by serving others Jesus Christ came and sought us out, and he served. Father, this is a great transition from Elijah to Elisha as we see him calling and following, and they are both doing it so willingly on both ends. Father, would we be like that? Willing to serve, willing to train and teach others, willing to be taught, willing to learn. And Father, whatever happens, would we learn to love you more and more each day and to love our Savior more than ourself and more than ours in our sin. And we ask for your help. And we ask for your wisdom. And would we be obedient to just trust in you each and every day in the simple things of life? and watch you unfold the days of our future. And we thank you and praise you for all this in Christ's name. Amen.