Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 14 tonight. And this is going to be an introduction. to the case of tongues versus prophecy. That is what we are looking at in 1 Corinthians chapter 14. Seems like we've been on this topic forever, I know, but Paul decided to write about this issue in chapter 12, chapter 13, chapter 14. So if you're going verse by verse, chapter by chapter through the book of 1 Corinthians, you are going to have to spend a good bit of time on this topic. And so what I want to do tonight is I want to kind of give you a little bit of an outline of the basic flow of chapter 14 And then I want us to talk about some things I think are very important on the interpretive side. Okay? So first of all, we're going to look at 1 Corinthians 14, verses 1 through 19. I know it's a super long passage, so we're not going to read all the verses, but I want to read verse 1. Verse 12 and then verses 19 through 20, because I think they really capture the heart of what Paul is getting at in these verses. So first of all, verse number one, follow after charity and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that ye may prophesy. Verse 12. For as much as ye are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek that ye may excel to the edifying of the church. Verse 19, in the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding that by my voice I might teach others also than 10,000 words. in an unknown tongue. Brethren, be not children in understanding. Howbeit in malice, be ye children. But in understanding be men. So those three little statements that we looked at, verse 1, verse 12, verse 19, I think they really encapsulate what Paul is trying to communicate in these verses. So the first thing I want to do here is I want to break down the way that the section lays out. So it falls into three basic parts. And we are going to look at them one by one. The first part is Paul contrasting the value of tongues and prophecy and corporate worship. And the statement that I think really captures the sense of this section is the statement, follow after charity. Desire spiritual gifts, but rather that you may prophesy. And so in this section, he's going to say, there's tongues, there's prophecy, here's what's better for the church. So pursue that because you love the church and you want the church to be edified. Second part is verses 20 through 25. He's explaining why prophecy is more valuable to the body than tongues. He says, brethren, be not children in understanding, howbeit in malice be ye children. But an understanding be man. He's like, have a matured perspective about this issue. Here's why prophecy is better for the church than tongues. Third part, verses twenty-six through forty. He dictates regulations for corporate worship. He goes on to say this statement. How is it then, brethren, when you come together, every one of you hath a psalm? hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, has a revelation, hath an interpretation. Let all things be done decently and in order. So basically what he's saying is, let's compare these two things. One is better than the other in the corporate context. Here's why it's better in the corporate context. Here's how we're supposed to actually live because we understand this issue properly. That is really the entire chapter, those three parts. Okay? So the second thing I want to do tonight is I want to talk about the concept of case law. Not Case, yeah. Case law and biblical and biblical principle. Now if I ask you what is a case law, I don't know what kind of answers you would get. When we look at the legal codes that we have in our country, if you were a lawyer, I am not a lawyer, I will never pretend to be a lawyer, but if you were to walk into a lawyer's office, you would see just all these books All of these codes and all of these examples and lots and lots and lots of different, we could say, cluttered information about the um excessive legal system that we have in our society. Am I wrong about that? It is an excessive legal system that we have in our society. Something very simple like putting a shut up in your backyard, okay? If you want to do it the right way, you're going to exhaust yourself trying to figure out all the little things that you have to do to do it the right way. And so you know what people do? They ignore it, they do it the wrong way and then they get fined when their neighbor turns them in. Okay? That's what happens. Funny story, we had uh one day uh we had all this snow on the ground and I'm sitting there in my office and I see this little white car drive by And it was a county uh person who looks around to make sure everything looks just right. And he went and parked behind the church and oh, you know, he's probably taking a little break. He was taking a little break. He was walking around the building looking to see if there are any things that were code violations. And it just so happened that when he walked to the back of our building He found one of the downspouts had a crack in it. There was a little cracked hole in it. Probably a squirrel got it. And guess what? That was a code violation. I'm not joking, I'm serious. We got a citation. We didn't have to pay a fine. We had a certain period of time that we had to get it done by. And so uh you know, I took the paper, I was real nice to him, and I thought, are you kidding me? On a snow-covered day, all right, in the middle of winter, we have a guy who parks in his little white car and he walks around and he's like, oh, I noticed that you have a cracked down spout. We need to do something about this There's a reason I bring this up. When we talk about, because I'm ranting, I know. When we talk about the way that the scripture lays out law, it's actually quite different than the way the state of Maryland does it. Or Enrundo County, or our federal government. We have the entire Old Testament law In a very short section of scripture. Now, for some of you reading through Leviticus and reading through Deuteronomy seems a little excessive, but that was the legal code for the nation of Israel at the time that it was written. And the reason that the code there versus what we deal with in our current scenario is different is because of the case law system of government that they have. In other words, if you had a situation That situation was a very real situation. There were specific principles that were underlying how they were supposed to work that out. And then once that principle was established, you could have all kinds of little scenarios where that principle illustrated by that case could be mediated out. Does that make sense? I'm going to give you lots of examples of this tonight, I hope. Well, when we come to a passage like 1 Corinthians chapter 14, if indeed I'm correct, which I think I am, okay, that Prophecy in tongues are not to be expected as a normative thing in the church today, but that is something that was for the first century apostolic time period. The question that people may ask in their minds is, well then what is the good of studying First Corinthians chapter 14? If We don't have the situation playing out the way that it did for the Church at Corinth. And the answer is, well, whether it is or isn't It doesn't change the fact that there are some very particular biblical principles that are being laid out in this passage of Scripture. And so what I want to do tonight Or maybe tonight and a few other nights, I don't know, is I want to talk about how we deal with case loss scenarios in the Bible because this really helps us to understand How we interpret Old Testament law. Some people say, well, we live in the New Testament. So what's the point of reading the book of Ecclesia, or the book of Leviticus? What's the point of reading Deuteronomy? That's all Old Testament. We're not under that legal system. And it is true, we are not under that legal system. But what is not true is that those passages don't have value for us today. In fact, they do. The question is, do we understand how to interpret them correctly? And I hope that after we go into some of this, it will be help to you. So first of all, how do we study Old Testament law? I want to begin with this first concept that is extremely important. And that is that whenever we look at a law or a command in Scripture, there is a dispensational framework to that law that is given. Now what I mean by dispensational framework is. I mean that there is a context and where the rule is given within an administration. Okay? When we talk about the Old Testament system versus the New Testament, the administration of the Old is different than the administration of the new. Now we know this, but sometimes we don't think in these terms. Let me give you an example of what I mean When we go to the Old Testament, this is what God commanded his people or told his people in Exodus chapter 19, verse 6. He says, Ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, a holy nation. These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel. Now when he uses the term a holy nation, he means that literally. Okay? So when we talk about Old Testament Israel, Old Testament Israel was a theocracy. That means that God is the king. That means that the king is to mediate, rule under God. And the law that is given for the land is not, okay, the king decides that he wants to talk to his representatives to the people and let's let's write some new laws and let's do it. No, no, no. That is not what we see in the Old Testament. What we see in the Old Testament is that God says, I'm entering into a covenant with this group of people. I'm your king. Your king is to take a copy of the law. He's to write it out by hand. He's to study it. He's to live it, and he's to communicate it, and he's to make sure that that is what governs the people. And let me say, none of the kings did a great job with that responsibility. That's why we see that there are their distinctive laws that are given for a nation. Okay? That is a theocratic rule. But when we come into the New Testament, we do not see the same scenario. We do not see laws that are given to a theocratic nation. And the reason for that is because God's work is not through a nation, but through a body, the church. The church is made up of Jews, it's made up of Gentiles, it's a body of believers. And by the way, the church functions in almost every single context in a truly pagan context. in nearly every single society. The closest things that nations have come to being Christian in influence is simply influence. Okay? So I would even put us in this category today. America is not a Christian nation. Okay? It is a very secular nation. It is run by many, many people that uh that see Christianity as a means to an end. There is a voting block that if I can appeal to this voting block, I can get this support. And so Christianity, for many of our political people, is a tool that is leveraged to get power. It's just the truth, okay? Now that's not to say that we don't have some very godly people in government who are really getting uh put in a lot of difficult positions. That's not to say that our nation hasn't been heavily influenced by Christian culture influence. There's no question about that. I mean, when when you look at our founding documents, you realize that that Just something as simple as saying we hold these truths to be self-evident. All men are created equal. They're endowed by their creator with certain inalienable rights The the government isn't who gives us our rights. It's God and the government's supposed to protect those rights. Those are Christian concepts, okay? So there's absolutely no question that the Bible and Christianity has had a tremendous influence on. on this nation's founding and the thinking of the nation. But it's important for us to recognize that the church is almost in every context. It is it is living and thriving in a context where the governments, the culture are very much in opposition to what the church is supposed to be doing. It's very important to recognize this. And if we think otherwise, we're going to get ourselves in a lot of trouble. We see this come out in 1 Peter 2, verse 11. Here's what he says. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, to abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul. Having your conversation honest amongst the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation. Submit yourself to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake, whether it be to the king as supreme, or into governors is unto those that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and the for the praise of them that do well. Now I want you to notice the distinction between The Exodus passage and the first Peter passage. In Exodus, he says, you are a kingdom of priests. In 1 Peter 2, he says, you're a body who's under a pagan ruler and you're supposed to honor God as Christians who are strangers and pilgrims. And by the way, he's going to talk about the church. as being a body of kingdom of priests. Okay? So the reason that I bring this up is simply to say this. When we look at the Old Testament, we are going to see laws that are given for a nation. In the New Testament, we're going to see commands that are given to individuals. And by the way, when we talk about The Roman rule, I do not see the Apostle Paul or Peter thinking like, wow, you know, we could go and petition the emperor and he's going to change all these terrible, unjust pagan practices because we the church are going to rise up and tell him what to do. That is not the way that they thought at all. They thought in terms of we're going to be oppressed by our government. We're going to be oppressed by our culture. But we're gonna do right. We're gonna thrive. We're gonna reach people with the gospel. We're gonna make disciples. We're gonna be distinct. And they would have never thought in terms of how much the true gospel message and the church as it grew organically would actually have such a tremendous impact on the world that they lived in. And in fact, it really did have a tremendous impact. So it's important that we start with this first concept: that law is given in a dispensational framework. There is an administrative difference between Old and New Testament. Second thing I want to get into here is that when we're studying the Bible, there are many cultural examples that are very foreign to us. I'm going to give you examples. Okay? But these are just a few examples. I give you so many different examples. For instance, Leviticus 19, verse 26 through 28. You shall not eat anything with the blood. Neither shall you use enchantments nor observe observe times. You shall not round the corners of your beards or of your head. Neither shall you mar the corners of your beard, not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you. I am the Lord. Now why do you think he mentions all those things? I think it's because within their pagan culture every single one of those things was a very common practice. Every single one of them. And so he says, do not be like the pagan world around you. You are a distinct people. That's what he's saying. Or I'll give you another very interesting one. Specific cultural problems. Here's one maybe you haven't thought of. Numbers 27, verse number 8. If a man die and have no son, then he shall cause his inheritance to pass unto his daughter. And if he have no daughter, then he shall give his inheritance unto his brethren. And if he have no brethren, then he shall give his inheritance unto his father's brethren. And if his father hath no brethren, then he shall give his inheritance unto his kinsmen. That is the next of him, of his family, he shall possess it and shall be unto the children of Israel a statute of judgment, as the Lord commanded Moses. And you might say, well, what does his will say to do? He should have just gotten the will to say who his beneficiaries would be. You see, we don't think in these terms because as this law is given, you have individuals Who were given specific allotments of land in the promised land. And that specific allotment of land was supposed to stay in a family. And it was supposed to be passed down from father to son to sons to sons to sons, and it would continually stay in the name of that family. Indefinitely, that was supposed to be the concept. But that's not the way that we think of property in our culture. I mean, the house that you live in today, you may have absolutely no problem selling it in two or five or ten years. And moving to a totally different state, and you may never come back to that piece of property ever again. It's something where you made memories, some good, some bad, raised your kids, whatever. But it's it's just it's it's it's it doesn't have any attachment beyond just I lived in that house for a decade, I lived in that house for twenty years. But that's not the way these people thought about land Because God gave a possession to a people, to individual families, and it was to stay there. You know the story of Naboth's vineyard. And Ahab comes and he says, I like your vineyard, I'll buy it. And he says, well, it's not permitted. He's like, oh come on. Certainly the king can buy your vineyard. No. You can't. I can't sell it. And Jezebel's like, well, you're the king. Just take it from me. I'll figure out a way to get rid of this guy. What was behind this story? It was the way they viewed the land that they lived on. Well, this is a very specific situation that to us might seem kind of foreign. Let me throw another one at you. Deuteronomy chapter 25, you're saying, what does this have to do with 1 Corinthians 14? I think it actually has a lot to do with it because it's helping us understand how to interpret these kinds of passages. Deuteronomy 25, verse 5. If brethren dwell together and one of them die and have no children, the wife of the dead shall not marry without unto a stranger. Her husband's brother shall go in unto her and take her to him to wife, and perform the duty of a husband brother unto her. It shall be that the firstborn which she bears shall succeed in the name of his brother, which is dead. That his name be not put out of Israel. If the man like not uh like not to take his brother's wife, then let his brother's wife go unto the gate of the city of the elders and say, My husband's brother refuses to raise up unto his brother a name in Israel. He will not perform the duty of my husband's brother. Then the elders of that city shall call him and speak unto him. And if he stand to it and say, I like not to take her, then shall his brother's wife come unto him in the presence of the elders, loose his shoe from off his foot. Spit in his face, and shall answer and say, So shall it be done unto that man that will not build up his brother's house. And some of you are going, Woo! Be careful who you marry That's right, ladies. His name shall be called in Israel the house of him that hath his brother 's loosed shoe. And you're like , what does that have to do with me today? Again, this particular custom was extremely important when you have to keep land in the name of the family. And when we look at this passage of Scripture, the wrong way to look at this passage is to be like, okay, let's make this an American practice today. Please do not do that. Okay? Do not do that. What you need to do is realize that there are actually some underlying timeless truths about God's character that are being taught to us by this particular passage of scripture. I'll give you one more here. Jeremiah 29, 6. Take ye wives, beget sons and daughters, take wives to your sons, and give your daughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters, that ye may increase there and not be diminished. And some of you are going, uh-huh. Arranged marriages are a thing. Let's do it. And some of the kids are like, no, please don't do that. By the way, he gives two options. Okay. It doesn't have to all be arranged. But but the point was this. That was given at a very specific time for a very specific reason. So that the people were actually preserved and didn't disappear in the land. The point that I'm trying to make is there are lots and lots of scriptures. That fall into this category of customs that we do not understand, scenarios that are very foreign to us, but that does not mean that these passages have no value for us today. Think about servant master scenarios. Proverbs 22, 7, the rich ruleth over the poor. The borrow is servant to the lender. I think that the translation servant might be a little soft. Slave. That's really what he's saying. You go into debt to somebody, you're gonna have to work as an indentured servant to that individual until you pay off your debt. That was the system that they lived in. Another one that's very interesting is Leviticus 25, 10. You shall howl the fiftieth year and proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants. It shall be a jubilee unto you. You shall return everyone unto his possession. and return every man into his family. It is true that a person who went in debt was a servant until they paid their debt off, unless the seventh year came. Released. The fiftieth year, released. People that had lost their property were able to return back to their property. And you say, well, what's this all about? Well, this shows you that that that God cared about people. And the land that he had given to families more than someone exhausting uh extracting every single last penny that they owed to an individual. It's a pretty amazing system to think about. It's an example of God's grace. We know that in all these situations, God's character is the same. It's not like we have a different God in the Old Testament and a different God in the New Testament and a different God today. He's the same God. His character is consistent. The principles that undergird all of these scenarios, they are consistent. And so there is a way to approach these texts so that we can actually interpret them accurately. Malachi 3, 6, I'm the Lord, I change not. So what are these unchanging principles? When we look at individual scenarios, we need to sit down and ask the question, what is going on in this passage? Before we rush to interpretation, before we rush to application, we have to understand what is going on. Are there cultural things going on that are being addressed directly? Are there practices that we really don't fully understand in our cultural context, but we need to go back into that world and understand what is going on? That will clear up a lot of the questions that we deal with in our minds. But I want to give you some, we could say, timeless principles that we find in the text, and I want you to see how they work out into individual commands. Here's one. God ascribes value to human life because we are created in the image of God. That one principle, it applies in so many different contexts. Genesis 9, 6. Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed, for in the image of God he made man. He's talking about capital punishment here. We preserve life by the government protecting life, sometimes even by force. That's what he's saying. We talk about something like laws that are dealing with issues of abuse. Why is abuse sinful? Well, it's because it's treating people who are craving the image of God as if they have no dignity. Why is theft sinful? Well, because God gives resources to people to be managed. And they should actually, they have a right to the productivity of how they manage those resources. And so God says, by stealing, you are actually attacking the very dignity of an individual. It's pretty amazing. Or murder. Why is it sinful? Because God created human life in his own image, and only he has the right to give life and to take life. Or we could talk about something like the purpose of male and female. God's purpose for male and female in the institution of marriage. This is very consistent. Genesis 1. 26. God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. Let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the fowls of the air, the cattle over all the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him, male and female, created them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it, and have dominion. Now, how can man do that in a noble and God-honoring way? There's only one way. It's called marriage. So in chapter 2 he says, God gave Adam gave names to all the cattle and the fowls of the air and every beast of the field, and Adam did not find a help meet for him. The Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam and he slept, and he took one of the ribs and closed up the flesh. And the Lord God took from man, made a woman, and brought her unto the man, and Adam said, This is now bone of my bone and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of the man. Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother, cleave unto his wife. They shall be one flesh. They were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed. Now, what's this all saying? Any sexual union outside of a monogamous marriage between one man and one woman is sinful, and it undermines God's institution. And so when we read the book of Leviticus, he talks about all these potential ways that people could sin against God's simple plan of one man, one woman for life. All kinds of ways. Family members, two men, two women, animals. He goes through all kinds of different ways that God's good plan for male-female sex marriage is twisted by pagan culture. He talks about in the New Testament as well. And so what does that show you? It shows you that a very simple principle God made man in his own image with all these different laws and applications that flow from that one simple principle. Or God created male and female and he instituted marriage to be between one man and one woman, and there's all these different laws and commands and scenarios that flow out of that one very simple principle. Even the order of the home, how men and women are to conduct themselves within that institution, they're a part of this plan. Thirdly, his purpose for the institution of government. Romans 13, 1. Let every soul be subject unto the higher power. There's no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. He goes on to talking about all these different scenarios. And basically what he's saying is this. God has given rights to people and he created the government to protect people so they can actually enjoy those rights that God has given them. Government cannot do this. If it doesn't have laws, boundaries, a military, just enforcement. And so if we were to look in the Bible at all the different ways that God talks about government and the responsibilities of government, We could say, well, all of it falls into what is God's purpose for government? Why'd he create it? Why'd he institute it? So we talk about humanity, we talk about marriage, we talk about government. Those simple principles go into lots of different areas of application. It's important for us to keep this in our minds. We also see that there are very specific applications of these principles. and then many potential applications that can flow beyond those. Let me give you two examples. These are some of my favorites. Deuteronomy 25, verse 4. Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn. What's he saying there? If you have an animal that you are benefiting from, then feed it. Pretty simple, right? If you have an animal that you're benefiting from, feed it. Maybe another way we could say it is this. If you have an animal that you're benefiting from, clean out its stall. Take care of it. Treat it right. He's talking about an animal. Leviticus 19, verse 13. He says, Thou shalt not Defraud thy neighbor, neither rob him the wages of him that is hired. Thou shalt not abide with thee, or that is hired shall not abide with thee all night until the morning. He's saying if somebody works for you, then pay them. Don't cheat them. You are stealing from someone if they've worked for you, and then you don't pay them. That's what he's saying. Now those are two very simple commands. One that talks about taking care of an animal and one that talks about taking care of a person. But you know what's amazing? Those two little commands there, an animal and a person, talked about. Paul actually references those things. Even Christ references Those things in other contexts that show you that these are cases that establish a principle that can be applied in a lot of different ways. Let me give you some examples. Luke 10:7. When Jesus is sending out these disciples two by two, he says, In the same house remain, eating and drinking such things as they give, for the laborer is worthy of his hire. Go not from house to house. Isn't that an interesting application of that principle? If somebody does a day's work for you, pay them. That's the principle. He's saying if I send you out and someone's willing to have you in your in the house and take care of you because you're on the Lord's work, then then stay in that house because they're taking care of you. It's like an itinerant minister. Or 1 Corinthians 9 verse 9, he talks about the church planter. He's actually referring to himself here. He says, it is written in the law of Moses, thou shalt not muzzle the ox. The mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. Doth God take care just for oxen? Or saith he altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, that it is written That he that ploweth should plough in hope, and he that thresheth in hope should be a partaker of this hope. If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing that we shall reap your carnal, your physical things So Paul's saying that if somebody is spiritually benefiting from the ministry of an individual who's faithful, Then in the same way that you wouldn't starve an animal that is working for you, you would make sure that that person is taken care of. That's what he's saying. Or 1 Timothy 5. 17, he talks about specifically pastors or elders. He says, let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor. Especially those who labor in the word and doctrine. For the scriptures say, If thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn, the labor is worthy of his reward. He's not suggesting that pastors are animals. I don't think. Well, the church planters are animals. No, no, he's not saying that. He's saying there is a specific case in Old Testament law. That establishes a specific principle that is applied to an animal here, but meant to be understood to apply in lots and lots of different scenarios. And so when the principle applies, apply it. That's what he's saying. So how should we study examples in Scripture that are not specifically that that we are not specifically facing? And by the way, this would be true of lots and lots of different biblical instructions. The first thing I would say is this. We desperately need to understand the example. Do the research. Get a commentary. Talk to somebody who's knowledgeable about the passage. Read a little bit about the cultural background. There's actually some really good commentaries out there that can give us a lot of great background information Some of it might be a little overwhelming, depending on the commentary you pick up, but get information about the situation. Do not make a judgment about something without really understanding what you're talking about. Very important. Number two, we have to understand the underlying principle that affects that example. Once you understand the scenario, then you need to ask the question, why? Why is this application being given? What is the principle that undergirds that? Do we have this passage about leveret marriage? Because God expects us to continue to do this indefinitely for all of time? Do we have statements that talk about arranged marriages because that's what we have to do? And the answer is, well, no. That's not the purpose of those passages. That's how God dealt with those people within the cultural context that they were in, and there are very specific principles like if I've given land to a family and I want it to stay indefinitely in that family, Here's how you do it in all of these difficult scenarios that can arise in a fallen world. That's what he's doing. Third, we have to be very careful to obey directly correlating scenarios. Now, this is something that we have to be very cautious about. In fact, especially in the modern era that we're living in, there are people that come to the Bible And they will say, well, I know it says that a pastor has to be a husband of one wife, but maybe that was just a cultural thing. Like maybe it's okay for a pastor to be a woman. How does a woman be the husband of one wife? I don't know how it's possible. Oh, 'cause it's not possible. Okay. And then we have this whole host of other passages of scripture that talk specific specifically about the roles that are given within the church context. And what will happen is someone in the modern world will say, you know, I think that we're excluding people who should have the this opportunity or that opportunity. And they basically will just ignore Explain away a very clear-cut statement from Scripture. We're talking about a very specific scenario that is directly proportionate to what is stated in the Scripture. And in those situations, we need to be very careful that we do exactly what the Bible says. Even if our culture says that's crazy, our cultures, we could say, put some shade on that particular viewpoint. If the scripture is clear on the matter, then we need to obey it without reservation. 100% But we also need to recognize that there are lots and lots of scenarios that are not directly correlated. The principle that applies in this scenario also applies in this one, but this scenario and that scenario are actually very different. Taking care of my animal, making sure my pasture doesn't starve. There's a consistent principle between those two things. But pasture is not an ox that's crushing grain, okay? Just not the case. And so the point is that in those scenarios, we need to be careful to apply the principle as it should stand in that situation. And what that means is that when we come to the Bible, our desire is not to figure out how we can get out of what it's clearly stating. It's how we can apply to the very best of our ability, in good conscience, what he's telling us to do. And so when we come to this passage in 1 Corinthians chapter 14, talking about tongues and prophecy and all those things, part of the way that we're going to approach this is I want to hopefully explain to you what I think it's talking about. And then I want us to look at the very specific principles that undergird those particular applications that are there within that context and say No matter what the scenario is we're dealing with, those principles are timeless and they need to be applied in the church. We're to talk about those things. So Lord willing, next time when we come together, I want us to look at some very specific facts concerning the case of prophecy in tongues that I think are important as we get ready to dig into the specific details of this text. So what's my challenge this evening? My challenge is very simple. Let's strive to the best of our ability to rightly divide the word of truth. That's the challenge. Know what the words mean. Study the context so you know what was going on. Dig down into the specific principles that undergird that particular application and to the best of your ability, strive to do exactly what the Bible says to do in situations where those principles apply. May God help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, I thank you for your word, and I know that this was more of a topical study. It was really about how we interpret the Bible. And I pray that you would help us when we approach Scripture to approach it very Very soberly, that we would not be haphazard, that we would be diligent, that we would strive to understand what is being communicated. That we would never try to excuse a very clear command from Scripture and act as if it's not there and doesn't apply and try to talk it away through culture? But that we would simply do what your word says, yet that we also wouldn't come to these passages that are clearly very different scenarios than what we encounter today. Things that are very foreign to our current context and act as if there's nothing for us to learn in those passages Help us to recognize that the principles that were applied in those specific situations, they still stand today because they're consistent with your nature. is unchanging. And so I pray that we would strive to understand them and apply them appropriately. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.