First Timothy chapter one, and we're looking at verses one to four. Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the commandment of God, our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ. Which is our hope. Unto Timothy, my own son in the faith, grace, mercy, and peace from God our Father, and Jesus Christ our Lord. As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus when I went into Macedonia, That thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine, neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questions, rather than godly edifying which is in faith. So do. What I want to do tonight is I want to begin with kind of giving you a summary statement for the book of 1 Timothy And then I want us to look at a summary of verses 1 to 4. And from that, we're going to dig into the details of these verses. In fact, we're going to look at eight different details, probably not all tonight. And from each of those details, we're going to break them down a little bit where there are some side topics that I think would be very important or very helpful to our understanding of the book. Once we come to the end of the section, then we're going to look at some implications. What are some practical implications that we can learn from these scriptures? And we have several, and I think they're very, very practical. So the first thing I want to do is I want to give you a summary statement for the book. And this summary statement is not my summary statement. It's one that I got from a resource that we have in our bookstore or in our library. This is a summary of the book. Paul instructs Timothy regarding life in the local church and his responsibilities in it. So that the church would remain orderly in practice, pure in doctrine, as it proclaimed the word of God to the world. I'm going to say that again. Paul instructs Timothy regarding life in the local church and his responsibility in it So that the church would remain orderly in practice, pure in doctrine, as it proclaimed the word of God to the world. So First Timothy is all about local church life. And what we're going to see emphasized over and over and over again is that Timothy is responsible to make sure that there's sound doctrine in the church. As we get into this little section, we're going to see the way that sound doctrine is being de-emphasized and how it's really being undermined, and a little bit of how it's affecting the people. We're going to get into what Timothy's going to have to do. And Timothy's job is a really tough job. And as we get into these details, I think you'll understand a little bit more about that. Let me give a summary of this first little section Paul identified himself, his authority as a representative of Christ, and his primary concerns to the church at Ephesus. So he's identifying himself to Timothy. He's talking about their relationship a little bit. He's going to emphasize his authority. And it's going to be really interesting because he's going to mention that he is an apostle of Jesus Christ, and I'm going to explain exactly what that means. But then he also talks about how he has this very close personal relationship with Timothy. And I want us to explore a little bit that relationship tonight. He's then going to get into his main concern. And he breaks it into two parts. One, he's got to confront some people, and two, he's got to instruct some people. And so with that in mind, let's begin with the first detail that we find. It's the first word of the epistle. What's the first word? Paul. Paul is the one, the person that God uses to write this letter. And so I want to talk a little bit about the storyline of Paul just so that we understand that. Paul was converted in the mid-30s. Now we if we look at the life of Christ, Christ is crucified in the mid-30s, he rises from the dead, he ascends up into heaven, and it's not long after Christ's death, resurrection, and ascension. That the Apostle Paul, not known as an apostle, not known as Paul at the time, Saul of Tarsus, who was a part of the Sanhedrin, is very antagonistic to the church He's so antagonistic to the church that he becomes very influential in the death of Stephen, and he goes to Damascus and he wants to drag people back to Jerusalem where they can be held accountable by the authorities. In the mid-30s, though, Saul is gloriously converted. He becomes a Christian. He places his faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And that experience is a powerful conversion. Probably nobody in this room has had a conversion anything like Paul's, though we're converted the same way ultimately. through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But his life has radically changed. He goes from this incredible opponent to the gospel to being this great proponent of the gospel. He's preaching the gospel all throughout, not just that region where he was living, Jerusalem and Judea, Samaria, but he's going to go all throughout the Roman Empire. Well in the mid-40s and 50s, Paul begins his first missionary journey. So Paul doesn't go out of the church at Jerusalem and then ultimately out of the church at Antioch until he's been a believer for a good number of years. We're talking beyond ten years, Paul is a Christian before he actually goes out. And he's sent out of the church at Antioch. And all of Paul's missionary journeys are recorded for us in the book of Acts by Luke. So from the mid-40s to the mid-50s, we get to see the storyline of those three journeys. And as we're reading the book of Acts, we're going to find the story about Ephesus' birth as a church. Now in the mid-50s, he meets this guy named Timothy. Actually, it's before the mid-50s. But in the mid-50s, he takes Timothy with him. And Timothy becomes a very dear friend to the Apostle Paul, and they travel together all throughout the rest of Paul's time together. We come then to the time period that Paul actually writes this epistle. In the early 60s, Paul ends up in prison. And then he's released from prison, and during that release period is when he likely wrote this epistle to Timothy. Timothy has been sent to Ephesus. And if we want to see the storyline of the church at Ephesus, we see that in Acts 16. seventeen and eighteen. And it is a really neat story. So Paul ends up in Corinth, and I know I talked about this a while back. Paul ends up at Corinth, and there at Corinth, he's making tents and he becomes friends with some people. What were their names? Anybody remember? Who? Aquila and Priscilla. So they're doing tent making together, they become close friends, and over that period of time, either Aquila and Priscilla are converted or they grow as Christians. But basically, at the end of Paul's time there at Corinth, he moves on to Ephesus. And when he goes to Ephesus, he takes Aquila and Priscilla with him, and then he leaves them there at Ephesus, and he moves on. Well, during that time that they're at Ephesus, they are involved in a church plant ultimately. Now it's an infant church plant, and what's interesting is during that time they come across a fellow named Apollos. Apollos was a very gifted orator and teacher, but Apollos did not know the gospel in its entirety. He knew that God was going to send a Savior. He knew that John the Baptist was preaching a savior's coming. But he doesn't know the guy. He doesn't know who he is. And Aquila and Priscilla were able to sit down with Apollos, and they're able to explain to him the Word of God more perfectly. And in that time period, God uses Apollos in a very mighty way. Well later on Paul ends up coming back to Ephesus, and then we see the story of Paul getting kicked out of Ephesus because there are so many people that come to faith in Christ and their lives are so radically changed. by the gospel that those people take their idols and they take their books and they basically destroy them and it actually impacts the economy of the city. Crazy to think about. People don't like anybody messing with the economy, do they? Well, the economy of the city was in jeopardy And so they kick Paul out. That's ultimately how the church at Ephesus starts. And the Church of Ephesus, there's a lot in the Bible about the Church of Ephesus. The book of Ephesians obviously is written to them. 12 Timothy are written to people that are there at Ephesus. The Apostle John was at Ephesus. His letters, 1, 2nd, 3 John written to people at Ephesus. And then when we come to the Book of Revelation, he writes the first letter in the book of Revelation to the church at Ephesus. They have a rich history as a church. And about 10 years after the church begins, that's when they're having major problems. And those major problems are in the leadership And Paul sends Timothy, his most trusted person, to go and to correct those issues. Timothy wants to come be with Paul. And Paul says no. And that is the catlass for this book. That is what's going on behind the scenes when we come to First Timothy chapter one, verse one. Paul an apostle of Jesus Christ. Any questions about that first little section? Could have said more, but we'll just leave it at that. Detail number two Paul emphasized the ultimate authority of his instruction to Timothy regarding church life. Look down in your Bibles at the next little section, it says this. He's Paul, a what? Or we should say Ann. Gotta say my English right. An apostle of who? Of Jesus Christ by what? The commandment of God our Savior. Every single word and that little phrase is extremely important. An apostle, we need to explore what an apostle is, of Jesus Christ, that's the individual who has sent him out, and he's representing this individual. It's by the commandment of God. And by the way, he's basically saying, I'm not here because I've put myself here. I'm here because God wants me here. And he's specifically speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ. So let me look at a couple of details here. First of all, though Paul had a very tender relationship with Timothy, And we we're going to explore that in a few minutes. We're going to talk about how close they were. How much Paul loved Timothy and Timothy loved him and how much Paul had invested in Timothy, how much he trusted Timothy. Even though he has that very personal relationship, he's going to emphasize that he's coming with authority. It's kind of interesting. Authority is a little bit out of season in our culture, isn't it? I don't know if I should say a little bit out of season. In fact, people don't like authority They don't like being under authority. And I know that authority can be abusive, authority can be misguided, and authority can do things the wrong way. But authority is something that God establishes. And really, what makes the book of 1 Timothy so important to us is not that Paul was this wise sage who had a lot of important things that he could say and he'd learned a lot in life. He is speaking as God's witness. He's speaking as God's representative. He is speaking with the authority of Christ, and he's establishing that here. He further emphasizes his authority by indicating he's an apostle by the commandments of Christ. He could have just said I'm an apostle of Jesus Christ, and that would have established his authority authority. But he goes further. He says, it's by the commandment of Christ. I didn't choose myself. I didn't want to go into this because, oh, I'm going to just, you know, put myself in this position. God put me there. He commanded me. I'm under a mandate from him. So let's dig into this concept of an apostle. Can anybody tell me what an apostle is? Off top of your head. Call it out. Come again? Called out specifically by God in the church. Do we have apostles today? Huh? Okay? Hey, that's a great statement. I like that. Okay? We're gonna get into this because we are living in a time where there are people that claim that they're apostles. You can go when I was when I was in Ghana, basically if somebody wanted to establish that they were like not just a pastor, not just an elder, not just a bishop, not just a reverend doctor minister, I'm an apostle. Reverend Doctor and Minister, put them all there. All the highlighted titles are there. You gotta get them all in, right? Do we have apostles today? Well Before I say yes or no, let's understand what an apostle is. And on the basis of understanding what one is, then we can answer the question, yes or no. Okay? So I'll begin with this statement. On the most basic level, an apostle was an individual who was sent out under the authority of another and acting as a representative of the one who sent them. Now all of that is really important. Okay? He's sent out. That means he doesn't send himself. So apostles didn't make themselves apostles. Like a lot of people do. I just decide I want to have some authority. I can be an apostle. No. They were sent out by somebody And when they went out, they were bearing the authority of that individual. Very, very important. They were acting as a representative of the one who sent them. We could use the word they were commissioned. And one of the best things that I could think of as an example, modern-day example, of the concept of apostle, I don't mean apostle in the sense that he's talking of here, but the idea of representative is when we have an ambassador. An ambassador deals with another country and they're dealing with that other country and they have authority. They're a representative. They're able to make decisions and do things. So that's kind of a little bit like the concept of an apostle. In many cases, the person had a role in government like an ambassador. Three, in the case of the spread of the gospel, In the first century, some individuals functioned as church planters, missionaries, as representatives of their respective churches. Now when when a person was sent out in a sense, they were doing an apostolic kind of a work. Now I want to make make a statement here. This is a general use of the term. If you're looking at the word apostle and you're going to the Greek term that is used that we translate apostle, you're going to find examples in the New Testament where you go, that doesn't seem like a apostle like we're talking about. That's because there was a very definite use of the word apostle that Paul is using here. This is not a general term. This is specific. So let's get into the details of the specific use, the technical use that Paul has here. In this case, the term Is very specific. He's an apostle of Jesus Christ. Let me give you a couple of details. Number one, that means he knew Christ personally Number two, he was personally called by Christ to an official capacity. So Peter became an apostle because one day Jesus walked up to him. He was mending his nets by the Sea of Galilee, and he said, You come follow me. Alright? Nobody living today. Can make that. Well, they can make the claim, okay? You could say anything you want, but it hadn't happened. Three, he was representing Christ and was bearing his authority. When Paul says I'm an apostle of Jesus Christ, he's not just saying, Oh, I met the man. He asks me to do something for him. He's saying, I've met him. He called me. He sent me with authority. Fourth, there's a validation of this ministry. Just because somebody makes a claim, there had to be some proofs that accompanied the claim. In fact it's interesting we go to the book of Revelation and he talks about the fact that there are some who claim to be apostles and you have tried them, you've tested them, and you've found that they're lacking. That tells us something There are people who said, I'm an apostle, and they said, well, here's the criteria. They had it in their heads. They knew what it was. They analyzed the person. They said, yes, no. That make sense? They could validate this claim. Five. They were recognized as officials in this capacity in the early church. When Paul talks about Peter, he refers to him as another apostle. When Peter talks about Paul, he refers to him as another apostle. In other words, they knew themselves, they knew who was who. And we're going to see an example of that. There are a couple of passages I want us to look at that kind of demonstrate exactly what I just shared with you. Go to Acts chapter 1 Acts chapter 1. And we're going to look at verses 15 to 25. And there's some details that are highlighted, well, in my notes. And I'm going to kind of draw your attention to them. Let's begin in verse 15. It says this In those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples and said, The number of names together were about a hundred and twenty. Men and brethren, this scripture must needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake before concerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus. For he was numbered with who? With us. That's an important statement. And he obtained part of what? This ministry. Another very important statement. So basically what's going on is this. Christ has ascended, and the disciples are gathered together. There's 120 of them. So they were about the size of our church on a Sunday morning. Okay? Give or take, depending on the Sunday. And so they're all gathered together, and amongst that hundred twenty people, there was a group that was known as the apostles. And there were twelve of them initially. In that group, one of the twelve has killed himself. He betrays the Lord, and rather than coming face to face with that reality and resolving the issue like Peter did, what does he do? He goes out and hangs himself. And basically, when we go throughout the New Testament, we see that there was a role for 12 apostles, not 11 apostles. In fact, it's very interesting. We go to the book of Revelation, it talks about the New Jerusalem. It says that there are twelve gates. Okay? And the names of the twelve apostles are there. Is Judas' name there? Well, from their perspective, there needed to be twelve, okay? And they believe that's what God wanted. So basically what Peter is saying is there's eleven of us because one's been cut short. We need to add a twelve. But notice carefully how they go about this. Verse 21. Of these men, listen, which have companied with us, who's the us? The apostles. All the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John unto the same day that he was taken up from us. You see this word, us, us, this office. He's emphasizing something. There's a group, they're recognized. Then he goes on and says this. Must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection? Now it's very obvious from their vantage point that for somebody to be an apostle they had to have been an eye witness of the Lord. whole thing. That was very, very important. So then he goes on. They appointed two Joseph called Barcibus, whose surname was Justice and Matthias. And they prayed and said, Thou Lord, which knoweth the hearts of all men, show whether of these two thou hast chosen. Obviously they recognize that Jesus had to call and commission this individual. And so that's what they're saying here. And then he says that they may take part of this ministry and apostleship. Do you see how some of the details we talked about come out here? Somebody needs to be an eyewitness. Somebody needs to be called. There's a very specific ministry. They recognize themselves. All of these details we see in Acts chapter 1. Go with me to 1 Corinthians 15. In 1 Corinthians 15, Paul has been talking, he's going to talk about the resurrection. And he's going to emphasize that there are certain people that are witnesses to the resurrection, and they still live on that very day. We 're going to talk about the importance of the resurrection. Verse 1. Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you. Which also you've received and wherein you stand, by which also you're saved, if you keep in memory that what I've preached unto you, unless you have believed in vain For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, that Christ died for our sins, according to the scriptures, that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures. Now here's the part I want to emphasize. Not that the other part's not important, okay? But for the sake of this discussion, the next little section is very important. He was seen of Cephas. Who's that? Peter. Then of the what? The twelve. Then he was seen above five hundred brethren at once, of whom the greater part remain unto this present day. They're still alive, some have fallen asleep. After that he was seen of James, then of what? All of the apostles. Now, just just just taking a little note here, not everybody who was an apostle was one of the twelve. It was a little bit broader than that. But the point was they were understood to be a very selective group. Now some sometimes say, well, Paul didn't see Christ's ministry. Well, actually he did. From the other side. Let's just put it there. He was watching Jesus' ministry as an antagonist. In fact, as he saw the miracles, he was part of the group that applied to say, what are we going to do with this guy? We've got to get rid of him. We can't let this guy go and rouse up the people and get all these followers. But listen to what he says. Last of all, he was seen of me also. As one born out of due time. That's a really interesting phrase. In fact, that phrase born out of due time has the idea of a stillborn birth. He's basically saying that I was I was the least of the least They're the true apostles, but you know I'm an apostle too, but I'm not worthy to be compared with that group. That's basically the way he looks at himself. A very humble, very lowly view of himself. He says, I'm the least of the apostles. I'm not meet to be called an apostle. Because I persecute the church of God. Now, Paul is not suggesting that he wasn't an apostle. He's saying, I'm the least of them all. But I also was a witness of Christ's ministry. And so I'm also qualified to be an apostle. I was called by Christ. I was commissioned by Christ. I was sent out by Christ. In other words, Paul also fits the criteria that's been mentioned in the scriptures. And then I want to mention a third passage quickly. 2 Corinthians 12. 12. Paul writes, truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience and signs and wonders and mighty deeds. I know one of the things that people will discuss a lot is what was the purpose of the sign gifts? Are they continuing today? Well, let me just make it very very simple statement here. If there's no apostles There's no apostolic gifts. Okay? And it's not because God said, Well, I'm not giving those to the church anymore. It's that everybody who received that gift is dead. Okay? They're with Jesus. The reason for those gifts was to authenticate the message of those individuals. You know, when I pick up my Bible and I read it, I'm reading a book that has been authenticated thousands of years ago and has demonstrated authenticity over and over and over and over and over again. But if I was living in the first century and you said, well, this book is scripture, and I'd go, oh really? Why do you say that? Well, it was written by Paul. Who's Paul? He's an apostle. What do you mean he's an apostle? And they start explaining all that and you go, oh, can he authenticate that? Absolutely can You see what he just did there? He just gave the man life who was dead. He fell out of a window when he was sleeping during his sermon. Don't have that ability, alright guys? That's why we have a one-story building here, you know? We can't do the key story thing. That would be dangerous. Hopefully not dangerous. But the point is this: those sign gifts were meant to authenticate the messengers that God used to give us as word. So if there's no more apostles, there's no more apostolic sign gifts because we don't have the people that have the criteria to be able to do those things. I'm gonna do one more detail. Three out of seven. That's not bad, right? Detail number three. Paul identified the one who has commissioned him. And the nature of his personal ministry toward Paul and the recipients of the letter. Two phrases I want to draw your attention to. The first one is this: He is our Savior. He says, I'm an apostle by the commandment of God, our Savior. He then makes the second statement. He's the Lord Jesus Christ, which is our hope. Basically, Paul is emphasizing the fact that I not only have authority, but my authority comes from the person, and I represent the person who is your savior and my savior. He's your hope and he's my hope. And we talked about the concept of our hope on Sunday. We use the term hope. We don't mean like, oh, I'm hoping. That I get to heaven and I'm hoping that God says, I accept you and all those things. That hope is on the basis of God's promise. God can't lie. So if I if I can lie to you and I say, I promise you I'll do this, then you go, uh , it's possible. If I'm known to lie a lot and I say I'm going to do that for you, you're like, not a chance. I don't believe you. Please don't say that, right? So when we use the term hope, we use it kind of in proportion to how confident we are of that person's honesty level. And not just their honesty, but their ability to be able to perform what they're going to do. You might have a person who's extremely reliable to their word. They have every intention to do something, but they're not able to follow through because of some unseen circumstance. You know, how many times does the parent say, I'm going to do that, and then something happens that, you know, your kid says, You lied to me because you got in a car accident. Please, it wasn't a lie. I didn't know that would happen, okay? I had every intention to do that. God doesn't get caught in those situations. He knows everything. He's got an inability to lie. He speaks the truth. He doesn't get caught off guard. He accomplishes what he says he's going to accomplish. And so Paul is not only emphasizing this concept of authority, but he's emphasizing that God is the Savior And that God is our hope. Next week we're going to get into detail number four. He's going to talk about his relationship to Timothy. And I'll just read it as a teaser unto Timothy, my own son, in the faith. And we're going to explore a little bit about Paul and Timothy's relationship. And it was a very sweet relationship. In fact, if we want to have a church that continues on from generation to generation until Christ comes, we need Paul-Timothy kind of relationships. And it takes time. It takes a willingness to set aside some of the busyness and focus on people. It it involves seeing the potential that somebody has. When when Paul meets Timothy, we don't know anything about Timothy's dad. All we know is that his mom and grandgrandma were believers. We know that he wasn't circumcised, so he wasn't raised in a Jewish setting. He was raised like a Gentile. The fact that we know nothing about his dad means that either his dad wasn't in his life or his dad wasn't a Christian. Yet Paul takes this guy, who doesn't seem to have a lot going for him, takes him under wing, and that is the most effective ministry partner Paul has in his entire very used of God ministry. And so we're going to explore that next time. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to study this text. And there are some rich nuggets packed away in these short verses. Needing to be expounded and needing to be understood. I pray that you'd help us as your people to have a solid grasp of the truths in front of us and help us to live in the life Father, help us to recognize the value of the book in front of us, seeing that it was written by your representatives, the apostles, and that these people bore your authority. And that their ministries were validated by their witness and by their calling and by those miracles to authenticate That position. Father, help us to treasure your word and help us to glory in our God and Savior Jesus Christ, who is our hope. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.