Philippians chapter two verse nineteen. This is what Paul writes. I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timothy shortly unto you That I also may be of good comfort when I know your state. For I have no man like-minded. Who will naturally care for your state? Now I want to just kind of go back to that little statement again. He says he will naturally care for their state. Now you just think about this for a moment as a parent. I know that every parent in here loves their children. But is it natural for you to tenderly and compassionately always deal with your kids? No, it's not. Honest truth, alright? I love my children, and when I watch them, they bring me incredible joy many, many times. And there are times that I am overwhelmed with incredible compassion for them, and there are times that I have to pray and ask God for grace to love them as I should. And I I'm getting a couple of knots here. Okay. Why is that? Because the fact is that people are people and they they make bad choices sometimes and they rub us the wrong way and sometimes we have personality conflicts and the reality is even when we truly love people and then even when we are truly godly people and we care about the things of the Lord There are times that we really get rubbed the wrong way and we really have to get on our knees and beg God for grace. But notice what he says about Timothy. There's nobody like him who thinks like I do, and he naturally will care for your situation. In other words, Timothy was somebody who didn't have to get on his knees over and over and say, God, I beg you for the grace. He was somebody that had such a disposition that he naturally cared about people. He was a compassionate tenderhearted man. That is really significant to think about. He then goes on to say this, all seek their own. Not the things which are Jesus Christ, but ye know the proof of him that as a son with the Father He hath served me in the gospel. And he's making a statement that even good people can become self-serving in the work that they do. Even good people You know, sometimes we see people that get into a position of authority and they start moving in a direction that's not helpful and they start doing things in a self-serving manner and we go, what in the world's going on? They may not have started that way. And they may kind of reverse back to where they need to be. There's something within all of us that has a tendency toward self-serving attitudes. This man wasn't like that. He would naturally care for their estate, and he did not seek his own. He sought the glory of Christ. That's an amazing statement. And Paul trusts this man unlike any other person that he's dealt with. The second thing we see is this. Paul saw Timothy as a grounded man whom he personally appointed to the ministry office that he currently held. Now, you know, it's one thing for you to look at somebody who you have mentored as a young man, a young woman, and we say, oh, they're they're kind of a little wet under the ear, behind the ears, and they're they're doing a good work, but you know, there's a lot that they have to learn. That's not how Paul looks at Timothy Even though he is a young man, Paul is looking at him as a matured, seasoned, capable person. Notice what he says in 2 Timothy 1. Verse 3. I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembered of thee in my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears. That I may be filled with joy. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee. What he's basically saying is there's no hypocrisy with Timothy. Timothy is the real deal, 100%. He doesn't have an unf he has an unfeigned faith. He then goes on to say this, I called remembrance the unfeigned faith that's in thee which dwelt first in thy grandmother lois Thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that is in thee also. And I put in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. And when he talks about the putting on of his hands, he's talking about ordination. Paul was the one who personally said, I believe that God has called Timothy into the gospel ministry. He put his hands on him, signifying that he was going out with his stamp of approval. He had confidence in him What an amazing relationship. The third thing that we see is that Paul poured significant time and energy into mentoring Timothy. He had confidence in his ability to make discernment, discerning judgments about future leadership. Notice what it says in 2 Timothy 1. Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that's in Christ Jesus, and the things that thou hast heard of me Among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men that shall be able to teach others also. Now you realize what Paul is doing. Paul is basically saying that you and I have had a mentoring relationship. When I led you to the Lord, one of the things I did was I discipled you and you came alongside of me in ministry and I was a father to you. And we traveled together, we ministered together, we prayed together, we wept together, we discussed issues together. There was a mentoring relationship. And you know what Paul says to Timothy? You now are in a position to do what I did. That's significant. I've mentored you, you need to mentor others. And so he's basically saying you look for people who have the same kind of heart that you have. And invest your life into those people. Pour your energies into them. Let them take your place. In fact, when we talk about missions, that is what missions is all about. It's about the missionary starting a work, pouring his life and energy into those people and getting out of the way and letting them do the work that they can't do. I can't tell you how much of a blessing it is to me when I look at what's going on in the church in Ghana I it it blesses me so much. And you know what? If I was still there, that wouldn't be happening the way that it is. Why? Because I'd be doing those things. And they would be pulling back and they wouldn't be stepping up. But because I'm out of the way, they're doing what they're doing. And Paul got out of the way, and he let Timothy do the work that he was doing. And this idea of mentoring is something we desperately desperately need in our churches And by the way, it's not just on the spiritual level. I think that there are a lot of young men that don't have dads. Or they have a dad, but their dad's not really in that kind of a role. And we got a lot of a lot of men that they you know, they don't have children. And they have the opportunity to invest their lives and their energies into the young men coming up that are following after them. It's not just men, it's women too. The fact is that this idea of mentoring is something that really strengthens the next generation, and we really need it in the church. Detail number five. Paul reminded Timothy not only of their personal relationship with one another, but also God's relationship to both of them. Notice what Paul says to Timothy. He doesn't just say you're my son in the faith. He says grace, mercy , peace. From God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord. Now I want to emphasize every single word in that statement because all of them are important. The first word is grace. That's undeserved favor. Every person in this room is in the position that they're in, not because they earned it, not because they deserve it, not because they're better than somebody outside these walls. We are here by the grace of God alone. And that is something that we as Christians need to remind ourselves of constantly. Then he talks about the word mercy. And that word mercy has the idea of tender compassion. Grace is the way God responds to me. It's the action that he takes toward me. But mercy is what motivates God to take that action. That word mercy means tender compassion. One of the things that I think sometimes we struggle with is does God really care about me? Does he love me? Does he actually feel any compassion towards me? Is God's heart moved in any way by me? He's out there, I'm right here. Does he care about what's going on in my life? He has tender compassion for us. That's a really important truth. Third is peace. The fact that he asked to mention peace means that there was a day when there wasn't peace. You know what I'm saying? It's like, so what's the big deal about peace? Well, it's it's a big deal if you didn't have it at one time. Peace means that the removal of former animosity was created by God. There was sin between man and God. Every person in this room, myself included, all of us were separated from God. We were enemies to God. There was enmity between us and God. And through the work of Christ, that that wrath was removed. God's justice was satisfied. There's peace between us and God. And he emphasizes that. The next phrase. From God. This grace, mercy, and peace doesn't start with you. Don't start with me. Starts with God. God is the initiator of all of these blessings. He decided to come to you. You didn't decide to come to him. Now I'm not suggesting that you decided to embrace the gospel kicking and screaming and say, I don't want anything to do with this. Okay? But you did not come to that conclusion that you need to place your faith in Christ without God having focused his energy and attention on you. It's grace from God. It's mercy from God. It's peace from God, our Father. He assumes the responsibility to provide care and sustenance for his people. He does it from the disposition of a loving father. That is a wonderful thought. You know, when we're supposed to pray, how are we supposed to pray? Our what? Our Father, which art in heaven. Hallowed be thy name. He says, if your children can come to you and ask you for something good, and you're a sinner and you give them good things, how much better will God, the Father who is perfect, give to his children the things that they need? He's our Father. That means He's responsible for us. He provides for us. He cares for us. He sustains us. He loves us. Those things are all wrapped up in that. And then he says, Jesus Christ, our Lord. He didn't say your Lord. He didn't say he's your father, but not my father. He says he's ours. What's interesting is that Paul is putting himself on the same level as Timothy, and he's saying we're on the same level with all these things. He he could have, you know, he's a big man. He's an apostle. He wrote most of our New Testament. He could have put himself on a pedestal. He goes, no, we're on the same level. And he emphasizes the lordship of Christ. We need to submit to him. He's our master. Paul reminds Timothy of those details about their relationship to God. We then move to detail 6. Though Paul has apostolic authority, he appealed to Timothy from a position of an encourager. I really love this point. And I hope that you'll really grasp this. Notice what it says in the text. It says, I besought thee to abide in that the when I went to Macedonia. Now that word basot is translated from a Greek word that is the exact same word used when the Bible talks about the Holy Spirit being the comforter. You know Roman or excuse me John chapter 14 and John 16, Jesus says, It's important for you that I go away. And you're sad that I go away. But if I go away, I'm going to send the comforter. And when he comes, he's going to comfort you and encourage you. And the word that he uses is the word paraclete. The word Paraclete has the idea of somebody who comes alongside, somebody who encourages, someone who strengthens, someone who builds up. I think one of the best illustrations of this is someone who's a coach Now there's different coaching styles. I'll be honest, I know. All right. I was under different kinds of coaching styles. I was a coach at one time as well myself. Some coaches are very stern disciplinarians and they they hold some very rigid hard lines. There are others who, when it comes to practice, they push you to your limits. But when you step into the arena, they are for you 100%. They're encouraging you. They're coming alongside of you. They're trying to strengthen you. They're trying to build you up. That's exactly what this word means. It means someone who comes alongside, who encourages and builds up and strengthens. Paul could have said, I'm commanding you right here and now, don't leave Ephesus, don't quit. He could have done it in kind of a stern, harsh, bull-headed kind of a way. And that's kind of the way some of us at times Handle people under our care. I certainly have done that myself. But that is not how Paul does it. He says, I beseech you. I come alongside of you. I encourage you in the Lord. I strengthen you. I build you up. You know what's interesting when we go to Romans chapter 12? He uses the exact same word. He says, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. Exact same word. He says, I come alongside of you and I encourage you and I build you up and I try to strengthen you in the faith. He's coming as the encourager. He has every right to appeal from a position of authority. But that's not the way he does it. He does it from a position of encouragement. Timothy wanted to come back. He was facing incredible opposition and pressure. He was discouraged and Paul said, you can do it. It's like if one of our missionaries is really discouraged and we get on the phone. And I can tell that and they want to quit. They want to come off the seal. They want to leave what they're doing. And I say, No, you can do it You can do it. Let's pray together. Let me encourage you. Can I come visit you? You come for a short visit. And let's encourage one another in the Lord. That's the idea. Now you need to just toughen up, buddy. Yeah, there's a lot of quitters out there. You're going to be one of them? I mean, you know. There's two ways to appeal to people That's how did Paul do it? He encouraged coming alongside the coach. Think about that for a few minutes. When you're dealing with issues with people, be the encourager. Be the encourager. Don't be the guy with the biggest stick who can beat you the hardest. Time and a place for everything, right? That's not the way Paul did it. Detail number seven He told Timothy that his primary ministry responsibility involved confronting false teaching and the church Notice what he says. You need to stay so that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine. Now, how would you like to be the person that Paul sends to a church to confront false teachers. Okay, so the guy gets up and preaches every Sunday. He's gotten a little out of line. Everybody knows it. Maybe everybody doesn't know it, but maybe some people have noticed it. It's not good what this guy's doing. And so you, the new guy, gets to go and have a confrontation. That would be really tough. In fact, there's a reason that he says, let no man despise your youth. Because these are people that were older than him. They'd been around a while, and they weren't going to put up with him coming and telling them, oh, this is not true. Yet that was his job. Charge. It involved the confrontation. There are times that we have to confront people. I don't think we should enjoy confrontation. I don't think we should thrive on confrontation. Some people just look for the next one. Let's let's let's get another one under under our belt, why not? That's not a good thing. But there are times you have to confront. There are times that you have to be forceful, and that's exactly what he had to do. Charge them, some. Not every teacher in the church was involved in these deviations. Some of the teachers were sound and others were not. And there was going to be a separation. And then he uses the phrase, no other doctrine. That statement tells us something. There was an established body of truth, the faith. It was known to the apostles, it was known to the church, it was the standard of teaching and practice in the church. And Paul was going to send Timothy to call the church back to hold fast to that form of doctrine. In other words, our faith can really be summed up with a body of truth, and they understood what it was. Detail number eight. He told Timothy that his second responsibility involved helping the average church member develop discernment and courage to reject false teaching. So here's what happens when you have false teaching. Some people leave. Some people confront. And some people are duped. Alright, you get that. Alright? Some leave. Some confront. Some are duped It's not that they're willfully trying to follow false doctrine. They don't realize what's going on. They haven't developed the discernment. They haven't developed the ability. to recognize this is true, this is false, and they cut the line. There are times that somebody might say, that doesn't seem quite right to me, but I'm not really sure what it is that's not right about it. And they need somebody that's got a little more maturity, got a little bit more time studying the word, and they sit down and say, let me explain to you why that's wrong. And they lay it out point by point by point and they go, I get it now. Not only is Timothy supposed to confront those who are not teaching truth, but he's to help those who are being duped by those who are not teaching truth. Notice what he says. Neither give heed. Now there's a difference between teaching and giving heed. Teaching means that you're giving out the information. Taking heed means that you're processing that information. You're taking it in. It's becoming a part of the way that you think. Taking heed to what? Fables and endless genealogies. A fable is something that's not true. There were a lot of things, especially amongst the Judaizers in the early church, that were not true. They were following the rabbis. What were the rabbis doing? They were taking the Bible and they were embellishing it. You take a story and you'd just run with it. Kind of like some people do when they're teachings of the Old Testament, quite honestly. Take a passage of Scripture and they teach it in a way that it was never intended to be taught He says, don't do that. Teach them not to give heed to fables. And when he talks about innocent genealogies, he's talking about this idea of Hypothetical questions and assumptions and discussions. There are lots of things in the Bible that the truth is we don't fully understand You don't understand them. I don't understand them. Nobody understands them. Bottom line, I'm not saying that they aren't true. And I'm not saying that we shouldn't dig into them to try to understand them. But we have to recognize we have limits. There are lots of questions, hypotheticals that people will begin to really spend a lot of time in. Something that I experienced when I was over involved in the church plan over in in in Ghana. We'd have a Sunday school lesson, a guy would get up and He'd bring up the story like Abraham or Jacob, and all of a sudden the entire discussion got hijacked by hypothetical questions. Have you ever been in a class like that? That's how it was. There was nothing concrete. It wasn't God said this and this is what's true and this is what's not true and this is what we're supposed to do. It's like, well what do you think Jacob was thinking when he did this and what do you think Abraham was thinking when he did this and and all these hypothetical questions and you go you know what? The Bible doesn't say, so we don't know. So let's just leave it there. There are certain doctrinal concepts that the Bible states this and the Bible states this and there is a harmony between them, but we don't fully grasp those harmonies. And so what do we do? We have to be willing to accept them on the level that we can understand them. He says, don't give heed to fables and to endless genealogies. A lot of the false teaching was in the realm of the theoretical. A lot of the false teaching was in the realm of how they were using the Old Testament, and they were basically just teaching fables rather than dealing with facts. And then the last thing I'll mention is this, detail number nine. He told Timothy the reason he needed to address these false teachers. And helped the church develop discernment was that they were becoming distracted with unanswerable discussions and missing opportunities to grow in the faith and be stirred up into godly living. Not every single doctrine is going to lead you to hell. There are certain false teachings that you and I can embrace. Maybe about how we make decisions, maybe about our understanding of the Holy Spirit's role in certain areas. It could be something about our understanding of bibliology. There can be lots and lots of areas where we can get slightly off And it's not a matter of heaven and hell. You're out of the faith, you're in the faith. They're not on that level. But I will tell you this. Every time we get into an area of doctrinal error, there is some level of consequence. And sometimes those consequences are big. And they really fall on a spectrum The reality is we have to be very cautious that we rightly divide the word of truth on every single area that we come across. He writes this. These things, these fables and endless genealogies, minister questions rather than godly edification. Basically saying this. You're sitting in a Sunday school class, you're studying the Word of God together, and you have an opportunity to rightly divide the word of truth. Somebody can say, this is what God's saying here. This is what we need to do here. Let's do it. You can be blessed by that. You can be encouraged by that. You can be built up by that. You can be focused by that And instead, you're having an endless discussion about a hypothetical matter that has no value at all. I've been in classes like that. I've kind of because of the way that I handled the class, okay, and because of the maturity level of the people. They were very young Christians They've never really developed those disciplines. But his point is this. If you get off on some little tangent, you are missing out on a valuable opportunity to grow, to thrive, to be strengthened, to be encouraged. Every time I get up to preach the word, any other person that gets up to preach the word, if we're wasting your time, then what's the point of you coming? Honestly, if I'm not preaching the word straight, if they're not preaching the word straight, then don't bother to come. We're wasting your time We should take every single opportunity to rightly divide the word of truth. So it's powerful, it's impactful, it's exactly what God said. It's really going to affect your life. The basic thing that he's emphasizing here is that the false teaching is not going to lead them out of the faith. It's going to waste their timeless opportunities to grow. He says, they minister questions rather than godly edifying which is in the faith. Questions rather than godly edification. And these things are within the faith. Our ability to grow and to mature happens within a body of truth. That faith that he was talking about, the people have erred from that doctrine, that's where we grow. He wants Timothy to understand that distraction is keeping people from growing. I don't know if you've ever been in a church that was a hobby horse preaching church. Where you heard the same things over and over and over again. And they might not have all been bad things, but you hear them over and over and over again. Every single text of scripture ends up being a soul-winning conversation. Folks, not every verse in the Bible takes you to soul winning. It just doesn't, okay? Every single one takes you to the pastor's pet issue. If you've ever been in a church like that, you will not grow like you can and like you should. And that's really the point of what he's saying. Your ability to grow has everything to do with how carefully those who teach the word do it. And so he says you've got to confront false teaching and you've got to encourage people to have good, solid discernment. I'm going to close with some practical thoughts from the text, and I'm going to read them quickly. Implication one, we must give careful attention to every detail of this epistle. It's not simply the opinion of a Christian sage, Paul, from the first century. It's the Word of God. Implication number two, the strength of the future of the church is rooted In its ability to reproduce godly mentoring relationships like Paul had with Timothy. If we don't have mentoring, we have no future. It's that simple. Implication three, a healthy view of our relationship to God. And his relationship to us positions us to properly receive his instructions. Paul reminds Timothy that there is grace and mercy and peace with God before he gives him all the details of the tough things he's got to do. He needed that. Implication four, authority should never replace an encouraging spirit. While Paul had all the authority he needed as an apostle, he spoke for God. He came to Timothy as an encourager, and that's really important. Number five, we must be fiercely loyal to the faith, not simply popular teachers within the faith There were people in that church who needed to step down. And they needed to step down because they weren't doing the right thing. But there are people that probably really loved them. And they needed to be willing to let them walk away. Either they needed to get corrected or they needed to leave. And they had to accept that. Number six, we need to realize that false teaching always has negative consequences. And we see that in this text. And number seven, lastly, don't waste people's time and opportunity to grow by spending time. And the hypothetical. Too many pastors waste countless hours of their congregation's time. And I pray that's not what we have here. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, we thank you for this text of Scripture. It's a rich text that's full of so much encouragement, so much wisdom, so much insight, so many practical principles that as your people we absolutely have to put to practice. Help us as a church to live humbly in the light of these truths. Help me as a pastor to be fiercely loyal to the word. That I wouldn't waste people's time. with endless discussions of empty things, but that the things that are presented would be truth, would be impactful, would be exactly what we need to Minister to our souls. Help us to be thriving and growing in the Lord because we're doing things in a way that honors you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.