Take your Bibles and turn with me to Luke chapter one. Uh we're going to be starting a new sermon series, and you know, when we finished up the book of of James, I really, really wrestled with uh where I'd like to spend some time. And I would like to get into the book of Romans. That's going to be a very long series. There are lots and lots of different places that I thought about going. But what I really wanted to do was take the book of Luke, and we're going to work from the book of Luke into the book of Acts, and I'd like us to work our way through an orderly account of the telling of the gospel story. And I think it's very important for us to understand these verses, and I think it's important for us to understand them in their context. It's important for us to understand what Jesus was communicating. I think a lot of times when we read parables and we come to some of these accounts, I think we a lot of times miss the main point. of what was really being communicated. So what I want to do is first of all read a passage, talk a little bit about a summary and some introduction, and then I want us to deal with this very, very important start to the book of Luke. So Luke chapter 1, we're going to read verses 1 through 4 together. Here's what it says. For as much as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are more surely believed among us, even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were I witnesses, and ministers of the word, it seemed good to me also having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. Now when we read this section of Scripture, what we're going to see is that the purpose of the section was really to set the tone for this entire gospel account. The reason that we see this is it is to convince a man, a man named Theophilus, that the details regarding the life of Christ and his ministry are fully reliable and they should be trusted. One of the things that we're going to see as we move through this is that the reason that Luke records certain events or certain details, yet he passes over other details or other events is because he's really focusing in on a very specific point. When we get into some of these parables, it's very important for us to understand what Jesus is communicating in these parables. And why it is that Luke chose to record some of these details, and maybe a passage like Matthew or maybe John or Luke doesn't actually talk about those particular parables. So the main point of this passage of Scripture is really to set the tone. This is a reliable record. We could put this in the the area of history. This is not just some story from imagination. This is what actually took place And it's important for us to understand that the details that Luke is going to record for us are details that were foretold in the Old Testament. And they're significant for us to understand as those in the New Testament, as New Testament believers, looking back at what was predicted, looking back at what took place. and looking at why this is significant, it's very important for us to understand those details. I believe what the scriptures would have for us to see today Is that this account is meant to drive home the fact that the gospel is a reliable record, not a sentimental tradition I think lots and lots of people today within our culture, the reason that they are walking away from the Christian faith is because they do not see that these are events in history. They see that they see these events as simply tradition or something that is sentimental that makes them feel very good. They like walking into this massive cathedral and hearing some music play, and they don't recognize that this is really to take us back to events that took place 2,000 years ago on the Jewish hillsides. I want to begin with this introduction. The gospel is really the story of how God promised and accomplished redemption for his people. That's what the gospel is. When we sit down and we tell somebody the gospel, what we're basically doing is we're saying, here is the problem. You're a sinner, I'm a sinner. We're condemned. We have no way of earning our way to God. We are unrighteous. But God promised redemption and he continued to picture what was going to happen all throughout the Old Testament. And then two thousand years ago he fulfilled his promises. As Jesus lived his life, as he went to the cross and he died on that cross, as he rose triumphant from the dead, that was the fulfillment of promises all throughout the Old Testament. And when we talk how we're about how we're to live as New Testament believers, we look at our lives as having implications in the gospel. It is because we are new creatures in Christ It is because of what Jesus did for us that we are to walk in newness of life. And it's also that we can. We see it's a story of God's power, God's wisdom, God's love, God's faithfulness. A lot of times when we read the Old Testament, or a lot of times when we read the Gospels, we're not looking at them to see the greatness of God, His power, His wisdom, His faithfulness. We're looking for some little truth that I'm supposed to pull from this text that really is very foreign to the point of what Jesus was even trying to communicate many times. It's about demonstrating God's faithfulness to what he promised. What's also very interesting as we read these gospel accounts. is that each of these four gospels were written to people from different cultures, different backgrounds. Some of the details between the various gospel accounts, they overlap with one another, but one account will give certain details while the other will not give those details. And you say, well, why is there the conflict, or why is there the difference? The reason there's a difference, not a conflict, is because the reason John recorded those details And the reason that Matthew recorded those details was to demonstrate a different point to a different audience. There are times that Luke will explain things that Matthew didn't explain because of his audience. There'll be times that Matthew will make a statement referring back to the Old Testament in a way that Luke won't do. And you say, why? It's because of his audience. Each of these four gospel accounts were written to different cultures with both overlapping and unique details to present a compelling case that was unique to their different audiences. Let me give you kind of a taste of what I'm talking about. For instance, in Matthew, Matthew is a compelling case to Jewish Christians. These Jewish Christians had a deep understanding of the Old Testament. They were anticipating a literal fulfillment of all the scriptural prophecies regarding God's kingdom. If you were a Gentile, there would be things in the book of Matthew that though they are true, they will not resonate with you the same way. That they would have been someone growing up in a Jewish context who had studied the Mosaic Law, who understood the Old Testament, and who was anticipating the kingdom of God For instance, we see this statement over and over and over again. It was written that it might be fulfilled, which or it was it was it was done that it might be fulfilled, which was written by the prophet, and then he'll mention this person. Why do we see that phrase over and over and over again? Well, it's because Matthew is focusing in on a Jewish context. We come to the book of Mark, we see a compelling case to suffering Roman Christians. Many believe that the Gospel of Mark was written at a time when Roman Christians were beginning to suffer persecution at the hands of Nero. There are certain details that are recorded in the book of Mark, which is the shortest of the Gospels, the most abbreviated of the Gospels, the quickest moving of the Gospels, that is really meant to focus in on a group of people that are Gentiles. That are suffering persecution. These Gentile Christians need to be reminded that though Jesus is God in the flesh, he came as a suffering servant. Who compels them to walk as disciples of Christ? There's a heavy emphasis on discipleship in the book of Mark. And you might say, well, why is that? Because believers who are living under persecution are going to often have to be reminded again and again and again. That being a child of God puts me in conflict with my culture. And when I'm in conflict with my culture, those who hate the gospel are going to try to suppress the gospel. And I have to follow Jesus. I have to recognize I may suffer as he suffered. And so Mark has that emphasis quite a bit. We come to the book of John, it's a compelling case to the non-Christian. The details were written so that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, and that by believing ye might have life through his name. What's interesting about the book of John is that a huge chunk of the book of John was not recorded over the years of his ministry. It was literally in the final hours leading up to the cross. When the disciples are there celebrating the Passover on that final night where Jesus tells them, I'm going to the cross. I'm going to fulfill those promises that were all made in the Old Testament on that night, a large portion of the book of John. Focuses in on the things that Jesus said and did there in the upper room. You might say, well, why does John emphasize certain details, but Matthew doesn't. It's audience. It's audience. Then when we come to the book of Luke, what we see is that this is a case to a Gentile man, Theophilus, that you can believe the certainty of this gospel account. In fact, the book of Luke and the Book of Acts are really two parts to the same storyline Luke begins at the beginning, he even goes all the way back to Adam talking about the humanity of Christ And Luke moves all the way through the account of the birth of Christ, the details before his birth and after his birth, and he works all the way through Pentecost and through the spread of the gospel all throughout the known worlds. Luke Acts is a fascinating, fascinating account meant to convince us of the surety of the gospel. But I also want to make one final point in introduction. It's important for us to understand that the details that are recorded in these gospels While they're recorded in the New Testament, it's important for us to understand that the events that unfolded happen before the cross. You say, well, why does that matter, Pastor? For instance, when the Bible talks about the baptism of John, you need to realize that the baptism that's being talked about in those contexts is not the exact same kind of baptism that we perform as New Testament believers, believers baptism. There's something that we have to explain about that particular matter. It's important for us to understand that a lot of the things that Jesus says and a lot of the things that He does are on the front side of the cross. He is anticipating the cross. He's explaining why these events matter. And so when we talk about the contents of the cross The book of Luke, we are talking about contents that are not under the New Testament era, but are still back in the Old Testament, yet are very important for us to understand. , So it's very important as we work our way through the book of Luke that we keep these details in mind. The specific details that are going to be presented to us are for a specific audience. And these specific details need to be understood in the time before the cross that they were given. And so as we work our way through this, I think that you'll find this to be a very important and instructive study. Well, the first truth I'd like us to see from the text in front of us is that the Gospel of Luke was written as a detailed and orderly account. Notice again what it says in verse number one. He says, For as much as many have taken in hand To set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us, even as they believed the uh even as they delivered them unto us Which from the beginning were I witnesses and ministers of the word. It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee. Now, there are several statements in here that it's very easy for us to skip over and not understand the importance, the weight of what he's saying. For instance, when he talks about us, the question is, who is Luke talking about? Well, he's talking about people that were physical eyewitnesses of the ministry, the teachings, the death of Christ, the resurrection. He's talking about a group of people that if they were called into a court of law and they were called to testify, did Jesus really die? They can give a first-hand accounting. Did Jesus really rise from the dead? They can give a first hand accounting. Did Jesus really make that statement? They can give a first hand accounting. Many of these individuals that he's talking about are the people that we call the apostles. These are the individuals that God called out and he sent out bearing the authority of Christ. These are individuals that God used to pen for us the scriptures. And as they're penning for us the scriptures, they're constantly going back into the Old Testament and explaining the significance of things that Isaiah said. Things that Micah said, things that Hosea said, things that Moses said. They're explaining the significance and the fulfillment of those things and then the implication of those things. Three key statements I want to mention in this little section. The first statement is this Many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration Of those things which are most surely believed among us. I want you to realize that during the time of Christ, this was in no way a hidden or meager series of events. When Jesus was crucified, when Jesus rose from the dead, the stories of his death and resurrection were numerous and all throughout the Roman Empire. Luke makes a statement about that. The story of Christ's life and ministry was abounding. And the reality is there were some people that were presenting details that were true, and others that were presenting details that were not true. There were some that were presenting messages that bore the full weight, the full authority, as Christ's apostles. There are others who just wanted to get in on the train. They just wanted to be well known in their communities. And so what is Luke saying? Luke is saying, with all this information, I'm going to sit down and I'm going to give you a detailed, perfect, first-hand accounting of the details. I want you to know that this is not just a popular story. This is the truth. This is based on the facts. This is based on the evidence. In other words, Luke was dealing with many first-hand eyewitness accounts. He says that in verse 2. They, the eyewitnesses, delivered them to us. which were from the beginning eyewitnesses and ministers of the word. Luke is saying, I'm compiling for you, Theophilus. An expansive explanation of the things that have taken place. The third thing is that Luke had a full knowledge of these events As one who was going to write them down, making a permanent, reliable record. In verse 3 he says, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first to write unto thee. Now, I don't want you to miss what he's saying. When he says I had perfect understanding, Luke is referring to something that Peter refers to in 2 Peter chapter 1. Where he says, We have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and We were eyewitnesses of his ministry, but we have a more sure word of prophecy than even the eyewitness account That is the sense that Luke is giving. Because Luke is not just a historian. He's not just writing down details. He's writing details With the guidance of the Holy Spirit, giving him the very words that he records. Very, very important detail. The second thing I want us to do is I want us to understand the context Luke was writing this account not just as a representative of the apostles, but as one who had done his research As one who had done his homework very well. Luke records details that are true. When I think about some of the historians of the day that wrote about those things, These things are documented today. For instance, you can go to a book written by Josh McDowell called Evidences for Christianity. And in this book, in one of his chapters, section number two, he presents what's called a case for Jesus. You say, well what's the point of this? What Josh McGowell does is he goes into the historical record and he pulls out from Roman historians, Jewish historians, these are people who are not Christians. He gives you the details of what these people Said about Jesus. You might say, well, why does that matter? Well it matters because there are some people today that will go to the extent saying Jesus didn't exist. Nobody knew about him in history. Folks, that's nonsense. We have historical records that prove that that is not true. That Jesus truly was known by even those who opposed the Christian message. But I want you to recognize that those people, none of them wrote a detailed accounting like what we see in Luke. in Matthew and Mark and in John. Because what Matthew and Mark and Luke and John are writing is scripture. It is reliable, it is historical, but it is also scripture. Two details that set this account apart from all the others. Luke was creating volumes of information. You know, you might not think of it this way, but Luke had a lot more information than he wrote. In fact, we know that John did as well. At the end of the book of John, John writes, if I were to write all the things that I witnessed. He said the books of the world could not contain all these details. But I took the things that are written so that ye might believe Jesus is the Christ. The Son of God, and that by believing you might have life through his name. Luke would have been able to say the same kind of thing. But I want us to notice the distinction of this record. The distinction is it was written under the guidance of the Holy Spirit. For instance, in 2 Timothy 3, verse 16, it says, All scripture is given by inspiration of God. I want you to notice something about that statement. It doesn't say all the writers of Scripture were inspired by God. Is that what it says? It says all scripture was given by inspiration of God. You see, what's the difference? The difference is it wasn't the writers who were inspired. It was the very words given by God. When he says all scripture, he means every single word that Matthew and Mark and Luke And John and Paul and these apostles wrote every single word as they stroked it on that, I guess you wouldn't call it a piece of paper, on that parchment. And they put that there on that parchment. The Holy Spirit was moving through those men as instruments to give us those very words. A good ex uh example of this is, you know, I play trumpet and Doug plays the saxophone, and you hear the distinction of these different instruments Doug blows into that instrument and it makes a saxophone sound. Pastor Joel blows into this and it makes a trumpet sound. And when when Margaret is playing on the organ, it makes the organ sound. These people are using instruments, and the instrument gives a distinction of tone based on the instrument that's used, but the instrument is being guided and controlled by the person playing. Now, when I'm playing, you're going to hear some mistakes. If God was playing, you hear no mistakes. He's perfect. In other words, the problem with all the accounts written by men is they're human. But what makes this unique is it is God working through human instruments so that every single word that these men pen down is the very Word of God. So as I'm reading the book of Luke, I'm not just reading a historical record. It is a historical record. I'm not just looking at the data that was compiled by Luke as he listens to all these firsthand accounts, this volume of information, but I'm reading the Word of God through that instrument, Luke. In 2 Peter 1, verse 15, he says, Moreover, I endeavor that ye might be able, after my decease, to have these things also in remembrance. Think about the Apostle Peter, he's an old man. He's getting to a point where he knows he's not going to live much longer. And he says, I have taught and I have taught and I've told all these people the events that unfolded during the ministry of Christ. I tell them about the Old Testament prophecies, and I make all these connections, and I'm teaching verbally, but you know what? I'm going to be gone. What am I going to do? God moved him to write the scripture. He says, we've not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He's like, this is not coming from my own opinion and my own mind. This is the word of God. He says, when we made known to the power, we were eyewitnesses of his majesty, knowing this first that no prophecy of the scriptures of any private interpretation For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. When he talks about the scriptures not being of a private interpretation, he's saying When I wrote these details and I explained the details, I'm not just explaining my opinion. I'm giving you God's mind on that particular matter. There are many times in the scriptures we'll read about an event and then God will make a statement about how he viewed that particular event. That's not just David's opinion or Moses' opinion or Luke's opinion. That's God's opinion. And so he says that these men spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. This is what we call the doctrine of inspiration. And so when we read the scriptures, we are reading the very words of God. This is why we believe when we call inerrancy. Because a perfect God gave us a perfect word. This is why when we read the scriptures, we don't say, well, you know, that historical account is very interesting, but it might be wrong. God gave us his word. This is reliable. This is trustworthy. This is sure. And that is the sense that Luke is trying to emphasize in this particular context. The second truth that we see is that Luke wrote this account to strengthen a man's faith. Verse 3 says, it seemed good to me also having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest, I love this statement. Know the certainty of those things wherein thou hast been instructed. He's saying, Luke, you've had people teach you the gospel They've told you about Jesus. They've told you about the Old Testament. And in the back of your mind, you might be sitting there going, Is it just that I interacted with these people and I came in contact with this information, but it's not really true? There are some people they grow up in America, they grow up in a Christian church, they grow up in a family where the gospel is presented to them over and over and over again, and they get to an age like sixteen or eighteen or twenty-two and they go, Well, you know, if I'd have grown up in the Middle East, I wouldn't have heard this message If I'd have grown up in another continent, I wouldn't have heard this message. How do I know this is true? How can I have confidence that this is true? That is kind of the sense of what Luke is saying here. He says, Theophilus, you've heard these things. I want to convince you that what you've heard is certain, it is sure, it is true, it is steadfast. You might say that there is an apologetics kind of nature to what Luke is trying to do here. He is reasoning from the events that took place, going back into the Old Testament explaining, here is the fulfillment of that, here is why it's significant. He's laying these things out as reasoned arguments. So that Theophilus will go, this is unquestionably true. I believe it. It is sure. It is certain. I can rest fully on it. Folks, that is really the sense that we want to get when we read this book. If we're reading this book and we're not getting that sense, then there's something wrong with the way I'm teaching it. Because that was the intent for which it was given. Let me give you a couple of distinctions of his work. One is that it was complete and accurate. That phrase perfect understanding encapsulates a few things. One is he did his research. One, he has multiple first-hand accounts But really, what is at the heart and soul of it all is that he is being guided by the Holy Spirit as he writes these words. It considers the entire picture. He says this was of all things from the very first. You know, one of the things that I think is a great weakness sometimes And the way that we teach the Bible and the way that we read the Bible and study the Bible is that we go to a passage of Scripture and we pull out a verse. We pull out a passage and we have no idea how that fits into the big picture. It's a huge problem. A lot of times we'll read a verse and we'll memorize that verse and we'll apply that verse. And if all we did was stepped around and we wrote the ten read the ten verses before it and after it, guess what we'd find out? The application was not exactly what it meant. We do this. And so one of the great challenges that we encounter is that we will go to the middle of the story and try to explain something in the middle of the story without having built the foundation first. So that we understand the significance of the middle of the story. And you know what Luke does? He goes to the beginning of the story. He goes to creation. He talks about Adam. He talks about Zecharias You say, well, who is Zecharias and why was Zecharias looking for the Messiah? What is the significance of all these statements that Zecharias makes as he's talking about this child who's going to be born? Why does the child even matter? This child named John, why does that even matter? Luke is taking us back to the beginning, and as he works his way through that, he's helping us to understand, okay, now I know why that passage is important. Because I understand foundation and I'm building on foundation and now it all makes a lot more sense That is what Luke is doing. He says, I have complete and accurate information, and I'm considering the entirety of the story. And by the way, what's amazing about what Luke does is he starts at the creation, but by the end of the book, what's he talking about? The spread of the gospel to the nations. And then what do we see in the book of Acts? We see the obedience of the church, sometimes obedient, sometimes not, but the spread of the gospel throughout the nations. And the anticipation of God's eternal kingdom. He gives you the whole picture. This account considers the flow of events and conversations. Prophecies, anticipated prediction of events that were going to take place. It gives us God 's commentary on the significance of these events. It was carefully thought out and recorded. He says, I am going to write unto thee in order. The idea is it's sequential. He's not including everything that took place. He's including the important details. You know, it's kind of interesting. Let's say that you're a teacher And you're teaching mathematics. And you're trying to teach first and second graders mathematics. And then you go to the next class and you're teaching third through fifth graders mathematics. And then you're going and you're teaching mathematics to seventh and eighth graders, and then a tenth grader, and then a senior in high school, and now you're teaching entry-level calculus. And now you're getting into engineering. Question: Are there different kinds of mathematics or is it mathematics? Well, it's all mathematics. But what you're giving people It's kind of like what's appropriate for their level. Does that make sense? And so basically what Luke is doing is he's giving you all the important information so that you will have what you need to have a strengthened and steadfast faith. It's also very personal and it's also very practical. He says, this is that thou mightest know the certainty of those things. Luke's goal was not that Theophilus becomes just a knowledgeable person. He wanted this man, Theophilus. To be a believer who was strengthened in his faith. The kind of believer that if someone says, you recant your faith or you die, he says, I know this is true. I have to stand on it. He's the kind of person that's not going to be shaken in the wind. He's not going to give up. He's not going to quit. It's personal. It's practical. He says, I want you to know the certainty of all those things. You know, I think many times we talk about faith, our view of faith is very sentimental, it's very feely, it's very emotional Folks, faith begins with the intellect. Faith begins with the mind. Faith is reasonable. It doesn't mean that all the questions are erased, but it means that it's reasonable, it's rational, it's believable. As a person hears the gospel and as they read the scriptures, they're going to sit there and the Holy Spirit's going to say, you know that's true about yourself. You know that's true about your own nature. You can see what the Bible says about the anticipation of Christ and what he did for you and why it's important. What does he do? He convinces us through the facts, through the substance of it. Faith has to have a sure foundation, reliable. The facts don't lie. The facts build a case. And the more they're laid in front of us, the stronger our confidence is in the reliability of those facts, and the more compelled we are to embrace the truth. I want to ask you this question. Living in the 21st century, do you sometimes not view the Christian faith that way? The book of Luke is for you. The last thing I'm going to mention is this. We need our faith to be strengthened alongside Theophilus 's And verse 4 says, It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus, that thou mightest know the certainty of those things which thou hast been instructed And I asked myself the question, why are you hearing this today? Why will you be hearing this for weeks and weeks and weeks so that you can sit alongside this man Theophilus, not physically, literally. But you can sit there alongside of him and your faith can be strengthened too. You will see, oh, all of a sudden I see that that miracle that took place was a deliberate act. Connected to something that was foretold in the pro by the prophet Isaiah. That's pretty incredible. Like Jesus did that to provoke a response from the Pharisees so that he could make a point that he is the Lord of the Sabbath. What does that mean? That means he's the creator. He's the sustainer. He owns it all. When he opens the eyes of the blind, the people that are sitting there were supposed to go. You know, the prophet talks about the Messiah opening the eyes of the blind, taking the lame, and allowing them to be able to walk. No one can do these things, yet God is with them. That's the point. We need to have our faith strengthened alongside with theophiles. So I want to give you a couple of practical questions to ponder as we close. My first question is this. Has your faith been shaken by difficult experience? Has your faith been shaken by difficult experience? It's very easy for us to grow up in the church, to live our lives, and our faith is never really tested. And all of a sudden, something tragic takes place in our life. The life of a close friend, a family member. Something happens that's extremely disruptive, and all of a sudden Because our faith was very sentimental and not rooted in facts, and we weren't convinced of the evidence. And our faith wasn't rooted in the object of Christ, the way that it ought to be, is a healthy, strong faith. We are extremely shaken by circumstance and difficulty. I asked this question, could that be you this morning? Many, many, many people who have grown up in the church walk away from the church because their faith has never been tested, get shaken at just that moment. And it knocks them down for a long time. I asked this question: has your faith been shaken by a gradual drift from the scriptures? You know, in Romans it says that faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God. There are many people that it's not an event that shakes them and they walk away from the faith for a season or they struggle in faith for a season but they literally drift It's like watching erosion at the beach. You've got to sit there for a pretty long time to see it happen. But it is most surely happening as you stand there at the beach. And our faith can be like that, where it begins to be undermined over months and years of drifting away from the scriptures, not being in the word, not interacting with godly people, not being connected to to the church. godly These kinds of things can cause us to drift. And as we drift, our faith becomes shaken. Has your faith become shaken by the skeptic's accusation? You know, it's interesting. This week I was uh I was at a show that was talking about the amazing features of the world that we live in. It was a fascinating, fascinating show. It was a beautiful show. But you know what was really amazing to me about that show? It was seeing the evidence while rejecting the obvious. It's really amazing. Statements like, we're really lucky that this planet just happens to be the right distance from the sun. I'm like, really? Really lucky that this planet happens to be the right distance from the sun that it can sustain life. That water is at the right temperature that it can be drunk and used. Not frozen, not a gas. They talked about all these fascinating features like the fact that the moon and the sun are or the moon and the earth are positioned the way they are and how we have tides that that causes the flowing of the seas and how important that is to life in this world. They talked about all these fascinating things, and it was all from the perspective of We're lucky that it worked out this way over billions of years. Really? Like, I know you're a brilliant person. The things that you're talking about are beautiful, they're majestic, they're fascinating, and you really believe that it was just luck? Like you really believe that? And at the end of the show, it gave us the dire warning of how important it is that we protect our planet. So that this wonderful planet that by random chance ended up exactly where it is and seems to be flourishing and thriving by random chance. We are the only hope to preserve this planet. And I go, really? Like, okay. And I ask myself the question, how do you reason to those positions? Is that not a contradictory viewpoint? That random chance creates it? And we, the intelligent ones, are the only ones that can keep it going? Like, okay. Folks, we are bombarded with the accusations of the skeptics. There are many, many people that love to trash the scriptures There are many young people that go into school, go into the military, go into the workforce, and there are people that are just waiting to destroy their faith. It is their avowed purpose in life to undermine the faith Of an unsuspecting young Christian who grew up in a church just like this one, but has never had their faith tested. Folks, we need the book of Luke. I asked the question, has your faith ever truly been tested? Do you wonder if the events that you hear about being taught about in the scriptures are actually true? I have good news for you. Our faith is not simply in feelings. It is substantive. It's not simply sentimental. It is factually based. It rests in a real person and his real redemptive work. This person's life and ministry are the real fulfillments of a story that began all the way back in the book of Genesis. When we see key events in the Old Testament where God's plan could have been destroyed, and he steps in and he does the miraculous, you know what's a reminder of? That God sustains the world he made. That God upholds his promises, that he is faithful, that he is strong, that he is good, he is trustworthy. We can rely upon what he said. Folks, I think what we will see as we study the scriptures is that the evidence can be weighed and should be found overwhelmingly compelling. My prayer is that our faith will be strengthened as we walk through the events that are recorded for us in the book of Luke. As we read the parables, as we Hear the stories that Christ gave, his teachings, the way he interacted with the religious elites, his disciples, the skeptics, the doubters, our faith will be strengthened. God 's Word is a wonderful, wonderful book. And I want to encourage you, let's be people who are lovers of the truth. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord. To really help us to be a people whose faith is strengthened as we read these wonderful truths of Scripture. Let's bow. Father, thank you so much for the book of Luke. I'm really looking forward to being able to get into this study. It's going to be so practical and so rich as we move through these texts of Scripture. As we see the teachings of Christ, as we see these miracles, as we see how he handled people, as we see how he refers back to the Old Testament scriptures. As we see how God continues his plan of redemption, I pray that we would walk away having hearts that are overwhelmed with gratitude, with joy, and conviction that in fact these things are true. I pray that you'll bless each person that has joined us both physically and on the live stream. I pray that we would leave this place having hearts that have been encouraged by the word. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.