All right, well let's go ahead and take our Bibles tonight and turn to 1 Corinthians 14. And we are dealing with a passage that is a part of a topic that has been very, very It seems like we've been here a long time, I'll put it that way, but chapters 12, 13, and 14 in 1 Corinthians are all kind of dealing with this topic of spiritual gifts. And the problem with the way that the church at Corinth was practicing or attempting to practice their spiritual gifts, and obviously it was a huge enough problem that Paul would spend three chapters addressing it. And with that comes a lot of interpretive challenge, and that gets into this issue of tongues and prophecy, and are these for today, and how should we look at this text? What we're going to do tonight is we're going to continue this really introduction to chapter 14. And I'm going to read a couple of the verses, not going to read the whole section because it's fairly lengthy. And then I'm going to hit the highlights of where we were last week and then kind of continue in this introduction. So 1 Corinthians chapter 14, first of all, verse number one. Here's what it says. Follow after charity and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that you may prophesy. Verse 12, for as much as you are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek that ye may excel to the edifying of the church. Verse 19, In the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding, that by my voice I might teach others also than 10,000 words. in an unknown tongue. Brethren, be not children in understanding, howbeit in malice, be ye children, but in understanding be men. Now if you remember last week we talked about there are basically three parts to chapter 14. So the first part is verses 1 through 19, and I would summarize it with this statement. Paul contrasts the value of speaking in tongues or languages that are are being talked about here, and prophecy in corporate worship And verse number one says, follow after charity, desire spiritual gifts, but rather that you may prophesy. So that one verse kind of tells you where Paul is going. If we're to compare tongue's prophecy, one is more beneficial to the church. And he's going to explain this why that is. Then we come to the second part, that's verses 20 through 25, he's explaining why prophecy is more valuable to the body than tongues. And so we see in this statement, brethren, do not be children in understanding, howbeit in malice be ye children, but in understanding be men. Another way to put this is Be mature in how you look at this issue. If you look at it through the eyes of a matured individual, it should be very clear to you how to address this issue. Then the third part is verses 26 through 40. He says, or I would summarize it by saying he is dictating the regulations. for corporate worship. So in a context where speaking in tongues is going on in the church, genuine tongues, not A fake, but the real deal, and genuine prophecy, this is how the church was supposed to regulate the use of those gifts in the body itself. And so he says it this way, how is it then, brethren, when you come together, every one of you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, hath a revelation, hath a interpretation, let all things be done unto edifying. He's also going to talk about let everything be done decently and in order. And so the idea is that he's going to give a lot of instruction on how they were supposed to actually do this. So if you've been following this study throughout the last several weeks, you know that it's my view that The gift of speaking in tongues, as is talked about in these verses, is not something that is normative in church today. This is something that has passed away. And the reason that I believe it has passed away is because The purpose for which it's given is something that was isolated to the first century. And so this is not something that we would expect to be going on in the church today. Also, when we talk about prophecy and the way that he's talking about it here, I also believe that that is something that the specific gift that he's talking about here is also not being practiced in the church in the same way either, because again in the first century during the time of the Apostles and the Prophets This is a necessary gift for the communication of divine instruction. But now that we have the scriptures and the apostles are dead and gone, now this gift is no longer in operation as it was at that time. Now that being said, someone might say, well, then what's the point of studying this text of Scripture if you don't believe that this is actually a normative practice in the church today? Well, all of Scripture is important. It is valuable. And the reality is when we go to passages that are talking about situations , that are different than our own, that does not mean that there aren't principles for us to learn from those passages of Scripture that in fact do apply here today. And so we could talk about something as simple as studying the Mosaic Law We go to the Mosaic Law, we are no longer under that legal system. That's something that has passed. We are under a new system during the church age. But when we go to those laws, we can look at those laws and understand that there are certain cases that are being addressed. And those cases are really being explained in a way that's consistent with God's character and a very specific situation at that time. And so to help us with that, the second part of what we talked about, which was the majority of our time last week, is how do we deal with these case law situations so that we can actually Derive biblical principle, and then hopefully apply the text in a way that is consistent. We could say rightly dividing the word of truth. And these were the things that I shared. First of all, we need to understand how to study this concept of the law. We talked about a dispensational framework and that word dispensation means an administration. When we look at the Old Testament versus the New Testament, we need to recognize that God was working through a nation in the Old Testament. He's working through the body of Christ, the church, in the New. We talked about a lot of different culture examples, and we dug into many of them, or I should say we addressed quite a few of those, and the reason that I brought those issues up is to simply say That while there are cultural things that are going on today that are different from those days, those principles that are timeless apply today just as much as they did then. And so we have to go into the context, we have to understand what was going on in the cultural setting, we have to understand the character of God, we have to understand the principle that is being applied in that way, and then realize, hey That principle still applies today. In fact, one of the best ways that we can do this is we can look at how maybe Paul or James or Peter, how they would take an Old Testament example and how they would apply that in the New Testament context. Because what it does is it shows you how the principle stands between the Old Testament example and the New Testament example. And so we dealt with that particular issue quite a bit. And then we move to the character of God. The word that we'd use is the word immutable. And what that means is that God's character does not change. In fact, in Malachi 3. 6 he says, I'm the Lord, I change not. And the next little statement is very interesting. Therefore, you sons of Jacob are not consumed. You say, well, what's he saying? He's saying, if I was a God that changed, you'd all be dead. But I made promises to your forefathers And those promises to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob and to Moses and all of those descendants all the way up to your time, those promises that I made thousands of years ago, I do not change. My character is the same. I'm going to be faithful to my word, and that's why you're still here. Pretty amazing statement, is it not? So God's character doesn't change. What that tells us Is that the principles that are applied in the Old Testament, they apply today. And not only do they apply today, they're going to apply forever because they are tied to the unchanging character of God. Next, we saw that these principles, and I went through a bunch of them. I talked about marriage, I talked about God 's institution of governments, male and female, some of those things. And how important it is that we recognize that these are built on unchanging principles. The last thing I talked about was how you can have a principle that actually applies in several different ways. And the example that I gave was the example of the statement from Deuteronomy 25, where it says, thou shalt not muzzle the ox. that treads out the corn. And Leviticus 19, 13, where it says, Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbor or rob him of his wages that is hired. He shall not abide with thee all night until the morning. Those two statements that are made in Deuteronomy and in Leviticus, one is talking about how you take care of an animal. And one is talking about how you take care of someone who is working for you. The principle is that if you have gotten a benefit from an animal, you should take care of it. The principle is that if somebody has worked for you and they have earned a wage that they're going to use to feed themselves, you are stealing from them if you don't pay them. It's pretty amazing to think about. And so how does that principle apply? Well, he applies it to someone who's an itinerant preacher. Luke 10, Jesus talks about those who are being sent out. And he says, when you come to the house, if they welcome you in and they house you and shelter you and feed you, stay there. Why? Because the laborer is worthy of his hire. He's using the exact same principle. But it's a very different kind of context. Or we see in 1 Corinthians chapter 9, Paul talks about how he is a church planter who has been spiritually ministering to the church. And by the way, what I think is really interesting about this 1 Corinthians 9 example is that Paul is saying, I have the right to expect you to take care of me, and I won't take it, because I don't want you to use this as leverage. So that I can't communicate the Word of God to you the way that I should, and you kind of hang that over my head. So he makes the point that he has the right to expect it and they have the responsibility to give it. But again he uses this principle. The ox should not be muzzled if it's treading out the corn. And the person who has The laborer is worthy of his hire, he uses this exact same illustration. So what does that show you? Timeless truth, principle tied to the character of God. Here's another road of application that we could go down. For then we have the example of the pastor, 1 Timothy 5, 17. Let the elders who rule well be counted worthy of double honor. Especially those who labor in the word and doctrine. The scriptures sayeth, thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treads out the corn, and the laborer is worthy of his reward. What I love about these examples is it shows you how to properly interpret passages of scripture that establish a principle, they give you a case. It's tied to the character of God, and then you see how to appropriately apply it in different contexts that, in fact, the principle applies. So let's move to the third part, and that's what we want to get into tonight. For the sake of understanding this passage a little bit better, I want us to consider some important We could say observations about the case that Paul is presenting here. The case of prophecy in tongues. And I think that this is important because as we get into the details and we say, here are the principles. I think it's important to recognize that this issue of tongues is something that is almost nowhere else in the Bible. But it's dealt with extremely significantly in this particular text. And I think there's a significance to that. So let's work our way through these, and then I'll give you some thoughts as to why I think this is important for us to recognize. All right, first thing is this. Tongues, and by the way, tongues is not talking about like what's in your mouth here. It's talking about a language that's being spoken but unknown to the individual, okay? Tongues is never addressed in another epistle. Isn't that really interesting? It's not even talked about in 2 Corinthians. It's mentioned in Acts. Acts is not an epistle, okay? It's a continuation of the book of Luke But Acts is giving you the story of the progression of the gospel from Jerusalem to Judea, Samaria, and then the uttermost parts of the earth. And each of those examples where the gospel goes from one place to the next What we see is that there are signs that accompany the gospel coming to those people, and the the signs that came were supposed to verify to those who were believers that the same gospel that we've embraced, they've embraced. The same church that we have been placed into the body of Christ. is the same body of Christ that they have been placed into as well. And so they needed to be treated as brothers and sisters in Christ. who have the same spirit, are part of the same body. So there is a sign that is going on in each of these examples. And you can see the progression. We know this passage is talked about at great lengths, chapters 12, 13, and 14, but never talked about in any other epistles. Isn't that interesting? Now, just for the sake of comparison, I want you to realize that it's very different than a lot of the other topics that Paul talks about in 1 Corinthians. I'm going to give you some examples, okay? Paul has a lot to say about sexual sin in the church at Corinth. A lot. And there's a reason for that. It's because the church was in a very pagan context, and there were a lot of people in that church who were saved out of very, very pagan backgrounds, and the truth is that they had not entirely separated from their former lives. And so Paul had to address this issue. He took tremendous amount of time to address this issue. And guess what? You go to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, and guess what it does? He talks about the exact same topic. He says that we are to flee fornication. Every man should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. He talks about sexual sin as being a defrauding of another person, taking something that does not belong to you. So we see that topic. Ephesians chapter 5. He talks, he gives this whole list of sins, and the very first one that he mentions is fornication. And he says, and all uncleanness. And by the way, that is a description of lots and lots of different ways that people abuse God's good gift of male, female sex marriage. Colossians chapter 3, he says, mortify your members which are. And he lists a whole list of sexual sins. What's the point? Well, obviously, this is something that had to be addressed to a lot of different churches. 1 Corinthians, 2 Corinthians, 1 Thessalonians, Ephesians, Colossians, Romans. Why is that? Well, because it's universally a problem in churches. Second example, church unity. He has a lot to say about church unity. In fact, the whole first part of 1 Corinthians is dealing with this topic. And then in Philippians chapter 2, he talks about the fact that we are to have the mind of Christ. And he says, if there are any affections in you, if any vows of compassion, he says you're to be like-minded like Christ. He says, Let this mind be in you. which is also in Christ Jesus. And then he he takes the example of Christ and he says, you're supposed to have that kind of a love for others so that you have unity in the body. Ephesians chapter 4. We just dealt with this passage on Sunday morning. He talks about the fact that God gives gifts to the church. He gives apostles and prophets and evangelists and pastors and teachers. for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all what? Come into the unity of the faith, a fully matured individual. And so what does he do? He's talking about unity, big time in the book of Ephesians. In the book of Colossians, he's talking about unity. In Romans chapter 12, he talks about unity. He says, be of the same mind, one toward another. So this is a topic that's all over the epistles. Third example, issues of liberty of conscience. First Corinthians has a lot to say about this issue of the conscience. And we spent a lot of time talking about this topic. He he talks about how to deal with issues of meat. that's been offered to idols, meat that's been used in the pagan temples. How are we supposed to y look at this issue? It's a conscience issue. We go to the book of Romans, chapter 14, and guess what? He deals with this issue of conscience. Now, the issue of conscience is going to be uh dealt with a little bit different in Romans, because rather than him dealing with the pagan temple and meat that's offered unto idols. Paul is addressing this issue of how you are supposed to handle days and and and practices that would have been basically different between Judaism, someone from a Jewish background, and a Gentile background, issues of conscience. We go to the book of Galatians. The entire book is written to address issues of conscience. And so we see, do not be entangled again with the yoke of bondage. So, liberty and conscience talked about a lot in these epistles. The resurrection. The entire chapter in 1 Corinthians 15. Dedicated to the resurrection. You go to 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, he says, I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning those who are asleep. That you do not sorrow as those who have no hope. And what does he do? He says that people who have died and are with the Lord, we're going to go and see them again because there's a resurrection of the dead. 1 Thessalonians, or 1 Timothy chapter 2. He talks about this issue of the resurrection as well. Then we come to this issue of spiritual gifts, and I think this is one that is very, very important. There are a list of spiritual gifts in 1 Corinthians There are lists of first of spiritual gifts in Romans. There are lists of spiritual gifts in Ephesians. There are lists of spiritual gifts in 1 Peter. Guess what you will see that's different from 1 Corinthians to Romans, Ephesians, and 1 Peter. Tongues is never mentioned outside of 1 Corinthians as a gift that's given to the church as a spiritual gift. By the way, prophecy is in these texts. And that's different. I'm just observing. That's all I'm doing. I'm just showing you the facts there. And then we can even talk about the roles of women in corporate worship. By the way, in 1 Corinthians, there's a lot to say about that. Same in 1 Timothy 2 and in Titus 2. Now, why am I taking lengths to bring this up? It's to say this. Something that was very prominent in this one book. Is not talked about in the others. That tells you that there was a very distinct problem at Corinth that was not being seen in the other churches. Third fact I want you to notice. The applications that are given in 1 Corinthians relating to corporate worship are mirrored in the other epistles. But in the absence of a reference to tongues. For instance, in 1 Corinthians, when he talks about corporate worship, he talks about what women can and can't do in the corporate worship context. And it's specifically applied to the issue of speaking in tongues. He talks about it in 1 Timothy 2 as well, but guess what? He doesn't talk about it in the sense of tongues or prophecy, he talks about it in the sense of teaching. Fact number four. Prophecy is addressed in five other epistles. In Romans 12, he talks about prophecy. In Ephesians 2, 3, and 4 he talks about prophecy. In 1 Thessalonians 5, he talks about prophecy. In 1 Timothy 1 and 4, he talks about prophecy In 2 Peter chapter 1, he mentions prophecy, though that is a little bit different setting that I'm going to address in a minute. Do you see how there's a big difference between the prominence given to tongues? versus these other gifts. So I have this question. Why is it that in some churches, a gift that is only talked about in one epistle Why is that in many people's minds the most prominent way that the Spirit expresses himself in the modern church? It's because they're really not studying the scriptures accurately. That's really the honest truth. Fact number five, and this one to me is I think maybe the most significant. There is a dramatic shift in the way that the apostles instruct their disciples at the end of their ministries versus earlier. What I mean by that is that you can see a distinct change in the way that the church is being taught early And in the latter part of the apostles' ministry. For instance, in the pastoral epistles, 2 Peter and Jude, these are the books that were written by Timothy or by Paul at the end of his ministry, 2 Timothy. 2 Peter, Peter right before he dies, Jude right before he dies. These these these books Prophecy is never referenced as an active gift in the church or a gift that should be expected. These same books reference preaching and teaching sound doctrine as a faithful minister. 33 times. Do you get what I'm saying there? What I'm saying is at the end of their ministries, they're not saying, look for the prophets and see what they have to say. They say. Read the scriptures and preach them. There's a body of doctrine that has been delivered to you. Expound it. In other words, early on in the ministry of the apostles, they're giving information that's not yet there. At the end of their ministry, they're saying, we have finished what God called us to do. That's now what you're going to preach and teach for the rest of church history. That's the difference. And that's very significant. Let me read to you what I'm saying here. For instance, 2 Timothy 3. 16. Listen to what it says. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness. That the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. I charge thee therefore before God and the Lord Jesus Christ who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing in his kingdom to preach the word. So what is Paul telling Timothy to do before he dies? He's saying, take the scriptures that have been given and preach them faithfully. Don't deviate from them in any way. In other words, you're not supposed to be looking for new revelation to come along. You're supposed to be focused in on the revelation that has been given. The timeless authoritative, pure, inspired word of God. That, by the way, will thoroughly equip us for every good work. It's sufficient. Or we could go to Jude chapter 1. There's only one chapter. Verse 3 and 4. Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you and exhort you that you should earnestly contend for the faith. Which was once delivered unto the saints, there are certain men crept in unawares. Here's what he's saying. There's a standard that has been deposited. The faith, sound doctrine, the ministry of the apostles. It's been given. And now that it's been given, you need to be very cautious. That you develop discernment to recognize if someone is trying to draw you away from the standard of Scripture. Now, what do these two texts have in mind? Or have in common? They both have in common that these men before they die are saying, go back to the standard of Scripture. That's what stamps. But the most prominent example is in 2 Peter 1. Turn there in your Bibles, because I think it's so important that we see it. 2 Peter 1, verse 15. Here's Peter. He's about to die. And this is going to sound exactly like what Peter, what Paul has said. Exactly like what Jude has said. He says, I will endeavor that you may be able, after my decease, by the way, he's about to be martyred To have these things always in remembrance. Well, what things? Well, the things that he's been teaching them. The gospel, sound doctrine. His ministry has been given. Now he wants him to remember it. So what does he say? He says, we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus. We were eyewitnesses of his majesty. He says we didn't make this stuff up. We weren't looking at things and just kind of coming up with our own spin on it. We were giving you something that was true. True, historically reliable, accurate. We were eyewitnesses. But this statement is really amazing. We have a more sure word of prophecy whereunto you do well to take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place. Now, is there anybody in this room? I'm not going to ask you to raise your hand, because some of us, if we're honest, would have to. But do you not remember things from the past as well as you used to? You know, you're like you're sitting there having a conversation with your spouse and uh you know my wife will be like, oh, do you remember such and such a birthday party? And I'm like I mean I don't want to say no, but I really don't. Or I'd be like, oh yeah, I remember that, and I'm like relating something. That's not how I remember it. Well, here's the truth. We might have been there, saw things. We were experiencing this event with other people But you know, there comes a time where like you don't really know if you've really remembered that accurately. You just you really don't like you actually don't know Like you don't want to just be like bull-headed about it and be like, oh yeah, I know exactly what happened and and you really did it. You don't want to be like that. So you you almost have to kind of be a little bit softer, like, ah, yeah, I'm my my memory's a little fuzzy there So here's what he's saying. There is something that is more sure than our remembrance of what we saw. And by the way, we should be glad about that. Well, how is that possible? How is it possible that these guys can say there's something that's more sure than their recall and their interpretation of what they saw? Well, it's because they were guided by the Spirit of God as they wrote. And what they wrote was a perfect reflection of what actually took place. And it's exactly what God wanted them to record and be preserved for us. And so he goes on to say this. The prophecy did not come. No prophecy of the scriptures of any private interpretation. And what he means by that is like your own understanding of those events. When we're reading the Bible, we're not just getting how Paul saw it, we're getting God's word through a human instrument, Paul. God's word through a human instrument, Peter. Not just their take on it, their interpretation, it's the word of God. The prophecy never came in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spoke as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. And then right after this he says, But there were false prophets among the people. Even so, there shall be false teachers among you who will privately bring in damnable heresies. Here's what's very interesting about all three of these examples. All three of these examples, you have an apostle who's about to die. In all three of these examples, you have an apostle who's about to die who is pointing people to a perfect standard that they are to preach and teach and hold fast to. And all three examples, these individuals are concerned that after they're gone, though the standard has been left, there'll be people who come in. And they twist the truth because they don't have fast to the standard. Now here's why I bring all this up. To show you that there is clearly a distinct change. And the way that these men taught within the apostolic period. There is no question that early on in the ministry of Paul and Peter and John and James, that there were prophets in the church. There's no question about it. The question is Did that role and that ministry continue to be prominent as it was in the early days, or did it eventually move off the scene because now there's something that has replaced it? That's the key. And the answer, I believe, is absolutely that's the case. Because if it wasn't, they would be saying, look for the prophets to continue our work. Look for the prophets and listen to what they have to say. That's not what they're saying. They're saying, we did it. Now you go back to the standard. It's written down for you. It's every word of scripture God breathed. Go back to the standard and preach it and teach it. and hold fast to it and don't deviate it from it and don't follow people that deviate from it. That's what he's saying. You can see that distinction. And so here's some considerations that I would give as my my thoughts on this. Since Tongue does not mention the other epistles, we could conclude one of a few possibilities. One would be there is clearly a shift within the lifetime of the apostles. To me, that's very clear. Two, if tongues was active in all other churches, it was not being practiced. Problematically, the way that it was at Corinth. I mean, if it was a problem in these other places, he would have clearly addressed it. He addressed sexual sins. Unity in the church, church discipline. I mean, you go down a whole list of things. He doesn't address this issue. We should ask why. 3. The fact that it was never mentioned in 2 Corinthians means either it ceased to be a problem or it ceased to be practiced. Fourthly, I'm skeptical of the second. I'll just put that out there. That's my opinion though. And the fact is it's not mentioned, the fact that it's not mentioned in the other books makes me suspicious that even within the lifetime of the apostles it was rarely witnessed in the other churches. The point that I'm trying to make is this. When we come to 1 Corinthians 12, 13, and 14. We should still study this text. We should understand what is there. We should understand the principles, but we should recognize that this is not something that we're going to be anticipating seeing in the church today So how do we approach it? This is how I'm going to approach the rest of our study in verse chapter 14. If tongues and prophecy are active in the church. The instruction is absolutely and directly binding. In the first century, they needed to do exactly what it's saying. By the way, if it was still going on today, we'd be under the exact same uh situations. If somebody says, hey In our church, over wherever that we have real prophecy going on, we have real tongues, and they say this is the genuine thing, and they are Laying out biblically they believe that this is the real thing, then I would say if you really believe that's the real thing, then you absolutely need to be following what it says in 1 Corinthians 14. And a lot of people don't. The underlying principles that shape this instruction are universally applicable and need to be understood. The truth is that when Scripture approaches one area in the church, in worship, or in the family, even if that same situation, that exact same situation is not going on today, or in our particular context, The principle that was applied in that situation needs to be applied in ours. And so we need to understand it in that way. Fourthly, we're going to do our best to try to observe the underlying principles and drive to those applications. And that's what I'm going to do. Not tonight, obviously. And we will present some practical ways to apply these principles to our immediate situation. What I'm saying is the goal is we're going to say, here's what it's saying, here's what was going on, and I and there's still gonna be question marks, because there is debate about some of these things. Here are the principles that applied in those particular scenarios, and here are some comparable situations that we encounter in our current context, how we should apply these particular principles. principles. That's what we're going to do. And so to the best of our ability, let's try to do that in future weeks. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, I thank you for this text in front of us. And I thank you for the fact that we need to wrestle with these issues, dig into them, hopefully understand them. And then apply them. And I pray that as a church we would do the best that we can to do that. And I pray that whenever we come to other passages of Scripture, maybe situations that seem very foreign to ours Situations that maybe there were cultural things going on we didn't even understand at the time. I pray that we would dig deeply into those texts. Do the best that we can to understand what was going on. See what principles, timeless truths are there in that passage, and then very soberly And consistently attempt to study your word and apply it in our lives. We ask this in Christ's name, Amen.