Please take your Bibles and let's turn together to the book of 2 Timothy. And as I mentioned uh this morning I wanted to take some time to deal with a topic that I think is really important as we go into the summer, and this summer we're going to have some college interns, which is something I'm very excited about. And what I want to do is I want to talk to you a little bit about the importance of the church having a burden to invest in the generation that's coming behind them. And I'm going to start out with a couple of statistics. Some of these are a little bit dated. They're about two years old. I tried to see if I could find any updated from these recent, from those surveys. I say recent. Um they're they're two years old now. But I would say that the dynamics probably haven't changed very much since the time that these surveys were given. If anything, it might actually be slightly worse. than it was at the time that this was done. So let's go ahead and pick up in 2 Timothy chapter 2. We'll begin reading in verse number 1 and then we're going to look at a couple of details here. Here's what it says. Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. The things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that worth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. And, if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned except he strive lawfully The husbandman that laboreth must be first partakers of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we dig into this passage of Scripture and as we think about the great need in every generation to invest in those who are coming behind them Father, I pray that we'd have a clear understanding of our biblical duty as a church. And help us to also see the opportunity that is in front of us this summer. But not just this summer, it's really an opportunity that is constantly in front of us as we have young people growing up in our church who we have the responsibility to pour our lives into. And so, Father, as we dig into this concept, as we dig into this passage, as we think about these truths, I pray that you would touch our hearts. Help our hearts to be moved by the great needs of our time. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. I want to give you a couple of statistics that are from an article that I read online. Again, this was from April 2023. So the dynamics are basically the same, perhaps A little bit worse, but essentially the same. First thing that I that I that caught my attention as reading this article was that it said that one in four pastors will retire in the next five years. I know that in our congregation right here we have some folks that are probably in that near retirement stage. My mom and dad just recently retired and uh they are excited about that and they're enjoying that. And uh we're hoping we're gonna get to see them more at some point once they're done working on all this stuff with their house. But the fact is that we put in those years of work And then there comes a time where we start realizing it's not that people are just lazy and don't want to work anymore. I mean sometimes that might be the case, but really what people realize is, you know what, my priorities have changed. My energy level is not what it used to be The fact is that I can't keep up with what I'm doing. There are people coming behind me that really can do it better than I can, and I've reached a point where I need to re-prioritize and start doing some other things. That's true when we talk about the workforce. That's also true when we talk about ministry. The fact is that ministry takes a great toll on people. And when ministry takes a toll on people, there comes a point when physically they can't do what they used to do. Or they certainly can't do it the way they used to do it. There are things that you can do better the older that you get, and there are things that you can't do better. And so in the next five years, nearly a quarter of pastors are going to step aside from ministry and hand the baton over to hopefully someone else. The average age of a pastor in the United States, and by the way, this this is not like independent Baptist or anything like that. This is just a very broad spectrum of churches. Maybe we could use the word evangelical very broadly, but the average age of a pastor in the United States is 52. Some of you are going, that's pretty young. But the truth is the 52-year-old's kids are in college. A lot of their kids are married, they're grandparents, and the truth is that they are moving very closely into that stage where they're going to start thinking about retirement. Only 16% of current pastors are 40 years old or younger. I am no longer in this category myself, actually. In 1992, that number was 33%. It was double. In 1968, that number was 55 %. You can see what's going on here. There's a trend. Now there are great benefits to being an older pastor. There are a lot of experiences that you have that are going to be a tremendous help to the people in the congregation. But there are also some things that you could say are detractors. The biggest thing that I want you to notice though is the trend. What it's showing you Is that as pastors age out, there are not new pastors coming in to fill these roles. That's why the number is going up. It's not because people are living older, it's because there are fewer pastors coming in who are younger. In fact, nearly 80% of pastors, according to the survey, are concerned that their churches are not rising to the responsibility to train up the next generation of church leaders. I don't know any pastors that think they're doing an amazing job, okay? But the idea is that these are people who are concerned. They're looking out over their congregation and they're realizing we're getting older. We're not seeing youth. We're not seeing ministry-minded people that are stepping into these roles. They're very, very concerned about it. In fact, one of the comments that I get from a lot of people who visit our church Who are older, uh who maybe they're just passing through the area and they're visiting family or friends, or uh maybe they've moved to the area and they're looking for a church. One of the comments that I get, and I get it all the time, is they say you have a lot of young people in your church proportionate to what we are seeing in the other places that we have visited. But the fact is that what we have should be normal. But it's not. What does it tell you? It tells you that there is a problem in the American Church. And there are a lot of factors that are probably contributing to this. The fact is we have an aging culture. There are other areas within our culture where people are saying, you know, we don't have younger people taking these roles. There's a a big push to get people to go into the trades. Why is that? Because there are a lot of plumbers that go, when I retire, I don't know who's going to replace me. And there are a lot of electricians who are like, when I retire, I don't know who's going to replace me. The fact is there are a lot of young people that just don't want to go into these jobs. They want to sit in an office. They want to be a professional. They want to have a nice, easy schedule. And the fact is that there are people that have to do these jobs. A lot of people aren't willing to do it. There's a breakdown of strong families. In my opinion, this is probably one of the greatest contributing factors. If people are not growing up in strong homes, it's going to affect them when they go into adulthood. It's going to affect them when it comes to getting married. It's going to affect them in how they raise their families. It's going to affect them in lots and lots of different ways. Many pastors and many churches have failed to intensively disciple the rising generation. And many churches are living off of the momentum of older generations. What I mean by that is that there are a lot of churches that 20 and 30 years ago were very strong and very vibrant, but there were internal problems. It's not not known to the people in the congregation, maybe not even known to the pastor, but the fact is there was a group of young people that wasn't coming behind the older anymore. And the church, because of all the infrastructure that was there, was able to kind of continue on the fumes of the past generation, but that does not last indefinitely. Eventually the momentum runs out, and the church ages. So the question is, what are we supposed to do? I would say that as a church, we must invest in the families of this church. We must thoroughly disciple every member of the church. And if we do this the way that we should, God is going to bless that. The passage in front of us is a passage that really is going to hammer out this point, and I want you to see that, and then I want to kind of apply this in the context of internships and why I think that they're so important. So, as we look at this passage, what we see is that ministry leaders have to pour their lives into the next generation. Those who receive this investment must passionately embrace their future duties. There are two sides to this. There could be a problem on the side of those who are older, they're not giving a good example, they're not willing to be vulnerable, they're not willing to teach, they're not willing to take the time It could be a problem on the side of the younger generation. They're not willing to listen. They're not willing to pour their lives into the things that are put in front of them. They're not willing to make those commitments. They're afraid. They're not willing to take the hard thing seriously. There could be a problem on either side. But the reality is we need to do this right. And if we don't, within a generation, there'll be a massive gap. So how can we do this? How can we pour our lives into the next generation the way that God wants us to? Well Let's dig into the text this evening and then we'll work into some application. The first thing I want you to notice from the word is that every generation will experience generational transition. This is true in every area of life, not just in the church. It's true in the workplace. It's true in the family. It's true in every single area of society. He says in verse 21, Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Why does Timothy write these words, or why does Paul write these words to Timothy? The simple answer is he realizes that he's coming to the end of his race. And he's feeling the weight of that. And he realizes that he's going to have to pass the baton to this next man, Timothy. And he wants to do it very, very well. Notice in chapter 4, verses 6 through 8, same book, here's what it says. I am ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me the crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day. Paul realizes his race is about to end. And he also feels the weight of the fact that there are some that he has ministered with along the way that have fallen by the wayside There are people that abandoned him. There are people that actually turned against him. There are people that were not standing with him at that time when they had been in the past. And so he's feeling the weight of this as well. He's feeling the weight of isolation. He's feeling the pain of disappointments. And he's desiring that Timothy will not be discouraged when Paul is no longer there with him. And so look down in chapter 1, verse 15. He says, all they which are in Asia be turned away from me, of whom is Phagelis and Hermogenes Paul's saying, these are people that have turned against me. They're no longer working with me. They're no longer beside me. In fact, they're really antagonistic to what I'm doing. In chapter 4, verse 10, he says, Demas has forsaken me, having loved this present world. We really don't know what he means by that. We don't know if he's saying that Demas has apostatized, he's no longer professing to be a Christian, or if he's someone who he's still professing to be a believer, nothing like that, but he's not serving in the ministry any longer. He has gotten distracted away from that high calling of preaching and teaching the Word of God, and that being your consuming passion, and now Demas is pursuing other things. He loves this present world more than that eternal weight of glory that awaits those who are faithful. In chapter four, verse sixteen, he says, At my first answer, no one stood with me, all men forsook me. I pray God it may not be laid to their charge. These are people that Paul would have expected to stand alongside of him when he stands in the courtroom, but instead because of fear they've abandoned him, they've run from him. So Paul is feeling the weight of his race ending. He's feeling the weight of those whom he loved, whom he worked with, whom he served with, having abandoned him, having turned against him, out of fear they've departed, pursuing the things of this world rather than godly pursuits. And he wants Timothy to carry on in his absence. And so notice what he says in chapter 4, verse 1. I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ to preach the word Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. Watch. Endure affliction. Do the work of an evangelist. Make full proof of your ministry. In chapter 3, verse 10, he says, Timothy, I want you to follow my example. You have fully known my doctrine, my manner of life, purpose, faith, long-suffering, charity, patience, persecutions, afflictions. Now I want you to think about this. What Paul is concerned about is that those who are coming behind him, they're going to see both the faithfulness and the endurance and the struggle, but they're also going to feel the weight of that being on their shoulders as well Nobody should go into ministry without recognizing that in fact it will be a great weight that they will carry. They should not go into ministry simply on emotion. In fact, this is one of the things that has really bothered me about the way that people present ministry. We go to camp. We go to Christian college in some of these contexts. The way that ministry is presented, it's the greatest thing you could ever do You're going to be so happy and it's going to be so wonderful. And people get emotionally stirred. I want to be a part of a cause. And then they get in the trenches and they're like, I don't like having a 24-7 job I don't like having to go to people and and I gotta address their problems and they don't even want me to address their problems or people come to me with issues and I I have no idea what to tell them Or I see people moving in a direction, and I know for a fact that what they are doing is so destructive. It's destructive personally, it's destructive in the church, it's destructive in their family, and they don't want to hear it. That's a huge burden. And the fact is sometimes people in their own head, they're not thinking clearly, especially when they feel all the pressures. And so what Paul is concerned about is as Timothy has observed all these things. He's going to be tempted to shrink away. And by the way, let me let me say something. I don't want to give you the impression ministry is horrible. I love ministry But I don't want to give you the impression that it's easy and it's like, ah, whatever, no big deal. The fact is someone has to be motivated. They have to feel this internal calling, and it's something that doesn't depart from them. And it continues to press them and push them. They need to go in with eyes wide open. There has to be a transition at some point. And Paul's concerned about that. Truth number two. There are two sides to healthy generational transition. Verses 1 and 2, he says, Be strong in the grace in Christ Jesus, the things thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. Now as he works his way through this passage of scripture, he's going to talk about several different things. that they need to remember. He talks about enduring hardness like a soldier. He talks about someone not entangling themselves with the affairs of this life. He talks about people striving for masteries, which is uh essentially an athletic analogy. He talks about a husbandman that's laboring. We're gonna talk about those in just a little bit. But before he gets to those analogies, notice the things that Paul says. He says, what you have heard, I want you to commit to what kind of people? Faithful men who will be able to teach others also. Christian ministry is like running a relay race. And when a person runs a race and they are running a relay race, they're not the only person running the race. One guy runs the leg and he passes on the baton to the next guy and the next guy grabs that baton and he runs his leg and the next one runs his leg and there's not just a running of race But there's a passing on of baton and a continuing on. And and and if a person doesn't do well on the front side, it affects the next guy. If a guy does very well, it affects the next guy. I want you to think about this. Every member of the team trains and they labor to improve and to be ready to do it. Every single one of them needs to run their race well. Every single one of them needs to successfully pass on the baton. And how one runs and how the transition takes place is going to affect the next leg of the race. It's true in life. It's true with our kids. If we raise our children well and we invest in them responsibly, And we give them tremendous stability and good biblical instruction and a good example. Our children will have the ability, potentially, they got to choose, okay? But they have the potential. To stand on our shoulders and go beyond us. Same thing is true on the other side. If we give them a horrible upbringing, we don't invest in them, we don't teach them, they're gonna stumble out of the gate. They're going to go into life and they're going to struggle. And yes, they'll be responsible as adults for their own decisions But some of them are going to look back and say, Dad, I wish you would have taught me such and such. And mom, I wish you would have taught me such and such. And I wish that my home life would have been a little more stable and a little better in this area and that area And the fact is that there is a contributing factor for good or bad in what we give the people coming behind us. Christian ministry is like running a race. The established generations. And when I talk about established generations, I'm talking about people who are elderly all the way to those who are in leadership but are, we could say young adults and coming into leadership. Those generations, the teachers, the workers, the laborers, the one who make up the backbone of the church, that generation has to be doing what verse number two says. What you have heard among many witnesses, commit to faithful men. Every one of us needs to be involved in this. Now, this has kind of hit me in a different way, in a different context, because my boys are playing baseball this year. I I love baseball. But the truth is I haven't played baseball for about 25 years. Okay? That's hard to believe. 25 years. That's true. 25 years. Okay? Now, when I was a teenager, baseball was my consuming passion. I mean, it was my life. That's true. I loved the sport. I don't even know the players anymore Like maybe like five people I can name them. My boys know all of them. But when my boy started playing baseball this year, I was an assistant coach, or still am an assistant coach. And you know what really hit me when I was doing this assistant coach thing? How complicated the game of baseball is. Like it just blows my mind, okay? I mean when I was a teenager just go out there and play the game, right? But we're talking about kids getting leadoffs on first base and you can seal the base, the pitcher can throw the ball to you and And they have things called balks and there's all kinds of stuff that goes on. There's cutoff men and who's supposed to cover second if the balls hit the right field. Who's supposed to cover second if the ball's hit the left field? What about if it's center but on the right side of center, on the left side of center, and all of a sudden I'm watching all this stuff and all these things are coming back and the cobwebs are kind of like getting dusted off, you know, and you're sitting there going. There's a lot of stuff you gotta teach a kid when it comes to playing the game of baseball. You gotta teach him how to hold a bat. You gotta teach him how to stand in the box. You gotta teach him how to throw the ball, catch the ball, situational awareness, all kinds of stuff. And here's the fact. Nobody teaches them they don't know. Even if you watch baseball on TV, you don't know where a cutoff man stands. Who's supposed to be the backup? You don't know any of that stuff. You don't know any of the basics. You just watch the game. Unless somebody sits down and walks you through this stuff and talks you through it, you don't know. Or you learn the hard way, and that's frustrating. Verse number two, what you've heard among many witnesses commit. to faithful men. We have to teach the generation coming behind us or they simply won't know because we haven't done our job. These generations, that would be people like me and people like most of you in this room. We need to be well-grounded Christians. It's not just about being at church. And by I want you to be at church. I'm preaching to the Sunday night crowd for crying out loud right now. These are the folks who are here, right? But the fact is, it's not just about being here and warming a pew. You know how many Christians have never read through the Bible cover to cover once in their entire lives? Some people are like, duck, that's me. Hopefully not, but it might be. Or you've read through the Bible cover to cover, but the truth is you've never sat down and intensively studied a book ever. Never taken notes in a sermon? If somebody was to ask you a question on doctrine, you'd have absolutely no way of knowing. You've not really thought about it. And there could be one of two reasons for that. One could be you're not being taught well, or the other be you're just not engaging. Every single member of the church needs to be fully engaged Learning basic doctrine, being in the Word of God, learning how to study the Bible, being intent to learn the truth. And then we all need to be faithful examples. It's not just about knowing the Bible. It's great when people understand sound doctrine. They can handle discussions very fluidly about doctrinal matters. But if they don't live out the truth, there's a huge problem. In fact, I am convinced that when a person is full of knowledge, but their life is bankrupt of the consistency that flows from that, their children know it. And their children watch it, and their children learn to loathe the doctrines that their kids or that their parents are embracing. It's true When a child watches their kids say this and do this, and they are contrary, you know what they do? They say, hypocrisy, I want nothing to do with this. But when they see a consistency, you know what it does? It says, this is real. This is good. This is transformational. I want what my parents have. I want that stability. I want that motivation. I want that eternal perspective. They see the consistency. It's not just the doctrine, but it's the practice connected with the doctrine. Every member of the church needs this. And then we have to teach what we know. Now that I don't mean that everybody has to be like a formal teacher, stands up in the pulpit, stands up in a Sunday school class, and teaches the word of God. I'm not saying that at all. There are many people that would never be comfortable in that and that's totally fine. But that does not excuse the fact that we need to be teaching the generation behind us. Every parent in this room ought to be involved in teaching your kids the word of God. God. Family devotions isn't something that you should do like once a month or once a year or whenever you feel guilty when you forget when you've forgotten, forgotten, forgotten, then you do it. It should be just a regular pattern of life. We talk about Deuteronomy chapter 6. What does he say? When you get up, when you walk, by the way, all of these areas, all of life, is supposed to be fixed on teaching the next generation, walking with them through life. We have to take time to invest. Think about it, dads, when you have a project that you need to do. What is easier? To get your son to help you or to do it by yourself. Now there might be a day that your son will do it better than you. But it's a whole lot easier to do it by yourself. Takes less time, takes a lot a lot less frustration. It is so much easier to just shut out everything that's going on. I have a job to do. I'm going to do it, and I'm not going to be bothered. And guess what happens when kids grow up in homes where dad does that over and over and over again? They become adults who don't know how to work on a car. They become adults who don't know how to change a tire. They become adults who don't know how to do the most basic things. They have no mechanical abilities. They have very little common sense when it comes to how to deal with the most basic things about taking care of a house. handling finances, all kinds of areas. They had a father or ladies, they had a mother who was excellent in certain areas, but never took the time to stop. And slow down and invest in daughters, invest in sons. We cannot do this. It covers every area of life. But I'll tell you where it will really bite us. It will really bite us when it comes to the future of the church. And then there's the future generation. He says, commit them to faithful men who will be able to teach others also. There's nothing more frustrating than trying to teach somebody something that could care less. I was having a conversation with a teacher not long ago. And they said, you know, teaching is such a rewarding thing when you have people that want to learn. And it's such a frustrating thing when you have students that are like, give me my phone back. I don't want to hear anything that you have to say. I don't care at all. The truth is if you love something and people don't have a heart to learn, it's a very frustrating thing. And so it's not just I could put all of the weight on parents. and on the generation that is running the church and the backbone of the church. But it's not just parents and grandparents and pastors. and Sunday school teachers and missionaries, the fact is that the generation coming up has to want it too. And that's got to be in their own heart. One of the reasons that Paul loved Timothy so much is because Timothy, he said, there's nobody that I know that is as like-minded as me. He cares for the church like I would. That's an amazing thing. And you know what? We know nothing about Timothy's father. What we do know is he probably did not grow up in the greatest of homes. But Timothy was a faithful man. These generations, the ones coming behind us, have to purpose to be faithful. And so this is my appeal to our our young people here. We have several here tonight. When somebody takes the time to teach you Don't push that away. There are young people whose dad would never take the time to teach them how to do basic things. If you have a dad that does, don't you dare say, oh, I'm tired, I want to do this. Don't Don't do it. That's a gift. If you have somebody who's willing to pour their time and their energy into your life, Then have a heart to hear what they have to say. They're not infallible, but they care about you enough that they're willing to do it. There has to be a willingness to absorb, to learn, to grow. There must be a desire on the part of them to look forward to the opportunity to be invested in, to mature. They must be prepared to go into whatever God has for them. And the fact is this, I'm not concerned that our church sends out all these missionaries and pastors. Well, you know what I'm really concerned about? That our young people rise up into adulthood and they love God and they are all in on whatever He has for them. And I don't know what that'll be. It's not my job to pick that out for you. It's not the job of your parents to pick it out for you. It's God's job to put it into your heart, but you've got to be a person who loves him and is committed to his purposes. And so we see that second part. Truth number three, the church has to develop resilience, focus, and patience. There are some things that it's just the way people are. Some people are more resilient than others. It's in their personality. But I'm convinced that most character qualities are not natural at all. They are developed through repetition. A person who is repeatedly in a pattern of someone working with them is someone who will develop. Notice what it says in verses 3 to 7. Endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that worth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. If a man strive for mastery, as yet is he not crowned unless he strive lawfully, the husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding. Paul used three very basic simple illustrations. The first is the illustration of a soldier. Endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. The Christian life is hard. The Christian life involves suffering. It involves pain. It involves struggle. A soldier is someone who loses his individuality. He assumes a role in a unit that is assigned to him. He's giving of himself to be a part of a team. One of the things that's wonderful about athletics, or at least it used to be, and I think it still is, if you have a coach. who cares about shaping the young people that are there is that you learn to say this isn't about you. It's about the team. You're blocking someone so that someone behind you can run, so that somebody behind you can throw a ball. You're doing a job that is focused on this so that someone else can do that. And when everybody works together, then we accomplish something. When it comes to the Christian life, the Christian life is not for individuals to go become heroes. The Christian life is about all of us working together to grow together into Christ-likeness and maturity. And so the soldier loses his individuality, he assumes a role in a unit. He has to be absolutely committed to victory, willing even to lay his own life down. There cannot be an allowment to get distracted by civilian pursuits. The highest goal has to be the pleasure of the one who has called them. And so Paul uses this analogy of warfare. And by the way, the warfare is, when we talk about the military today, we have all kinds of different jobs in the military. Where a person's never going to pick up a gun and walk out onto a field. It's true. When Paul talks about warfare in his mind, he's thinking about people with sword. Walking with shields. He's talking about people walking in a unit. And he's talking about people who are going to see the carnage of battle right in front of their faces. He uses that analogy. Why? Because the church has to develop within the next generation the focus of a soldier. If the church is going to have a future. The second illustration he uses is that of the athlete. If a man strive for mastery, he is not crowned except he strive lawfully. And by the way, the sports that they competed in in those days were were pretty combative sports. Essentially, they were taking what happens on the battlefield and they were putting it into competition. That's what boxing was. That's what wrestling was. They even had what we would consider a form of mixed martial arts. It was basically it was it was basically all out fighting. Why did they do this? Well that's what they did in battle. But they had it in competition And so these athletes had to learn to discipline their bodies, discipline their minds, train to excel in competition. They had to strive to win a prize. They had to know the rules. They had to follow the rules. And if they broke the rules, they would be disqualified. And these are the kinds of qualities that the church needs to pour into the lives of those coming behind. Discipline, self-sacrifice, a willingness to strive, a willingness to give of self. A recognition that I need to follow God's instructions and not go rogue and just do whatever I feel like doing or want to do. It's got to be important in the next generation. And they use the analogy of the farmer. The husbandman labors and must be the first partaker of the fruits. Farmers cultivate life. And if you garden, you learn that it's a little harder than it looks. Right now everything's growing great. Well come July when it's starting to get really hot you're gonna realize not so good. You know those little lantern flies? You know how they say that they're invasive? Let me tell you they're invasive. I was out in my backyard yesterday and I was with my wife and I said, Do you see all those little black bugs? They look like little weevils that are all over our beautiful grapevines? You know what those are? Those are lantern flies How are we going to get rid of these things? They're everywhere. And unfortunately, I may find out that they're going to win this year. I don't know. Or maybe you're planting potatoes and they're looking really good and all of a sudden you have these little potato bugs that are that are there. And guess what? Once they get in that soil, they're going to be there for the rest of the time you try to cultivate something in that soil. And then you give the thing too much water, then you don't give it enough water, and then you fertilize it, and you give it the wrong kind of fertilizer, you give it at the wrong time, and you prune it, and you realize you just pruned off all your flowers and now you're not going to get any fruit. And you print it at the wrong time of the year and it kills the plants. There's all kinds of things that go wrong. Cultivating life isn't easy. Labor comes in many different stages. You have to be willing to go through this process. You have to be patient. If you fail on one level of that process, you will lose harvest. It takes time. It takes labor. It takes setbacks. It takes frustration. It takes a willingness to learn and change and make adjustments. But when you get to the end, there's incredible satisfaction. Why does Paul use these analogies? Because that's what ministry is. Ministry has an element that is like the soldier. Ministry has an element that is like the athlete. Ministry has an element that is like the farmer. And if the generation behind us is going to take to heart these things, we've got to pour into them. We have to do it. The reason that the American Church is where it is today is because 50 years ago the American Church was failing to do what it was supposed to do. And 30 years ago, it was still failing to do what it was supposed to do. And 20 years and 15 and 10 years ago, same problem. The only way it gets reversed is when people go back to the basics. And God in his mercy and his grace changes course. And he can do it. But he does it through means And so the question is, how do we apply it? We apply it this way. We have to purpose to do this in every sphere that God has given us. When it comes to this issue of church leadership, there has to be a development of church leadership. One of the things that I'm burdened about, in fact, Pastor Josh and I have talked about this, is we really do want to get our young people involved in as many things as we could say as appropriate as possible. Why is that? Because we want our young people when they rise up to that point where they're adults We want our guys to be able to stand up and actually lead in prayer to church service. Or get up and read the Bible publicly in corporate worship. Or lead singing or give a devotional. Very basic things. When do they learn how to do that? I remember the first sermon I ever preached. It was absolutely terrifying Terrifying. I think I went to the bathroom ten times. And I drank water every time. It's like Gotta learn, right? You gotta learn. I was so nervous. I got up there to open up my Bible and I I had memorized I had I had never preached Through the whole sermon one time, but I had attempted to preach through it dozens of times, okay? And so I sit there and I had memorized the opening of the sermon, and when I got up, I said, Ezekiel, uh And I'm like trying to figure out in my notes where I'm supposed to start. I was like, let's start with a word of prayer. And then I went into the message. But the truth is this. You gotta start at some point. There's gotta be a first sermon. And everybody's gotta be like God was so sweet that you said the things that you did. Bless your heart. You'll get better eventually. Okay? That kind of stuff, right? It's all gonna happen. Well, guess what? Anyone that's handling the Word of God today They went through that at some point. Anybody who's leading music, anybody who's teaching a Sunday school class, somebody said, I'd like to ask you to do this, and they're like, I'm shaken, I can't do this And somebody said, you can do it. We'll work with you on this. In fact, it's the person that's chomping at the bits of do, you've got to be careful about. Okay. Just the truth. Church leadership. The church has to invest in the future. Young Christians, discipleship, it's not just about leading people to Christ, it's about teaching them all things that Christ has given us. You know, the greatest area of discipleship in the church is actually our children. When you work with your kids, go through the book of Proverbs with your kids. Do it a hundred times. Just go through verse by verse, talk through those pieces. Ask them questions. Teach it on their level. And if you work your way through the passages of Scripture and you talk about the things that are going on in their lives, the things that they have look observed, the things that you've experienced as you work your way through that, that's discipleship. And children that grow up in a home where the Bible is regularly and freely talked about and they are learning how to actually study the Bible appropriately, not just, I feel the text says this, so it must be saying that. No, the word says this and it means this. And here's the context. That pattern in front of our kids over and over and over again, you know what it's going to do? It's going to develop wisdom, maturity, insight. Those will be the leaders of the church down the road. Bringing up our children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord is discipleship. And leading people to Christ, planting, watering, seeing the fruit. We need that. But then I think about something like a ministry internship. I will say one of the best decisions I ever made in my life in relation to ministry was the decision to come here. It really is. And that's not because everything that I learned was perfect. It's because that's what I needed at that time in my life. And you know what when I came up here I worked with Frank, and it was great. We had such a good time. I had so many opportunities. And the truth is that no one who's 22, 23, 24 years old, who has no children, has no ministry experiences to go out and plant a church. Or start a church, or be a pastor. They need to sit under somebody and learn some things. Because the fact is, and I know that there's exceptional situations. I understand that. But the truth is most of us, when we are in our 20s, we do not know who we are, we are not grounded in what we believe, and we do not know how to work with people. We do not know. And if we go into ministry with such a mentality, we will hurt lots and lots of people. And we will be very, very frustrated, and we will probably quit because we jumped into something we weren't really prepared for. And you know what the value of an internship is? It's giving a younger person who God may have called into ministry, he may not have. They may just simply have this emotional desire. And they get in the trenches and they see what ministry is all about and they're like, I don't think this is what I'm supposed to do. That's okay. I've got no problem with that. I have some very dear friends that went to Bible college. They say, God's called me to the ministry. They got a Bible college degree that's worth absolutely nothing today. And they're not in ministry. And they're doing other things. But God's blessing them. He's working in their lives. But it's because of those early days when they got into the trenches and started learning. They said, I am not fitted to do this. And there are others that, you know what, they went through that process and they matured and they grew, and maybe in that first place that that that they planted Uh that might not be where they stayed, you know, indefinitely. It may be where they did. But the people that were around them, they saw them mature into being instead of Boys who are cocky and thought they knew everything, coming out of Bible college to being mature young men who knew how to raise their family, work with other people, love God, and be a good example. And they watch that maturity, they watch that growth. And so this idea of having interns is really, really important because it's really about us pouring into them. I'm not encouraging interns to come to our church because I want to get as much as I can out of them Because I'm not convinced that that's really a good deal. I'm really not. That's not why we bring interns in. We bring them in to pour into their lives. To give them an opportunity to see what ministry is like, to talk about some of the practical things. Like what kinds of things? Well, there's going to be a lot of learning. I'm going to encourage our interns to daily read certain passages of Scripture. I'm going to give them assignments, and they're going to have to journal. Kind of like what we do in Freedom That Lasts. We have 22 ministry topics that we're going to address over the summer. That's two a week. Two a week. And um really what it is, it's gonna be talking through some of really big issues. And you know what? That's not even gonna scratch the surface of the kind of things that people need to learn. I need to talk about. And it's it's only gonna go to some level, but it's what it's gonna do is it's gonna give an exposure I think it'll be very helpful. One of the things that I really enjoy doing every Friday is our is our sermon discussions In fact, a lot of times Josh Moore joins us from Ireland. The guys in Ghana join us a lot of times. Not just guys on staff, but sometimes there are men in our church who are able to join us. And those times are really great because what we do, we just talk about the Bible. We talk about the passage of scripture that's going to be preached on Sunday. We talk about how to approach that text. uh observations, uh sometimes a little pushback if it seems like it's getting a little off the rails in one direction or the other. Let's tighten it up when we're presenting things a certain way. It's a it's a a very productive time. And that will be something that's a part of the learning process. Survey. Church visitation. We have a lot of seniors in our church. The truth is we could spend, the church staff could spend an entire week just spending time with our seniors. It's true. We wouldn't get a lot done in the preaching category. There'd be a lot of administration things that would fall down by the wayside, but you realize we have something like 30 folks on that on that group. That's a lot of people And the truth is that's a great ministry opportunity for these interns. Outreach, getting into our community, teaching opportunities, preaching opportunities in our kids' programs I've scheduled times when the young man who's going to be with us this summer will be preaching. I have no idea how it's going to go. I really don't. I've never heard him preach. It may be very overwhelming, maybe very underwhelming. I don't know. But it's about investment. And the truth is, you've got to start somewhere. It's about fellowship, but this is something that I want you to take to heart. I would encourage you to consider hosting our interns for a meal every now and again this summer. And here's what we're going to do. We're actually going to put a list up that's going to give you an opportunity to sign up for a slot. And you could do it here at the church where in the fellowship hall you just put in a crock pot and then you sit down and you just get to know these folks and be a blessing to them. It could be something that you do at your house. My my goal is not to put a great burden on our families. It's for you to get an opportunity to invest in some college-age young people who want to go and serve the Lord. Either as a missionary, a pastor, pastor's wife, whatever God has for them, they want to get involved in the Lord's work. Fellowshipping. The local church, a major portion of it is the community. And then at the end of the summer, we're going to have a love offering. Now we are going to pay our interns. It's not a lot, especially when you think about the fact that they're going to college and they're going to have to pay their school fees. And they're going to be here instead of working full-time uh so they can pay off their college bills. And Marinada's not cheap as far as college uh Christian colleges go. But if they've really invested well and they've been a blessing, I want you to really consider contributing to that love offering at the end of the summer I'm excited about the opportunity for us to invest in these young people. I have no idea what the Lord's going to do in their lives, but may we be tools that he uses to pour in them. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we thank you for your word. Thank you for this topic. It's such an important one. Help us to take to heart the things that we've heard. Help us to chew on them. Lord, help us to pour our lives into those who have come to minister with us this summer. Father, I pray that at the end of the summer, these young people would look back and say, God, thank you for the opportunity to serve at Anchor Baptist. I pray at the end of the summer our church family would look back and say, God, thank you for sending these young people to serve amongst us. I pray that it would be a tool that you use to help them to grow. and mature and become the people that you want them to be as they serve you wherever you plant them in the future. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.