I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles tonight and turn to the book of 2 Timothy. And we are in 2 Timothy chapter 2 this evening, and uh we've had a little bit of impromptu this week uh with some changes. with the situation with uh Pastor Josh's family. Um originally he was supposed to be preaching tonight in our second passage that we're looking at in the book of Isaiah, and so um Lord willing next week that will be the text that he will be addressing. And um it really it was interesting when he and I were talking about uh the funeral that he had and the different things going on, um I knew I was gonna have to kind of scramble to put some things together. And I said, you know Considering the fact that in this business meeting tonight, we're going to talk about the internship and just really investing in young men, especially. uh who desire to go into ministry and serve the Lord, I thought, you know, this would be a great opportunity to just spend some time in God's Word. and really dig into this topic together. It's something that we've obviously addressed in our church many different times in many different ways from this text to other texts. But tonight I want us to look at the importance of investing in the church's future. And I believe that God, in his providence, will always raise up people and he will build his church. And it's his church, it's not our church, and even when we mess up, he has ways of doing what only he can do. But that doesn't change the fact that we need to be very intentional. about doing the work of equipping and investing and preparing the generation coming behind us. And as long as the Lord carries, there will be a generation coming behind us. All of us, we who are younger than we used to be, or than we are, than some in the room, someday we're going to be the older ones. Someday we're going to be the elderly ones. It's just the cycle that we're all going through in life. And so I think that this text can be very helpful to us tonight. Here's what it says, 2 Timothy chapter 2, and we'll pick up verse number 1. Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men. Who shall be able to teach others also. Thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ No man that wareth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. If any man also strive for mastery, as yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must be first partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. The most memorable time I have ever spent dealing with this passage of Scripture was a night that I was preaching in Ghana. in a very, very rural context. In fact, it was so rural that there were no electric lights in the community that I was preaching in. And so I can remember very well I had my Bible there and it was very, very dark. And uh somebody had uh a cell phone and they were like shining the cell phone on my Bible as I was reading the text and there were mosquitoes flying all around my face. And uh I was pouring sweat and uh I was trying to expound the word of God to people in a very rural setting. And from that point to where we are today, I have come to this passage so many times. And each time I read it, it just rekindles in my heart the great need to actually do what Paul is telling Timothy to do here. And that is to be involved in mentoring and preparing and teaching and investing the generation coming behind you. And so I want to give you a couple of statistics tonight that uh they're slightly dated, not very much dated, just a couple of years, but then I'm going to kind of show you how the These statistics have been updated to where we stand today. The first one I want to mention, and this is from April of 23. Okay, so it's not not all that long ago, just a couple of years ago. At the time that this stat was given, one in four pastors were said to retire within the next five years So if that stat uh still stands, that means we have two more years before a quarter of the pastors that were at the time uh in the pulpit, leading, mentoring, pastoring, doing the work that they were doing. A quarter of those pastors within the next two years are going to retire, step away from full-time ministry. The average pastor's age at the time was 52 years old. And for some of you you say, well, that's pretty young. And some of you are going, wow, 52? Yeah, that number is actually now 57. The average age of a pastor in the United States is 57 years old. And by the way, there is a trend that has been taking place for many, many decades. If you were to go back into the 19 uh sixties Um nearly 55 % of pastors at that time would have been 40 years old or younger. That's a lot of uh that's a pretty large chunk of that population. Um if you were looking at it at the time that this statistic was done, that number would have been 16%. Now it's actually a little bit more like 12%. To put that into perspective, in the 1960s, 1968 in particular, there were more ministers under 35 than over 55. Today, there are nine times as many ministers over 55 as under 35. So what that tells you is that there are a lot fewer people going into ministry than there used to be. That's really what it tells you. I mean there are other there are other aspects to that as well. It is true that people can be in pastoral ministry far beyond the age of 55, 60. But the reality is the older you get, the larger that that gap of generation grows between you and those who are beginning to establish their families, they're getting married, they're raising their children, there is a large gap. And there's an energy gap. gap. Now I don't want to be a doomsdayer here. The reality is that I am generally fairly optimistic at how I look at the situation out there. And I think that that's probably a good place for us to be. The fact is that there actually are some very encouraging things going on in our society as well. Some really bad ones, don't get me wrong. There are some very positive ones In fact, some that are kind of surprising. If you were to compare Gen Z, Millennials, and then Boomers You would think that in those three categories, the group that would be the most engaged in church would be the oldest of those groups. Isn't that What you would think? You'd be wrong. Did you know that Gen Z Americans are more likely to engage in church than millennials? And yes, even Boomer. That is something that has just recently been a change. Now, part of that is a lot of boomers are aging and they physically are not able to go to church anymore. Even within our church, we're experiencing that. So part of that is a generational change. But the fact is that God is working amongst younger Americans. In fact, there's been a lot of talk about the unaffiliated category, especially in Europe, in Britain but it's been talked about here in the United States. And in fact, those who would claim to not be religious, not be affiliated with any kind of church is over 20% in the United States. And that number has been growing uh quite a bit over the last decade and a half. But in the last year or two, that number has actually started to reverse backwards. And what that's telling you is that there are younger people who are beginning to ask questions. They are looking at what's going on in their society, and in fact they're like, some things are really off. This secular worldview has huge gaps, huge holes. There are people that are a part of our church. There are people that have been visiting our church. There are people that have been saved in the last couple of years that the reality is they did not grow up in church. They did not grow up in a home where the Bible was opened and read. It was not a part of their home life at all. And there was a point where some things happened in their life and they said, you know, I need to find some real answer. So there are movements, especially amongst young men, where people are very interested in finding out about the Bible In fact, there have even been some some very well-known publications in the last year or two where people are buying physical Bibles and they are actually reading the Bible and they have never done that in their whole life. It was never part of their family. And so that leads me to a couple of questions that are more on the pastoral side. If people out there are looking for answers, where are they going? YouTube. That's where they're going. They're going to Reddit. They're going to places where they're going to be watching short videos. And the truth is that there are a lot of places that they're not getting good biblical answers. If they're going into churches, what kind of churches are they finding? You know, one of the things that we should be very burdened about in our society is that God would send a revival to our land. But the reality is if people are beginning to be, we could say they're starting to ask questions and they're starting to do some investigation. When they walk into a church door and they sit down in that church and they look at what's going on, they're going to make an assessment about the health of that community that they're sitting in. And that's going to be very impactful in their lives. The fact is that we need to be actively taking steps as a church to meet these. needs. And there are lots and lots of different levels in where we can do that. And I want to talk about that tonight, but I want us to start with simply the biblical principles that we find in the text Because, you know, we could talk about ideas, but if they're not being shaped and driven by the Bible, then they're just our ideas, and in fact that can get really dangerous. really quick. So let's go ahead and dig into the text in front of us and hopefully find some good solid biblical answers and then I hope really come out with some practical ways to put into place what we're seeing here. So the first thing I want you to notice from this text is that generational change is a normal part of life. Verses one and two, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. The things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. We should ask ourselves a couple of questions. What was going on in Paul's life? When he wrote these words, what was his burden? What was he very, very concerned about? Well, the answer is Pretty simple. We just go to the scriptures and look at what it says, and we can read this in verses six through eight of chapter four. So later on in the book, he talks about his current situation. Here's what it says. He says, I'm now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day. So what was going on in Paul's life? Well, Paul was in prison. He was on death row. He was about to have his head cut off. And the Apostle Paul knows that all of these people that he has prayed for for many, many years, all of these people that he has been instrumental in their their placing their faith in Christ. their discipleship, the training of the men that were currently pastoring those individuals, he realized that as far as his physical life was concerned, his time to influence these people was basically over. He realizes that the time that God gave him on this planet was about to come to an end. And so in Paul's heart, he's like, you know what? Before I go I want to leave this man, Timothy, who I love dearly, who I know very, very well, who I've invested in so much. I have prayed with him, I have prayed for him, I have wept with him, I have wept for him, I have wept over the people that he's ministering to. Paul dearly loved this man. He said, I want to challenge him that when I'm gone, he needs to be faithful. And he needs to do what I've done And when I'm gone, the pattern that I've left, he's going to put it into practice. That's what he's concerned about. You know, the end of life can be very lonely for people. For Paul, it was extremely lonely. 2 Timothy 1. 15, all who are in Asia have turned away from me. Of whom are Fegelis and Hermogenes. People that I love. They're gone. 2 Timothy 4:10. Demons hath forsaken me, having loved this present world. 2 Timothy 4. 16, at my first answer, no man stood with me. All men forsook me. I pray God it may not be weighed to their charge. These are amazing words. The truth is people that are not in ministry just as people get older, all of the people that they grew up with, they die. All of their close friends are people that go to be with the Lord. In fact, a lot of the people that maybe are still living that are they from the same generation. Uh they may uh they may have watched the same television programs, lived through a lot of the same history, but their lives are really not all that personally connected over the years and everybody thinks, well, you're the same age. I mean you're within the the you know, fifteen years of one another. You must have been really close friends over the years. W I mean, how many of these kids are close friends to people in the nursery right now? Or people that'll be in the nursery in five years. But you know when they're in their nineties, everybody's gonna say you're in the same category. You're seniors. You're you're ninety-two and you're eighty-four. Well Well, there's a big gap in in age there. And the truth is that that's a very lonely season of life for a lot of people. Their bodies are beginning to to really wear out and they're feeling the weight of life. They've experienced a lot of disappointments. A lot of things go on in their lives. For people in ministry, it can be very bittersweet. I mean, they they see the the stories of people who are who are who are saved out of very rough lives. They they grew in the Lord and God's using them and they've established a family and their kids are going on and and there's those wonderful stories, but then there's the people they went to Bible college with that just like totally fell off the rails. People that quit. People that got bitter and angry at God. People that want nothing to do with the church. People they invested in for so many years. And they gave of themselves to those people only to just have them turn their back and be very hard and callous to work. Them. That's what Paul's communicating here. Paul is saying, I'm about to go stand before the most powerful man in the world, and nobody wants to be here. with me because they don't want to have the same thing happen to them that's about to happen to me. So he's feeling that loneliness. The fact is that we desperately need people to build on our shoulders, and that is what Paul is concerned about. In chapter 4, verses 1 and 2, he says, I charge thee before God. And the Lord Jesus Christ, that you preach the word. Be instant in season and out of season Reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. Verse 5, watch in all things, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry. The fact is that Paul was very concerned that Timothy would do well when he's gone. And the truth is that the people that we have served with alongside are the most likely to do what we've done. That would be assuming that we've been a good example. Okay? The truth is if someone has served in Christian ministry and they've really not served well, the people around them might be very jaded. They may actually say, I want nothing to do with this. They may be very wounded. But if someone has done the work very well The people that have served alongside of them, that have prayed with them, that have studied the word together with them, where they have carried burdens together, those individuals will be the best equipped. to continue on. And that is why Paul writes this. He says in chapter three, verse ten, you have fully known my doctrine, my manner of life, my purpose, my faith, my long suffering, my charity, my patience, my Persecutions, my afflictions. It's a really amazing series of statements. So generational transition is normal. It's going to happen no matter what choices we make. Because time moves and we age. And one day we won't be here. We'll be in glory. Second thing I want us to notice from this text is that there are really two sides to transition going well. It's not all on the generation that's investing. It's not all on the generation that's up and coming. Both sides have to be willing to meet and engage this issue if it's It's going to be done well. And so we see this in verses 1 and 2. He says, the things you have heard of me among many witnesses, those same things commit to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. So what you can see in those those verses is that somebody is investing And some people are internalizing that investment, and some are actually, we could say, separating out from the rest as those who are going to be faithful. And those who are going to be capable of teaching other people and really doing the exact same thing that the one who has invested in them has done very well. So you can see there's two sides to this. If somebody's really investing, but the people that are there are not absorbing what is there, then it's just kind of falling flat. Or if you have people that are hungering for investment And they're hungering to learn, and then the person who should be pouring into them is not doing it. Well, then we have this gap. So we need both of those things to be met. So if we talk about the established generation, there's a desperate need for faithfulness. Now, within this room, we have established generation and we have rising generation. And by the way, so I first came here in 2008. That's almost 20 years, not quite, pretty close though, to 20 years. Those who were established generation in 2008, a lot of them aren't here anymore. And what I mean by that is they're with the Lord. They're not here anymore. Those who were the most active, those who were doing a lot of the work, they're at a totally different season of life. Those who were children during that time period, some of them They're married, they have children, they're established in their careers, and they're all over the country. Some of them are locally, some of them are outside in other parts of the country. But the point is this. What we had in 2008 or 2018 or 2026, same building, same location, philosophically, we're trying to do the same thing. But it in the same congregation. Why is that? Because we all get older. We go to a new season of life. And so that established generation right now needs to take very seriously. What you have the opportunity to do. You will not get this season forever. We have a limited period of time to pour into the lives of those coming behind us. And so during that time, we need to do it well. Our strength will diminish. Our uh mental faculties will diminish. Our patience will diminish. Whether or not people will listen to what we have to say might diminish. The opportunities, the flexibilities, all of those things. There's constant change and movement in our lives. And so those who are in that category of established generation , We've got to be people who teach the truth. We teach sound doctrine. In our Sunday school classes , one of the things that my wife and I have really appreciated, our son Owen, he's only four. But he comes home and he's talking about all the Bible stories he's learned in Sunday school. Like he's really, like, there's a lot going on in that little four-year-old's head right now. And I mean, yes, it's true that mom and dad are teaching our four-year-old son, but a lot of these conversations, you know what's stimulating those conversations? Sunday school. for a four-year-old. Most people think the four-year-olds, what a waste. Those kids, they aren't grasping anything. Not true at all. They're grasping a lot And so when we talk about teaching sound doctrine, we're not just saying Pastor Joel, Pastor Josh, whoever preaches on Sunday night, yes, we need to do it. Whoever's teaching Sunday school on every single level. We're talking about what we do in our homes with our kids. kids. We should be leaving a healthy pattern of ministry. Like how do we treat people? How do we deal with problems? Are we forward thinking in our mindset? You know how many people they do not consider their future at all? They are living for what's going on right in front of their shoes today, and that's it. And guess what? That's a really dangerous way to live That's dangerous when it comes to preparing for retirement. That's dangerous when it talks when you talk about your career. That's dangerous when it talks when you talk about how you You raise your children, that's dangerous when it comes to this issue of the future of the church. The truth is, I don't believe that we should obsess over the future. It's in God's hands. But the book of Proverbs is very clear that we need to prepare for the future. And so it's not just about teaching sound doctrine. It's about leaving a healthy pattern of ministry. It's about thinking ahead. and preparing for the future. It's about prioritizing our duties very carefully. There are many, many people in ministry that they are so overwhelmed by just Preaching and teaching on Sunday and dealing with the counseling issues that are going on during the week and some financial matter here and something that we need to build over here that their entire We could say that that wavelength that they work from is completely absorbed in what's going on right now, and they aren't thinking about the future very much at all. And you know what? One day they realize that it's too late. You can't go back and invest in what's past. You can only move from where you are today. And so there has to be a prioritization of duties that are in the immediate, but also considering the future. They have to be there. And then the established generation needs to be approachable. There are a lot of young people that actually wouldn't mind going and talking to their parents, but they're frankly terrified of their mom and dad because they've been ringed out so many times they're like, I don't know if I really want to do that. Or maybe they'd never go to their pastor because the truth is they Kind of weren't very approachable the last time it happened. And the truth is that it's very easy for us to look at younger people and say, well, they need to do such and such. And they could say But you're not helping me. We've got to be very careful. The established generation needs to do these things. Teach, pattern, think ahead, prioritize, be approachable. But then there's the second side. That is those who are rising. Those who are coming behind this generation need to embrace the good and build on it. I I said that carefully. They don't need to embrace everything. There is no such thing as a perfect generation. I know every generation thinks they are, and everybody behind them is so problematic. But the truth is we all go through seasons where we have strengths and weaknesses. Every generation in this room, the oldest generation, the youngest generation, there are strengths and there are weaknesses. In the way that we were raised, the way that we think, the way that we engage in the world, whether it's in our families and our workplaces, in In the church context, there are strengths and weaknesses. And those who are coming behind that generation need to build on the best. They need to build on shoulders. Learn how to relate to older people with humility. I know that sounds a little self-serving. By the way, I have to do that too. I mean, there are people that are 20 years older than me, and when I go and sit down with them, they're like, yeah, you're You're kind of like, you're my grandchild's age. And it's true. It's true. Like, what do I have to contribute to this person's well-being today as their grandchild's age, right? The truth is that the scripture has a lot to say about how we relate to older people. We should relate to them by giving them respect. And that's something that's really been lost in our society. We need to go to older people and recognize that they're not perfect, but they have some experience in life And the truth is that they're young people, they're coming up through, uh some of you might work with them in your work context and you're like, you know, this guy seems like he thinks he's got everything figured out, and actually there's a lot of And uh if he would observe a little bit, it would be very helpful to him. So we need to be very careful that we relate to people with some grace. We need to exercise patience with the opportunities that we're given. The truth is that respect is something that you earn. It's not something you deserve. You are not, we could say, people are not obligated to give you opportunity. They have to weigh whether or not it's actually a good idea. Someone may look at a younger person and say, if I give them this opportunity, what are they going to do with it? Are they going to make things a lot worse than they are now? Or are they actually going to take it and they're going to really uh it internalize and invest it and it's actually going to go very, very well for them. And so the truth is that some people, because they've been burned in life a few times, they're very hesitant to give opportunities to a younger person. We have to be patient with that. Now, some people will never give opportunity. And we could deal with them in a different way, right? Relate to them differently. But the but the idea is this: we have to recognize that we're not entitled. Especially as a younger, more inexperienced person. We're not entitled to be given lots of opportunity. We have to earn the right by demonstrating through ordinary faithfulness that in fact we are a person that should be. be given those opportunities. The reason that Paul invested so much in Timothy and was willing to say, go in my stead is because he knew the kind of man Timothy was Was. He wouldn't have done this with just anyone. We need to be willing to commit ourselves to learning and doing the things that we have learned. We need to develop endurance. So there are two sides to this. You could say that if you're an older person, there are some things that you need to think about and maybe change. And if you're a younger person, there might be some things you need to think about, you need to change. All of us, we need to think carefully about these issues. Third thing I want you to notice is that the church needs to give the next generation the tools to be successful. Successful. And that really is a major part of what Paul says. And that is in verses 3 to 7. He says, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. No man that worreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life, that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier. If a man strive for masteries, he's not crowned, except he strive lawfully. The husbandman that laboreth must first be the partaker of the fruits. Consider what I say, and the Lord give thee understanding in all things. There are three illustrations that Paul uses to say that this is how working with people in the context of the church, these illustrations will help you to do it well. The first one is that of a soldier. Now I think there's some pastors that think that's the only one, and that's not good. Okay. They're always fighting everybody. But the truth is that there is a side to the Christian life that is a battle. We are in the midst of a spiritual battle, and churches go through this. You may not realize this. You know, you just you come on Sunday, you listen to a sermon, you go to Sunday school, and you're involved. uh on a very basic level in church life, but you really do not know about all the things that go on during the week within the lives of the people of our church. You have no idea of the cumulative effect of those things. And if you did, you would all you at seasons would go, you know, something's going on here. There are so many people with so many burdens. There are so many people that are under so much pressure. And the truth is that those who are shepherding the souls of those individuals, they see that, they feel that, and they have to engage in that. And I'm not saying this to complain. It's actually a tremendous privilege to be able to do this. But the reality is that there's a battle going on for the souls of people. The way they think, the way they relate to one another in conflicts, the way they raise their children, the way that they engage in the workplace, the way they relate to other Christians. What they're listening to online, the books they're reading, the trajectory of their life. There is a spiritual battle going on in the souls of every person in this room. room. And those who are outside of these walls who would be here at other times. And so we have to be engaged in this. And he talks about the fact that the soldier is enduring. The soldier is laying aside all of the entanglements of life to focus on engaging in a duty that is life and death. He's sacrificing. Do not be entangled. He uses that illustration. Well, the truth is that someone who's been in ministry Needs to communicate that to someone who wants to go into ministry. Because it's there, it's real And people have to be willing to count the cost and say, I'm going to step into that role and I'm going to engage in it and I'm not going to quit and I'm not going to become entangled. I'm going to be faithful. They need someone who has gone through that to say. This is the way ministry is. If you're going into this for yourself, you're going to make a lot of lives miserable. Yours, your families, and everybody that has to put up with you until you quit. It's all going to be there. Okay? So be prepared for what you're going to go into. The second illustration he uses is that of the athlete. And when we think of the athlete, we think of someone who trains and disciplines their body and they learn certain skill sets. So that they can go into the arena. And what is the ultimate goal? It's to be crowned in the end. And so the idea is that he draws from that illustration, you need to strive. You need to follow the right pattern. He says you gotta play by the rules. Okay, when we talk about what the Bible teaches, you know, you can't just be pragmatic in ministry. You're gonna hurt people in life. There are going to be long-term consequences for being pragmatic and cutting corners in the work that you do. So just like an athlete has to train and strive and follow the rules, you need to do what God says in His Word. And you focus on that day. When an athlete is training, they're thinking about, as a high schooler, go into the state tournament. As a college student going to the national the national championship and the Olympics going to the world games going to the Olympic Games. And so in their mind, they they strive and they discipline and they they order their life very carefully and they listen to their coaches. and do all these things because they want to be crowned at that time. You say, well, what's the crown for the Christian minister? It's Jesus saying, well done, good and faithful servant. And the truth is that on that day, those who have been given these responsibilities will stand before Christ. And he is going to give a blunt and honest and truly objective and righteous evaluation of of the true quality of their service. And so what does Paul say? He says, Timothy, do not get into this without being disciplined and striving and doing what you Right. And younger people need to hear that. The third illustration is the farmer. We are cultivating lives. We're not working with things, we're working with people. And their lives change and they grow and they mature and they can be wounded or they can be strengthened. And as you're cultivating lives, there is labor that goes into this process. There is a process that you're going to have to live through. So tomorrow night, part of my process as a farmer is to cover all of my tomatoes that I put in the ground too early. Because if I don't, they're gonna be dead on Tuesday morning probably. Well the truth is that if you're cultivating life, there are times that you have to the last minute make changes, you have to engage things that you were not mentally and emotionally prepared for, but you're called to do it at that moment. You have to go through this process. Sometimes you look at a situation, you go, for that to be resolved, it isn't happening in one conversation. It's not happening in five conversations. It's going to take years for that to get where it needs to be. And you need to face that, embrace that, and see God work through that. So what does he say? You've got to give people the tools to be successful. Many times we look at a younger person and we say, what's your problem? And if they were totally transparent with us, they would say, You didn't give me the tools I needed to do well. And now I'm having to learn the hard way because you didn't give me the tools. Tools to learn well. May our children not say that to us. May the people that are coming behind us in ministry not say it to us because we truly gave them the tools that they could do well. And the truth is that God is the one who ultimately we will stand before, and God is the one who ultimately equips us, but we have a responsibility to give people what they need. to be successful in the work that they're called to do. So how do we apply this? Let me give you some final thoughts. The first is this we need to anticipate that God will bring people into our church if we're faithful. The goal of the pastor should not be to figure out how to manipulate people to come into this building. And there are a lot of people that do that. Or to figure out how to somehow convince people to stay in this building. Our job is to be faithful and do what's right so that when people come here, they They say, well, I know that the truth's here, and I know that I can grow here, so why would I go somewhere else? That's really what it's all about. And none of us are going to do it perfectly, but the reality is our job is to make sure that this environment, as much as it depends on us, we are contributing to the good and to the health and to the strength of the And if we do that, you know what God will do? He'll bring people here. They'll find it on YouTube. It'll just be a random thing. Well, I just found this. This video from a church and wow, that's just down the road from me. They're walking by and they see a sign and they're like, I didn't even know there was a church back here. I'm gonna pop in and see what it's like, see what's going on. They're working and all of a sudden somebody just casually makes a comment and they're like, Oh, you go to that church? I've I've heard about that church. I've never I've never been there. I should go check that out sometime. What's the point? God has all kinds of ways of bringing people to the places that he wants them. Our job is to be faithful that this is the place that they can really Really grow and thrive. Secondly, we need to be personally contributing to the health and the disciple-making of our church culture. There are two offices in the church: the pastor and the deacon. But the reality is that the church has to create ways to invest in those who are not yet ready to be a pastor, but that's what they will be someday. And y I'll tell you the person, the people that probably make the greatest investment in the lives of the future ministers of churches is mom and dad, the Christian home. A lot of who a person becomes is shaped when they're three, four, five, seven, nine, eleven. It really is true. The character of a person is is heavily shaped in those very early years. And some of you are going, oh boy. Stay at it. Stay at it. Okay? You still got time So when you're raising your kids in a healthy home, you're teaching them the Word of God, you're investing in the disciple-making culture of this church. The church needs to create ways to invest in these individuals so that when they are ready to take these roles, they'll do it well. In fact, the reason that I came to this church in 2008 was because the church had a uh a program of sorts where where guys would come and they would be interns. And I was uh I don't know what I would call me. They called me Pastor Joel. That probably was not really appropriate for the time, to just be totally frank. Probably should have just called me Brother Joel. And um but I had opportunity. I got to sit in staff meetings. I got to preach on Sunday nights. I got to teach Sunday school. Little kids, teenagers, adults. I got to have a lot of conversations. I was given books to read. Got to work with Frank. That was pretty cool. That was actually very hot. Cool for me. That's right. It was cool for me. I got to that's a that was a good part of my of my uh my growth as a person. But but what was there was an opportunity for someone who says, I have a heart for ministry. I want to go into ministry, but I need to get tools and I need to grow up. That's really what it comes down to. And so in our church, that's something that we have. We have the opportunity for inter To come in the summer. Staff members, we don't call them assistant pastors, we call them assistants to pastors. What are they? They really are like a full-term intern. I mean it's really what they are. They may not like looking at it that way, but that's really what it is. It's giving them an opportunity to learn about ministry. It's giving them an opportunity to invest in people's lives. It's giving them an opportunity to say, Is this what I'm supposed to do the rest of the of my life or not. That needs to be a part of the church. They're not pastors, they're not deacons. They're they're young men that are that are learning and engaging and serving and potentially having the opportunity to step in those roles if the Lord leads And so these things are very, very important. They need to be a part of the church. We need to be faithful wherever he plants us, in whatever role that is. For Pastor Josh and myself, we have the opportunity this summer to invest in two lives I mean a lot more than two, but two who are interns, okay? I mean we haven't forgotten about you guys, okay? I promise. We have not forgotten about you guys. But we're gonna give them books to read. We're laying out their Bible reading plan for the whole summer. We've given them a journal that they're going to have to work through, kind of like what we do in our Freedom That Last class. And they're going to be working through those journals. We're going to have ministry talks, over 20 talks that we did last summer, and uh we're gonna do some new ones because John was in those obviously. Um some of them we're we're gonna do the same ones and some of them we're gonna to do more, but these are just talking about all kinds of ministry topics. Now why are we doing that? Well it gives us an opportunity to just talk through these issues with them. Give them some content. Allow them to ask questions. Dialogue back and forth. Very, very important. Our Friday preaching discussions are really a great thing that we do. By the way, any guy in this church who wants to be a part of that, let me know. And I would be glad to give you the opportunity to be a part of that. We discuss the sermon on Sunday, and uh you get to see the raw data on Friday, and then And you hear whatever got cleaned up between Friday and Sunday when it gets presented on Sunday morning. But what is the purpose of that? It's fellowship? It's camaraderie? It's praying for our churches It's digging into the Word of God. It's shaping how we look at the Scriptures, hopefully for the good, so that we're better equipped to do this work well. We're giving them out out outlets to serve, outreach, church visitation, teaching and preaching in all kinds of different capacities. We're giving you opportunities to invest in them as a church community on Sunday nights. I'll tell you what the interns, one of the things they really loved last summer was on Sunday nights when everybody would hang out. and play basketball and and the gaga pit wasn't a thing, but it is gonna be this summer and the volleyball and that and all those they enjoyed that because you know what that did? That gave them an opportunity to get to know people and fellowship With them. People bringing meals, them eating meals with our families, but also your families. That was a really important part of their ministry. Ministry is working with people. It's not just preaching sermons. It's ministering to people. It's getting to know them, invest in them. And then obviously a love offering. The truth is if these young men were to work all summer, I mean they're gonna work, but it's different. We're gonna help them out, but not to the level of what they would get if they were to to get a a nine to five job, uh maybe a seven to five job or whatever, and and just work and work and work. And so when we have the opportunity to give them a love offering at the end of the summer, it's our way of expressing gratitude and blessing them and just letting them know we are investing in your future as well. And so these are ways that we can invest. I want to mention lastly for our families, because this is a big deal to me. Every family in this church should have family worship with their kids. On a regular basis. And when I say a regular basis, I don't we're gonna miss I miss days in my family, okay? But I'm not the only person that your kids should hear the Bible opened from. Pastor Josh isn't the only person. You need to actually teach your kids the Word of God. You should be faithful in getting them in these doors. There are a lot of people that believe that church is important, but here's the truth: it is not a priority above many other things. And the truth is that your children are learning by you not being here, and I know everybody here is pretty consistent, but they're learning that church is very optional. And the reality is they will probably be less engaged than you. Be very careful. Make church a priority. But you are here. Establish a home culture where a daily walk with the Lord and a commitment to the body of Christ is central, not secondary. Discuss the things that you are learning and observing in an edifying way. I mean there are some things that people will see in church that are not good. And uh it's not helpful when we uh we have roast the church message member who ticked us off this Sunday on the way home or roast the pastor because you didn't like something you said in the sermon. But here's the truth: your children need to engage with good and bad in a productive way. And there are times that we've sat in services and we've heard things preached in places and we talked to our kids about it. You know, the way that that guy handled the word of God was actually pretty shoddy. That's not a good example. That's very different, I hope, than what you're hearing week in and week out in our church. Those are things that I those conversations should be very natural in our homes. We need to be careful that we don't ignore the issues that are brewing in our homes. Kicking the can down the road just makes it more painful when you actually are forced to confront the issue. So when there's an issue, deal with it. In a productive way, in a loving way. See every issue as a teaching opportunity, an opportunity to build up your children. You know the most impactful moments you will have as a parent. This is a pun a little bit, but is when you have to discipline them. Because when you discipline them, you're giving them the opportunity to learn about grace and mercy. And forgiveness, and how to get up when you've fallen, and how to love people unconditionally. And if discipline is simply you're kicked at your kid and you're Taking it out on them, you aren't teaching them what God is really like. Be consistent, be honest, be approachable. You know, a disciple-making culture isn't just for the pastors. It's for our families. And so for those who are on the way, those who are on your own, and I know that we do have some people that you don't have a spouse and you don't have children. Let the church be your family. Invest in the people that have needs. There are a lot of them. Learn from the people who have expertise. Enjoy the body of Christ. That is how we have a disciple-making culture. I hope that gives you some things to think about tonight as we we'll have a business meeting in a few minutes. And uh we're going to talk about the intern program. And I'm excited about that. But the truth is that this is something that needs to be shaping our church in so many ways. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we're very grateful for your word. A lot of things to ponder tonight. And I pray that we would really internalize the truths of Scripture. We would think very practically about them. Help us to the very best of our ability to continue. Contribute to the growth and the maturing of young lives who ultimately will have the privilege to stand on our shoulders and do far more than we ever could have in life. And we ask this all in Christ's name, amen.