Good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Looking forward to our service. Let's go ahead and let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will get started. Father, thank you for a wonderful Lord's Day. Thank you for the fellowship we've enjoyed this morning and this afternoon. And as we open up the Word of God again tonight, I pray that you would speak to our hearts and help us to understand the passage in front of us and how it relates to even the things that we are dealing with today in our in our land and all around the world. And I pray that you'd help us to have a very distinctly Christian view of these things. Help us to remember that you are in control and you are at work in the world. Pray you bless our time of testimonies. May the things that are shared be encouraging to our church congregation. We ask all of this in Christ's name. All right, good evening, everyone As we start the song services off, we're going to turn to page 518. Page 518 or follow along the screen. Please stand with me as we sing all three verses of O. It is wonderful to be a Christian, okay? Sing out. So we don't do it very great for everything. Why is going on the next guy? Why is one remote? All it is wonderful to have your sin for the account All it is wonderful to be beginning justified forever like inside Where I'll live with Christ forevermore I know That is one of the things that earth I lose before eternal witch the few pages over to page 524. Page 524, saved by the blood. The whole thing I did , the way I bear, my lady are. Meh Please be seated. And we're going to stay in the 500s, but go to 537. 537. Jesus I will be able to do that. See the way we the way I draw my life till the bill of the day I will Amen. Now time for testimonies. This is verse one first. All right. Good evening. Tonight we're going to be talking about the Zimmer family. For the next song 482 So 639, that's way in the back. What are we doing? What are we doing? Ah! Okay. Okay, first verse of turn your eyes upon Jesus. No lo dejamos. Alright. Well this place hasn't had the roof raised in a month. So you know it's gonna be an inevitable sooner or later. Page 482. Page 482. Adults put your seatbelts on. Fire a daddy. Somebody left off the scale and was let me tell you. Okay. Page, now we'll go to the blue book. Page 122, verse 2, right? 122. Verse 2, verse 2, verse 2, I can't find 122. Okay. As the deer. All right. Blue book, page 93. We'll sing both verses of bow the knee. Please stand with me on this. Stretch your legs out. Stretch the diaphragm and sing out Balvin. Okay, well if you could, let's all take our Bibles and let's turn to the book of Judges. Judges chapter 2 and the passage of scripture that we're looking at tonight is going to uh it's it's really going to cover a couple of different purposes And one of the things that we're doing tonight is, obviously this is the passage that would be the next in our series through the Old Testament, as we are looking at how the Old Testament points people to Christ. But I think that this passage of Scripture also is very pertinent to a discussion that's going on at the time that we're living in, and that is what in the world is going on in the Middle East. What is the ultimate end of what is going on in that region? And I'm not here to make predictions about what's going to happen today or tomorrow. or about what's going to happen in the next couple of months. But what I am here to do is tell you exactly what the Word of God says is going to be the ultimate end of what is going on in that portion of the world and why in fact that is something that we should be concerned about ourselves. And I also think what's also important to do here is to understand the way that we as Christians should look at this is issue of the difficulties that the Jewish people are encountering at this time in the Middle East. We're going to read all the way down to verse 15. Here's what it says. And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man unto his inheritance. to possess the land. And the people served the Lord all the days of Joshua, all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua. Who had seen the great works of the Lord that he did in Israel. And Joshua, the son of Nun, the servant of the Lord, died, being 110 years old. And they buried him in the border of his inheritance. And Temnath Therethes, I probably didn't say it right, in the mountain of Ephraim on the north side of the hill Gosh. And also all the generations were gathered unto their fathers, and there arose another generation after them, which knew not the Lord, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord and served Balaam, and they forsook the Lord God of their fathers. Which brought them out of the land of Egypt and followed other gods, of the gods of the people that were round about them , bowed themselves unto them and provoked the Lord to anger, and they forsook the Lord. And served Baal and Asheroth. And the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel. He delivered them into the hand of spoilers that spoiled them, and he sold them into the hands of their enemies round about them. so that they could not any longer stand before their enemies. Whithersoever they went out, the hand of the Lord was against them for evil. As the Lord had said, and as the Lord had sworn unto them, and they were greatly distressed. You say, how in the world does this passage of Scripture have anything to do with what we are looking at today in the world. I hope by the end of this pass, the end of our time tonight, you'll understand why. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Father, I pray that you'd help us as we look at this text of Scripture. And as we consider the covenant promises that you have made to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob. to the descendants of Jacob, the nation of Israel, the seed of Abraham by physical offspring. I pray that we would recognize that there are promises that you've made that are still valid today. And as we look at the trouble of the Jewish people throughout all of human history, I pray that we would recognize that in fact It is a direct result of their rebellion against you. Yet at the same time, I pray that we would recognize that you still are working in And through and one day, you will fulfill all the promises that were made. Promises that in fact, as we look at the world today, they are almost stunning to think that they could actually happen. But we know. That they will. And so I pray that you would give us wisdom and clear minds as we work our way through many passages of Scripture, as we consider the history, and then as we consider the implications for us today. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The first thing I like to do this evening is I like to kind of summarize what we are looking at, and I want us to move through this in parts. The first part is going to under is going to be helping us to understand Israel's history and the role that God has for the Jewish people in his redemptive story. I think it's important for us to recognize that the Lord Jesus Christ We talk about his humanity. He was a Jewish man who grew up in the land of Israel during the the first century A. D. And the Lord Jesus Christ. was a man that was the fulfillment of all prophecies that had been made in the Old Testament to the Jewish people, and not just to the Jewish people, but to the Jews and to the Gentiles, to you and to me. That's an important part of us understanding this story. And so I begin with a summary. The following portion of Israel's history documents a pattern that has plagued the nation throughout all its history, but will one day be graciously reversed when Christ establishes His kingdom. Let me read that again. The following portion of Israel's history documents a pattern that has plagued the nation throughout all its history, but will one day be graciously reversed. when Christ establishes his kingdom. God wants us to rest in his future promises regarding the nation of Israel. and how they actually relate to us today. And so first of all, we look at Israel's history and the role of uh and their role in God's redemptive story. As we read through the Old Testament, we are reading the story of a people, not Americans, not Romans. Not Greeks. They're the Jewish people. God chose to give us the story of redemption. in the setting of this group of people. And the story begins with God calling a man who was a pagan living in Ur of the Chalides. He calls this man to leave his family, to leave the place where he was rooted, and God says, I'm going to send you to a land that one day will be yours. He does not say where the land is. He doesn't say how large the land is. He simply says, I'm going to send you to this land. And I want you to hear what he says in Genesis chapter 12 as it relates to not just Abraham, but to those who would descend from Abraham, ultimately through Isaac and then Jacob called Israel. Genesis chapter 12, verse 1 says, I will make of thee a great nation. I will bless thee, and will make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. Now that little statement, thou shalt be a blessing, is incredibly important because really what is unpackaged throughout the Old Testament is that God making Abraham a blessing to the nations It's talking about how the Messiah is going to descend from this man, Abraham. He will also, he says, I also will bless those who bless you and curse them that curse thee, and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed. Now, God makes this promise to Abraham multiple times throughout the course of his life. And interestingly, he makes this promise after Abraham had a moment where he had a great We could say a departure from walking by faith. He makes a poor decision, something very bad is going on, and God comes back to him and he re-establishes, or we could say, Reminds him of this promise made in Genesis chapter 12. He also goes on to make these promises to Isaac multiple times and to Jacob multiple times. But there's another side to this that is very important to the discussion tonight. In Genesis chapter 15, verse 18, listen to what he says. And I want you to think about this in the light of the history that we have observed and what we are living through today. Do you know how large the land of Israel is? It's the size of New Jersey. That's not the size it's going to be when this is fulfilled. In Genesis 15, 18, he says, Unto thy seed have I given this land From the river of Egypt. Do you know what river that is? That 's the Nile River. From the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates. He didn't say the Jordan River. He said the Euphrates River. So literally from the Euphrates River all the way to the Nile River, God promised to Abraham that his descendants would possess that entire land. Question. Did God lie? He says, of course not. Did God know about all the things that were going on uh that were going to go on throughout human history leading up to the day that we stand here today? Of course he did. So, how could God fulfill such a promise? It's only by his power. And he has put his word on the line. But then, as we continue in this story, we've been working our way through this on Sunday nights. We see another individual as a port an important part of this story, and that is a man named Moses. And God calls the nation of Israel Which is basically a large family which is now becoming a nation out of slavery in Egypt. And the story of how they got there is a fascinating story, but it's all a part of God's work through the life of Joseph. And then God brings this group of people to Mount Sinai and he establishes a second covenant with them. Now this covenant does not replace the initial covenant, the Abrahamic covenant. What it does is it gives us a conditional element to some of these promises. In other words, when it comes to the fact that God's going to give the land to Abraham's descendants, That is an unconditional promise. When we talk about the extent of the region that one day will be given to Abraham's descendants, that is not a conditional promise. That is all rooted in God's promise to the people. But when it comes to their ability to possess the land in time, and it comes to the blessedness that they enjoy in the land, there is a conditional element to that promise. In the same kind of a way that great rulers of the ancient world would have basically made treaties with other nations. And they would basically say this: if you come under my jurisdiction, here are the conditions. If you do this, I will do this. If you do good, I will do good to you. If you do bad, I will do bad to you. I am bringing you under my dominion. This is something that was very common in the ancient world, and in some sense, God is doing the same thing with the nation of Israel. When we look at the book of Deuteronomy, the book of Deuteronomy is a covenantal agreement in the same way that they would have written covenantal agreements at the time in the ancient Near East. But listen carefully to what is stated in Exodus chapter 19. This is when Moses is on Mount Sinai at the same time that the Ten Commandments were given. Here's what he says. He says, if you will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people, for all the earth is mine. And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Well, what was God's plan for the Jewish people? Well, God's plan for the Jewish people was that he was going to give his word through them. He was going to give all these covenantal promises to them. He was going to establish them in a land, and they were going to be a theocratic nation where God rules them, and God's law is the supreme law of the land. And all the nations around them, all the Gentile communities, when they looked at the nation of Israel, they saw a people who were walking in communion with the true God of heaven. And all their idols could not stand up to the God of heaven. And this people, if they walked in obedience to the law that God had given, would be a testimony to all of these nations to the greatness and the goodness of God. That is the condition that's in front of these people. But they didn't do it. In Deuteronomy chapter 30, verse 19, he says, I call heaven and earth to reckon or to record this state against you. I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore choose life, that both thou and thy seed may live. Now, these little details that we talk about, this is like a really quick move through the entire Old Testament kind of a thing, but those details are very important We have the covenantal promise of land, we have the extent of the land, we have this Mosaic covenant where there are conditions to experiencing blessing in the land, but then there are other aspects to what God is doing through the nation as well. The most significant is that he sends the Messiah through them. We're going to fast-forward all the way to the book of Daniel, and I want to read to you what Daniel writes in Daniel chapter 9, verse 24. Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people, upon thy holy city. So he's talking about the Jewish people. He's talking about the city of Jerusalem. And listen carefully to the wording. It is to finish the transgression. That's talking about the cross. To make an end of sins, that's talking about the cross. To make reconciliation for iniquity, that's talking about the cross. To bring an everlasting righteousness. That's talking about the cross, but it goes beyond just that initial moment of the cross, and it's looking to an ultimate completion of everything. Question. Are we living in a world where we see everlasting righteousness all around us? Not a chance. We see wickedness and evil everywhere we look. Notice carefully to the way he finishes this. To seal up the vision and the prophecy and to anoint the most holy. So as Daniel talks about these things, he emphasizes the cross and what was going to be accomplished on the cross, but he goes beyond the cross and what it accomplishes for our souls, and he talks about the fact that there is an eschatological aspect to this. There's a future time where God will establish a kingdom of everlasting eternal righteousness. And the Lord Jesus Christ will reign as king over such a kingdom. You say, well, what's that talking about? The Old Testament is full of prophecies relating to this promise here. In fact, a lot of the minor prophets, in even the book of Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel, there's a lot of information that is given about this concept. But one of the simplest summations of it all is actually in the book of Revelation, Revelation chapter 20, verses 1 through 6. I want to read to you what it says It says he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent which is the devil and Satan, bound him a thousand years. Cast him into a bottomless pit and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more. And listen carefully to the way it's worded. Till the thousand years should be fulfilled, and after that he must be loosed a little season. And I saw thrones, and they that sat on them, and judgment was given unto them, and I saw the souls of them which were beheaded for the witness of Jesus and for the word of God, which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image. neither that have received his mark upon their foreheads and on their hands, and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. Now there are so many details for us to unpackage in this statement here, but I'm going to give you the simple details. What these verses are telling us is that in the Old Testament There was a promise of a kingdom that would be established for a thousand years. And during this thousand-year rule, Jesus reigns and the nation of Israel Not just the redeemed nation, but the physical descendants of Abraham, people who are redeemed, which by the way is a very small group today, but there will be a day it will not be a small group. They will literally possess the land as it was promised to Abraham from the Nile River all the way to the Euphrates River. That's a fascinating thing to consider. There's a lot of people in the Middle East that won't like that very much. But that's what God said is going to happen. That is going to be happening because God has ordained it to be such. He has promised that in fact that will take place. And so it goes on to say this: Blessed and holy is he that hath his part in the first resurrection, on such the second death hath no power. They shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years. You know what's fascinating when you go to the book of Ezekiel and you start in chapter 38. Chapter 38 talks about this battle called the Battle of Gog and Magog. And so it's it's going to be a terrible battle. Where where nations from the north and nations from the east and nations from the south are all going to come against the nation of Israel. You say, no, that would never happen. That could happen tonight. It could happen at any moment. And in that passage of Scripture, it tells us that God will intervene in a miraculous way. And it will be a testimony to the fact that as much as the nation has rejected the Messiah, and gone their own way, God still has a purpose for these people. And then after we read through Ezekiel chapter 38 When we get into chapters 40, 41, all the way through the end of the book, he talks about this millennial kingdom. , Lots of fascinating details. I think a lot of Christians just blow through it because they don't understand it. They don't want to dig into it and think about it. But there are two details I want to draw your attention to. In chapter 41, he gives the exact measurement of the temple that will be in Jerusalem. That has to this day never been built. Far larger and expansive than any temple that has ever been on the Temple Mount. Yet he says it's going to be there. It's going to be built on that mount. And in chapter 45, he talks about the borders of Israel being realized that to this point in history have never been realized. Solomon's borders didn't go to this level. Saul's borders most certainly didn't go to this level. The nation of Israel as it is today does not have these borders for sure. But one day it will happen. You say when? During that kingdom period. And it is described in tremendous detail from chapters 40 to the end of the book of Ezekiel Now, that is just kind of a quick summation of God's purpose for Israel. He chose out a man who he said, I'm going to make of you a great nation. I'm going to give you a land and I'm going to establish a city and I'm going to send the Savior and He's going to accomplish redemption on a certain point in history. in that city on the cross and one day he will come back to that city and he will establish his righteous reign forever You say, well, what does that have to do with what we read this evening in Judges chapter 2? It actually has a lot to do with it. Because those conditional promises made to the nation of Israel in the book of Exodus We see what happens when the people reject what God is doing. Listen carefully to the details that we find in this text. In verses 6 to 10, we see that God raises up faithful leaders. And these leaders established stability and prosperity because they pointed people to God There were godly examples. The land had rest, the land had peace during the time of these people. And he states it this way When Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man to his inheritance. to possess the land. The people served the Lord all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works. That the Lord had done, how he did them for Israel, and there arose another generation after them which knew not God. While they generally were faithful, this generation failed to pass the faith to the next generation. Now, I hate to say this, but this is like something we see repeated all the time. I mean, how many Christian families don't see their children follow them? Now that doesn't always happen. They're Christian families that you'll see generations of faithfulness where mom and dad were faithful and their children literally they they built on the shoulders of mom and dad and the next generation does the same thing But that doesn't always happen. And that's not what happened in the nation of Israel as a generalization. Most of the people, they feared the Lord and served him, but they did not pass on. to the next generation, the same love for God. And in verse 10 he says, the generation was gathered unto their fathers and there arose another generation. Which knew not God, nor yet the works which they had done for Israel. You say, well, what did the people do when that happened? In verses eleven and following, it says, The children of Israel did evil in the sight of the Lord. They served Balaam. They forsook the Lord, God of their fathers, that brought them out of the land of Egypt. They followed other gods. the gods of the people that were round about them and bowed themselves together and provoked the Lord to anger and forsook the Lord and served Baal and Asherah. So you had a generation that was faithful. The next generation doesn't know God, and then they go off into rebellion and idolatry. And you say, well, God loves those people. Did he just leave them and he just you know kind of let them do what they want because he doesn't want to resist them? The answer is no He withdrew his blessing, he withdrew the protection, and he gave them over to their enemies. Why? Well, because that's exactly what he said he'd do in the book of Exodus. That was the conditional element of the Mosaic covenant. It says the anger of the Lord was hot against Israel. He delivered them into the hands of their enemies. And to the spoilers. Whithersoever they went, the hand of the Lord was against them for evil, they were greatly distressed. Well then we see after this this moment of the nation being in great turmoil that there is a cycle that begins to develop. And as we go through the book of Judges, you will see this repeated over and over and over and over and over again. And I would submit that it's not just done, but it's kind of continued over and over and over again. We see that God raises up a judge in verse 16. Nevertheless, the Lord raised up a judge. He delivered them out of the hand of those that spoiled them. Then in verse 17 it says, They rebel again, it says, Yet they would not hearken unto their judge, but they went to hoarding after other gods and bowed themselves unto them, obeyed not the commandment of the Lord. Then we see in verse 18 that God has compassion on them, and we see it says that he raised them up judges, and the Lord was with the judge and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies. because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them and vexed them. And then in verse 19, they rebel again. And when the Lord raised them up judges, then the Lord was with the judge delivered them. It repented the Lord because of their groanings. But then what do they do? They go back into rebellion. That cycle is a cycle that was repeated over and over again in that period. But I want you to just think about the history of this nation for just a few minutes When the nation finally becomes a kingdom with a physical king on a throne, Saul, from Saul to Solomon is about 120 years. That's really not a huge period of time if you think about it. There are some people that live close to that. Joshua lived to be 110. Moses lived to be 120. There are people in homes here in Anrundel County that are over 100 years old So from the time of Saul to the time of Solomon, it was only 120 years. And that was the peak of Israel's strength. And then the nation divided, and for 200 years. The nation was a self-governing but divided nation. And then in 722, God allowed the Assyrians to Then in five eighty six, about a hundred and some odd years later, He allows the people to come down into Jerusalem and the Babylonians come and they completely destroy Jerusalem. They destroy the walls. They destroy. the gates of the city, they destroy the temple, they take captives in three ways. They laid terrible siege on the city. You say, why did that happen? Well, because from the time of David through the divided kingdom until 586, God sent prophet after prophet after prophet to the people. And he said, turn to the Lord or else, turn to the Lord or else, and guess what they all did? Whatever. I'm not going to do it. And so this is what happened. Then 70 years later, God raises up Cyrus, a Persian king. And you know what he does? It's amazing. He sends these people that were in exile back to Jerusalem. He pays for the walls to be rebuilt. He pays for the temple to be rebuilt. And the nation is re-established. During that time period. But then a new generation rises up, and then we have an empire for the Greeks, an empire of the Persians. Then we come to the time of Christ. What do we have? We have Roman rule. And from that time all the way to where we are today, you have empire rise and empire fall. Empire rise and empire fall. But you know what's amazing through all of this? Through all of this history, leading up to where we are today, the Jewish people have survived. They have survived. You know how many different people groups have tried to annihilate the Jewish people? To put this in perspective, the Holocaust in World War II, six million Jews were killed. Do you know how many Jewish people lived in Israel in 2020? Or 2020, the year 2000? Six million people. In other words, the Holocaust is the equivalent of the entire nation of Israel being eliminated just like that. Yet the people has survived. The people has an identity. And I think the only way that you can explain is this. God has preserved them. And God has preserved them for a reason. It's not because they've been an obedient nation. Literally, they crucified the Messiah. There are people that when they're standing before Pontius Pilate, he says, I can't give you this man. And they said, give us Barabbas and kill Jesus. And this is what they said. They said, his blood be on us and on our children. In fact, in Acts, when Peter is preaching at Pentecost, you know what he says? He says, repent, and he says, save yourself from this untoward generation. You know why he said that? Because that group of people was going to face God's judgment. And so that leads me to part number three. And that is, does God still have a purpose for these people? And the answer is, he does. And the Apostle Paul takes chapter 9, chapter 10, and chapter 11 of the book of Romans, three chapters to address that question. You know why he addressed that question? Because there are a lot of people at Rome who said, if you say God is faithful to his promises , And we as Jewish Christians, there were Jewish Christians in the church at Rome, if you tell me he's faithful to his promises, and we know the promises made to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob. To David. We know about Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel and all these prophecies. You tell us, is God going to fulfill them or not? I want you to listen to the words of Paul because they are so helpful to us on this point. God's promises were reaffirmed in the New Testament. The first thing that stands out to me is Romans chapter 9, verse 1. Listen to what it says. Paul writes, I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart. I wish that myself were accursed from Christ. For my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh, who are Israelites, to whom pertaineth the adoption and the glory and the covenants and the giving of the law and the service of God and the promises. Jesus, whose are the fathers and of whom as concerning the flesh Christ came. Now, let's remember that the Apostle Paul Um he knew that Judaism was preaching a false message. Okay. He understood that in every single place that he went, where he preached in the synagogue and he proclaimed the gospel. The group of people that were the most likely to throw him out of the city and persecute him were not the Gentiles. It was the Jewish people in those synagogues. Paul understood the situation very well. He had suffered immensely at their hands. Yet this is what he says. I have great heaviness. And continual sorrow in my heart, and I wish that I myself were accursed from Christ. Isn't that not incredible? Why did he love the people? Well, he loved them because he loves souls. It grieved his heart that there was such a hardened attitude towards Christ in the gospel. He then goes on to say this in verses 27 to 29, later in the same chapter. Isaiah crieth concerning Israel. Through the number of the children of Israel, though they be as the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be saved. Except the Lord of Sabiaoth had left us a seed. We would have been as Sodom and likened to Gomorrah. In Romans 9, 27 to 29, he says, there has always been a Jewish remnant. You say, why is that? Because God is not done with the people that are there. There are Jewish Christians today. in Israel. Now, they're not meeting uh in great numbers. They're not accepted culturally. There there are missionaries from the United States right now in Israel reaching Jewish people. It's a very hard ministry. But they're doing it. I have friends that I know personally who are in New York City and they're laboring to minister to the Jewish community. They're trying to reach people with the gospel. And it's a hard work. It's probably very similar to going to a Muslim country. It's very similar to going to a place where there is a great antagonism to the gospel. And what's amazing is that the Jewish people have access to the Old Testament law. In the book of Isaiah, you can walk through the gospel from the Old Testament and show someone. It's a hard ministry. But you know what? There are people that are embracing the gospel. who never knew Christ, who have Jewish backgrounds. And so what he says is that there's a remnant. There's a group of Jewish Christians, people that are Abraham's physical descendants and his spiritual descendants. He then goes on to say this in chapter 10, verses 1 to 4. He says, brethren, my heart's desire in prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved I bear them record, they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. They being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness have not submitted themselves to the righteousness of God. Why do you think Paul understood the thinking of the Jewish people so well? Because that's what he was. That's exactly how he was on the road to Damascus. When Jesus confronted him on the road to Damascus, he was going to Damascus to bring Christians back to Jerusalem to try them, to imprison them, to kill them. He hated Christianity. And he says, as I reflect back on who I was, and I think about those who are my peers, my great desire in prayer is that they'll be saved. He longed that this entire nation would know the salvation of the Lord. Paul asked if God was done with the nation, and he continues on in Romans chapter 11, verse 1. Listen to what he says. I say, hath God cast away his people? God forbid. I also am an Israelite of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin God hath not cast away his people, which he foreknew. Even so, then, at this present time also, there is a remnant according to the election of grace. The answer is very simple. God's not done with his people. And the question is, well, if he's not done with his people, then where does this end? He says, well, I'll answer that question as well. In verse 25, he says, I would not, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery, lest you should be wise in your own conceits. That blindness impart happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. And so all Israel shall be saved, as it is written. There shall come out of Zion the deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob, for this is my covenant unto them, when I shall take away their sins. As concerning the gospel, they're enemies for your sake, but as touching the election, they are beloved for the Father's sake. The gifts and calling of God are without repentance. Do you know what that statement, the gifts and calling of God without repentance mean? It means when God promised to Abraham all the way back in Genesis 12 and 15, and he made all those promises throughout the Old Testament, he doesn't change his mind. In other words, he's going to fulfill the promises. And notice the statements. All Israel will , doesn't say they are, they will be saved. That's a future reality. Now, some of us sitting here today go, I cannot imagine such a day. I've talked to Jewish people and given them the gospel and they shut it down just like that. You mean that droves and droves, millions upon millions of people, with that mindset will be saved one day? Yeah, that's what the Bible says. I mean, do you believe God's word or not? In other words, when we go through Romans 9, 10, and 11, Paul is saying, this is my plan for these people. Not Paul's plan, God's plan. He's answering this great objection. And then he goes on to say this in verse 33. Who the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. Who hath known the mind of the Lord? Who hath been his counselor? Who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? For of him, through him, and to him are all things. To whom be glory forever. Amen. What's the point of this whole study this evening? It's to say that God made promises to a people. Judges chapter 2 explains to us the unfolding of their disobedience, and Romans 9, 10 and 11 tell us that God is going to fulfill those promises. promises, as stunning as it may be, he will do it. And so the question is this, how should we respond to this? That's the question I think we all should be asking this evening. How should we think about this whole situation? Let me give you some things to consider. The first is this. This passage explains why Israel's history has unfolded as it has Now, Romans 9, 10, and 11 are complicated chapters. And one of the arguments that Paul makes is that it is through the rejection of the gospel of the Jewish people. That the gospel was sent directly to Gentiles. And it is through Gentiles receiving the gospel That one day God will turn back to the Jewish people and he will draw them to himself in the same way that today he is drawing in great numbers, Gentile people. That's what he's saying. And he's saying this is something that's beyond our full comprehension, but this is the way that God works. This explains the history. Secondly, it warns us of the devastating consequences of failing to shake the next generation. I mean, why did the Jewish people experience these hardships? It's because a generation that knew God did not pass their faith on to the next generation. Now, we're not the Jewish people. We do not have the Mosaic covenant that we are a part of, okay? But there's a principle there that's clearly seen in our own situation. Just because we're saved, just because we're meeting here this evening, just because we're a part of this body and we love the Lord, does not mean that we can neglect our kids and just allow somebody else to pass the faith on to them. We have to take the responsibility upon ourselves. We have to pray fervently for the salvation of our children, for the discipleship of our children. We have to labor in the Word and in ministering to them, or we will end up falling into the exact same pattern that these people fell into. Thirdly, it teaches us that the Jewish people still have a special place in God's eternal purpose. We should love them and long for their salvation as Christ and Paul did. One of the most amazing statements that Jesus makes about the land of Israel and Jerusalem itself. is as he is getting ready to go to the cross, he looks out over Jerusalem and he says, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killed the prophets. How I would that you would have come to me and I would gather you to myself. And I'm I'm I'm totally botching my my uh This verse, but if you go you'll find the verse. He says, I gat I want to gather you like a mother hen gathers her chicks to her, but you would not. He says, I longed for these people to come to me Paul, as he thinks about all these people as he preaches the gospel, he says, My heart's desire and prayer is that they'll be saved. I wish I could be cut off from the kingdom myself if it meant that they could come to faith in Christ. Amazing statements. We should love them in the same way that our Savior and the Apostle Paul did. We should pray fervently for their salvation. And take every opportunity we have to reach into the lives of Jewish people that God brings across our path. I want to encourage you. As God brings you across the path of people, whoever they are, however cold and callous they may appear to the gospel, just give them them the truth. Give them the truth. Love them. Be patient with them. Pray for them. You don't know what God will do. We need to pray for the salvation of people we should pray for people that are willing to give their lives to very difficult ministries, ministering in places specifically to Jewish people. In places like New York City, places like Los Angeles, places like South Florida, places like in Israel. There are many places in the world where there are many populations, and going into those regions is very difficult. There are people willing to do it. But the last thing I want to say is this. We should take great comfort in the fact that God is going to fulfill his promise as he said. The whole point of the book of Revelation is to help us to see how God during the tribulation does this right here. That is when it will take place. And I look forward to the day that when we gather around the throne of God, it won't just be Gentiles from every people group, but it'll be Jews and Gentiles. Praising our Savior. That'll be a stunning day. And we will enjoy it for all of eternity. May God help us to think on these things tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Father, please take the word, use it in our hearts. Father, we pray for the terrible situations going on in the Middle East today. We recognize that this is a vicious conflict. We recognize there's a tremendous loss of life. And Father, as we heard this morning, we recognize that you could take anything going on and use it to accomplish good. I pray that you would use the tremendous hardships to drive people to ask questions about who God is and how they can be reconciled to Him I pray for Christians that are serving in Jerusalem and all around different kibbutzes in the land of Israel in harm's way but staying in that region because they love people and they want to reach them with the gospel. I pray that that you would uphold them, you would protect them, you would open up many doors for them to witness. And I pray that there would be many Jewish people that would come to a savory knowledge of Jesus Christ. They would recognize that this is not just A man in history, but this is their Messiah, who they have missed, and they will turn to him. Father, I pray that we would be a people that do not become calloused in our hearts. Toward the great plight of these people , that we would recognize that you still have a program that you are accomplishing even to this day. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to ask you to turn in your hymn books to hymn number 550. 550. This is where we will close today. We're going to sing all three verses of channels only. So I'd like to ask you, let's stand together. Let's sing this out. And ask the Lord to help us to be channels that He works through, to reach into the lives of people How I pray thee when I went, how I know I know me, how I take a life when we The law of sun as it is understood that we are taking only the Alright, well our teens have a sing spiration, so as soon as we uh close uh teams head to the back uh to get ready fill the vans and head over. And Scott Moore, can you please close this in a word of prayer? And we hope to see many of you on Wednesday night. Let's pray. Dear Lord, we thank you so much for your word and your goodness to us. I pray that you would open our eyes and open any eyes that fail to see you for who you are. Lord, we pray that we are always useful vessels in your hands, and that you would guide us in the way that we should go, so that others might know you and that we might enrich their lives. In Jesus' name. Amen.