Okay, well good evening. I'd like to welcome you tonight. Hope that you had a good afternoon and uh looking forward to our service. Let's bow together for prayer, please. And then we will get started. Father, we thank you so much for our church family and the opportunity tonight to gather again, and I pray that as we Um look into your word that you would speak to our hearts as we fellowship with one another. I pray that our time together would be very encouraging and uplifting And I pray that as we sing these wonderful songs of rich doctrine, I pray that you would help us to think about what we're singing. And I pray that we would sing from the heart tonight. We ask it in Christ's name, amen. All right, good evening, everyone. If we can all stand and turn to page 577, be strong in the Lord. We will sing all three Three verses. No, no, no, no, no, no. A couple pages back, 575. Stand up, stand up for Jesus. We'll sing all four verses. No, pero como no lo damos , le tenemos a casa cuando. . Let's sit down. And we'll turn back a few pages to five seventy-one. When we all get to heaven, all four verses Great thing. Okay, well we're gonna take a couple of minutes tonight as we do on Sunday nights and take some of your Minha semana nimenomainen semmoinen on ihan niihin mahdollisimman siinä on ihminen Minulla on ihan nimenimi muun ja muun ja haluan Mä hahmoinen The Red Book. We all know this one. Mm-hmm Beulaland. Alright, we'll sing uh how about a change? Let's do the last verse in 482. So we'll change it up a little bit. Last verse in dwelling in Beulaland. First three. Okay, so I'm going to go down. I will bring one to me the We laugh, but it's such a blessing, right? When our kids just love a piece and just all out for God in it? That's so great. Alright, let's uh move over to 151 in the blue book. All right. Let's stand for this one. We'll keep our feet flowing as I tell the choir. We're gonna keep uh stretching out. So one five one. I run to Christ. And for the fun of it, let's do verse two. Okay, we'll keep you on your toes. Alright? Can I hear just like an end? Yeah. Yeah, thank you. Verse two It's nice to hear all of them. So let's move over to the red book. 492. 492. And for this one, let's do verse three. Let's do verse three, four ninety-two May be seated, please, as we turn to page 625. 625. Ooh. This is a long one. All right. Wonderful. No. Ooh, all right. Okay, well, can I hear a little bit of the end? Yeah, right? Uh just the like the last four verses there of page four? Well I have six twenty five and I have a track in four pages. Am I looking at it wrong? Yeah, yeah. Okay. Yeah, just maybe the last four verses All right, here we go. One, two, and Is this way wonderful, wonderful? To keep me on my toes. That was really good. Alright. 391. 391. And this should be it. 391. Great job Morgan. That was good. I was like, whoa, one to the other. All right, I am resolved. Let's do the first verse. Let's do the first First verse. Great singing. Numbers thirteen tonight. Numbers chapter 13. I can't help but feel that as we've gone through the study of the Exodus and as we've sung view land , I can kind of sympathize with the Israelites regarding the manna and hearing about manna every single week. Maybe you don't sympathize. Numbers thirteen. We are now two years into the Exodus. Where Israel has departed Egypt, and now we find them in the wilderness of Kadesh Barnia. And geographically they are just south of what would later become Judah. And they are literally on the precipice of entering the promised land. Now, in Numbers 13 and 14, we see the nation of Israel's first interactions with the Promised Land, and we are pretty familiar with how that went down. It wasn't great. We find them really grieving over their inability to take the land, and then we see them punished for their rebellion by having to wander the wilderness. For an additional 38 years for a total of 40. What we're seeing here is really Israel's inability to accept That God has made a promise and that he will fulfill it. But tonight, rather than focusing primarily on Israel's inability and failure, I would like for us to draw from this negative example the fact that God truly wants us to live in confidence of his sure promises. And we're going to see that as we start learning from three lessons that are taught from really very negative examples. That we see Israel teaching us in Numbers 13 through 14. Let's go ahead and read some of the passage tonight and become acquainted with what's going on here. It says in verse 1, and the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Send thou men that they may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel, of every tribe. of their fathers shall you send a man, every one a ruler among them. And Moses, by the commandment of the Lord, sent them from the wilderness of Quran. All those men were heads of the children of Israel. Drop down to verse 17. Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said unto them, Get you up this way southward and go up into the mountain. And see the land what it is, and the people that dwelleth therein, whether they be strong or weak, few or many, and what the land is that they dwell in, whether it be good or bad, or what cities they be that they dwell in, whether in tents or in strongholds. And what the land is, whether it be fat or lean, whether there be wood therein or not, and be of good courage, and bring of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the first fir first ripe grapes We're going to see what that resulted in as they went into the land. As we look at the first part of our passage tonight, We're going to see that the spies were sent into the land really to affirm the reality of God's promises. And that's the first lesson in which we should learn how to live in confidence of God's promises. You see, the spies traveled a tremendous distance. As they went forty days into and back from the promised land. We have Shemuah and Shephat and Caleb and Egal and Hoshea, which was later named Joshua. Palti, Gadil, Gadi, Emil, Nabi, and Gul. And their names are given so that we recognize who these men were. And what they ended up doing. You see, they traveled from Kedah Sparnia all the way to Hamath or Lebo Hamath Which would be the equivalent of us going from Baltimore all the way down to Greenville, South Carolina. And if you're not familiar with that, it'd be like walking to the northern tip of Maine. It's a good distance. And as they traveled through this land, no doubt they got to see a good bit. I mean, just imagine taking the Jersey Turnpike up to New York City. You see quite a bit, don't you not? And as they traveled through the land, they no doubt saw the fact that God was not mincing words when he said that it was a land flowing with milk and honey. And so the spies, as they travel this tremendous distance, they're on a mission to affirm the veracity of God's promises. And when they came back, they brought back a huge bounty. In verses 23 to 25, we see, and they came unto the brook of Eskyl, and cut down from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes. And they bare it between two upon a staff, and they brought of the pomegranates and of the figs. The place was called the Brook of Ezchal because the cluster of grapes which the children of Israel cut from fence. And they returned from searching of the land after 40 days. They brought back some souvenirs, if you will, grapes. From Eskull, pomegranates, figs. I wonder why they didn't bring back milk and honey, but regardless, they were testimonies of the richness. Of the land. And it was indicative of exactly what God had promised: a land flowing with milk and honey, a land that was bountiful. Now these spies they knew what God had promised. And as they explored the promised land, they were expected to affirm what God had promised was good about the land. But as we know They got distracted by the evil things of the land, the giants, the walled cities, the obstacles that they would have to face. But we do very much the same thing, do we not? Sometimes we're not even aware of what the promises of God are. And some people even claim promises from Scripture that don't even apply to them. But as Christians We must not only be students of the word, but we should also learn and understand the promises which God has made to us. For example, Matthew 11, 28, Jesus promises, Come unto me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, I will give you rest. Another promise is John 14, 1 and 2. Let not your heart be troubled. You believe in God, believe also in me. In my heart, my father's house are many mansions, and if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you. Acts 111 is another promise. Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus which is taken up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. Romans 8 28, we can probably quote it by heart. We know all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are called according to his purpose. First Corinthians 15, behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed in a moment. And the twinkling of an eye at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. These are promises of God. The one who cannot lie or change or accidentally forget. And in the time we live on this earth, we should not only know his promise, but we should remind ourselves of them. So as we go through life's journeys, We can affirm that God is truly faithful to keep his promises. I encourage especially our young people, talk to our seniors and ask them, How they've seen God keep his promises and they will tell you for a fact that he has Let that be a testimony to you as you walk through this life, an affirmation that God always delivers on his promises. Day by day, with each passing moment, we see the evidences of God's ability to keep his promises. But it's up to us to know these promises so that we can see them fulfilled daily and allow that to be a source of growing confidence for us. So we need to affirm God's promises in our day-to-day life. But there's another lesson that we learn from these Israelites as we jump back into Numbers 13. And what they end up teaching us is that we must have faith in God's promises. Now you might be thinking, well, duh, we're supposed to have faith in God's promises. But stay with me here. We first see the spies acknowledging the blessing of God in verses 26 -27. It says, And they went and came to Moses and to Aaron and to all the congregation of the children of Israel unto the wilderness of Peran to Kadesh, and brought back word unto them and unto all the congregation, and showed them the fruit of the land, and they told him And said, We came unto the land whither thou sentest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey, and this is the fruit of it. Upon returning to the camp, the spies gave the report to the people, and in this they acknowledged that the land was bountiful and fruitful, using the very hoods which God gave to Moses to describe the Richness of the land. And with all that they would have seen in forty days, I'm sure that there is much that they could have described and given praise to God for as they were about to enter the land. But unfortunately This acknowledgement of the good was short-lived, as the rest of the passage would take a very negative turn. For you see in the verses that follow, we see that the spies not only acknowledged the blessing of God, but they revealed their lack of faith. Verse 28 Nevertheless the people be strong that dwell in the land. And the cities are walled, and very great. Moreover, we saw the children of Anak there. The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south, and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Amorites dwell in the mountains. And the Canaanites dwell by the sea and by the coast of Jordan. And Caleb still the people before Moses and said, Let us go up at once and possess it, for we are well able to overcome it. But the men that went up with him said, We are not able to go up against the people, for they are stronger than we. And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the tr children of Israel, saying, The land through which we have gone to search it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof. And all the people that we saw in it are men of a great statue. Stature. And there we saw giants, the sons of Anak. Which come of the giants, and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight. Immediately after a short positive note about the land, the spies began bemoaning the fact that the children of Anak, the Am Amalekites, the Hittites, the Jebusites, the Amorites, the Canaanites, essentially all the people that God wanted to destroy out of the land. Happened to be in the land. But while Caleb tried to encourage the people in spite of this, the fact is the spy's report was an evil report. They said, The land through which we have gone to search it is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof. This wasn't a good report. This wasn't a balanced report. This was an outright, slanderous report regarding the good land which God had promised them. Now it was true that these enemies were imposing. But what this report really reveals is that, unlike Caleb and Joshua, the rest of the spies did not believe. That they could enter the land whatsoever. Of course, towering over them in plain view was the pillar of the cloud by day and the pillar of fire by night. They had seen God shake Mount Sinai, defeat the Amalekites, part the Red Sea, and miraculously destroy the armies of Pharaoh. Yet they didn't even give thought to God's ability to deliver them. Or deliver these enemies of in Canaan into their hand. This is a severe lack of faith. And that really it's a misplaced misplaced faith. You see, their faith wasn't in God at all, it was in themselves. And when you have faith in yourself, it can only lead to despair and oftentimes non-action. Now, here we see an interesting connection between faith and confidence. You see, I'm not a fan of this term in and of itself, but there is something to be said about self-esteem. The term itself kind of makes us think about self-confidence, which is the opposite of what we're trying to get at here. But we do need to have a healthy and informed confidence of what we are capable of, especially as we serve the Lord. That's where faith comes in. Faith is how we draw confidence from God, which in turn allows us to live in confidence of God's promises. It's kind of like if I walked into Truth Tracker 's on Wednesday and I was carrying a filled water balloon and I said, you know what, this is going to be the source of the Truth Tracker 's. drink for snack time. And I take that water balloon and I squeeze it into that pitcher and I come up to the kid, like, all right, give me your cups. And I start pouring out. Eventually I'm gonna run out. Yet there's a sink and a water fountain right next to it that I could easily fill my water pitcher from You see, faith faith in self is like trusting in a water balloon to give you water to drink. It's limited Whereas faith in God is like going to a limitless supply of water. If we trust in ourselves, we might have confidence for a while, but it will surely run out. But when our faith is in the infinite, limitless power of God, our confidence is just as limitless. Our confidence must be in the God of heaven and earth, the one who contains the universe in his hands and yet can step into it. In human flesh and live among us. Trust not in yourself, but trust in the infinitely powerful and faithful God who offers us offers us promises sure and powerful. We must have faith in God's promises. And as we seek to continue learning how to have confidence in God's promises, as we look at these Israelites and their failure to have confidence in God's promises. We come to the final lesson in chapter 14, where we learn that we must be sobered by God's promises. In verse 1 of chapter 14, we see, and all the congregation lifted up their voice and cried, and the people wept that night. And the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron. And the whole congregation said unto them, Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt? Or would God we had died in this wilderness? And wherefore hath the Lord brought us into this land to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be a prey. Were it not better for us to return into Egypt? And they said one to another, Let us make a captain, and let us return un into Egypt. Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces. before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel. And Joshua the son of Nun and Caleb the son of Jephanah were which were of them that searched land rent their clothes And they spake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The land which we pass through to search it is an exceeding good land. If the Lord delight in us, then he will bring us into this land and give it to us A land which floweth with milk and honey. Only rebel not ye against the Lord, neither fear ye the people of the land, for they are bread for us. Their defense is departed from them, and the Lord is with us. Fear them not But the congregation bade stone them with stones. The Israelites Despaired and rebelled. And it should come as no surprise that when Israel neglected God's promise to bring them into the land, They began to despair and murmur against Moses and Aaron alike. They began wishing that they had died in Egypt or in the desert, all while bemoaning the idea of dying in the promised land Such illogical thinking betrays a heart that is devoid of any confidence in God and His promises Even when Caleb and Joshua tried to console the congregation, the Israelites picked up stones ready to stone them as if they were some sort of heretics. But for this generation, God would not remain quiet to let them rebel in such a defiant manner. In verses 10 following, we see that the Lord grieved. and judged this generation. He says in it says the glory of the Lord verse 10. Appeared in the tabernacle of the congregation before all the children of Israel. And the Lord said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me? And how long will it be ere they believe me, for all the signs which I have showed among them. I will smite them with a pestilence and disinherit them, and I will make of thee, Moses, a greater nation and mightier than they. We see the glory of the Lord visibly appear before all the children of Israel at the tabernacle. He speaks to Moses, stating that he will utterly destroy them and raise up a new nation from his descendants. Sound familiar? Moses again intercedes in the verses that follow. Only this time the Lord clearly states that at the word of Moses, God would not destroy the entirety of the congregation. Yet we should definitely get a sense of God's grief in this scene, particularly in verses 20 to 25. And the Lord said I have pardoned according to thy word, but as truly as I live, all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord, because All those men which have seen my glory and my miracles, which I did in Egypt and in and the wilderness, and have tempted me now these ten times, and have not hearkened to my voice, surely they shall not see the land which I swear unto their fathers. Neither shall they shall any of them that provoked me see it, but my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him And have followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereinto he went, and his she seed shall possess it. Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwelt in the valley. Tomorrow turn you and get you into the wilderness by the way of the Red Sea. In verses 26 to 2939, God clarifies this judgment, which seems to allude to Israel's aforementioned desire to have died in the wilderness. It's a heavy judgment. One that cannot be overstated in either its mercifulness or justness. And is well summarized in verse 29. Your carcass Shall fall in this wilderness, and all that were numbered of you, according to your whole number, from twenty years up old and upward, which have murmured against me, doubtless Ye shall not come into the land concerning which I swear to make you dwell therein, save Caleb the son of Jephennah and Joshua the son of Nun. But your little ones, which ye said should be a prey, them will I bring in. And they shall know the land which ye have despised. But as for you your carcasses, they shall fall in this wilderness. Israel didn't like this news, naturally. And so in verse 40 It becomes almost comical to see them get up the next morning and try to backtrack. They end up presuming upon God and perishing as a result In those verses, we see them trying to ask for forgiveness, saying that they have sinned. And rather than hearing from God Himself, that He said, Let's just go up into the land. And they go up into the land. And are decimated. God wasn't with them. Such presumption betrays a false assumption toward God's promises. And that false assumption is this that we will always be freely able. To claim God's promises. Now, of course, God always will keep his promises, but his promises need to be understood for their purpose. And their context. For example, we know the promise of Romans 10, 13, for whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. But there's a definite time limit to that. Which we know from Hebrews 9, 27-28, where it says, And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment, so Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. And unto them that look for him shall he appear the sec second time without sin unto salvation. Christ will come again, and at that point he will s we will see him as surely as men die and are judged. Those that presumed upon the promises of God learned quickly what happens when you challenge the will of God. The Amalekites and the Canaanites came down. And killed those ill Israelites that tried to enter the promised land against God's will. Now, this is a heavy passage. And it speaks sobering truths to us, such as neglecting God's promises can lead to despair and rebellion. Teaches us that God is personally grieved when we directly challenge him and his faithfulness. Teaches us that presumption upon God's promises is a dangerous thing. That can lead to direct disobedience of the Lord's will. In summary, we could say that God's promises carry a great weight to them. That if neglected or challenged or presumed upon can lead to our harm. But rather than leave you on this negative note, consider the other side of the coin. You see, if we ought to take God's promises seriously and soberly, imagine how seriously and soberly God takes his promises. And if God takes his promises seriously, We can be sure that He will keep them in such a way that is to our greatest good and for His greatest glory. We know this because even in the midst of the passage we've just looked at, there's a promise that to the generation that will enter the promised land. That is the generation which Joshua leads, the generation we read about in the book of Joshua, who has great victories, proceeds by the hand of Almighty God. So I tell you this, when God keeps his promises in our lives, it is an act of infinite power and wisdom which we cannot fathom. It is no light thing to him. He invests his might, his will, his love, his justice, his reputation, his glory into keeping his promises. They are not flippant, they are not trite. They are not wishy-washy. When we read and understand the promises of God, we ought to let the weight of each and every promise bury deep within our soul and become springs. of glorious praise because God is faithful. I close with First Thessalonians five, which I think sums up this thought in a wonderful way. First Thessalonians five. An epistle that speaks highly of God's sure promises. In 1 Thessalonians 5 and verse 14, Paul writes, Now we exhort you, brethren. Warm them that are unruly. Comfort the feeble-minded. Support the weak. Be patient toward all men. See that none render evil for evil unto any man. But ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves and to all men. Rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing. In everything give thanks, for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Quench not the spirit, despise not prophesyings, prove all things, hold fast that which is good, abstain from all appearances of evil, and the very God of peace sanctify you wholly And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Faithful is He that calleth you. Who also will do it. Faithful is he that calleth you Our God is a faithful, promise-keeping God. Let's live in confidence of his sure promises. Father, we look at Israel and their tremendous sin and we grieve over the facts. Though they had tremendous testimony of your power and your majesty and your greatness. They lacked confidence. It was a sin to them, but it is a lesson to us. And when we look at you, and we look at you in the entirety of Scriptures, we find in them the evidences. Of you and your power, and your power to keep the promises which you've given through us. Be our source of confidence, O Lord. In Christ's name. Amen. Whenever we look at God's character, we see both sides. The promises that are sure, and we see the dangers of rejecting them. And ultimately, the reason that they rejected it is because of unbelief. Unbelief is I choose not to trust what you say. Doubt is I'm shaken. And there really is a difference between those two things. And um we can learn a lot from Caleb and Joshua in their confidence. They said God promised Let's go and do this. I would have really liked to see those fruits from the land. Made me think about my mind is wandering for with dear Pastor Chris about how our grapes grow in the fall and those things. But let's take this passage to heart, really live in the light of it. The song we're going to sing for our closing is song 524, Saved by the Blood. So if you could, let's turn there. 524, saved by the blood. And we'll sing all three verses together. Let's stand, please. We sing it out with passion as we think about the song. Well I'm a little bit of a run that we have through all the bottom blood. Love that song. For the Billy Pew, can you Please come and close us in prayer and hope that you have a great start to your week. This will be a really nice night for volleyball if you're planning to do that. I think the weather's gonna be really good. I know my kids are ready to do that. And um hope you have a great week and looking forward to seeing you on Wednesday night, Lord willing. Lord, thank you for Bringing us here safely tonight. Thank you for the message which Pastor Chris brought. And I couldn't help but think of the connection from having our identity in you this morning, Lord, and that the confidence that comes from you. uh and you only, uh, as confidence in ourselves will eventually lead to being inadequate. I pray that you remember that as we go forth from tonight. In Christ's name. Amen.