To welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection and we are back in Luke chapter 2 today. So if you have a Bible, I want to encourage you to take it. Let's look together at verses 33 down to verse 38. Again, that's Luke 2, 33 to 38. Notice what the Bible says. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him. And he's talking about Simeon here. And Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and the rising again of many in Israel, for a sign which shall be spoken against. Yea, a sword shall pierce through thine own soul. Also the thoughts of many hearts will be revealed And there was one Anna, prophetess, the daughter of Fenuel, the tribe of Asher. She was of great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity. She was a widow of about fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with fasting and prayer night and day. And she coming in at the instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord and spake unto him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem. Now, when we look at the passage in front of us, it's very interesting the statements that are made about this small child by this man Simeon and by this woman Anna. But the thing I'd like us to focus on this morning is the fact that it's impossible for somebody to be neutral about who Christ is And from the conversation that Mary and Joseph are going to have with Simeon and also with Anna and the things that they're going to say, you can see that people are going to respond either very positively to Christ or they're going to be very negative towards Christ. We're going to have one or the other. And so really people are not going to be neutral with Him And what's interesting is it's not just that that what they're expressing about people in Israel is true, but it's true about everybody. You cannot be neutral about Christ and it's because of who he is and because of what he did. It's because of the implications of his person and his work. And so really a simple summary of these verses Is that it's impossible to be truly neutral about Christ. Let's look at a couple of truths and facts that are laid out in the text in front of us The first is that Christ's life forces us to choose a side. You know, I think about what what Joshua says to the nation of Israel. He says, Choose you this day whom you will serve, as for me and my house we're going to serve the Lord. That's what Joshua says to the children of Israel when they're in the promised land in those early, early days. Well, the fact is that when we talk about Jesus, we have to choose a side. Either we receive him and we embrace the implications of who Christ is and what he did, or we reject him and we bear the consequences of the implications of rejecting Christ. You can't be neutral with him. You can't say he's a good man, but I I don't accept him. You say he's a liar, he's not who he said he was, what he did uh was of no real eternal value Or you say, my eternal destiny is rooted in what Christ did for me and who he is. So notice the way that Simeon speaks of Jesus. He says, This child is set for the fall and the rising again of many in Israel, and for a sign which shall be spoken against. Now, when he talks about a sign, you ask, well, what is he talking about? Clearly, Simeon is referring to something in the Old Testament that tells us about Christ. What's interesting is I believe that Peter also refers to a text in the Old Testament And Peter talks about it more extensively than what Simeon's saying. So I want to read to you what it says in 1 Peter 2, because I think he's referring to the very thing that Simeon is referring to here. This is what Peter writes. Wherefore also it is contained in the Scriptures, the Old Testament, behold, I lay in Sion a chief cornerstone. Elect, precious. He that believes on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe, he is precious But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, a stone of stumbling block, a rock of offense, even to them which stumbled at the word. being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed. I want you to notice the contrast between the way people are going to respond to Christ in Israel. He says to some he's precious. He's elect. He is someone that will not let us down. To others, he's a stumbling stone. He is a rock of offense. In other words, he's something that's going to cause us to fall down, and he's something that's going to be an offense that we cannot remove. Either he's going to be that, or he's going to be something that's precious to us, something that our entire lives are built on. In other words, the same stone that causes people to fall down is the stone that they build their house on. The same stone that's an offense to some people that they cannot remove and they keep pushing against and they don't want to deal with it It's a stone that others use as the foundation for this massive structure that their life's built on. In other words, Christ is either going to cause you to trip and stumble and be a frustration to you Or Christ is going to be something that you build your life on. And that's really what Simeon's saying. Some people are going to be blessed by Christ. And others will be crushed by him. It's all about what they do with him. But what does that show us? That shows us that you have to choose sides when it comes to the Lord Jesus Christ. You cannot be neutral about him. The second fact that we see is that those who reject Christ do it with animosity. Now, some people might say, well It's just an intellectual thing. So either you you believe in Jesus or you don't believe in Jesus. And if you don't believe in Jesus, well then you're totally okay with other people believing him. You just don't believe in him yourself Well, what we see is that human history tells us that is not how people respond to Christ. And this passage is actually going to foretell how people are going to respond to Christ And if we look at biblical history, we look at the rest of human history, we will see that people who reject Christ, they do it with animosity. They don't just do it with animosity towards Christ, they do it with animosity towards the message about Christ, and those who represent Christ, those who embrace the gospel Verse 35, he makes this statement. He says, A sword shall pierce through thine own soul, he's talking to Mary, that the thoughts of many may be revealed. He said, there are going to be people who have personal hatred and a mity towards this little child And one day, what they have in their heart is going to come out in their actions. And when they do that, it's going to cause terrible pain and grief to you, Mary. In other words, he is referring to what's going to take place when Christ goes to the cross. In John 1. 10 it says that Jesus was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not. He came to his own, his own received him not. You say, Well, why ended that people didn't receive Christ Well, John records later in the book, in chapter 3, verses 19 and 20, the reason why people did not receive Christ. It says this is the condemnation. Light has come into the world. And here's the key, men love darkness rather than light because their deeds were evil. For everyone that doeth evil hateth the light. Neither cometh to the light lest his deeds be reproved. In Romans chapter one it tells us that people knew God, but they don't glorify him as God. And it's because they hold the truth in unrighteousness In other words, when we talk about who Jesus is and what he did and why he did it and why it was necessary for us To embrace Him in order to be accepted by God, the implications of those truths are not purely intellectual. They actually have bearing on our hearts. They actually have bearing on our conscience and on our souls. And the fact is that we can understand understand it intellectually and we can either love it and embrace it or we can hate it and reject it. And so basically what the scriptures tell us is that when people reject it, they reject it out of animosity and with animosity. In Luke chapter twenty-two, we will actually see the expression of this animosity in the religious leaders who crucified Christ. It says, at the at the feast of unleavened bread, as it drew nigh, which is called the Passover, the chief priest and the scribes sought how they might kill him. In other words, Jesus is an innocent man and they want to murder the man It says, They feared the people. Then entered Satan into Judas, surname Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve, and he went his way and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto them. They were glad. They covenanted to give him money, and he promised and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude. Well, what do we see here? We see people who secretly hate Christ. They hate him so passionately. Passionately, but they're willing to murder him. They're willing to covenant together and work together to take him out in a way that's not going to get them in trouble. And you ask, well, what is this? This is really showing you the response of human nature against the person of Christ. And you say, well, why is that? Why would people have such animosity toward the Lord Jesus? Because his presence is so convicting. It's because his presence is so humbling. It's because his presence is so exclusive. The fact is Jesus came because I'm a sinner. And that's a very humbling thing for me to consider. Jesus came to me because I'm morally bankrupt and I have nothing that I can offer God and I have to come to God through him alone. And when Jesus says that he's come, he says, I am the way, the truth, the life, and no man comes to the Father except through me. And so Jesus demands exclusive allegiance and exclusive trust. And he says, There's no other hope for you except through me. Well the fact is that either you embrace that and you love it if you stake your eternity on it, or you say this is this is arrogant and this is proud and this is a lie and I want nothing to do with this. You're gonna take a side. You have to take a side The demands of Christ and the person of Christ and the work of Christ, it really is a dividing issue. It's a watershed issue. Either you're with him or you're against him. There's no middle ground on these things. And so we see that people understand that. And when they reject it, they reject it with animosity. The third fact we see is that those who receive Christ do it with the entirety of their person. And we see that in this woman Anna, and we really see it in Simeon, and the people that they're going to talk to when they see that Christ has been born and he is the Redeemer. And God has sent redemption in the person of Christ. to the people of Israel. It says in verse 36, there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Fenuel, the tribe of Asher. They talk about the fact that she's a very old woman. that that her husband had died when she was very young and she essentially lived in the temple for decades, scores of decades, as a as a widow, and she is serving the Lord in fasting and prayer, ministering to people. But this is what it says at the end. It says that she served God with fasting and prayer night and day, and she coming in the instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord and spake of him To all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem. Well, what does it tell us about this woman? First of all, she was grateful. She was thankful to God when she meets this child because she understands who the child is. She spoke of him. In other words, she talks to people about who Christ is. And it's interesting it says it's to them that looked for redemption. Now when he says they looked for redemption, it means that this is something that actually consumed them as people. It was at the core of who they were as people. They were looking for the Redeemer. What does that tell us? That tells us that the entirety of the person was affected by their belief that God would send a Savior. And so really what we see is that people either accept Christ and it radically changes their life, or they reject him and they have this intense animosity toward him and toward what the implications are of who he is. She realizes how significant Christ is. She's worshipful in her response. She couldn't contain her joy. She wanted to express it. And she spoke to people whose lives were centered. on looking for redemption. And I want you to see that that's really the way that people respond to Christ. If you're a Christian, then that's something that consumes you. It's something that is at the center and core of your life. You know, you can't just be a Christian and say, well, I intellectually believe in Christ, but it doesn't affect my life in any way. The fact is that it radically changes us. It changes us fundamentally It's not just about what we believe, but it's the fact that we believe in our new creatures in Christ. And we believe in our new creatures in Christ who walk as disciples. And so really all of our life focuses in on the gospel. And it's at the core of who we are as a person. It's our identity that we are God's people. And so here's the question this morning. These things being true, how do we apply this practically? How does this affect us in a positive way? How does this instruct us this morning? Let me give you a couple thoughts that I jotted down as I was reflecting on this today. The first is this. Don't be discouraged by the way the world responds to Christ and the real gospel message When we read these verses, what we realize is that there are some people who love Christ and whose lives are absorbed in the things of God, and he is at the center of everything in their life. He is their core of their identity. And then you have others who despise him. Well, if Christ is the center of my identity and he is the center of my joy and I stake my eternity in him Well, I'm going to be discouraged when I see people who aren't just trying to be neutral about him, but they literally despise the Lord Jesus. They despise what he represents. They despise the gospel message. They despise the true Christian faith. That's going to be a discouraging thing, but we need to recognize something. That's reality. That's the way the world is. The world doesn't love God. The world hates God. And we need to recognize that when God saves people, he saves people Who were set at enmity against him until the gospel came and broke the stubbornness of their souls, and they were humbled, and in repentance they trusted Christ. But God saves enemies. God saves people who are set against him in rebellion against him. And so it shouldn't discourage us. That's reality. We need to be prepared to face that reality. The second is this. Don't be surprised by the animosity you see in our culture. Against religious expression, even religious expression that falls far short of theological expressions of the Christian faith I think about something like the War on Christmas. Now we talk about Christmas in America. I mean that's not a, we could say, a Christian biblical expression of faith. And we talk about the incarnation, obviously, that is a theologically rich concept, but we talk about the way that we celebrate Christmas in our culture. Well the fact is that we don't have anywhere in the Bible that tells us to do those things. Yeah, what's so interesting is there are people that hate when I say hate, I mean they like viciously hate anything to do with Christmas And then we're not talking about something that is a rich theological expression of something laid out in the Bible. We're talking about a Western cultural practice that's identified with the birth of Christ. The fact is that it really bothers some people if you just said something as simple as Merry Christmas. Why is that? Because Christ is offensive to many people. That shouldn't shock us or surprise us. I also want to mention this. Salvation is a miracle. And when a person trusts Christ as their Savior, we need to recognize that is a miracle. It's an incredible blessing that we're able to witness that or be used of God in any way to bring that person to faith in Christ. And the last thing I'm going to mention is this. We need to approach people who are not believers as if salvation really is a miracle. In other words, we need to really pray for them, recognizing it's God who moves their heart It's not some great illustration that I'm going to use or some persuasiveness on my part. It's God who opens the heart. It's God who convicts the soul. It's God who works and brings them to see their need and to place their faith in Christ. It's His work. And so I need to pray as if it's really His work. I didn't take the burden off of my own shoulders to see people be saved. When I say that, I don't mean don't tell people of the gospel. We need to preach the gospel. We need to be evangelists. Tell people about Christ But we need to recognize we're just tools. We're not the ones that put faith in their hearts. We're not responsible for their responses. We're responsible to be faithful. We 're responsible to communicate truth. We're responsible to love them. We're responsible to pray for them. We're responsible to take opportunity. We're responsible to pat But we need to take the burden off of our shoulders to feel that it is us who brings them to faith. We're just a tool. And we're one tool among many tools many times. We need to be committed to what God uses. God uses the gospel. God uses his word. And so that's what we must rest in when we are communicating truth to people. I also want to mention we need to rejoice in his power. When a person trusts Christ as their Savior, that's a remarkable thing. It's a miracle. It's a blessing. And it's all about Him. It's all about His glory, not ours. We should be humbled that God uses us as tools in some small way to bring people into His kingdom And so I want to remind you this morning that when we talk about the Lord Jesus Christ, it's impossible to be neutral about him. Maybe you have a friend or somebody that you know that says, you know, I don't believe in Christ, but I'm just kind of neutral on the issue. I'm not encouraging you to be aggressive about this. It's, oh, it's impossible, but I want you to realize something. It is impossible to be neutral. And that person's going to have to choose at some point if they are going to embrace or reject. They may be going through a process of evaluating the facts, they may not fully understand them. They may be wrestling in their soul, but the reality is you don't become a Christian without first being convicted and convinced that you are lost. And when we talk about that, those are implications of the heart about the facts of the gospel And so let's pray for people, let's love people, let's present truth to people, let's live out the truth in front of people And let's rejoice when God brings people into his kingdom and he uses us in a small way. I hope this has been a challenge to you this morning This is a wonderful passage for me to reflect on. I hope that you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will talk again tomorrow. Bye now.