We're going to pick up our study. We're going to be in 2 Chronicles chapter 17. 2 Chronicles. If you don't know where it is, just look after 1 Chronicles, and you will find 2 Chronicles. And we're going to look at Jehoshaphat as the king and doing what dad does. Doing what dad does. 2 Chronicles chapter 17, I'll pick it up in verse 1. We'll read just most of this chapter, not all of it, but I will pick it up in verse 1. And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his sed and strengthened himself against Israel And he placed forces in all the fenced cities of Judah, and sent garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken. And the Lord was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first ways of his father David, and sought not unto Balaam But sought to the Lord God of his father, and walked in his commands, and not after the doings of Israel. Therefore, the Lord established the kingdom in his hand, and all Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presents, and he had riches and honor in abundance. And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the Lord. Moreover, he took away the high places and the groves out of Judah. Skip to verse 9. And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of the Lord with them. And went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and taught the people. And the fear of the Lord fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Judah. so that they made no war against Jehoshaphat. Let us pray. Father, we thank you so much for this scripture. As we read through it and as we study it and preach through it this evening, that the Spirit of God will use the Word of God to change each individual, each family, and this church body more into who you want us to be, would we be just tender and open and led of you through your word? And we thank you ahead of time for what you will do as we come to you through the great and glorious name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. As I've been reading over this text quite a bit for the last week. Or so I just could not get the past, the fact that this is really a lot of a father having an impact on his son. And now thinking upon that, I had a couple different thoughts that came to my mind. I remember distinctly trying to keep up with my dad when I was younger. I would say when I was little, but some things never change. But when I was younger, I distinctly remember uh this one time, it was very few times it ever happened, but I went hunting with my dad. He thought he could be a bow hunter. He did his best. Never shot anything. Rarely saw anything. But I remember seeing this deer. It was there was this little valley and it was up on the next hill. I was like, dad. I was like, look, look, there's a deer. And he's like, oh awesome. Let's go get it. I'm like, what? So we, I don't know why. We went chasing after this deer. We were trying to sneak up on it. And it was my dad and my younger brother and myself. And my dad was all excited just trying to get close with the boat. You gotta get really close. I mean you might as well tackle the thing. It slides up with a knife. But anyways, we're getting we're trying to get close. Well then he hears us. Surprise, surprise, and he starts taking off. And my dad, instead of going, ah, we lost him, he just starts chasing this deer. I'm in the middle of nowhere, in the woods, and I have a couple of options. I can do my best to just follow my dad, or I can not and be lost and have no clue where I am and just start yelling at the top of my lungs until he comes to rescue me. I've got no clue where I am. We're in the middle of nowhere. My choice was to do my best to follow and keep up with my dad. It was not easy. And I distinctly remember we were going up this hill. Very steep. This wasn't steps. This was like a hill. Sometimes the ground is sliding underneath your feet as you're trying to dig in and go up the hill. And somehow I missed this. branch or the small tree or something and I gave myself one of the biggest Charlie horses ever right in my thigh. So now I'm injured, I'm laying there. And my younger brother, this is always hurts, goes now passing pa by me And as I look up, I see my father getting all the more distant chasing up this hill. And here I am laying in pain. And I was like, now I'm never going to be able to keep up. It just is hard to keep up with my dad. Then several years ago, we were in the snow up in Pennsylvania, and we're trekking through some snow, and I found that my boys are having a hard time trying to keep up with that you sink into the snow. And here I found myself with two of my own boys. And they're like, dad, walk closer together so we can walk where you are, because the snow is already packed and they won't sink, and it got easier for them to walk in. And one thing I found true is as I tried to follow my dad, I am now a dad with boys trying to follow you. And that can go one of two ways, really. The good news is here in 2 Chronicles, we have a dad that was doing well in Asa. That's the previous context here. And now what we have is Jehoshaphat coming to reign. And as we see multiple times through this passage of scripture, he is following where his dad left off. And praise the Lord, it was in a good path, which helped pave the way to make it easier for him. But he still had to make the decision for himself to do what his dad does. So we're going to look at this first in verses 1 through 4, following the Father's footsteps. Following the Father's footsteps. We see in chapter 17, verse 1, and Jehoshaphat, his son, reigned in his stead and strengthened himself against Israel. The sad part about this verse is he strengthened himself against Israel, which is they had recently split And so now you have Israel and Judah. So he's strengthening himself against the enemy, but it's really the northern tribes. And in verse 2, he said, and he placed forces in all the fenced cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken. What he's doing is he's strengthening himself and reinforcing the fencities that his father had taken, and he's just following in the footsteps of what was already laid before him. And then we continue on in verses 3 and 4 as we see as he's following his dad footsteps, look what he does on his own. In verse 3, and the Lord was with Jehoshaphat. This is always a comforting phrase to me when we read it throughout Scripture. To know that the Lord's presence is with you. And that is a wonderful thing. When Adam and Eve ateed the fruit and sin entered the world, they are the ones who recognized at that point, oh, we we are going to hide from God. They're separating themselves from God, and we've been doing it ever since. We try and separate ourselves from due to our own sin and our own challenges. But knowing when you're in the presence of God and you're clean of that sin, it makes it far easier to go to God and not have things that are in the way. So just knowing that the Lord was with Jehosaphat, now let's look at why. Why was God's presence with him? Because a lot of times we pray for God's presence, and sometimes we like the verse that says, you know, where two or three are gathered in my name, I'm in their midst. But what happens when you're by yourself? Is God not with you? Well, good thing for us. That's not what that verse is teaching. Because we know God is there, but here he is with us when you are alone and by yourself, even in your own prayer closet. But the Lord was with Jehoshaphat, and let's look at why. Why he did? Why was God in his presence? It says, because, middle of verse 3, because he walked in the first ways of his father David. Now if we take a timeout really quick, we're gonna wait a minute. It just said his David, uh his father was Asa, not David. But oftentimes it in scripture it refers to the father as it could be a grandfather, a great great grandfather, in this case it's probably a great, great, great. Okay, we're going a couple back generations to his father. The line of David. And when you know It's not just the name, but you can look and act like that. When it's talking about David, it's not just talking a short guy. Okay, we know David was short. I like him. We probably could see eye to eye But it's talking more than just his physical appearance. He's talking in the way of which he chose to live his life and to reign as king. That is here is the way that Jehoshaphat is choosing on his woes ways is to walk. after the ways of David. And then it says this at the end. It says, first in the ways of his father David, and and sought not unto Balaam. Now I like this because many times in the scripture, sometimes we feel like the Bible is a lot of Do this is and don't do that or sometimes we feel like just don't do this and don't do this and don't do this. And then you feel like, well what can I do? I mean even the Ten Commandments, don't do this, and thou shalt not, and thou shalt not, and thou shalt not And sometimes you can think, well then what can I do? I just m my Christian life just restrains me and I can't have any freedom to do anything. But here in this verse, it is good. It's telling us what he is doing. He's walking in the ways of David his father, but then he's walking not. after Balaam. And I like this because sometimes to know what to do, it also helps us understand what not to do. I have had the privilege of telling my kids on different occasions, don't do it this way. It'll save you some heartache, it'll save you some pain. It will help you out. Don't do it this way. When you swing the hammer, hit the right nail. Okay. If you haven't figured that out, I'll show you a picture later, okay? Just simple things up. Hold it this way. Don't do it this way. Sometimes that helps to avoid consequences, challenges, or make it easier. So we see the contrast here first in verse 3, and we see this again later. But these are basic things. When we read here that Jehoshaphat was walking the ways of David his father, and he's walking the ways of the Lord. Sometimes in our culture we think, oh, he's doing a great thing. Yeah, what'd he do? He showed up to work on time. And the older generation is going, so what? The younger generation is like, yeah, I'm still working on that. The th the challenge we have here is you shouldn't get praise the fool for just doing what you're supposed to be doing. Just showing up to work on time to do what you're supposed to do, congratulations, that's already what you're supposed to do. You don't you shouldn't get a thanks for that. You're already a quick- Does this make sense to some of you? To others of you are -I see the the hamster is not running. Okay. But just showing up, you don't just do that. So here, she's walking after the ways of David. That's what we should do. That's what you should teach your children. And we see this in passages that all of them would have known. Deuteronomy 6. 7 is one of those. It says, and thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. This is after Deuteronomy 5. He just repeated the law, the Ten Commandments to the children of Israel. So thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children. And shall talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up. Basically, you are going to teach our children all the time. Now this verse sticks out because I was pointing out, the walkest in the way. Your walk teaches more than your talk does. That's why as parents and as people in this church, we can't just talk about the Lord and put on a good show on Sunday. We need to do our best to live it out. Yes, we make mistakes, and yes, there are challenges and trials and we are human and sometimes we prove our humanity and our sin nature. But generally speaking, we ought to be living and walking in a way that is evident that we are following God, we are following his word, and then others will see the same thing. So here we see that he's walking in his ways, and they would have known this. This is Deuteronomy 6. This is not no challenge. This is not a life bulb moment. This is something very basic, very simple. And we see this in the New Testament, Ephesians 6. 4, and ye fathers, provoke not your children to the wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. We are to train our children not to provoke them and to teach them the ways of the Lord. In Ephesians 4, verse 17, this I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that he fence forth, walk not. See, here's the opposite. Don't do it this way. Walk this way, not this way. How are we not to walk? As other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their mind, in the emptiness, in the worthless ways of which they live, and the way they think. Don't walk that way So as a father, and in here he says against Israel and opposed to Israel a couple different times in this passage, sometimes we tell our children, don't do it this way. We don't watch that. We don't go there. We don't listen to this. Why? Because we want to live according to the word of God and follow his commandments and his ways. But my friends, what about your friends? My friends do this. They say that and they go here. They have one and I want one. Okay, where do you start with that? Do you start with coveting? Do you start with are they obeying the Bible? Or you can go as a parent. You just sometimes pick it here. But What we're teaching them is we are not to walk in the ways of the world. And we should be able to tell them, like Paul does in the Church of Corinth, follow me as I follow Christ. So as I'm following Christ, we ought to have others follow us. And what we have here is we have a son following a father, and we see that he's learned what to do, and he's been learning some things not to do And we saw that in the New Testament. We've seen that in the Old Testament. And then we look at verse 4, where we see he sought and walked in the commandments of the Lord of his father, and not after Israel. So in verse 4 it says, but sought to the Lord of his father. So he's walking after the Lord in verse 3, after the first ways of David. And then in verse four, he sought the Lord of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not here again, and not after the doings of Israel. So once again we're being told Walk in the ways of the Lord. Do not walk in how is Israel walking? Well, they're not walking and obeying the commands of the Lord. They've got all this bail worship as just mentioned here. They've got all these things and all this marrying that they're not supposed to do. Don't walk that way. Don't do what Israel is doing. Jehoshaphat is making right decisions. He had a good father that was teaching these things. He observed these things. Where did he get that? Probably from his father. And we go back and we can see David and Bathsheba teaching Solomon and Solomon is teaching Rehoboam. And then it continues down all the way here to Jehoshaphat. It follows down. Grandparents. Don't think that you're ineffective. Don't think that you don't have a place in helping your children and grandchildren. I'm not a grandparent yet, and hopefully there's still several years to come before that. Right? Right. At least I hope so. Although that would be great someday. But the great thing as a grandparent, you want to invest. And I have been told and I've and I I believe it's accurate Unfortunately, it seems to be that you'll know when you succeeded as a parent when you see how your grandchildren are being raised. That's what I've been told. I will find out in years to come, Lord willing, if the Lord tarries. But here what we see is we see generations Of trying to teach the ways of and it's not easy. If it were easy, everyone would be doing it. There's things that we can learn to do, there's things we can learn what not to do. We've seen that a couple of times patterned in these verses already so far. In Psalm 34, 4 says, I sought the Lord and he heard me and delivered me from all my fears. Later, in Psalm 72, it says, In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord. My soul ran into the night and ceased not. My soul refused to be comforted. You know what the challenging part about these two verses is? When you read them, hopefully they're on the screen there. But when you see these two verses, you know when we tend to seek the Lord and it says we sought after the Lord? When is the most common? Just think in your own mind and just be honest with yourself. When is it that you seek the Lord the most fervent? When are you most after the Lord when you are praying and you're seeking him? When is that? It's probably like it is in the Psalms. Did you catch a couple of them? When I'm in trouble, when I don't understand, when things are not going your way. And I'm glad that we're at least seeking the Lord in those times, but hopefully it's not the only time we're seeking the Lord. If we're only going to the Lord in his word when we're searching for answers. If we're only going to the Lord in prayer because we want to treat him like a genie in a ball or we're so desperate, we feel like we have no other option. So now we're desperately seeking the Lord. Hopefully it's not just in times of trouble. If it is, is that what our kids are learning? Do they learn to only go to the Lord when they're in trouble? And they've exhausted all other options Are we challenging our children? Are we encouraging our children? Are we praying with them? And so when there's an answer to prayer, and this I have slackened this a little bit, um, my wife is better at this night, but when we have an answer to prayer. Sometimes I'm like, yeah, we're definitely we're letting the kids know because we want them to know God is real. And he answered this prayer. We've been praying for it. They know it. We know it. And she's like, we got to tell the kids that the Lord answered this prayer. I'm like, you're right. We do need to do that. That is a good thing. We need to teach them not just to seek the Lord in troubled times and challenging times, although we should, but it shouldn't be the only times. And one of these Psalms was written by David. So we've seen how we father following the father's footsteps in verses 1 through Now in verses five through nine we're seeing a firm foundation of the Father. A firm foundation of the Father. In verse 5 it says, Therefore the Lord established the kingdom in his hand And all Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presence, and he had riches and honor and abundance. And we can get caught up with the second part because we're a materialistic society. Oh, look at all this stuff they got. But the important part is the first part. Therefore, the Lord established the kingdom in his hand. Because of Jehoshaphat 's decisions, and trying to walk in the ways of his father, and after David The Lord saw fit to bless him, to encourage him, if nothing else, to show the difference between Israel, who's choosing not to follow God, and Judah, who is choosing to follow God, at least at this point, with their king. God is establishing his kingdom. He is the one doing this. And I was just reminded of this verse when studying this out in 1 Corinthians 15. I just love this verse. It says, by the grace of God, I am what I am. I see no sign Jehoshaphat here puffing himself up. Look at my great riches. Look at my great wealth. I think he knows full well this is of the Lord's doing. So when things do go well in the family, when things do go well in our life, we can also praise the Lord. Not just seek him when I'm in trouble, but when things are going well, we can thank him and praise him for those times, knowing that it's of God's grace. Sometimes we want to equate God 's goodness with possessions, with when we are being blessed. When there's material favor in finances or in a relationship, we don't want to base God's goodness on the fact that God is good. We want to base it on our circumstances. And we want to see God through the lens of our circumstances instead of just knowing that He is good. And it's by His grace He's allowed me to prosper. It's Him allowing me. To enjoy these blessings as I seek him. But as we know, sometimes you can seek the Lord and things don't go your way. You can lose your children. You can lose your wealth. Just ask Job. Just ask Paul. Sometimes you're living for Lord, we cannot base, I'm just using this as an example, we cannot base God's goodness and off material possessions. Off the blessings of the moment, because God is good. Regardless of how we choose to bless. And at this time Right now, God is using Jehoshaphat, and he is blessing him greatly, and he is blessing him. But at the same time, do you think God is going to bless you if you are choosing not to follow him? You are purposefully willfully going against God's word and his commands. I don't think God's going to fro his blessings and his grace if you are purposefully willfully going against his word. So I think the bigger picture as we look at this is we're seeing the contrast between Israel and Judah and how God is blessing through Jehoshaphat and his obedience to him. And he is blessing them through this, and it's by God's grace. But look what he does in verse 6. He starts cleaning up the kingdom. He starts cleaning house. This is wonderful. And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the Lord. Moreover, he took away the high places and the groves out of Judah. This is great. And this is wonderful. But the thought I had as I'm thinking through this with Asa and starting the path, Jehoshaphat here, he's having you do something that maybe his dad didn't do, that wasn't done thoroughly enough. But here he is doing a difficult thing. And here's what's challenging. When you get in the face of the enemy and we're going to start eliminating this. We're going to take out these sinful places. We're going to take out these places of worship. There will be those that won't like you. There will be those that oppose you. And you're going to have to determine I want to do what's right according to God's commands and not just what I think And that's why we need God's help. We need God's encouragement. We need to know that we are following Him, ultimately, as our Heavenly Father. Because as we are prone to, we tend to view God also as we view our earthly father If our Father is harsh, our earthly father, if he's harsh, impatient, our default is we think God is harsh and impatient. The opposite may also be true. If our father is very passive, very forgiving, overly so, you almost can't do wrong. then the children will often view their heavenly father as overly patient, not holding consequence, because you're just always forgiven. It doesn't matter what you do because you can be forgiven. That's why we need God's commands. That's why we need to walk in his ways, because we need the balance of the two. And so here he is doing a hard thing. He is taking out these places which should be done. He is doing his best, not just for him personally. Because he personally believes it, now he's spreading it open to his kingdom, to the nation of Judah. We're all going to start cleaning house. We're going to get rid of these things. I'm going to make it harder for you to sin so that way you can love our Savior all the more. That's what we ought to do. And as fathers and as grandfathers and as grandmothers and as mothers, we ought to make it harder to sin and easier to love our Savior. And that starts in our homes. In our churches, in our schools, are we taking out the evil places? Are we taking out the high places? Are we weaving some grobes? Are we making it easier to sin? And for me personally, that's why in our house we just don't have internet. We don't have it. And it was a very unique opportunity. I had this guy, our house, we we live in a circle. And there's a lot of houses kind of in this circle. And so we get people all the time. The blessing is they come and they can say, are you the homeowner? I'm like, yeah, actually I am. Yeah, that's me. But then they try and sell you something or they tell you something. This guy, he's trying to sell something some internet. Some super fast, super cheap, whatever. And after his little spiel, I cut off I actually cut him off a little bit and I was like, listen, I don't want to be rude, but you're not going to sell me. We've got this great deal. I don't care how good the deal is. I said, we just don't have that in our house. And he says, really? Why? I said, well, because people can struggle with internet and challenges, and I'm a youth pastor, and I've just seen some very unique situations, and it's just so much easier just not have it in your house I said the only exception is we could turn on the hotspot on our phones and even that, you know, it's very limited and that's the best that they get. So even with school we use D V D And for the few times they need the hotspot, we turn on our phones. So they need mom or dad there to do it. Why? Just protection. Do you have to do that? No. But that's one thing that we do. That's one where we're trying to keep the groves out. We're trying to eliminate just some of the challenges that can go along with that. That's just what we do. Do you have to do that? No, you don't. But in my house and I had uh the opportunity to encourage another and this young man was looking at me and says, you know what? He said, that's a really good idea. Then he starts opening up. He's like, I think his son was four or something little. Four, maybe five. He says, I can't get that kid off the tablet. He said, constant. And when he told me his age, I was like, oh, that is really young. He like lives on it. The problem, who knows, movies or whatever, can't get him off of it. He said, maybe I ought to do that. Now I that wasn't my purpose. Obviously he came to my door and he's trying to sell me on something for his company. But then I had the opportunity to turn around and be like, I don't do that. And I said, I just do it off principle. I said, you're not gonna sell me I said, you can tell me the best deal and the greatest price and the greatest speeds and I'm not doing it. And I convinced him. He's like, ah, that that's he's like, maybe I ought to do that. Well you can if you want, but it's okay. But that to say, here, Jehoshaphat is not just taking this personally, but he's taking this personal application of his walk with the Lord and what he's learned and he's applying it to to the rest of the kingdom and he's cleaning house. He's cleaning up his kingdom. And then he takes it another step further. Because after you clean house And after you take some of these things out, you do need to replace it with something else. And that's what he starts doing. That's what makes this so good. Because as parents Sometimes we get stuck on the thou shalt not and thou can't and thou won't and you're not as long as I'm alive and as long as I have left and over my dead body and you give all this feel But what we don't do is tell them, but instead do this. Learn this. Replace it with this. And you know what's going to happen in these next couple verses? Jehoshaphat, not only is he taking down These groves and these high places, you know what he's gonna start doing? He's gonna start taking individuals and men and Levites and he's gonna send them out to start teaching the law of the Lord. So he's taking out the evil and he's making the access to good easy and accessible. And I'm teaching them the word of God. So let's look at that here. Let's look at this. He's teaching the law of Lord in verse 7. And in the third year of his reign, he's sent to his princes and he lists all these guys. And I can sit here and butcher their names or just get to the end of the story here in verse 9. And they, all those listed above, verses 7 and 8, what did they do? They taught in Judah and had the book of the law of the Lord with them. And went about throughout all the cities of Judah and taught the people. Do you see what's taking place? He's taking out the bad and replacing it with the good. I'm going to take out these false places of worship, but I'm going to replace that with the law of the Lord. Do you see what he's doing? This is brilliant. This is good. And as parents and as grandparents, don't just be that thou shalt not, but thou shalt. And do this in its place. I know of a pastor, and I just I use this with the teens a couple of different times, but it's like the replacement idea. He used to be a smoker, and back in the day when all the pockets had a you know one of these things. He always wore shirts out of pocket. So he'd always grab his cigarettes right here and he'd always pull it out and he'd go smoke. But once he got saved, the Lord convicted him. He's like, I just gotta quit. So on his own, he just cold turkeyed. But what he did in his place to help him with his struggle of this transition of going from smoking however often he did to not smoking at all is right there in that pocket, the same size, you know what about the same size of a pack of cigarettes? One of those green Gideon little Bibles. You know what I'm talking about? That's what he did. And what he did is he took. Some verses and I think he underlined them and highlighted them for him to help him. . So and then he put that in his pocket. So just it felt very similar. It's lightweight, it's about the same size. So it felt similar. He replaced it. And then Just being the creature of habit that he was when he reached in there to pull out that package of cigarettes. You know what he's got? He's got a copy of the Word of God and those getting New Testaments in there. Probably Psalms, Proverbs, and You know, one of those things. And he pulls that out and he says, oh man. And then he's it he then obviously it's a time when it was just habit and he's do it, and then he would turn to some of those and he would read it. That's what helped him. And he shared that with me. So I'm sharing that with you. He replaced it. He just didn't say, I've got to quit smoking, that's it, I'm done. He repl now this is something so and I think I don't know if he had gum he'd keep it in his pocket too, I don't remember, but he replaced it And he took it out. He said, I'm doing this for you, Lord because I want to do this for you. You don't want me to do it, so I don't want to do it. And that helped him to get through that transition. He replaced it That here is what Jehoshaphat is doing. He's replacing it with the law of the Lord, and he's replacing it with the very Word of God, something that they need to be beneficial. So he's not just saying don't do this, he's saying replace it with this. Study the word. He's teaching the law of the Lord. And we see this Proverbs 14. 34. Righteousness exalteth Israel. Righteousness exalteth Judah. I know. Righteousness exalteth America. How about D? You like D? All the above. I like that answer. It says, Righteousness exalteth a nation, but a sin is a reproach to any people. Now I don't know about you, I'm not the greatest linguist, but when I read exalteth a nation as a sin to any people, it sounds pretty broad to me. Righteousness exalts. Sin reproaches. It doesn't matter who you are. Jehoshaphat is trying to exalt his nation. He's doing it personally and is applying it to his nation. 1 John 2, my little children, these things write I unto you that ye sin not. If any man sin, we advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ, the righteous. Jesus Christ is righteous. We don't go to God on our own righteousness. Oh, we can try, and some will, and it won't go well. We get to God through Christ's righteousness. He is in our place as our substitute. Acts 3, 14. But ye denied the Holy One and the just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you. Once again, this is Jesus Christ, the Holy One, the just One, the One who does right. We want the law of the Lord so we know what is right. Because if you and I on our own just sit down and have a discussion, you might think something is right, I might think something is right. And you know what? We could both be wrong. But let the word of God be right, and the righteousness in his word and God's law, that we may follow it. And that we, as we follow, encourage our children and our grandchildren and their children. That we can do what our Heavenly Father does. So we've seen verses 1 through 4 following the Father's footsteps, and verses 5 through 9 a firm foundation. Then lastly, you're like, yes, he's there. To fear of the Lord fell in foreign lands. This is all through verses ten, all the way through the end of the chapter in nineteen. And I'm just going to summarize it in a couple brief ways. First, we're going to look at there was no war with the neighbors. There was no war in the neighbors. Look at this in verse 10. And the fear of the Lord fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Judah. So they made no war against Jehoshaphat. Because what you know what he was doing? Not only do you remember earlier it said he was building up in the cities and the fence cities and in Ephraim and all of Judah. No one wants to attack someone that has a big, strong military. It's just not wise. That creates peace. It allows you to do what's right. You don't have to use the army necessarily, but I think I've heard the phrase peace through strength. That's really, I think, what Jehoshat is doing here. He's building up an army. He's trying to follow the law of the Lord, and he's trying to protect the people so they can continue to freely follow the Lord. And other nations are seeing that. Other nations, you know what? He's getting the Lord. You know what? He's building up a military. And you know what he did? He tore down those high places. And our gods did nothing. And his friend is like, I know, and he took down that grove not far from here. And do you know our gods did? Nothing. And look, he's prospering. Look at his nation. So our gods are doing nothing. Plus they have this big military that's being built up. So the nations are like, you know what If you can't beat him, join him. You know what? Let's give this guy presents. Let's give him stuff. Let's get that big you know I was you know what I mean when you pick kids at recess? I was like one of the last. Oh my god , pick me, pick me, right down here. Oh, we'll take little linder. Well yeah, little linder. That was true. Still is. But you know, it sometimes it's horrible to be last, but no you don't want to pick the big guy. We want to pick the guy that's going to help our team the greatest. We want him on our team. Right. That's what they're doing. We want this guy on our team. And basically that's what you see. These other nations, I mean the Philistines are bringing them presents. And you read down there, other nations, they're bringing gifts unto them. It all reminds us of Solomon. But that guy, he's good. We want to be on his team. We'd rather fight with him than against him. So we're going to bring him gifts. And then what I like about this Is not only do you take away these high places and those gods did nothing and they're seeing this and they're seeing the army built up, But then also, I think it gets a little bit to the heart in living before God and sometimes doing favor with men. In Proverbs 3, 3 and 4, it says, Let not mercy and truth forsake thee. Bind them about thy neck, and write them upon the table of thine heart. So Shalt thou find favor and good understanding in the sight of God and man. It is a very good thing if you can find favor with God and man. Sometimes it's challenging, but here that's what's taking place. He's trying to serve God. And other people are seeing this and they're excited about it. And we know this is true about our Savior in Luke 2. 52 when he was just a boy. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature and in favor with God and man. And just as Pastor said this morning, we auto-obey government and those above us and over us in authority. But if push comes to shove and we have to make a choice, It shouldn't be hard to decide. Well, if they're asking me to go in scripture, it's not hard to stick with the scripture and go against man. But there are times, and this is what's happening in Jehoshaphat 's life, and right here in Judah. He's finding favor with God and he's finding favor with other nations. And they might recognize, wow, something's going on in Judah. And you know what they're realizing? Wait a minute. Israel to the north, when they split, they're doing something different. Look at look at what's prospering here in Judah. Look what's not happening in Israel. And we see that contrast earlier in this text. He's setting himself against Israel. He has armies up there to protect himself from them. And look, look what's happening to them. But it's finding favor with God and man. And also in the last part of this, just to make it shorter and easier. There's other individuals that follow the Lord. When you take a stand and when you do what's right, there are other individuals that will stand up and follow the Lord. We've seen this. with Jonathan, we've seen it with David, we've seen it throughout history and maybe even in your life. You take a stand and others will follow. That's what Jehoshaphat is doing. And when you look to these individuals, there's individual names and we can read through them. Mighty men of valor. I really want to point out a one specifically in verse 16. You're just reading through, and sometimes this is one of those lists that you want to read before bed and you're getting early, you know, to help you to when you can't sleep. And you know, so-and-so, we got so-and-so, but got so-and-so, and all of a sudden it's like, oh wow, there's this vowel, there's thone in there, or wow, this is interesting. Oh, it changed it up. It kind of catches your eye. In verse 16. And next to him was Amissiah, the son of Zitri, who willingly offered himself unto the Lord. So you're reading this list of men, you're reading these all these men of great valor, and all of a sudden, here's a guy that's choosing of his own will here in verse 16 that offered himself unto the Lord, and he had men that followed him. If you take a stand and you get things out of your life, and I've seen this with teenagers, it's always the first one. Like the first we were talking about this on the way to church. If I can get the first young man to get up and read scripture, I think you'll start falling into place. But when I asked in Sunday school, it was like, you you want to quiet a bunch of guys in teen class? They're yit-gapping and rabbing. We have a very social men's department in our youth group. Okay. Um the van is a lot more exciting on the way of the wilds next week, so pray for whoever has the guys. The ladies, they're like quiet, subdued. You're like trying to stay awake. The guys are like, ah, where's the sugar? I ate it all. You're like, I know But you get one excited about something? And if I can get the first one to do it and you want to be quiet at Sunday school, say who wants to read scripture? Crickets. It works funny. They're like, oh. Are you being for real, Pastor Josh? Yes But if you get that first one sometimes to motivate and encourage others to live for the Lord, I'm doing it, how about you do it with me? And it's a great and wonderful thing. Are we, as mothers and fathers, and grandfathers and grandmothers? Are we doing what Dad does? Are we doing what our Heavenly Father does? Are we willing to walk against the ways of the world, to walk in the Lord's commands, so that we can follow him? And by God's grace and God's help, we can do it and help the next generation. Father, we do thank you and praise you for this passage of scripture. We thank you for Jehoshaphat holding the line, taking to the next step. He had great uh footsteps to follow in. As his earthly and heavenly father. And Lord, that is not always easy. We would run into challenges and difficulties. Yet sometimes you choose to bless us and make it obvious to others. That you are worth following, and that you can give great abundance of peace and encouraging others to walk in your ways Father, would you work in the hearts and lives of your children and each one of us as we do our best to seek you to walk in your ways and encourage others to do likewise, that we may follow in your footsteps. And would you help us be with us? by the grace of you that you've bestowed upon us, and as we obediently do our best to follow your word through Christ's name. Amen.