We're going to be opening our Bibles to 2 Chronicles as we're continuing our study through the Kings, 2 Chronicles, chapter 21. And we'll go ahead and start reading in the first verse. Now Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David, and Jehoram his son reigned in his steed. In his stead, sorry. And he had brethren and sons of Jehoshaphat, Azariah, and Jehel, and Zachariah and Azariah and Michael and Shephthiah. All these were the sons of Jehoshaphat, king of Israel, and their father gave them great gifts of silver and of gold. and of precious things, with fenced cities in Judah. But the kingdom gave he to Jehoram. Er sorry about that Because he was the firstborn. Now Jehoram was risen up to the kingdom of his father. He strengthened himself. And slew all his brethren with the sword, and diverse also with the princes of Israel. Jehoram was thirty-and-two years old when he began to reign And he reigned eight years in Jerusalem, and he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, like as did the house of Ahab. For he had the daughter of Ahab to wife, and he wrought that which was evil in the eyes of the Lord. Howbeit, the Lord would not destroy the house of David because of the covenant that he had made with David, as he promised to give a light to him. and to his sons forever. Father, we are so thankful for this text, for the privilege we have to sing some extra songs this evening, to praise you, to ponder the truths of who you are, what you've done. And just be thankful that we can know you as our personal Savior. And have your words which we can read and meditate and think upon. And it would just not be words on the page, but yet it would be truths to which we can hide in our heart not to sin against you and draw us closer. To the image of your Son, our Savior of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. In this text, we're looking at Jehoram's reign And the first couple verses we're going to see Jehoshaphat sleeps in verses 1 through 3. And before I get going too much into the text here, there's many different things that are taking place within this text, though it's only seven verses, that are kind of like themes throughout. A question I have for us as we look at the first couple verses and all the way really to the end is what are we passing on to our children? Second, we're going to see a contrast between living for God and living for self. And then we're going to end with seeing that God keeps his promises. So let's look first at the first couple verses as Jehoshaphat sleeps. And verse 1. Which we already read, he was buried in the city of David. It lists his son in verse 2. But then look at verse 3. In verse 3 He says he is giving them gifts, gold, precious things, he's giving them silver. One thing that we think about when we pass on to our children, and rightly so, is material possessions. But I think sometimes in the world we live in, we get caught up with just passing on stuff to our kids. Stuff that sometimes gets fought over after we're gone. Arguments can come about and challenges can arise because we may focus on Now giving stuff to your children is not always bad. In Proverbs 13, 22, it says, a good man leaveth inheritance to his children's children. And the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just. So here in this proverb, we should leave something to our children. That is a very good thing. You want to help your children. You want to leave them with things that are good. But we ought not just to focus on the material possessions. Selling the house, splitting the money, giving the car, who gets the dog, whatever it may be, okay? That could be a challenge in of itself, I'm sure. But here in verse 3 it says, he gave them great gifts, material possessions, but to the oldest, which makes sense, the oldest he gives the kingdom. And I think here that there is definitely an emphasis on the material possessions. And I think that's where we get caught up. It is so hard to fight this sometimes because we live in the here and the now. We live in a real world where things are happening and a lot of our life can be based off material possession things. We're sitting in real pews in a real church. And we drove in real cars with gas that hopefully stayed in the tank and just went engine the way it was supposed to and all those little things. But we live in a material world. And so sometimes we get caught just living in the material. But then something may happen in your life. Your families. It could happen to something in the church or even the nation, all kinds of different things in the world that kind of shakes your reality for a moment. That makes you stop and ponder, is life just about stuff? Because what we see here in this transition, going from one king to another, is you have some godly heritage that's taking place, that's being passed down. But I think in looking at this text, there is an emphasis on power. on possessions, on the things that this world offers that really starts spiling things in a wrong direction. And I say that because by the time we get to verse 4, which we're going to look at now, send most of our time in these last couple verses, is Jehoram strengthened himself. Look at verse 4. He said he was risen up to the kingdom of his father. So the transition is taking place. He is now the new king in Judah. He strengthened himself. And here's where it very gets interesting. Okay, he strengthened himself. That doesn't sound so bad. But he slew all his brethren with a sword. If someone is insecure. Or someone is desperate for power, or they don't like what someone in opposition to them says, they're going to take care of it themselves. So how did he strengthen himself in his new kingdom? He got rid of the threat. He gave himself as the only option. He becomes king and he takes out all else This is very much how the world looks at things. If something someone threatens you, disagrees with you. Especially in leadership, you look out throughout history, you almost name your country. It's not odd for someone who comes into power They feel threatened, they feel insecure, they want to make sure that they are the ones with no without question that's in the power and the authority. So they will kill, they will threaten, even their own siblings. to make sure of their place. This is one reason why I say I think that there has been an emphasis on material possessions. No one can take it. It's mine. I don't want anyone to doubt it. So he takes out his own brothers. Not good. Not good at all. And I want to contrast this too, because throughout this, as from the very first verse, it says he was buried, his father, Jehoshaphat, was buried in the city of David when David was in a position. To take the kingdom for himself, God allowed, as it seemed, a couple of times where he could have done so. Here you have a new king going out of his way to establish himself. But when you compare that with David, a man after God's own heart, given an opportunity to take the throne on his own, we could say to strengthen himself. He chose not to do it. He chose to leave the judgment up to God when Saul's life was in his hand. He was not just thinking about material possessions. This kingdom is mine. I've already been anointed. It's mine for the taking. Although I'm sure some of the guys encouraged him, especially in the cave. This is your opportunity. But he chose not to. There was something bigger. There was something more in his mind than just a throne that I deserve. He's not just focused on power and possession, position, and authority. David had a bigger picture in mind. That is a contrast we're kind of going to see through this as we look at this. So he rises up, strengthens himself, kills his brother with a sword. strengthen himself and when man goes to strengthen himself he does it on his own with his own ways with his own judgment and not waiting on God's timing and we're going to see into the future, and it actually the rest of this chapter, that that didn't go well for him. And then we continue on. He was 32 years old when he began to reign. And he reigned eight years in Jerusalem. And then we get to verse six. In verse six And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab, for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife. If we just focus on material things and we focus on maybe alliances as a king. We see the compromise from last week where Jehoshaphat was trying to make a league and was willing to help out King Ahab. The decision as a father for political reasons, for trying to re-establish alliance instead of doing what was right according to the word of God, he started something that his son would then follow. He began to compromise. He began to try and take sides with Ahab And God worked all that out too. If you can use man's wisdom to try and figure out to hide himself and disguise himself and all these things. God is bigger than all this. And so here in verse 6, it says he walked in the way of the kings of Israel. You think that would be a good way to walk? But keep in mind the comparison here, yeah another comparison is the kings of Israel versus the kings of Judah. Kings of Israel, none good. There's none good. No, not one. Okay. In Judah there were some, and coming from a godly line here, there was potential here. So when it says that he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab, this is no compliment. And it's very interesting, he said, for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife. Are we teaching our children? Are we teaching the next generation? To follow God's principles? Are we teaching them the Word of God and the truths in it, not to compromise? Because here, if we look back at Ahab, we go back to 2 Chronicles 18, it says, now Jehoshaphat had riches and honor in abundance and joined affinity with Ahab. That's where the compromise started. The father made a decision. He's going to here make an affinity with Ahab. That is bringing two opposing forces together. Those that serve God. And he even questioned, wait a minute, what about the Lord and his prophet? So there were some questions going on, but when he took this step, his son is going to follow suit. They know better than to do this. In Deuteronomy 7, verses 2 and 3, it says, When the Lord thy God shall deliver them before thee, and thou shalt smite them, and utterly destroy them, and thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor show mercy unto them. Neither shalt thou make marriages with them. Thy daughter thou shalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thy son. You are not to marry with other nations, not just because they're different or odd, but because they will lead you astray from the one true God to follow false gods. This is what Ahab did. He married Jezebel. They worshipped Baal. And here what is taking place. So when it says about the kings of Israel, this is not good the way that the kingdom is now going. And we know commonly in 2 Corinthians 6. 14 it says not to be unequally yoked together with an unbeliever. I know we think about marriage all the time. It's bigger than that, but that is a direct application to that verse. When you marry, are we passing on, are we teaching our children, well you gotta marry well, son. He better have a very nice job, young lady, because after all, he's taking my place. Are we teaching material possessions? It's okay to marry if you don't agree with everything. I mean, if if they're if they just believe in at least God, that's okay. But here, Jehoshaphat made a compromise. His son follows, marries Ahab's daughter, and it continues. He is marrying someone who does not believe in God. Are we passing on principles or possessions? What are we teaching next generation? And not just here with words, but in action, going all the way back to 2 Chronicles 18 that we looked at last week. What are we passing on? And looking back at 2 Chronicles, or looking forward actually, 2 Chronicles 12 and 13, you're in that chapter. Look later in that chapter in verses twelve and thirteen. It says, And there came a writing to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, Thus saith the Lord God of David thy father, because thou hast not walked. In the ways of Jehoshaphat thy father, nor in the ways of Asa, the king of Judah. So there was a godly heritage, there was a line of kings trying to do right. He is making a decision not to walk in those ways. Then we continue on in verse 13. But hast walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and hast made Judah, the inhabitants of Jerusalem, to go a whoring Like the whoredoms of the house of Ahab, and also hast slain thy brethren in thy father's house, which were better than thyself. He is putting himself, his kingdom, above even his family. among even his brethren, and he is going to receive consequences because of making this decision to walk after the kings of Israel. He's being warned by Elijah not to do these things. And then on the other end, not only are we parents trying to teach principles above position or possessions, but as children, are we Are we making the decisions that we know we should, even when our parents may not make the best decisions? Even though they Well, even as we get older, I remember going off to college was a very good thing. And in the late high school and into college, I really recognized for me personally that you know what my parents made mistakes too. I can choose to follow them. I can choose to use that as an excuse. And as children, are we going to cling to those excuses for why I have troubles? Or are we going to try and take the word of God? and what we know to be true and to live by it. Are we going to learn from the consequences of those that went before us? Like making an affinity with Ahab? Who didn't marry well? And I'll just marry their daughter. That'll be a good thing. Are we taking responsibility as young people to recognize, hey, all of us make mistakes? Don't use the mistakes of your parents as an excuse to why you can do wrong. Well they did it, so I can do it too. Because you will be held accountable for your decisions as an individual. Even though we have a generation before that was mostly doing well, but then they, especially with the marriage. And as parents, at an age-appropriate time, are we discussing these things with our children? What are they looking for in their future, particularly with a spouse? And sometimes as parents, our children are going to learn more than what we want to give them credit for. If you listen in a church band or an activity, sometimes you hear things. Or sometimes you hear things through other people. because that's the youth pastor. We don't want to let him know everything. But sometimes you can still hear things. Be made aware. It's okay to have an age-appropriate chat with your children about their future and what they're looking at, especially when considering a spouse, if they are considering a spouse. Are they looking for a job that just pays them better? I'm not saying that they can't have material possessions. That's not the point But is that what they're living for? Because you know it's the love of money that's the root of all evil. And here, between marriage, between money, between position and power, what are we passing on? And it is not going to go well. And he has already seen this as a new king. And he is doing evil. Continuing in verse 6. So he's walking in the way of the kings of Israel, like as the house of Ahab, for he had a daughter of Ahab to wife. So Ahab didn't marry well. Now he's following in the footsteps. By not marrying well because of the decision his father made, and he wrought that which was evil in the eyes of the Lord. This is something that I think we can all pass on. Are we living in the fear of God or are we living in the fear of man? In 1 Kings 16, this is where we go back. Ahab, the son of Omri, did evil in the sight of the Lord above all that were before him. This is who he's being compared to. He did evil before all those that were before him in 1 Kings 16. And in verse 31, continuing, and it came to pass as if it had been a light thing. This was easy, not that big of a deal. For him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, that took the wife Jezebel, the daughter of Ethel, king of the Sidonians, and went and served Baal and worshipped him. It's not that big of a thing to marry someone that believes in false gods. It's not that big of a thing to worship other gods. It was considered a light thing. This is the direction that they're going. Why does some of this happen? He's already wiped out as a new king his brethren. He's likely fearing men, trying to establish, strengthen himself instead of trusting in God, which reminds me of this verse. I love this verse at Proverbs 29, 25. The Lord used this in my heart many years ago at a camp. I know it was for the teens, but I really got a lot out of it. Proverbs 29, 25. The fear of man bringeth a snare. But whoso puteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. Are we trusting in God or are we trusting in man? Are we trusting in what man and his world philosophies can offer? Positions, power, authority, or do we do things just because we want to make everyone happy? It continues a similar verse in Psalm 118, 8. It is better to trust in the Lord than to put confidence in man. Here, as a new king, Jehoram, is he trusting in his own ideas, his father's compromises? Trying to make affinity and continue with what his father started with marrying the daughter of the wicked nation, serving Baal openly? And if the father Jehoshaphat saw this, how much was he allowing? Hey son, I don't know if this is a good idea. Or maybe he was encouraging him, hey look, to keep this alliance going, we need to do something. I know it's a political move. But it would be a good one because it'll bring us together. Bring you together to what? Bringing together false worship? Compromising God's word and his standards? Because he is walking in the way of Israel. He did like Ahab. Now he's doing evil in the sight of the Lord. So who Are we choosing to live for? In whose sight are we trying to please? Man 's? And ultimately I could say that's you. Or gods. Who are we deciding to live for? And as we think of the next generation, What are we going to pass on? Let's look at verse 7. In verse 7, we see a great and wonderful blessing through all this. The Lord keeps his covenant with David. So despite all this wickedness in the wrong direction, in the marriage, and the compromise. In verse 7 it says, how be it, the Lord would not destroy the house of David because of the covenant he had made with David, as he had promised to give a light to him and to his sons forever. You know what's incredible out all this? Even though they're going the wrong way. And even though there was wrong things done and there was some compromise and some mismarriages and some money involved and authority and it's going some wrong directions. Despite our bad choices, God still keeps his promise. And first we're going to look at how we promise a kingdom and a house or a seed. So he's you have a new king wiping out his brothers, taking out the seed, but God is going to keep his promises. And I want to remind us where this goes back to, because here we haven't seen it for a while, but in verse 7 he says That he's because of the covenant that he made with David. This is God making covenant with David. And this goes all the way back to 2 Samuel 7. And there's more to it than this, but the heart of it is in verse 11 to 13. And as since the time that I commanded judges to rule over my people Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies, also the Lord telleth thee that he will make thee an house. And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom. And he shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. Remember, this is with Nathan the prophet. David wanted to build him a house. And he's like, You're not going to build me a house because you're a man of war. Your son is going to do it. But David But I am going to use you and establish a kingdom through you. So God is not just offering here a material possession, a temple that you're going to build for me. Instead I am promising a line through you. That is what's taking place in 2 Samuel. God is making a promise to David that through his seed he would keep that promise. We're reminded of this at the beginning of Proverbs in Proverbs 1-1. It says the Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel. We see this again in Matthew. Isn't it interesting that the New Testament opens up in the order by which we have it in our New Testament? In Matthew 1:1, the book of the generation of Jesus Christ. Who's Jesus Christ the Son of here? The son of David, the son of Abraham. What we see through Christ is the fulfillment that God made to David that is kept through all this chaos. God is keeping his promise. God is keeping his word. That should bring us great comfort. God keeps his word. Not only to David But even if God were to say that whosoever shall call upon my name, or if God were to say that you shall have everlasting life, or if you draw nigh unto me, I will draw nigh unto you. God is going to keep his promises. God is going to keep his end of the deal. This can be comforting knowing that sometimes we make mistakes. God is true to his word. That's why we could as have seen some patience in here. Instead of taking things in our own hand, I'm gonna kill my brethren. I'm just gonna marry whoever I want because I need to try and finagle politically to make my s my my nicknation strong and safe. Are you trusting in man or are you trusting in God? God is going to keep his promises. Later in Matthew, verse 20, it says, But while he thought on these things, as he's talking to Joseph, Behold, the angel Lord appeared to him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David. Fear not to take into thee Mary thy wife, for that which is conceived in her is the Holy Ghost. But he's talking to Joseph, the son of David, reminding him of the lineage that he has, that God is keeping his promise. And here in these verses, it is now being fulfilled in Jesus Christ. So don't divorce your wife here. He's saying marry her. It's of the Holy Ghost. This is designed to happen. It's supposed to happen. It's going to take a miracle. This is God fulfilling his promise that he's been reminding us throughout scripture. These are just some. And actually it's really neat if you just look up son of David. There's many different references you can look up and many different passages. I just picked some highlight ones But here we see it in our text, in verse 7. He is not allowing man, he's not allowing a selfish king, strengthening himself by his own wisdom and his own authority. God is still intervening to keep his word and his promise. And then also look in verse 7. The covenant that he made with David as he promised to give light to him. and his sons forever. Just very quickly we'll get the promise of light In 1 Kings 11, 13, howbeit, I will not rend away the kingdom, but will give one tribe to the Son for David, my servant's sake, and for Jerusalem's sake, which I have chosen. That would be Judah. And we know that the line of the trine of Juba would Judah would come and ultimately be Christ. Later in that Same chapter, verse 36. And unto a son I will give one tribe, that David my servant may have a light away before me in Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen me to put, my name there A city that is set upon a hill. Kind of sounds familiar. This is not just an Old Testament concept. We're more familiar with it in the New Testament. In the New Testament, in John 8. 12, it says, Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying. I am the light of the world. The promise that God had made to David, despite challenges, despite man trying to wipe out for his own purposes, and almost wipes it out, God keeps his promises. spares them, and then Christ ends up being the light and says, he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life. And I already referred to it, but in Matthew 5. 14, ye are the light of the world. A city that is set in a hill cannot be hid. And do you know what we are a reflection of? We were a reflection of that light. And when it comes to a passage like this and we look at the generational challenges that are taking place, are we recognizing maybe our own push for material possessions? Are we trying to teach biblical principles? Because we've, I just can't, can you imagine your son after your passing wiping out the rest of their siblings? I have a hard time comprehending that. So that they're not a threat to him? What are we teaching? Are we teaching? Well we we we are teaching. The question is what are you teaching? And then parents there's a time too where your children get older They will make their own decisions. Are you going to patiently guide them and help them as they are getting off on their own? You might recognize the some situation, the directions they'd be heading. Are we doing this? Are we pointing them to the light? Are we reminding them of God's promises? Are we reminding them of our own inadequacies, our own maybe failures or shortcomings in life? How are we handling it? What are we passing on to the next generation? And are they receiving it? Are they getting caught with their own desires? Their own passions and principles? How are we doing this? Not even just in our own families, but even in the church. If you don't have any physical little children here, are we teaching through Sunday schools, through other things to the next generation biblical principles? to carry them out, to love God more than stuff. When we look at this passage, we know that God will ultimately keep his promises, which is great comfort. Despite our comings and goings, despite the challenges that we may have, God is going to keep his word. If we can just rest and trust , In God and His Word, and do our best not to fear men, not to trust in the world's ways and all the things it can offer you, but truly trust in God and his word. We can be comforted truly in God's great promises, knowing that He is the light, and that we can trust in the in Jesus Christ and His Word to help us to teach both positively and negatively the next generation about the truths that are within. Scripture. May God help us to do so. Father, we are so thankful and appreciative for this text, for this passage of Scripture. Has both comfort and challenges that are before us. And Lord, would we learn from these? Would we get your wisdom and not walk in the ways that are evil before your sight? That we can teach our children to fear you as an individual. So when they are on their own, they can make wise decisions, that they can have a relationship with you, recognizing evil, the ways of the world, and that we can help and guide them in your your truth. Father, we are thankful for your promises. You keep your word. You Through crazy human circumstances, yet spared and protected and kept your promises to David, all the way through Christ Which is the son of David, proving that you keep your promises, and you will do the same for us. Father, would you help us and be with us as we do our best to live for you and be obedient to your word? And we come to you through Christ's name. Amen.