Well good evening. We're going to be continuing our study as we've been going through the Old Testament and here in 1 Kings. So you have your Bibles. You can open to 1 Kings. Kings chapter 12 this evening. 1 Kings chapter 12. And we're going to pick it up in verse 25. Verse 25, and we will read down to the end of the chapter. 1 Kings 12, 25. And once again, happy Mother's Day. Day to all you mothers, children. Hopefully you've said Happy Mother's Day several times. Give them an extra hug and kiss and squeeze. Obey them for the next uh weeks and months to follow, not just on today. Just a little challenge of encouragement there One day a year is not enough. All right. So hopefully you're in 1 Kings chapter 12, and we will pick it up in verse 25. Then Jeroboam built Shechem in Mount Ephraim, and dwelt therein, and went out from thence to build Penil. And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now, shall the kingdom return to the house of David? If this people go up to do sacrifice in the house of the Lord at Jerusalem, Then shall the heart of this people turn again unto their Lord, even unto Rahoboam, king of Judah, and they shall kill me, and go down again Rahoboam to the king of Judah? Whereupon the king took counsel And made two calves of gold, and said unto them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem. Behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt And he set one in Bethel, and the other he put in Dan. And this thing became a sin, for the people went to worship before the one, even unto Dan. And he made a house of high places and made priests of the lowest people, which were not of the sons of Levi. And Jerob Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month on the fifteenth day of the month, like unto the feast that is in Judah. And he offered upon the altar, so did he in Bethel, sacrificing unto the calves that he had made, and placed in Bethel and the priests in the high places which he had made. So he offered upon the altar which he made in Bethel on the fifteenth day of the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised of his own heart. And ordained a feast unto the children of Israel. And he offered upon the altar and burnt incense. Let us pray. Father, we come before you just so privileged to gather this evening. in your house, to center ourselves around your word. Would we open our hearts and minds to be sensitive to the truth of your word this evening. Help believers to further conform and transform the renewing of our minds to be more like Like our Savior Jesus Christ. We are so thankful that He is your Son that gave Himself willingly on the cross, rose again the third day, and we can know Him personally as our Savior. And yet the lessons we can learn as we walk each and every day according to words of Scripture, which you comfort and convict where necessary. And would we just be sensitive to how you use the Word of God, not just on Sundays, not just on Wednesdays. But on every day in between, would we just allow ourselves to be moved and sensitive to your word as we do this all through the name and your son? And our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. So here in First Kings chapter 12, to kind of pick up, it's been a couple of weeks since we've been in First Kings. We've had some other things going on on Sunday evenings. So just to give some brief background, much of Israel has gone through a united kingdom, first as we've studied with Saul, and then David, and then Solomon. And David kind of brought things to peace, being a great man of war, and Solomon, you kind of see the riches and things gathering together, and it looks like everything is going great. But there was a problem that kind of was sneaking in. As we read through the end of chapter 12 here, we're like, what is going on? This kind of seems really bad. Where did this come from? Just seems almost like it happened all of a sudden, but if we look back over the years, some of these things I kinda think that King Solomon helped when he had seven hundred wives and three hundred concubines and decided to bring in their temples and their gods. That might have had something to do with it. Okay? So then after that, you come here, and what we're really seeing is an official split of what was united under the first three kings. It is now divided. We're going to see Israel to the north. And we're going to see Judah to the south. And it's becoming more official by the time we get to this text. Jeroboam is settling in as the king over the northern ten tribes, which is going to be Israel. And Rehoboam, Solomon's son, we're going to see is the established king of Judah along with Benjamin in the south. So here what we see is this really taking shape, and we see Jeroboam establishing himself, and what we're going to really see in a lot of ways that Jeroboam as a new king in this new country, if you will, a split country, making the whole of Israel as a whole nation a little bit weaker, but Jeroboam is going to be very jealous. Jeroboam is going to be very insecure. And we're going to see a lot of it is just his own unbelief. It could have been extreme jealousy. But really he had word directly from the Lord which we're going to look at that would have helped him along the way. But he knowingly, willingly was choosing to go against what he knew he should have done. Done. And like I've said before, I know I've said it from this pulpit, sometimes we think there's this great truth like it's grass, this wonderful secret. It can help me to be a great Christian. But sometimes if we disobey what we already know. It would change our lives and those around us. So that's what we're going to kind of see in Jeroboam and we look at his jealousy and insecurity. So first, just going back to some history, we see that he's setting himself up in verse 25 and he's establishing himself. And before we get to what he says in his heart, just a little bit of background to what I already said with some tribal tension that's been taking place. Ephraim had a history of leadership. Ephraim is the main tribe in the north And Judah would be the name one in the south. And I just want to take back just a little bit, uh, well not a little bit, a lot of it, all the way back to Genesis 48. I'm going to read a couple verses here. Going way back, just to help give some background to how this tension could have started. And in Genesis 48, it says, And when Joseph saw his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, and it displeased him. And he held his father's hand and removed it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head. And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father, for this is the firstborn. Put thy right hand upon his head And his father refused and said, I know it, my son. I know it. He also shall become a people, and he also shall be great. But truly this younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations. And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel Bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh, and he set Ephraim before Manasseh. So once go way back, you have the younger gonna serve over the elder, and that one happened to be Ephraim being elevated So going way back, and I say that from the very beginning, there's this tribal tension, and there's a couple of things I'm going to point out where Ephraim Is taking advantage of this tension between Israel as a whole. A nation can be divided, as we well know in our history. Uh we fought our own war against ourself. And that's basically what was taking Israel. It just doesn't happen when you decide, I'm gonna go against my my father and my cousins and my sons of the south. You know, it it just doesn't happen in one day over one circumstance. This goes way back. Some other things, some interesting tribal tension that would go back to some of the leadership development of Ephraim. Joshua, the son of Nun, was well Nun was the tribe of Ephraim. This is Numbers 13, 8. So Joshua, one of the leaders right after Moses, going into the land, was from Ephraim. Samuel, a great judge in Israel, was also from Ephraim. And then in the more recent past, Ephraim joined with Ithosheth against King David. From Judah. So you have Ephraim joining against someone rising against King David in 2 Samuel chapter 2. So from the very beginning, from Genesis 48, all the way up into uh a little bit before this. You have this tension of leadership, Ephraim thinking, hey, we have been told we can lead. And then you have Psalm and all these gods, and you have than Rhabom saying, listening to the younger and keeping the just the hard taxation and and keeping that thumb on the people as ruler And so there's this tension building, and when Rehabom, the son of Solomon, steps in and says, if you thought my dad was bad, you haven't seen anything. And the people didn't like this very much. So with this taking place, they took advantage of a split. So this there's this tribal tension, that's kind of history going up. Now let's pick it up there in 1 Kings chapter 12. And we look, let's start in verse 26 here, where Jeroboam said in his heart, in verses 25 through 27, we're going to see Jeroboam's jealousy of the of Judah's king. And what we're really going to see too is he was going to be doubting God's word. Jeroboam's jealousy of Judah's king And he really began to doubt in God's word. So here in verse twenty six. Jeroboam said in his heart That's going to be important. We're going to get to that and bring that back around by the end of the message. But he said in his heart, now shall the kingdom return to the house of David. If this people go down to do sacrifice in the house of the Lord of Jerusalem, then shall the heart of this people turn again unto their Lord, even to Rehabom, the king of Judah? And they shall kill me and go down again into Rehoboam, the king of Judah? Where is he getting some of these things? Well, Jeroboam was actually exalted and brought to a place of leadership. by Solomon himself. If we go back a chapter in 1 Kings chapter 11, you'll see starting in verse 26 that Jeroboam the son of Nabat, the Ephraimite He was Solomon's servant. And it goes on to say that he even lifted up his hand against the king. That'd be Solomon. And then, and it was This cause that he lifted up his hand against the king, Solomon built Milo and repaired the breaches of the city of David his father. Verse 28 And the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valor. And Solomon seeing the young man, though he was industrious. He made him ruler over all the charge of the house of Joseph. So Jeroboam is being elevated. He's being promoted by King. King Solomon. He was a young man. He was industrious. He wanted to get things done. He expressed some leadership qualities. So Solomon brings him up. So Jeroboam now here going back, he's in a position of authority with some leadership. Now here in his heart Fast forward to chapter 12, he is not wanting to lose the kingdom he's just been given. He's now a fresh king on this brand new country, if you will, really a split. Okay. And he is saying within himself, he does not want people to return to David. He is getting jealous of David. David has The capital, they have Jerusalem, and what do they have in Jerusalem that Solomon had just built? That David longed for? They have this big, beautiful temple that has just been established of a place of worship and really an iconic place for Israel. And now as a new nation, he doesn't want his people to go down and worship there and to lose. And he's afraid that their hearts will turn from him as their new king. showing jealousy, showing insecurity. He doesn't want to lose them to the southern tribe of Judah and Jerusalem, which now is being led by Rehoboam. And then he goes on, and he says, they shall kill me. Why would he come up with this in verse 27? He's thinking, I'm going to lose these people. They're going to rise up against me, and they're going to try and kill me. Well, if we go back to 1 Kings 11, I just want to point to a couple of quick verses in the previous chapter. It says in verse 29, and it came to pass at the time when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem that the prophet Ahijah The sh the Shelamite found him in the way, and he had clad himself with a new garment, and they two were alone in the field. And Ahijah caught the new garment that was on him, and rent it in twelve pieces. And he said to Jeroboam , Take thee ten pieces, for thus saith the Lord the God of Israel, Behold, I will rend the kingdom out of thy hand of Solomon, and will give thee ten tr give thee ten tribes. unto thee. So he is now a new king, but before this, as he's afraid, right now we're reading in chapter twelve, he's worried in his heart, in himself, he's going to lose these people these that's basically been given. But a little bit before this, he was told by the prophet , the garment was ripped in twelve pieces. You're going to get 10. You're going to lead these people. And here's what's interesting. When we get down to verse, we read 33, how he's going to give them not all the tribes, and then look at verse 37. All he had to do was believe in the word of the Lord, and the key is not just believe it, but obey it. In verse 37 of 1 Kings 11, and I will take thee, and thou shalt reign according to all thy soul desireth, and shall be king over Israel And it shall be with thee, that if thou wilt hearken unto all that I command thee, and wilt walk in my ways, and do that is right in my sight, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did That I will be with thee, and build thee a sure house, as I built for David, and will give Israel unto thee. And I will, for this effect, the seed of David, but not forever. Solomon, because of all this, understanding this, Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. And Jeroboam arose and fled into Egypt. So here, Jeroboam, he's been told by the prophet of the Lord, you are going to get ten tribes. He should know this, he should be aware of this, and he is, but does he believe it? And is he willing to obey? And why is it that Solomon is going to lose what he has? And there's a long list in verse 33, and he didn't walk in your way, he didn't walk in my ways, and I'm going to take it from him. Jeroboam has a similar opportunity. Here is what you do. You have to obey my commands. You have to follow my word. You can have the same privilege and you can be a great leader. Just obey. You have to believe in these words and you have to obey them. When Solomon caught wind of this. He sought to kill him, so he runs into Egypt. So now, going back to chapter 12, in his insecurity, because he's doubting God's word, and why is he doubting? When you don't obey, and children, if your parents give you clear instruction, and you choose not to do it, you're not so excited to see your parents You may hesitate. You may not want them to come home. You may not want them to come into the house. Because you know the instructions were clear and you made a choice of not obeying. That's where Jeroboam is. He had seen what happened to Solomon's kingdom. He knows it's being split, and now he's benefiting from it. But the privilege, the responsibility was now going to him for ten of the tribes. You have an opportunity to lead people in obeying my commands. But is he? In his heart, we know he's already afraid to lose these people. So he's not confident in his words. He's being jealous of what Jerusalem has. And now he thinks that if they go down there and their hearts get worn over, they might even s try and kill him. So Jeroboam in his heart, it's almost as if he already knows at this point, you know what? They have their gods, they have their traditions, but I want to do things my way. And what we learn here is sometimes jealousy, insecurities in our life, instead of focusing on what is right and what is true and focusing on God's word, we could tend to look at, well, what's best for me? How can I preserve myself? How can I keep my power? How can I keep my authority? And then we might do what Disney says, and we obey our heart. And then we're going to see what happens. As we've heard recently, I think it was from the pulpit here recently, that we know that the heart is deceitful of all things is desperately wicked. Would we know it? So here, that's where he's coming from in verse 27. We're seeing Jeroboam, he's jealous of Judah's king, he's beginning to doubt God's word, and then in verses. 28 through 33, we're going to see how Jeroboam's jealousy is in Jehovah, and here he's jealous towards God and what he has, and he's going to take those doubts. and his really his plan for disobedience you can say and starts taking steps away from God and his word. You can't say he's ignorant, he doesn't know what he's doing. I think he's really trying to establish himself. He's making blatant, purposeful steps. away because in his insecurities and in his jealousy he's trying to establish things for himself and in his power and in his wisdom and in his way And it just happens to be in opposition to what Judah has. It's in opposition to God Himself. I'm reminded of James chapter 1 and verses starting 23. It says to be a hear the word and not a doer only. For he's like a man beholding his natural face in a glass. For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and forgetth what manner of man he was But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty and continueth therein, and being not a forgetful here, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed. It's a little fresh with me coming off Bible quizzing, but I think that helps us illustrate what's going on in Jeroboam 's life. He knows what he's doing, and now we're going to see not only did he doubt God's word from the prophet. Not only did he see what brought Solomon's united kingdom to be divided and starts splintering, which he's not a beneficiary of, being the king of the northern part. But he is going to be in opposition to God's word. Let's look in verse 28, where we start with this point. It says, whereupon he took counsel. And made two calves of gold. And I just want to pause right here. It said he took counsel. Who was counseling this guy to make two calves? Two golden calves? I mean, we're looking back, I know that we can read you the Bible in a short amount of time. But here, golden calves should be ringing bells all over with Israel of warning. Wait a minute. We've done this before. I've heard of these golden calves somewhere along the lines Wasn't that way back with Moses and Aaron? And Moses got mad and Aaron built his calf and he said, Behold your God, the job of you out of Egypt. We know how that fared for them Some of them aren't so thirsty after that. They they smash it up and you may drink it, remember? Okay. All right We know that it wasn't a piece of metal that happened to be shiny and that looks nice that delivered Israel out of Egypt. I'm kind of curious, who counseled Jeroboam with this? And it reminds me of this. In Proverbs 13, it says, he that walketh with wise men shall be wise. But a companion of fools shall be destroyed. I knew evangelists at camp. Said, you show me your friends, I will tell you your future. He is not starting well right here. He's taking counsel. Was it like Jeroboam? These guys didn't listen to good counsel. Both of them had that weakness. But here he took counsel, and so somehow out of this council, whoever it was, whoever he's talking with, this new leadership that he's developing, and he must have agreed, and he decides, I'm going to build two calves of gold. And he said to them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem. Behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. So one, if you're a thinking Israelite, you really know it wasn't the golden calves. They may have been tempted, okay. They might have thought, okay, you know, maybe, but they really knew. Most of them would have known. But what's interesting here is he is telling the people as their leader. This is why you need leaders that are. Have character, they have integrity, not that they don't make mistakes, but they're truthful, they're honest. He is telling them here in verse 28, it is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem. What he's trying to do is he's jealous, he's insecure, he wants to set up his own places of worship. And what we're going to see is where he's going to really start opposing God is sometimes The lie is mixed with truth. And he still wants a place of worship. He still wants to include God. Now he's adding the golden calves. Was he saying the golden calves, word Jehovah, and limiting him to limiting God to this gold? But he's mixing some truth with air. And what he's telling the people is he's telling them, it is too far if you go to Jerusalem. Now here's what he's really saying here. Now Bethel, where he sets up one of the calves, which we're going to see, is not too far from Jerusalem. If you're looking at Jerusalem, if I can do this backwards in my head, Jerusalem would be here. I think Bethel would be up over this way for you guys. So it's not too far in proximity. It's on the so Bethel is on the southern part of the new nation of Israel, where Jerusalem is on the northern part of Judah. So that makes sense to me. He's setting something up. He's protecting his borders. He's putting up a place of worship that's relatively close. That makes sense. But do you know where he sets up the other one? In Dan. And Rebe later, he says, even up unto Dan. Well, so where's Dan? So if you have Bethel and you have Jerusalem, Dan is like, well, I'm short, but it's like way up here. It's like saying, you know, I don't want you guys to go all the way down to Annapolis to church. So we're just going to go to York instead. I mean that's just about the idea. I don't I didn't measure it out, but that gives you the idea. You know, Annapolis is too far. Church, don't go to Annapolis, we're going to York instead. They'd be like, what? What are you thinking? Every common sense person is going, yeah, if you with it lived up in Pennsylvania, York would be closer. So it doesn't make a lot of sense. Well again and Dan was up there. I mean and then when you if you look at a map, if you look up a map, you would see it kind of like narrows, at least the ones I saw, it kind of narrowed up, and Dan is like at the very tip top. It doesn't make a lot of sense But he's telling him what is he doing? He just he doesn't want to lose his people. We already know in his heart what he's thinking. He's thinking, I don't want to lose my people to that southern tribe. I'm just trying to get myself established. I'm trying to get this new nation established, and I don't want to lose them So he's going to do something similar with the place of worship, but he's doing it with golden calves. And I can understand the south, okay, and we'll see what happens with the donor with the one in the south. But as a reminder, going back to Exodus 32, there's many different passages there in Exodus 32. I'm just going to pick a couple of them Starting with verse 4. It says, And he received them under their hand and fashioned it as a graving tool, so they took effort and time to make this calf as a graving tool after he'd made it in the molten. calf, and they said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. And I have turned aside quickly out of the which I have commanded them. And they have made them a molten calf, and have worshipped it. So Aaron is like, Oh look what they did And have sacrificed thereunto, and said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt. Skipping the verse 10. Now therefore, let me alone, that my wrath may wax hot against them. This is God talking with Moses. that I may consume them and I will make of thee a great nation. God is was was he saying, listen, they did this as wrong. They're trying to limp an eating some golden calf. I just did ten amazing things for them. making it known to the world, and they're trying to limit me to a golden calf while I'm giving you the commands to take to them? He's like, you know what? I'm going to start over with you, Moses. And Moses is going to God like, God, what will Egypt think? What will the rest of the world think? For your name's sake, let's have mercy upon these people. And in verse 11, Moses besought the Lord his God and said, Lord, why doth thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth the land of Egypt with great power, and with a mighty hand? He's like, look, you did all this, let's just work with them Instead of just wiping them out and starting over. So Moses, that's a whole nother thing itself, but Moses interceded on the behalf of Israel. And it was not this golden calf. So now, way all the this time later, you have Jeroboam setting up this golden calf, which people knew they suffered consequence. They knew it was not a golden calf. And he's setting up two of them. One that makes sense in my mind anyways, and other one doesn't. But why would Jeroboam be doing this? He wants to keep his people in his country. He doesn't want to lose them. His jealousy is willing to come inside him. His insecurities, he's not believing God's word. Now he's going in opposition. He's setting up golden calves, which he knows are false. Do you see how our emotions and our lack of trust in God, our own jealousies from women, can end up drawing us away from God? And sometimes it's big, blatant steps, and sometimes it's just a little bit of wrong sprinkled with the truth. We see a combination of that taking place here. And then we continue on here in verse 29. So he's made the gods. And he says, Behold your God, like the ones that took you out of the land of Egypt, which we know is false. He set one, verse 29, set one in Bethel, and the other he put in Dan, verse 30. And this thing became a sin. For the people went to worship before the one, even unto Dan, even to the one that's way north. They even went all the way up there And look how he did it in verse 31. And he made a house of the high places and made priests of the lowest of the people, which were not of the sons of Levi. I find this very interesting because he's trying to set up these worship centers to keep people in his own new established kingdom with him as the very first king. And here, in doing so, he still wants priests, but he's not having priests God's way. He really is now Completely opposing what God asked. Not only is he limiting God to a piece of gold, but now he has priests that have nothing to do or not in the descendants of Levi. Which we know is not right. That was clearly wrong, but I don't think Jeroboam is thinking about what the prophet had told to us in just the chapter before. What was Jeroboam to do? If he wanted to stay king, if he was to be successful, what was he to do? He said, you can do basically all that you desire. He's giving him the option, will you obey my word? Or are you going to selfishly establish your own kingdom? We see here what is going on inside of Jeroboam. He's close. He's it's it's almost I don't think he's really trying to obey, but he's keeping it close enough where you don't want the transition of people too quickly. People don't like a lot of quick change But if you can do it subtly, now it's wrong, but it's close. Sometimes Satan's greatest deceptions are just to keep us close to the truth. Just close enough. It's not exact, I mean it's not like full blown out wrong, but you know, it's not entirely wrong. It's mixed with truth. But here's the danger in that. I found a minimum of 14, I believe it's fourteen, phrases that go along this line The sins of Jeroboam, who did sin, and who made Israel to sin. You're going to see this phrase starting in chapter 13, the chapter right after this, and carry all the way through 1st and 2 Kings. I think it's at least 14 times. I forgot to recount them. I'm not going to read them all. But a lot of them, he was causing, he became known. for causing Israel to sin. I don't know about you, but I wouldn't want my name written down in the internal word of God for all to read that was the responsible for causing Israel to sin for many generations and chapters to come. For all the rest of the kings, the standard of bad and evil and wicked as a king was Jeroboam. He was the leader, kind of the founder, if you will, and if you were compared to evil, it was compared to Jeroboam multiple times. For he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, which made Israel to sin, followed the sins of Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, which made Israel to sin. And on and on, several times that similar phrase. And what did Jeremy Bohm do? He was jealous. He was not obeying God's word. Some of it started close But he took it and he was establishing himself, his insecurities, not believing God's word. Then he began to oppose directly God's word And people followed. I would have not I would not want to be Jeroboam and responsible for causing others. It's bad enough with four children. Let alone for kings and chapters and pages in our Bible, for all to read for all of history and forward and eternity And Jeroboam knew better. His jealousy, his desire to set up himself His insecurities drove him away from the Lord, whom he had a great opportunity to serve and to obey. Then we look at the end here in verse 32. He even ordained a feast in the eighth month of the fifteenth day. And to just shorten that, he picked this date on purpose. It was to mimic the Feast of Tabernacles that Judah was doing on the seventh month of the fifteenth day. Why would you do it so close? Why would you pick day that day? I'm only speculating. But hey, you do remember Jerusalem is really close to Bethel. And if they go a month earlier, you have a lot of people assembling together. And now wait a minute, if we're already come this far, it's not too much farther to go into Israel and we can go to Bethel and go to his feast Ah, do you see how that works? Just take it a little just a little step closer. Why don't you come over here? So in his heart he's thinking, I don't want my people to go there But what if I could recruit some of them to come here? Ah, I would like that. I could win over their heart. Now I'm just speculating, but I kind of find it hard to believe that he's not trying to turn it around and draw some of them from Judah up into Israel. It's just a guess. But I can imagine that's good possibly going through. And he did this on purpose. When you redo this, it's obvious he picked this day, this time, this month, and this day. And we know it's to mimic the feast. That's down in Judah. He had a plan. This is not an accidental, oh, okay, this happens to be the 4th of July that we get our independence. Okay, no, this was planned. He designed this on purpose. And then we continue on, and that's where you had one of the calves there, with these priests that are not from the lineage or from the tribe of Levi. And he's offering it, and you see many times it's the eighth month or the fifteenth day of the month. But here's what's interesting. Look with me in verse 33. And this ties us almost all the way back to the beginning of the verse, and it's going to take us all the way back to the prophet of Ahijah earlier in the chapter before. So let's just start at the beginning of verse 33. So he offered upon the altar which he had made in Bethel, the fifteenth day of the eighth month, even in the month of which he had devised of his own heart. And ordain the feast of the children of Israel, and offered upon the altar and burnt incense. He is devising in his heart, he is planning this Now, if we were to go back to 1 Kings 11 and verse 37, this is the verse we referred to earlier, and I'm going to read it again at this point. In 1 Kings 11, 37, and I will take thee, and thou shalt reign. I'm going to give you ten of the tribes. You will be their king. Believe me, it's going to happen. Now that it's happened. He would probably remember these words. It was quite obvious. The new garment was ripped into twelve pieces. Kind of a remorable thing. I remember I had this favorite shirt growing up in high school and it was one of those that I mean it never really smelled that great because it's one of your favorites. And it began to get little holes. I just loved the shirt. It was like this American flag type thing. I loved the shirt. Well, you know who did my laundry at that time? My mom. Okay She sees this hole in this shirt and she goes, oh, this will make a great rag. And I hear this ripping. I'm going, wait a minute, wait a minute, what is that? And I see I mean she's like like hulking this thing and I'm like no it 's my favorite shirt It's I have not forgotten it to this day obviously And she's ripping the shirt like that was that was still is but not wearable my favorite shirt. Things like this are memorable All that to say if I had a new garment and it got ripped in two was bad enough. This got ripped in twelve pieces. And he gets ten of them Not that it's gonna do all the good to wear, but he does get ten of them. It's symbolic of you reigning as God will say you will, and you're gonna get ten tribes And when you get these ten tribes, in verse 37 it says, according to all that thy soul desireth, and shalt be king over Israel. You know what we've seen in Jeroboam's heart? Selfishness, jealousy, insecurity. Trying to gather to himself a kingdom. And we know right after this, who says, you don't have to follow Solomon. You don't, it's King's losing his kingdom because he disobeyed. So Jeroboam with this great illustration, choosing to disobey God, what do you think is going through his mind? He can't be thinking, well, God is going to bless me But what do I need God for? I'm king now. I can do it my way. And what happens? Jealousy. Insecurity. He's trying to keep doing things his way And he becomes known as the king who made Israel to sin. His own heart was not after the Lord His heart was for himself. Very easy to do. Now we could blame Jeroboam. But all of us know that our favorite party of threes is me, myself, and I. And we have to fight on a daily basis to put others before ourselves. That's what makes mothers so great. Becky and I have had this conversation many times. Especially as a mom. Dads, we can get a little break sometimes, but with mom, it's like 24-7 -367. Okay. Maybe I should just say 725, 265. I mean it just it doesn't end. But being a mother, this is my little Mother's Day plug-in there, but Being a mother helps teach you slash force you to be selfless. If you are a mother that always thinks about yourself, it's not going to go well. And children, you get older, you might understand it too. But in Jeroboam's heart, he continued to think about himself, his insecurities, which was not believing God's word, not taking for what it says. And in his own heart, he could have chosen to obey God or disobey God. Follow him and get blessing? And my children after me? Or disobey, and it might likely happen to me, what happened to Solomon, and it won't go well. And we know the rest of the story. When Jeroboam caused Israel To sin. May this not be true of us. Father, we are so thankful that when we open up the Bible, it's like opening up into your heart and to your mind. And when we do so, we can learn from the mistakes of others. When I was first saved, I used to think the Bible was Just a book that contains stories about great people that did wonderful things, and that someday my life might be able to match up. But, Father, when we study your word, these are fallible people. You are the same God. We could all be tempted of the same sins. We may not be a king of our own new country But we may have positions of authority within our home, at the workplace , even in church. Father, would that lead us to humility, to desire to obey you, and not our own jealousies and insecurities that could be within ourselves Help us to be selfless servants of you. May we trust in your word Not doubting, not certainly being in opposition to it, but sensitive to be corrected by you through your word. May we learn from the lessons of Jeroboam and his jealousy and insecurity. And Lord, would we seek you and draw nigh unto you and help us not just to be a hearer, but a doer of the world. And we do this to point people to you and our loving Savior, Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.