We'll be in Acts chapter one. I'm going to just read in Luke, and it says, And he saith unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you while I I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled which were written in the law of Moses and in the prophets and in the Psalms concerning me. Then opened heed their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures. And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus did it behoove Christ to suffer and to rise from the dead the third day. and that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem, and ye are witnesses of these things. And behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you, but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem until ye be endued with power from on high. And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands and blessed them, and it came to pass while he blessed them, he was parted from them and carried up into heaven. And they worshipped him and returned to Jerusalem. with great joy and we're continually in the temple praising and blessing God. Amen. Now we're in a Acts chapter number one. And it's kind it's the same account, just a different perspective. Same author by the way. Luke is the one that wrote the book of Luke obviously and he also wrote the book of Acts. And here we have another perspective that he writes for us here in chapter 1, starting verse number 1. The former trees have I made, O Theophosless. of all that Jesus began both to do and teach until the day in which he was taken up after the he that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles. whom he had chosen, to whom also he showed himself alive after his passion, by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God. And being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which saith ye, He ye have heard of me. For John truly baptized with water, but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost, not many days hence. But they but they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord Wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel? And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons which the Father hath put in his own power, but ye shall receive power. After that the Holy Ghost has come upon you. And ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem, and all Judea, and Samaria, and unto the uttermost parts of the earth. And we had th had spoken these things, while they beheld he was taken up and a cloud received him out of their sight And while they looked steadfastly toward heaven as the as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel, which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? This same Jesus which was taken up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this day. We thank you so much for your word. We thank you so much for the gospel that and it is the power of God unto salvation to all who believe. And Father, if there's someone here tonight that's lost, I pray you help them to get saved tonight before it's eternally too late. I pray you just help us through this lesson. Lord, just to uh glean from your word what you have for us, Lord, and fill us with your spirit. Teach us from your word tonight what thus saith the Lord, and may we leave here refreshed and ready to reach a lost and dying world and a lost and dying community. here in Millersville, Maryland. We love you. Thanks so much for all your many blessings. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen. We just read about the uh really the the Great Commission and we also read about the ascension of Jesus Christ. And I love what the uh what the two angels said to the disciples here in verse number 11. It said this same Jesus Which is taken up from you into heaven shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven. And aren't you so glad that he is coming back Aren't you so glad for that? I know I'm glad for that. I'm looking forward to the day where we are caught up with him in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. I'm looking forward to the rapture. Amen. And I'm looking forward to that time. And we can always, you know, people look at hope and they think of hope as the the next president of the United States or the next candidate, the next election, or this or that, or Uh some even the current president or even the previous president. They all look for that or look for that as their hope, but you know our hope is not in our politicians. Our hope is not in a government system. The hope in China is that the Gami 's government would just lift off all the persecution. Our hope is in Jesus Christ. And he's going to get us through those times of persecution. He's going to just get us through those times of trouble. He's going to get us through those times. uh of rejoicing in those times of sorrow as well. But our hope is in Jesus Christ and we look looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Now we're going to focus in on Acts chapter one. We're going to look at focus in on chapter or excuse me. Verse number eight. It says, But ye shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria and into the uttermost parts of the earth. What we're going to do is we're going to break this down into four parts and we're going to look at all the nouns in this in this verse. We're going to look at uh first of all we're going to look at power. We're going to look at the Holy Ghost. We're going to look at witnesses and then we're going to look at the locations. Jerusalem Judea, Samaria, uttermost parts of the earth. That'll be our last point. So first of all, we're going to look at power. But ye shall receive power. Power. When we think of the word power, what do we automatically think of when we think of power? When we think of power, we automatically think of something miraculous or something that is Supernatural. Something that is uh that is done in the physical world, but it's supernatural. We don't have anything that can explain it, nothing that can uh that can match it, nothing that's uh that it can uh really tell us what happened beside it's happened. Think about uh one of the uh miracles I think of uh was um uh we were going through the Easter story last uh last week and uh we were in the it started out with the garden and we went through the crucifixion up to uh after he died in three days he was buried and then he rose again. And going through that story of Malchus, they go out there, they they get Jesus, Jesus Judas uh uh kisses Jesus on the cheek, and Jesus says, Betrayest thou me with the uh with a kiss, and Peter wakes up and says, Hey, what's going on? He sees a bunch of people, so what does he do? He draws a sword and it boom Wax off somebody's ear. And Jesus says, Peter, put away your sword, right? They that live by the sword shall die of the sword. He picks up the ear and sticks back right back on the guy's head. You would think if I'm Malchus, I would be like, hey, I need to go tell somebody about this. You know, either that or go with the go go get some therapy or something. He just like, well, what just happened? He picked up the ear and stuck it back on, right? I mean that's it's something supernatural, something miraculous. And if I'm one of those guys holding Jesus, I think of him and like Okay. Okay. Right? But that's not what happened. But there was something miraculous, something supernatural. That was just one miracle. And that that's not my favorite miracle. I just re that was the one that was recent. Like man I would just I would have loved to have been there. But anyways What are some of your favorite miracles? Anybody? The maniac of Godera, I love that story. That man uh Jesus goes across the sea and he goes across the sea. If you do the study, he went across the sea for one man. man. Went across the sea for one man. This man came out there, he's uh he he he's not wearing any clothes and he's been cutting himself with stones. He's a he's a man. He the the people just leave him out there in the tombs because he They can't control him. They try binding him. He just breaks the chains. And so they just kind of leave him out there. And he's nobody can tame this man. And Jesus comes out there, commands the uh those uh demons to come out, they go into uh uh two thousand different uh swine they go and they choke themselves in the sea and people get all scared about that and then when the uh the people come out to see what's going on out there they see the man sitting at Jesus' feet clothed and in his right mind. And then they ask Jesus to leave. Can you imagine that the one person that uh that was able to heal this man and help this man and they're asking him to leave but he came over for that one man that was a great story I saw something another hand over here yes Walking on the water, can you imagine doing that? I did that in Michigan this past week. It was all frozen this past year. I was just all frozen. Anyways, I walking on the water. Can you imagine doing that? walking on water and I would love to have been there because you know the disciples are sitting there toiling trying to get the probably butt in buckets, trying to get the water out. They're trying to get the the the uh sail probably holding that that down stuff like that. All of a sudden you see this figure walking on the water. And I would love to see what happened. It's a storm The waves are going up and down. Is Jesus going up and down with the waves? Or is he stepping and the waves catching him as he's going along? Or is it the the waves come and then you kind of settle and make like a little plane and then come back up? I mean why what happened? I would love to have seen that Right? And then they're all freaking out. What's going on? I don't know. I would love to have I would love at this point to be Peter be Hey I'm the one that jumped out the boat, right? And actually walked on the water. But during that time I think I would have been holding on and like uh no right But that would have been an awesome story to be able to see a man that's walking on water. Okay, I saw a hand over here, a little guy. You have one, buddy? No, I think you got to I got you a little shy. But we have a holy story. Yes. Raising of Lazarus. La raising of Lazarus. Oh, is that a good that's a great story. They go they go uh Jesus goes down to Lazarus in the in John chapter eleven. And he uh Mary comes out and says, May if you were here, my brother Martha excuse me, he comes first, said Mar if you were here, my brother wouldn't have died. And then Mary says the same thing. If you were here, my brother wouldn't have died, and he says he will rise again And oh I know he's going to raise in the last day, and we have those beautiful verses. I am the way, the truth I am the way, excuse me, that's chapter fourteen. I am the resurrection and the life. He that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live. And whosoever liveth as and believeth in me shall never die. Believe thou this And he goes out there, we have those and he sees all the people crying and we see Jesus, the heart of Jesus, it says Jesus wept. And he gets out there to the uh gets out there to the tomb and says, roll back this tomb, and Martha's like, Oh Jesus, please, only for four days, stinks The decaying process has already been going on. Just just leave it at close. He's like, roll it back. And they roll it back. Says Lazarus come forth and Lazarus comes out. I mean, I think I would have been a little claustrophobic while all that wrapped up, but he comes waddling out. He says, Loose him and let 'em go and he'd go. And you have all these different stories, all these miracles that Jesus performed in the New Testament. And they're all supernatural, amen. Every single one of them are supernatural, but every single one of them had a purpose. And what is that purpose? Mark chapter 2 tells us. Mark chapter 2, Jesus is in a house. And as he's in a house preaching, there's a The crowd is just packing up into the house and as they start packing up into this house, there's four people on the outside. They're carrying a bed and on the bed is their buddy who's six of the palsy. And if he's sick of the palsy, he starts going uh he they s they try to go in the front door, they try to go in the back, they try to try to go different ways. And uh they can't get there, so they go up on the roof, they break up the uh the the roof, and they lower down this man in front of Jesus. And as they lower this man down in front of Jesus, Jesus says he saw their faith, he looks at the man and says, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee And as he says that, there's Pharisees and scribes up on the front row going, What why does this man blaspheme? Who can forgive sins but God? Good question. Who can't forgive sins but God? Anybody? No one. God is the only one that can forgive sins. And he they said, who can forgive sins but God? And Jesus, another miracle, looks at him and says, Why reason you these things among yourselves? Which is easier? Tell this man thy sins be forgiven thee, or to tell him, take up thy bed and walk. And to prove to you that I have the power to forgive sins, man, I say unto thee, rise, take up thy bed and walk. And what do you do? He rose, he took up his bed, and he walked. How long did it take you to teach your little child how to walk? Yeah, we're about to go through that. I have a four month old, so I'm about to go through that again in a few months, right? But I have three before three before that and you know they they get up there, they start walking, and then they start falling around, they start walking, they start falling down. This man got up and started walking. We don't see the little the process of why he got up and started walking. A miracle. But what was the greatest miracle? Three miracles were happening there. Jesus forgave a man of sins. He read people's minds, and he also healed the man. They told him to rise up and walk. What was the most miraculous? What was the most powerful miracle that was done there? Well the miracle that Jesus forgave man his sins. That was the greatest miracle. The miracle of him healing this man was only to prove. What do you say? Which is easier? To say, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee, or say rise up and walk. To prove to you that I have that power to forgive sins that only God can do. Rise up and walk. That was only the the rising up and walk was only to prove that he had the power to forgive the sins. Yet after that point After that point, what happened? Oh Jesus, Jesus, come, come, come, come here. My mom, my daughter's sick, can you come heal her? Oh Jesus, come here, come here, come here. Can you come here come heal this person? Or oh Jesus, can you can you heal me? I'm I'm blind, or I'm I need this, I need this. And they came to Jesus for that physical healing. But we don't really see a whole lot of people getting exactly, Jesus, you just forgave that man's sin. Can you forgive me too? Jesus, I I 'm I 'm a sinner too. Can you forgive me my sins? We don't really see that, do we? And they missed it. They got so hung up on the outward, the in the those outward miracles, the physical miracles, rather than the one that everybody needed. And what do we have today? It says, but you shall receive power. What power are we talking about? How many of us can go out there and heal somebody? I don't have it. I I have allergies. If somebody does, please come. Anyways. Does anybody have the gift of prophecy? I had to be careful with that. When I said that one in church and I got challenged. Anybody have the gift of prophecy? No. Anybody have the gift of tongues? That would have been so handy in China. Anybody have any of these gifts? No. But what do we have? What power do we have? We have the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. What does it say in Romans chapter 1 verse 16? For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto Salvation, to all who believe to Jesus Think about that for a minute. I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, for it is the power of God unto salvation for all who believe. We may not have all those other sign gifts that we That were mentioned in the New Testament. We might have those nowadays, but God left us the greatest miracle ever, and that He is still forgiving sins today through the gospel of Jesus Christ. Amen. Amen. That is the gospel that we have. And I'm so glad back in July 26, 2006, I was 18 years old. That's when Christ came in. That's when he forgave my sins. That's when I ask them to forgive my sins. If you're here tonight and you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, he still is forgiving sins. And you can come to him and ask him to forgive you. of yours as well. For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. It is the power of God unto salvation to all who believe. So we have a power from the gospel. Matthew chapter twenty eight verse uh eighteen through twenty. It says all power is given to me in heaven and earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, the Son, the Holy Ghost, teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the ends of the world. Amen. And we often go into that part where we say, go ye into all the world. Go ye into all the world. Go ye into the world. But what did Christ say before that? All power is given unto me. That's what he said before that. So before all that statement, go there, go ye therefore, that therefore it's a reason. Instead of just go and hope for the best, go and you know Maybe even go. He said, All power is given to me. Go ye therefore, because all power is in Christ we can go, Amen. And well what does that look what what does that mean? What what what does that mean that he's uh empowered the church, empowered the gospel, empowered uh uh this uh uh the great commission to go out there. Well, Matthew chapter 16 tells us more in detail. Jesus asked is on the road near Sesaphria Philippi, and as he's walking on the road, he asks his disciple, whom do men say that I am? And some say, uh some say Jeremiah, some say Elias, some say Isaiah, or one of the prophets. And then Jesus says, okay, well, who do ye say that I am? And Peter spoke up and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the Living God. And as Peter said that, Jesus said, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona, for flesh and blood hath not revealed unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven. And this I say that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. What rock? Christ, the chief cornerstone. What Peter said, thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God. He is the rock that is built on. He said, Upon this rock, Christ, I will build my church. And what? The gates of hell cannot prevail against it. Isn't that a blessing? That's a great spirit of God. The gates of hell cannot prevail against the church no matter what happens. No matter how much man has tried, no matter how much the devil has tried to snuff out the light of the church and snuff out Christ in the world and try to do all sorts of things, he hasn't prevailed. Why? Because Christ said the that he is not going to prevail. The gates of hell cannot prevail against the church. We are the ones that have the gospel. We are what has the gospel in this world. We are supposed to be that light in this world, in this lost and dying world. We have the light. We have the gospel. And in that gospel, we have the power. For I'm not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. So the power of the gospel we have the power of the gospel, power of Christ, who empowered his church. And then also the power of the Holy Spirit, that leads right into our second point. But ye shall receive power. After that, the Holy Ghost has come upon you. So second part, Holy Ghost. Romans chapter number 2. Excuse me. Romans chapter 8, verse 9 says this. But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If so be that the Spirit of God dwell ye in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. Let's read this verse that verse again. But ye are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his. If we don't have the Holy Spirit in us, then we're not saved. We're none of Christ. We're not part of his family. We have to have the Holy Spirit. But the Holy Spirit comes in after a person. Get saved. In Ephesians chapter number one. Ephesians chapter number one one, verse thirteen says this. In whom ye also trusted after that ye heard the word of truth. the gospel of your salvation, in whom also after that ye believed, you're sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. So once we heard faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the Word of God. Faith comes by ear. After that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation. And also that ye believed. After that You're sealed with the Holy Spirit of Christ. Once we get saved, something happens inside us is called the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit comes inside. I remember when I was in July in uh September 11. 2001. I remember that day. Like it was yesterday. I remember how bitter and angry and uh hateful I became after that point. And I remember for four years I ha I carried that bitterness, that anger, that hate, and I just I hated and I just wanted to go and get revenge. I wanted to join the military and just go get revenge and go get revenge and just Uh I I bought so many video games about uh uh just going out and getting terrorists. I had uh so all that in there. I was so angry and bitter. But on July twenty-sixth, two thousand six, God changed my heart. So much so that I didn't want to go out there and get revenge, I wanted to seem saved. A change happened in my life. How did that change come? The Holy Spirit moved inside. I couldn't do it on myself. The Holy Spirit came inside and changed my life forever. Back in July 26, 2000. The Holy Spirit came inside. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 19. It says, What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which ye have God, which is in you, and ye are not your own, for ye are bought with the price. Therefore glorify your God which is your in your body and your spirit which are God. And we're going to look at this a little bit. It says we are bought with the price. We are bought, so therefore we have a purpose. You ever go out and buy things that you really don't have any purpose for? Guys, I know whenever we go to Lowe's or Home Depot, right, and we start we're like, oh that looks good and we think that we have a purpose for it, we buy it, we bring it home and it just sits on the shelf for a couple of years. Right? We I know, I know. I've been there. But you know we normally when we go to a store, we go when we have a purpose. We buy something for a purpose. Christ bought us for a purpose too, right? And we're going to look at that in the in just a few minutes. But we are bought with a price. But it says, after that, the Holy Ghost is coming upon you. And let me say it says what? That power. That power is going to come. After that, the Holy Ghost comes upon you. Well, let's think about this for a minute. The power that we have is in the gospel of Jesus Christ. That power is what we have the Holy Ghost living with us. But then in 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 19, it says this: quench not the Spirit. Quench not the spirit. If I hear the power of the power of the gospel, I accept Jesus Christ as my Savior and ask him to forgive my sins. The Holy Spirit comes and lives inside because of the power of the gospel that I heard. How do I quench the spirit? Well, we can quench them through sin, amen. I don't understand that. We can say we can so we can quench the spirit through sin. But may I submit to you that I can also submit I can also quench the spirit by also quenching that power of the gospel that was Given to me. What do you mean, preacher? I heard the gospel. Faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the word of God. And then after I heard and believed, the Holy Spirit moved inside. So if I take that And I have now that I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ, or it is the power of God. Now I have that gospel inside me. If I have that gospel and I am not sharing that gospel with others like I'm supposed to , Could that mean that I'm also quenching the Spirit? If I'm quenching the power of the gospel that I have, could that also mean that I'm also quenching the Spirit in my life? It's something to think about. We should not be ashamed of what we have. But ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me. Witnesses. Matthew chapter 5, verse 13 says this. Ye are the salt of the earth, but if a salt have lost its savor, wherewith shall it be salted? It is henceforth, what's the next words? Good for nothing. But to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men. We're the salt of the earth. Everybody likes salt? I remember when I was a bus driver, some students would make me cookies. I remember some students would make me these cookies, and I remember one student forgot the salt. And I also had the student that accidentally took the salt and the sugar and switched them so I had more salt and the sugar. How'd you like those cookies to uh cookies uh bunch of rubber? Right? I've had that before, right? Doesn't taste that good when it's got that much salt in it. But you know what? We are the salt of the earth But if the salt has lost his savor, how many of us have lost our savor? What's losing the savor? Going out and sharing the gospel with the lost in the night world. We're bought with a Price. Why? To be witnesses. What is a witness? A person that can testify of something that happened. I could testify of the grace of Jesus Christ because I experienced it in my life. July 26, 2006, I already said it. That's when I got saved. That's when my life changed forever. And I can testify, I can witness he forgives sins today. Because he forgave mine. And again, if you're here tonight and you don't know Jesus Christ, you've never had your sins forgiven, tonight can be the night. He can and he will and he wants to forgive your sins. Bible says that he that comes to Christ, he will nowise turn away. He will not God Out. Come and he will forgive your sins. Come, let him drink of the water of life freely, as the Bible says. But we are witnesses. But if we lose our Savior, what does the Bible say? We are henceforth Good for nothing. Good for nothing Christians. You ever go out and buy something and event and you think it's going to be really good, you just think it's going to be great, and all of a sudden it just doesn't do what you want it to do and you get frustrated and I I know I've done that. I've bought some things like that, right? And eventually it just turns into something good for nothing. Is that what Christ bought us? Or is that the type of tool we're gonna be for God? A good for nothing Christian? Something that he bought and he can't even use it the way it's supposed to be used because we're not willing to be conform to his image. Good for nothing, not willing to be that salt. We are the salt of the earth, but if the salt has lost the savour, wherewith shall it be salted? It is henceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, to be trodden under foot of men. Romans chapter number ten, verse number nine. If thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, shall believe in thy heart that God has raised him from the dead thou shalt be saved. For with the mouth where with the heart man believeth unto righteousness, and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation. For whosoever believeth in him shall not be ashamed ashamed. For there's no difference between the Jew or the or the Greek, for the same Lord overall is rich unto all to call upon him. For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. How then shall they call on him on whom they have not heard? And uh how not excuse me, how shall they call on him whom they have not believed, how shall they believe on him and whom they have not heard, and how shall they hear without a preacher Now often we put these verses and we attach it to a actual preacher, right? The pastor, okay, that's pastor Joel, that's this person over here, that's this person over here. But really, let me ask you a question. How many people were led to the Lord by their pastor or a pastor? Or a preacher. I know I was. Two. Three. How many of you were led to the Lord by a grandmother, Sunday school teacher, anyone else other than a pastor? How shall they hear without a preacher? It doesn't have to be necessary a pastor, it's just someone sharing the gospel, amen Someone sharing the gospel, a witness. And we are all called to be witnesses of the gospel. If we're saved a day and we experience Jesus' forgiveness of sins, then we are witnesses of that. We can share that truth. Faith cometh by hearing, hearing by the word of God. It is our responsibility to reach the lost and dying world. Who's going to do it for us? Is is uh is uh Hollywood gonna do it for us I I saw a new movie they're coming out about the Bible. It's like a timeline. I don't even know why exactly But they were just flashing all these scenes about this new movie that's coming out with the Bible. And I'm just sitting there watching it and just from looking at those little clips, it's like there's something majorly wrong. wrong with this. And they're not telling the story accurately. Hollywood's not going to reach the world for Christ. The world's not going to reach itself. It's up to the church. The church is the vehicle that God has used is God is using to reach the world, lost and dying world. For Christ. But ye shall be witnesses. And then lastly, but you shall receive power after that the Holy Ghost has come on you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea, and in Samaria, and in the uttermost parts of the earth. I have heard that Utah is a difficult area to go to, right? Because of the Mormons and all this other stuff. I've heard it's a difficult area, but can I say it to you that every area is a difficult area? Millersville, Maryland, is a difficult area. Baltimore is a difficult area. Maryland's a difficult area. The United States is a difficult area. All around the world is a difficult area. Can I submit to you that that's the case? everywhere is a difficult area. If we allow the difficult say, oh, it's a difficult area and we allow that to stop us, then we're never going to go out there and share the gospel. That's what the devil wants. Think about this area. Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, uttermost parts of earth. Which one was easiest for a disciple? Many people say Jerusalem. Jerusalem? What just happened 40 days ago? Christ was crucified outside the gates of Jerusalem. And what did the disciples do? They went and hid in the upper room, like, okay, we're going to stay here for the Passover like good Jews, but we're just going to make sure nobody sees us. And they tried hiding, and that's when Jesus popped in and like, hey guys, how you doing, right? Jerusalem? They were Peter, they're like, hey, you weren't you with what weren't you with Christ? Oh no, I don't know him. Oh no, I don't know him. Oh no, I no no no I don't know him Jerusalem is easy area? No, absolutely not. Hey, they 40 days ago they crucified Christ. We're probably next. Judea? That was where that who's who rose their hand about Lazarus, right? Lazarus? When the before it goes to Lat before they go out to Bethany, the disciples say, Uh, Jesus, we shouldn't go to Bethany because the Jews of late they In Judea, they were seeking to kill you. So uh we shouldn't go down there and visit Lazarus. He'll be okay if he rests. And he's like, no, I need to go raise him. I need to raise it for the dead. And what did Thomas say? Oh, all right, let us go so we can die with him. That sounds like a great area, right, for the disciples to go. Jerusalem, Judea, those are those. Samaria. Ooh. Ooh. Ooh. Those half Jews, half not Jews, they think that we're supposed to worship in Mount Gerizim and we're supposed to be worshiping in Jerusalem. They think that they're right, we think we're wrong. They think that the Samai the Messiah is going to come through their line and not going to come through the Jews and all this other. They're dead wrong. They don't even like to go through their towns. Samaria? Outermost parts of the earth. Okay, okay, okay. Gentiles. Okay, good Jesus, you've gone too far. Gentiles? Ew Okay? Which one was harder for a Jew to go to? Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, uttermost parts of the earth. How about Galilee? That's where they actually we had thousands out there. Remember Jesus? You fed thousands on the hill. How about Galilee? He didn't mention that one. Were they supposed to go there? Absolutely. But Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, other most parts of the earth, all four of those were difficult for a disciple in their own respect. Every single one of them had their difficulties. And you could say, oh, this area is hard, this area is hard, this area is hard. But you know what the n worst are the hardest people to reach, the hardest place to share the gospel is in our own homes, our own families, our own own relatives. That's where it can be the most difficult. But we have I want to say an obligation. It shouldn't be an obligation for us as Christians to share the gospel. But why does it sometimes feel that way? Why does it so often feel that way? It shouldn't. But ye shall receive power after the Holy Ghost has come upon you, and ye shall be witnesses unto me, both in Jerusalem. in all Judea and in Samaria and in the uttermost parts of the earth. Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this time that we have We thank you so much for the gospel of Jesus Christ. Help us not to be ashamed of it. Help us to be sharing it to a lost and dying world. In Jesus' name.