I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Morning Reflection, and today we are back in Luke 5. So if you have your Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. Let's look together at verses 12 through 16. Here's what the scriptures say. And it came to pass when he was in a certain city, behold a man full of leprosy, who seeing Jesus fell on his face and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt thou canst make me clean. He put forth his hand, touched him, saying, I will, be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him And he charged him to tell no man, but go and show thyself to the priests and offer for thy cleansing according to Moses as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them. But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him, great multitudes came together to hear, to be healed by him, of their infirmities, and withdrew himself into the wilderness and prayed Now when we come to this passage of Scripture, we're going to see the recounting of Christ healing a man who had leprosy. Not just that he had a spot of leprosy, but literally he was covered with leprosy. So I want to start with a simple summary, and then let's look at several key observations from this passage, and then some practical applications that we can see that I think we find in the text in front of us. First of all, a summary. This passage reveals Christ's compassion and his power as he heals a leprous man. The first observation we find in the text is that Christ came in contact with a leprous man. When the Lord Jesus Christ was born in this world, And he submitted himself to the Father's will, and he humbled himself, and he laid aside his glory so that he could take basically uh take on human flesh and walk amongst us. When Christ did that He humbled himself in such a way that he was going to come in contact with the worst of the worst in life. The worst of the worst when it comes to sinners, the worst of the worst when it comes to human infirmity. And this is an example of Christ coming in contact with a person who was in a terrible, terrible situation. In verse 12, it says, It came to pass when he was in a certain city. Behold a man full of leprosy, who seeing Jesus fell on his face. I want to walk through some of the details of what this verse is saying. First of all, it says that the man was full of leprosy. When we say that he was full of leprosy, that means his body was covered with a terrible disease. A disease that caused the flesh to rot and would ultimately end up in the person's death. On the way to that person dying, they would experience tremendous pain. They would look awful. They would smell awful. They would have to withdraw from society. It was a terrible disease. People feared this disease. I mean, think about the smells. Think about what you would see. A person's body is literally rotting And this is incurable. If a person got leprosy, the person would eventually die. And so this made a person an outcast in society. That meant they had to isolate themselves from society. And I want you to realize that people were afraid of people who had this. I mean, think about the situation that we've dealt with with this pandemic and COVID-19. When a person gets COVID, whether it's a terrible case of COVID or whether it's a pretty insignificant minor case of COVID, the person has to quarantine. They can't come in contact with other people. And the reason is so that we don't spread the COVID illness to other people. During that time of isolation, maybe you're there for a couple of weeks at the most. If a person's really, really sick, it's going to be isolation for a longer period of time. But the reality is that most people that get COVID, the overwhelming majority of people that get COVID recover from COVID. Leprosy wasn't like that. When people got it, they were gonna die. And the way that they were gonna die would be awful. And the the the people that they that they knew and loved throughout their lifetime would have withdrawn from them But Jesus came in contact with this man. And actually, when we read the Gospels, he came in contact with lots of people that had this exact same problem. The second observation that we're going to see is that this leper was a man who had humble faith. In verse 12 it says, he besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean. Now it's very important that we notice the way that this man approaches Jesus. First of all, he acknowledges his power. He calls him the Lord. His faith was in Christ's authority, in the fact that he was able to actually heal this man. He says, if you will, you can clean me. That's basically what he says. So his faith isn't in the fact that God's going to heal him. It's in the fact that he can heal him. He recognizes that he has the power to do this, and he's petitioning him that he would do this. But we also see an acknowledgement that he recognizes that healing is something that's according to God's will. Now, what this tells us is that the man had faith. Not faith in the fact that he would be healed, but faith in Christ's ability to heal. And he was humble. He acknowledged that he wasn't entitled to be healed. He recognized it would be according to God's will that he would be healed if he was. And I think this is a great example of the way that we should approach God when it comes to issues of sickness. We recognize his authority. We recognize his power. We recognize his compassion. But we also recognize his right as the sovereign to dictate if, when, how he heals. And so the man really demonstrates all of that in the way that he comes to Christ. The third observation that we see is that Christ Reaction showed both compassion and authority. In verse thirteen it says, He put forth his hand, touched him, saying, I will, be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him. Two words, compassion, authority. He put forth his hand and touched him, and he said, I will be thou clean. Now, I cannot imagine what people around them would have thought when Jesus reached out and touched the man. The fact is he's touching a person whose body is racked with this terrible, terrible illness. He touches a man whose body is racked with a very infectious illness. An illness that can be passed on through touch, through community. There's a reason that people withdrew from folks who had leprosy. It was a terrible illness. Yet Jesus touched him. He touched him in spite of the smells, in spite of how awful it would have looked In spite of how contagious the illness was, he touched it. It was a demonstration of compassion. And we see that in Christ. The second is authority. It says immediately the leprosy departed from him. You know, Christ has the power to heal. He has the power because he's God. He can actually reverse the effects of the terrible things that we experience in this fallen world. And when he does, it's a miracle. It was a it was a sign to demonstrate his authority over sickness. And so Jesus is showing both compassion and authority in the way that he responded to this man. The fourth observation that I found was that the miracle was meant to be a personal matter. This is really interesting. In verse 14, he says, he charged him to tell no man. Jesus says, this is not something that you need to go and broadcast to everyone. Don't go around and say, hey, Jesus healed me. Do you remember I had leprosy and this man healed me? Now let's think about this for a moment. This person had a family, he had associates, he had friends, they were people that before he got this illness he knew very well And all those people knew that he had leprosy. So the fact that he's been healed and the fact that he's going to be reintroduced into society means that there are people who are going to find out what happened, but he was commanded not to broadcast this matter. And you might say, well, why? Why in the world did Jesus tell him not to broadcast the matter? Well, the answer is very simple. Christ's ministry was going to be one of public displays of miracles and signs to demonstrate his authority to other people? But sometimes he didn't do the miracles to demonstrate in a public way what was doing. He did it simply out of compassion That means that it wasn't time for Jesus to give these public displays. Public displays like the feeding of the 5,000 Or public displays like the raising of Lazarus. This was supposed to be a private matter. He literally did it out of compassion for this man Not to demonstrate that he's the Messiah to the masses. He did it because he cares about this person. That means that Jesus had compassion on him and responded because of the ways the man approached him. And so we see this very, very simple, simple example of Christ fulfilling, performing a miracle in a very personal way. The fifth observation that I'd like us to see is that Christ did not neglect his personal communion with the Father under the intense pressures of ministry. Even though Jesus told this man not to broadcast that he had been healed by Christ, obviously the word got out. When he went to the temple or went to the place where he was going to show himself to the priest, and the priest would say, You do not have leprosy, you can re-enter society. There were people who found out what happened. And as soon as they found out what happened, the word got out quickly. And so everybody that had an illness like this man, everybody who had some kind of infirmity in those communities said, if there's a man that can heal us, then we're going to go and we're going to get healed. And so in verses 15 and 16 it says, So much the more went his fame abroad of him that great multitudes came together to hear and to be healed of him of their infirmities. And so you would have assumed that Jesus would have healed all these people. But that's not what it says. And he withdrew himself into the wilderness and prayed. The fact is at this point in Christ's ministry, it was not for him to demonstrate to the masses who he was. It was a personal, private matter. There was going to be a time when Christ would perform miracles in a very public way. And there would be signs to authenticate and demonstrate his power, authenticate his ministry. And at that time he would do it. But the fact is that Christ was doing his ministry in accordance with his father's will. And even though the masses were pressing against him and they wanted him to heal them, he withdrew himself to commune with his father. What that tells us is that Jesus did not neglect communion with his father. Even under ministry pressure, Jesus still kept his priorities in line And so when ministry demands grew, Christ did not neglect the main thing. Communion with his father was the source of his effective ministry. And so Christ knew what his priorities were supposed to be, and he kept his priorities in line. So the question we should ask this morning is With this very simple and really compassion-driven text of Scripture, what can we learn today? What can we learn about God? What can we learn about ourselves? What can we learn about priorities? So I'm going to take those three issues and I'm going to mention them one at a time. The first thing I jotted down today was this. This passage informs our hearts about God. What's God like? What's his character like? What's his nature like? Well, the words good, compassionate Abel, these are the words that come to mind. God is good and he's compassionate, he's able to do the miraculous, and the fact is that he answers the humble prayers of his people. Because God is this way, when you and I are in times of tremendous hardship, when our backs are up against the wall, when we feel that there's no other place we can turn, we could turn to God. In fact, we should turn to him early to realize that, you know, he is good, he is compassionate. He's able to perform the miraculous. And we should come to him with humility. He answers prayer. And we see this demonstrated in this passage of Scripture. One man came to Jesus and said, if you want to heal me, you can do it, and I believe it, and he did it. The second thing we see is that the passage informs our hearts about how we should relate to God. The words humility, faith, and submission are the words that stand out to me. The fact is that this man came humbly. He came with confidence in God's ability. And he came with submission to his to the to the Lord Jesus Christ's will. He wasn't coming as an entitled individual. He recognized that if he was healed, it was according to God's power, it was according to God's compassions. It was all of grace, it was all of mercy, and he recognized that. And the fact is that when we get on our knees and we pray, we don't command God to do for us what we want. We appeal to him. We appeal to his mercies. We appeal to his compassions. We appeal to him with a confidence in his goodness and his wisdom and his ways. We come to him with a recognition of his power. And so it tells us not only about God, but it tells us about how we should approach him. The last thing I'll mention is about priorities. It tells us about priorities. We cannot allow the demands of life and even the demands of ministry to cut into personal communion with God. You know, it's really easy in the busyness of life to get straight into our daily tasks, whatever those tasks are, and day after day after day, we neglect communion with God. In fact, we can have busy weeks and we can choose to skip out on church as well. The fact is there's a reason that we have a day set aside that we reflect on God. There's a day that we come to church and we're ministered to through the Word, and we sing praise to God and we pray together and we give out of the abundance that God has blessed us with, we set aside a day of worship. Why? Because we need to keep our priorities straight. We need to be in God's presence. We need to commune with Him. And the fact is that the Lord Jesus Christ, who's God in flesh, Who could do the work of the ministry in his own power? The Lord Jesus Christ did not neglect communion with the Father, even as ministry demands pressed upon him. And the fact is, if Christ demonstrated that kind of a priority, then you and I should as well. I hope that this has been a challenge to you today. I hope that it'll encourage you. And that it will be a blessing to you. Let's bow together for prayer. And if this has been a blessing to you, I hope that you'll share that, perhaps share that to a friend so that they can be encouraged by it as well. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to be reminded of your goodness, to be reminded of how we should humbly come into your presence, submitting to your will and recognizing your wisdom. Father, help us to not neglect communion with you. We thank you for the privilege that we have to be called your people. I pray that we would cherish the fellowship, the communion that is available to us through the work of Christ. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, I hope this has been a blessing to you, and Lord willing, we'll continue our studies tomorrow. Bye now.