Okay, well, good morning. Good to see each of you, and I hope that you've had a good weekend. And uh we're looking forward to wonderful service. If you're visiting with us this morning uh for the first time or the first time in a long time, we want to warmly welcome you. And uh one of the ways that we're able to connect with uh guests is uh there's a visitor card that you can fill out and uh just put that in the little box in the back uh if you'd like us to connect with you and uh we'll make sure that we do that in the coming weeks And we have a couple of announcements. I'm going to go ahead and have Pastor Chris give his announcements, and then I'll come and I'll give one or two more. Alright, good morning. If you have your bulletins, we got uh several things coming up here in the near future. future. We got, for example, um tonight our Hensing and Farewell fill fellowship for the Nickies. So if you guys can make it out tonight, please uh it can be a blessing to them. We'll be meeting in the fellowship hall. And there's a sign-up sheet for you to help out with any food items. We also have our Lady's Bible study coming up on the 3rd. And our Sportsman's Banquet coming up here real soon on the fifth. Now the sign up ends today. So if you have not signed up for the uh Sportsman's Night Banquet, that's uh fifteen dollars, that's due to the church office and the signup is in the back. So please go ahead and do that today if you plan on going. We also have our Teens Inspiration coming up on the 13th. Uh we need some folks to sign up for our Teens Firations. It's all uh going to be hosted here at the church. So all you gotta do is bring some food and uh come sing with our teens. And the sign-up sheet will be there in the back on the team bulletin board. And then we also have our first Friday night youth group this Friday here at the church as well at 5. 30. Teens just Bring your yourselves in the Bible. And we also have our 2022 SOS program. Uh sign up going on right now if you are interested in Uh joining this really encouraging, really fun ministry. Uh the sign up is in the back on the bulletin boards and the uh forms for that. Um are excuse me. The forms are on the welcome desk, not on the bulletin board. They're on the welcome desk and those are due here next Sunday on January 30th. Okay, I also wanted to to mention that we have our January business meeting on the 30th after the P. M. service. The uh the the the minutes are everything is posted for the meeting so please make sure uh that you check that so again that's next Sunday night um after the evening service we have our uh January business meeting also we have a memorial service for We're Bill Secrist and we're asking that you sign up for that. And I know several people have asked why is there a sign-up sheet? Basically, we're going to have a meal after the memorial service in the back, and we need to get an idea of how many folks. um are planning to do that. So if you're planning to just come to the service, be here, and then leave and not stay for that, don't feel like you need to sign up for that. But if you would be interested in staying for the meal afterwards, that's why we're asking for a sign-up sheet. So I wanted to make uh just a point so that you're aware of that. Again, that's February the twelfth and that's at eleven AM So that's in a couple of weeks. Also , for the Hym Sing and Fellowship tonight, I I just want to make it clear that you know what that is. We are meeting in the back fellowship hall for everything. So we will have a Bible challenge. We're going to have basically pick your own hymns. And we're going to do that. And then afterwards we will um transition that over to being just a farewell fellowship for the Nikkies. So we won't meet in this auditorium. We'll be meeting back in the fellowship hall. We'll have our hymn books back there. So I just wanted to make that clarification. in case you missed that. Also, uh Chad Peterson asked about lights. Is he gonna be available? Is Chad here today or no? Okay, all right. So it's possible that we'll ask uh for volunteers to help um fix a couple of the lights. So um if you're here tonight and you'd be available for that, um just keep an eye out for that. be doing that. Okay, our opening scripture reading is Romans chapter 8 and we're reading verses 2 through 8. So let's look together into God's Word. Here's what the scriptures say. The law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made us free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemn sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh But they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Because the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to really focus our attention this morning on uh the topic that's before us, and that's the importance of praising God for the miracle of regeneration. And when a person places their faith in Christ, God gives them new life in Christ, and they're a new creature. And so we're going to focus in on that wonderful truth this morning as we sing our hymns, as we focus on the preaching of God's Word. Let's pray. Father, we're so grateful that today we can gather together as a body. Thank you for every single person that's here this morning It's by your design that you've brought them together this day. And I pray that you'd help us together this morning to have a heart that is knit together as one, that is focused in on these wonderful truths that we'll look at from the scriptures. Father, help me to articulate the scriptures with clarity, a very simple way that people can understand the Holy Spirit can take and use. Father, as we sing these hymns of the faith, I pray that our hearts would be thinking about the truths that we express in song. Help us to sing with one voice that is unified with just glorious praise to you. Father, we pray for those in our congregation who are going through great difficulties. I know that in our congregation we have people who are sick, we have people who are weary and discouraged, people who are going through great trials. And difficulties. And I pray that at this moment you would minister to them in a very powerful way. Pray that you would strengthen their bodies. I pray that you would encourage their hearts. I pray that they would fix their gaze on you and that they would find you to be more than enough to strengthen and encourage and bless them today. We pray that everything that is done this day would bring glory to you, that you would be pleased with our worship, and we would be strengthened as your people. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good morning, Anchor Baptist Church, on this chilly little morning. Good to see everyone here as we warm this place up with our voices. Take a hymnal, and we're going to turn to page six or look up on the screen with me. And we're going to sing the mighty power of God. All three verses. Please stand with me. I sing the mighty narrow of God that made the mountain. That spread the blowing seas abroad and built the lovely skies. I sing the wisdom that ordained. The winter room today, the moonshines for easy and on the stars of day I sing the birthday. And the Lord has with For type of the covenant, for this very right when the glory fly , may it lie when you may dark do not do it and There's a window that makes my boring door. Amen. Now we're gonna turn way back to two hundred and twenty-nine. 229. 299. I'm sitting here looking at the numbers and my dyslexia is kicking in. 299 And since you're already standing, arise my soul, arise. Three verses. I can go with me , but I tell you God with God will Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. Page 391. Got it right that time. 391. And ring out with I Am Resolve. Sing out. So God 's bringing it in , three daughters, bring good beyond the paragraph because one who has been I will find a break and praise I 'm gonna be Amen. That's good singing. Good songs this morning. We will now go to our scripture reading for the morning. Which finds us in Luke chapter 3, verse 7 through 9. Follow along with me, reading from your Bibles or from the Luke chapter 3, verse 7 through 9. Then he said to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him. O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance And begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father, for I say unto you that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of Scripture. And we will get back to some songs now. Page 371. Page three seventy-one and let's take that resolution to follow him and Make it passionate. A passion for the Lord. I know dear God , I'm baby and be young , baby God , dear. Matter and HP was now Amen. Now we'll go to our blue book. And the song for the month is page 24 in the blue book. And we'll sing all three verses of You Are Always Good. Page twenty-four. I can see you gotta make a breath and do I always see keep my bed on my heart when they were never Stand with me on the last place. Amen. Please see, be seen. I saw one hanging on a tree. Tree in agony and blood, who fixed his loving eyes on me, I sneer his cross eyes And never till my dying breath will I forget that look. He seems to charge me with his Don of Word he My conscience felt enduring the guilt and plunged me in despair. I saw my senses, blood had spilt. And helped to nail him there. But with the second look, he said, I freely all forgive this Plot is for your ransom paid. I decide that you might live forever. Upon my mind is the look of him who died, The Lamb I crucified, and now my life will sing the praise. Of pure ordering grace that looked on me and gladly took my Thus, while his death might send this place for all the world to view, such is the mystery of grace. It seals my pardon too with pleasing grief and mournful joy. My spirit now is filled that I should touch on my fish Yet live by him I killed for much upon my mind. Mine is the love of him who died, the lamb I crucified, and now my life will sing the praise of your adurning grace. That looked on me and took my place for rest upon my mind is the look of him who died, the Lamb I crucified. And now my life will sing the praise of pure atoning grace That looked on me and gladly Uh who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you, I want to invite you to take out your Bibles and let's turn to Luke chapter 3 together this morning. Luke chapter 3 and the text that we're looking at is verses 7 through 9 together. Luke chapter 3 verses 7 through 9. And the passage that's before us, in fact, it's a very intense passage. It's a sermon that's being preached, or it's an excerpt. or a summation of the sermon that John the Baptist was preaching as he was there in the wilderness. And, you know, we come to a church setting, we come to a place that's very comfortable. We're Sitting in pews, we have climate control. Um I guess wearing masks is not comfortable. Um a bit of a scourge, but this is a very comfortable place when you compare it to the place where John the Baptist had his ministry. John was preaching in a wilderness area. In fact, if you want to take it into a context like we had in the early colonies, think about the time during the Great Awakening and people like George Whitfield would go out into fields and as they would get in those fields, they would preach out into those fields. where many, many people would come and they would listen to men like George Whitfield or the Wesley brothers expound the Word of God. This is a little bit like the kind of ministry that John the Baptist had. And we all know that when you talk about a person who is a preacher, a person's personality comes through in the way that they deliver the Word of God. Some people are very excitable people, and if that's the way they are in normal life, that's the way they are when they get behind a pulpit and they preach the word of God. Some people are very methodical. And that really comes out in the way that they preach. Some people are gentle and they're calm. Some people are dry, let's just be honest. The reality is that the personality of the person that is there handling God's word. It comes out in what the person is saying. Well when we think about this man, John the Baptist, this is a man who had a very intense personality. This is a man who, if you would have spent time with him one-on-one, you would have seen a passion in his eyes, you would have seen someone who was very focused, and it really comes out in the nature of not just what he says But the way he communicates what he says. But what I'd like us to do this morning is not just look at what John said, but I'd like us to examine why he said it. Because the reason he said it is really something that we must take away from this text of Scripture because The reality is John the Baptist is not in this pulpit. We are not standing in a wilderness. We are not the nation of Israel that is waiting for the Messiah. We're New Testament Christians sitting in this church at this moment asking the question, what can we learn from the ministry of this man, John the Baptist. So with that in mind, let's begin in verse number 7 from Luke chapter 3. Here's what God's word says. Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O generation of vipers! Who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance And begin not to say within yourselves, we have Abraham to our father. For I say unto you that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Now, when we read these words, I think there's a part of us that just kind of wants to soften the tone of this man, John the Baptist. We even may ask the question, why was he so direct and so blunt? I mean, think about it this way. He says, Oh generation of vipers. And that's a very descriptive analogy used for the people that are coming to be baptized. You say, why in the world would John speak so abruptly to these people. Well I want to begin by saying this. John the Baptist understood the multitude that was coming to meet him. In fact, one of the things that's so very important about being able to communicate with people is you kind of know where they are spiritually. So if you have a person that is a very uh broken person, a very humbled person, they have sinned and they want to get right with the Lord, you don't speak to them in such a way. You speak to them very gently, very compassionately. Or maybe you have a person who You're not quite sure where they are. You ask them a lot of questions and you try to figure out where they are so you can kind of focus in on that place where they are But there comes a point in time when you're dealing with an individual or group of people that you begin to get the sense this is a person Or these are people who are truly delusional in the way that they're thinking about themselves and about God and perhaps even the message that they're hearing at the moment. This is a person that needs to be spoken to very directly, very sharply. That is the sense of what John the Baptist is doing here. Within that group of people that were coming, that multitude, there were people that, frankly speaking, this was not the message that was directed at them. They were already a very humble people. They were believing in the Messiah. They were anticipating him. They were coming down to be baptized with a very pure and a very genuine heart. Their heart was anticipating the Messiah. They believed he was coming, and they demonstrated that belief by their willingness to submit to this ritual that was identifying them with the people waiting for Messiah. But within that group of people, there were lots of people that had a very different disposition, a very different heart. As they came down to be baptized in that water, their heart was not humble Their heart was not repentant. They didn't believe in the Messiah. You say, well, why in the world were they willing to submit themselves to the ritual of baptism with a heart that wasn't really right to receive it? Well, that's really the question that we're going to examine this morning. The fact is that there were three key problems that these people had. And the problems that these people had are problems that you and I wrestle with all the time. And I want us to get into that a good bit this morning. But first of all, I want to start with a summary statement. And then a couple of introductory thoughts that kind of lay a foundation to help us to understand the topic before us. Here's a summary of the text in front of us. Don't treat God's patience and mercy lightly because you're not entitled to an extension of this mercy. Let me say that again. Don't treat God's patience. And mercy lightly, because you are not entitled to an extension of this mercy. Now, when I read this verse, there might be some people here who immediately your heart is breaking inside because you're afraid you might be doing this. And I want you to realize that just because you're feeling that internally right now does not necessarily mean that you are in a position of arrogance and rebellion against God. In fact, the person I'm most concerned about when I read this text is not the one who immediately feels a twinge of guilt, but the one who doesn't feel anything. The one who sits here and goes, This is for my wife. This is for my husband. This is for my dad. This is for my mom. This isn't for me. That's the person that I'm the most concerned about at this moment. Not the one who immediately says, I hope that's not me I'm concerned this could be me. You say, why is that? Because the group of people that John is addressing were people that were not being reasoned with in the normal way of having a conversation saying, here's what God says, are you willing to do? These are people who had heard the truth repeatedly over and over and over again, and they had hardened and calloused their heart to these truths. I want to begin by talking about some foundational truths that kind of help us to understand this. And I want to begin with this. We need to think biblically about the foundational truths That are really supporting or undergirding foundational to this conversation that John is having, this preaching that he's having with these people There is a huge difference between being regenerate. And that word regenerate means being spiritually alive. Another word we might use is being born again. Having new life in Christ, being a new creature in Christ. There's a huge difference between being regenerate and being religious. Being religious is about a form. Being regenerate is about life in one's being, in one's soul. I can follow a form and have no life at all, or I could be struggling with the form, but I'm a genuinely saved person that desires to grow into Christ's likeness. There's a difference between Being alive in Christ and simply being religious. In fact, I'll put it another way: conservative formalism and vibrant spirituality are not the same thing. Now you could have people that are very formal and they're very conservative in their thinking and they are truly alive in Christ and they have a vibrant walk with God. You can have people that have the exact same form and ritual that are as spiritually alive as the post right there. You say, what's the difference? It's what's going on inside the heart. It's important for us to kind of define or understand the terms that we're dealing with. First of all, the word regeneration, it's very important It means someone who was formerly spiritually dead is made alive by the miraculous work of the Holy Spirit. When a person trusts Christ as their Savior, It's not just some transaction mentally, but there's actually a new life in them that did not exist before. I want you to see it from the Word of God. He uses terms like you must be born again. He says, you he hath quickened who were dead in trespasses. And in sins. If you are a child of God, you are alive in Christ. You have been regenerated. You have been given life by the power of the Holy Spirit that you did not have previous to your salvation. We talk about religion, we're talking about a formal expression of duty or devotion to God. And this is a devotion that could be very genuine or it could be very superficial, it could be very hypocritical, it may be a complete farce. And the reality is when you're looking at a person whose expression of duty to God is genuine and a person who's not, it may not be apparent as you observe those two people. You say, well, how can you tell the difference? It takes time. It takes interaction in the areas of life that truly test one's condition of soul. When we talk about conservative formalism, we're talking about a willingness or desire to hold fast to an external form of religion and devotion to God. And that is exactly how we would describe the religious leaders of that day. The Pharisees were a religiously devoted, conservative, formalistic group of people They had rules that you and I could not dream of following through with because we would not want to live under such a burden. I use this illustration. I want you to think of a cathedral or a building. A cathedral is an impressive structure. You walk into it, you go, this is a magnificent place. There's beauty here. There's design here. There's so many neat and intricate things. And someone can explain to you, well, here's why it's designed this way. Here's why it's designed this way. This is how much time it took for this to be built. And these are all the people that were involved. And they could tell you all those things. But you know what's something about a cathedral? A cathedral does not have life. The beauty of the cathedral is just a reflection of the skill of the people who built it, but it and of itself has no life. Now there may be life in the people that are meeting in that location because they understand the gospel and they've embraced it and they're living out a faith in Christ. But the structure itself is not alive. And a person can live their life with tremendous, impressive credentials, but have no life. It's an amazing thing, but it's a reality in this world. We talk about vibrant spirituality, we're talking about real life in Christ that produces by the Holy Spirit's work godly virtue, the fruit of the Spirit. Take your mind from the picture of the cathedral and look at a tree. A tree is something that's alive A tree is something that has house. Now your tree and your friend's tree, your neighbor's tree, might not have the same vitality and the same fruitfulness, but the reality is this. If you take care of a tree, The tree will produce fruit after its own kind. And if you take care of it well, it will produce vibrantly. God wants our lives to be more like a tree than a cathedral. He doesn't want our lives to be something that people just look and go, well, that's impressive. He wants our lives to be fruitful, productive, vibrant. And the reality is apart from regeneration We're a cathedral, not a vibrant fruit tree. Let me give you a couple of scriptures that emphasize this. John 1 12 He says, as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. And then the next statement so very important. Who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of who? If you know the verse it's of God. That's regeneration. God gave life to someone who was spiritually dead. Through the preaching of the gospel, he brings this person to repentance. Faith, dependence on the work of Christ, he is made a new creature in Christ. John 3, 3. Jesus says to Nicodemus, who was living more like a cathedral, he says Verily, verily I say unto thee, except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. What's the point? Here's a man who he's very religious, he's very formal, he's got all the rituals in place, he's respected. But he's spiritually dead. Ephesians 2, 1 to 5, he says, you as he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sin. In times past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. Among whom also we had our conversation in times past, in the lusts of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. And I love this next statement. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins. Hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you're saved. It's regeneration. And I asked the question this morning: Are you alive in Christ? You know, this message is really meant to ask the question, am I alive in Christ? Because the reality is, if I'm not alive in Christ, I cannot follow his commandments. You say, Pastor, that's not true. Well, it is true. It is impossible for you to please and honor the Lord apart from the gospel. It's impossible for you to conquer those besetting sins that weary your soul apart from the gospel. It's impossible for you to grow as a Christian to be vibrant and productive and fruitful if you're not alive in Christ. Romans chapter 8 he says that the law of the Spirit of life in Christ hath made us free from the law of sin and death. What the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh, but after the spirit. He says that the carnal mind is enmity against God. It's not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. They that are in the flesh cannot please God, but he are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. That's what he says. And so, really, at the heart, the foundation of the text in front of us. Is understanding that there's a difference between being religious and looking good on the outside and being righteous in Christ and alive in Christ. There's a huge difference. And so I asked the question, are you alive in Christ? So let's dig into the text for a few moments this morning and see what John confronts in his preaching. That was summarized in these verses. The first thing that we see is that John's preaching confronted religious hypocrisy. John was very concerned that the people that were coming to be baptized, though he understood that some were genuine, some were believing in Messiah, some were confessing their sin, some were genuinely Aligning themselves with the true remnant in Israel, those who were waiting for the Messiah to come and to die on the cross for their sins, those who were looking for the Lamb of God, he understood That within that group of people were people that were religious hypocrites. They weren't the real deal. They were not genuine. They looked the same at the moment they went into the water and came out of the water, but they weren't the same. And so here's what he says. He said unto the multitude that came forth to be baptized, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath of God Bring therefore fruit worthy of repentance. This morning I was reading in Matthew 23. In Matthew 23, Jesus spends a tremendous amount of time saying, woe to the scribes and the Pharisees, and he calls them hypocrites, and he calls them a generation of vipers. These are the people that were the direct audience or focus of the preaching of John the Baptist These individuals that were binding heavy burdens on people that they themselves could not bear, that were meticulous to keep the rules, but they weren't looking for a Messiah who would die for their sins. John was concerned about them. And what we see here is that God wants people to be changed not just outwardly and conform to a standard of rules, but he wants their hearts. He wants them to be alive. He wants their character and their disposition to be fundamentally changed and shaped by the power of the Holy Spirit. That's what he wants. You say, well, how does this vibrant spirituality that God wants in us, how is it produced? Well, it's through repentance, me understanding the truth about my sin. the Savior, how I cannot come to God in my own righteousness. God cannot ignore my sin. He has to deal with my sin. Repentance is God addressing the areas in my heart and my thinking that are keeping me from placing my faith in Christ. And through that repentance in heart and that humbleness that it brings, I turn to Christ, I depend on the finished work of Christ, I trust in the gospel, and that faith alone in Christ connects me to the benefits, all the benefits of the gospel. Ephesians 2, it says, it's by grace that we're saved through faith. That instrument that connects me to the benefits of the gospel is repentant faith before a holy God. And so when a person has come face to face with the gospel, trusted in the finished work of Christ, at the moment that that person is saved by God, God makes them alive in Christ. This is something you can't see. This is something that is real but invisible at the moment it happens In fact, when Jesus is talking to Nicodemus, he says, Nicodemus is kind of like the wind. You know, the wind blows all around us. You never see the wind. But you know that the wind is blowing because you see the movement of the leaves and the trees. You can feel the air moving on your body. In other words, while you can't see the wind, it's there. That's how regeneration is. You cannot see that person who is spiritually dead be made alive in Christ, but you see how new life in Christ changes the person. That's really what John is talking about here. Repentance, faith, regeneration, and this new creature begins to walk in conformity to God's word because there's a new disposition in them. Something they didn't have before. The Holy Spirit comes and dwells in them. And I know that before Pentecost, that this did not take place. But when we talk about our current setting, when a person trusts Christ, he's alive in Christ, the Holy Spirit comes and it dwells in him, and all of a sudden there is something at work in you, a new law in your members that is pressing you to to walk in conformity to God's ways. And empowering you to walk in conformity to God's ways. And convicting and convincing you that you should when you don't. The Holy Spirit is at work. This is what he's talking about. And so as the Spirit of God begins to rule and reign in our heart, and as we submit ourselves to God and His word transforms us through the renewing of our mind, guess what? We begin to grow more and more like Christ. The word we use is sanctification. But basically, what John is saying is, when you come to be baptized, I want to see evidence that you're not fake. Because I know you. That's what he's saying to these religious leaders. He's warning them: don't come in hypocrisy. I guess to put it another way, God's more concerned in what you're becoming as a man or woman of integrity. Then if you sing in the choir, finish your Bible reading schedule for the year, teach a Sunday school class, pass out a certain number of tracks. Volunteer at the rescue mission, preach a sermon, all those different things. All these visible things, that's not the focus. Those are supposed to be the fruit that flows out of a healthy walk. In other words, what God wants you to do is He wants you to have a heart that's alive, and a heart that's growing, and a life that begins gradually to start to show the evidence of that. The focus is the work of God in the heart. The second truth I want us to see this morning is that John's preaching Not only confronted religious hypocrisy, but he confronted to self-deception. And we talked a good bit about this in our Sunday school time. We were in Romans chapter 3 and I asked the question. I said Why did Paul ask those questions in Romans 3? Well, he asked the question because he knew the people he was talking to. He knew what was going on in their heart, and he knew that they were masters of deceiving themselves. Well, if this is true Then then this must be true. And if this is true, then what you're saying is not true. It's almost like what happens in Romans chapter 6, where Paul asks the question, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Yes, God forbids. How shall we that have died to sins live in any longer therein? And you say, well, why did Paul ask this question? Well, here's the reason. Because Paul understood. That someone who is listening to his preaching would say, salvation, grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone, my works don't count. Well then I could do anything I want. And he says, hold on a second. It's true, grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone, but what's also true is new life in Christ changes you. That's what it means. In other words, he's saying, if you're thinking critically and you understand what I'm saying, then you're gonna ask, if my works don't matter, then why do I do them? But I'm gonna tell you there's a point that you're missing And the point that you're missing is you now have been freed to walk in newness of life. That's what regeneration does. That's what the Holy Spirit does. That's what sanctification is. The motive is different. And so we see in these verses, John is preaching to confront self-deception. There are people that were coming to him and they felt like they were okay. They felt like they didn't need this message. They were willing to submit to the ritual, but they didn't really need the message. And so it says, in verse number eight, it says, begin not to say within yourselves We have Abraham to our father. He says, I say unto you, this is an amazing statement. God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham. So what's he talking about? He says, see these rocks that have life. Neither do you God can take this stone and give it life if he wants to. He could turn a stone into a piece of bread if he wants to. He took dirt and he created a man out of it. He spoke the worlds into existence. He can give life to someone who's dead like he did with Lazarus. God is in the business of working miracles as giving life to something that doesn't have it. And he said, you know what, you as a nation are like that. You're as lifeless as the stone on the ground. That's what he's saying. In fact, it reminds me. of something that we read about in Ezekiel thirty-seven. Listen to what what is stated in Ezekiel thirty-seven. It says the hand of the Lord was upon me. This is Ezekiel. He carried me into the spirit of the Lord and set me down in the midst of the valley which was full of bones. And he caused me to pass by roundabout, and behold, there were many, many in an open valley. Lo, they were very dry, and he said unto me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord God, thou knowest. Now what's very interesting is that he sees in this vision that God takes those dry bones. And he gives them life. And when he gives them life, he fills them out so that they're a mighty army. And he basically says, that's what I'm going to do to the nation of Israel. I'm going to take all these people who are spiritually dead, walking in their self-righteousness, living for themselves, believing that they're right with God. And I'm going to take those people, I'm going to give them life. And they're going to be a totally different group of people. What's he saying? Talk about regeneration. And so when John makes this statement that don't think that because you're Abraham's children, that you're good with God, remember he could take a stone and he can he can give life to it if he wants to. It's a reminder of something. He's preaching to people that are self-deceived. These people were coming with a heart that wanted to fit into a culture. Some of them were just curious and they would just want to see what was going on. It's kind of like you're driving down the road and all of a sudden you see that cars are kind of stacking up and you see all these red lights. You're like, I wonder what's going on. And then after a 15 or 20 minute pause, you you you know you're just creeping along, all of a sudden what you see is there was an accident on the side of the road, and there's uh some some law enforcement there and He wasn't keeping people from driving except for the fact that they kept looking. What's going on over here? And so it all got slowed down because people were curious. Well, there are lots of people that came on that day to be baptized simply because they wanted to figure out what was going on. He's separating the wheat from the chaff here. Some people are very concerned with their perception. You know, if this person goes and gets baptized and I don't, I kind of hold back. Somebody's gonna go, what's your deal? You know we talk about peer pressure being a negative thing and well if you have good peer pressure it's a good thing. I disagree with that. Because if everybody's doing the right thing simply because they are afraid of other people, then they're doing it for the wrong reason. And many people came for that reason. Some people just wanted to be a part of the movement. You know, once a crowd is large enough People are attracted to it because they say, if all these people are coming, then they must have a reason. You say, well, what's your reason? I want to be a part of whatever their reason is What's the missing denominator in all those reasons? They weren't coming because they believed in the Messiah. There was a day in this country where coming to church was expected of everybody. If you didn't go, everybody said, what's wrong with you? I saw that that person wasn't in church this Sunday. Those days are they're done and gone, okay? They're done and gone. But the reality is a lot of the people that went to church in those days, they didn't go because they were alive in Christ. Because they wanted to walk with the Lord. They didn't want their neighbor to look unkindly towards them. What's John doing? He's saying, don't deceive yourself. And ask this question, is it possible that you've become like that? You know, some contexts are potential breeding grounds for self-deception and hypocrisy We could grow up in a good home, a good church. We could be a part of an institution that has very rigorous accountability, the expectations. To follow those rules are very, very high. And sometimes in a context like that, you know what people do? They are willing to conform to the standards around them, but the heart is not there. I grew up in a Christian college context, and I'm not saying this to complain about the context I grew up in. I'm thankful for so many things. But here's the reality. We had very strict guidelines in our school. What you dr the way you dressed, the way you cut your hair, whether you can I couldn't have a beard back then. Like craziness, right? I guess I couldn't because I couldn't grow one at the time. That was for my own good, actually. They required us to be in Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday evening, midweek services. We attended nightly prayer groups, though I prayed, I I I think I fell asleep through a couple of them. We were required to attend daily chapel services. I think I might have slept through a couple of those over the time period I was there. We could not miss classes. You miss three classes, your your your your class was cut a letter grade. So you get a B and you miss three classes, you get a C. You go, what in the world? We were required to be on time. Yes, that's true. We were required to be on time. And that has passed me by But here's the fact. You're in a setting like that, the way you dress, whether or not you're in Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. If you're in chapel or not, if you're on time to class, honestly, it doesn't say anything about your heart. Nothing. It just means that you want to pass the class. You don't want to get kicked out of the school. And the truth is in a context like that, a person can begin to be very comfortable with, I have conformed to a culture. That is completely void of any spiritual life. It's not just the context of a school. It can happen in your family life. It can happen in the church context. It could happen in so many different places. And so I asked the question, have you in any way become self-deceived because you conform to the environment that you're in? You're following the rules, the expectations That was the concern that John was addressing. These people were coming, they were self-deceived. They were hypocrites in the heart. The third thing I want us to see, and this one is in fact very, very important. John's preaching confronted the sin of presumption. Say, what does it mean to be presumptuous? Presumption means that I am assuming that someone is obligated to respond to me in a certain way. Okay? So let's say that I've wronged a person. Should I go and make it right with them? Yes or no? Yes, I should. Should I expect them to respond to me as if it's over and done? No. Now am I saying that they shouldn't do that? No. But should I expect them to respond in a certain way? No I shouldn't. The fact that I haven't crossed a certain line, but I've come right up to it over and over and over and over again, should I assume that God is going to just keep me from crossing the line? Should I do that? If I've got something buried in my soul that I'm unwilling to address, and God brings it to my attention over and over and over and over and over again, and it it just never gets resolved. It never comes to the service enough that it gets exposed. I just kind of get away with it. Should I presume on God to believe that that's how it'll always be? The answer, of course not. God is under no obligation to follow your rules. He's under no obligation to respond to me or to you according to our expectations. He's God. When he draws the line and we cross it, assuming he's not going to deal with us, we've done it in folly. And John knew for a fact that the people that he was preaching to, many of them, had such a mentality. Listen to what it says in verse 9. He says, Now also the axe is laid unto the root of the tree. Every tree, therefore, which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down and cast into the fire. Now he's he's speaking in a parabolic way. And what I think is very interesting about it is when he talks about the the the the the tree, he doesn't think he's gonna uproot the tree He says he's going to cut down the tree if it's not fruitful. He's going to remove the part that's not producing fruit. And that's exactly what God did with the nation of Israel. He left his remnants, and he is not done with the people, but that generation that rejected Christ, he has dealt with them very severely. And he basically says, listen, people God is about to cut the tree down. And you're a part of the tree that's not fruitful. In other words, you're a part of the people that are not the people because you're not alive in Christ. That's what he's saying. And so he says, don't think that God is just going to delay. He's going to deal injustice in such a way. You know, we all have a tendency to assume that things will always stay the way that they that we that they are, or that we're entitled to God's patience, or that when God is working in our lives and confronting our sin and pressing our consciences that we can just kind of ignore it or we can just kind of, you know, maintain our sin. Rather than killing it, we play with it. We want to kind of, you know, domesticate our sinfulness. And we can't do such a thing God is patient, but he's also just. And that is the sense of what John is saying. Folks, I want to challenge you this morning. Do not Presume against God's mercy. Now, I'm not saying that God isn't merciful, He really is. If there's anything that I've learned in my Christian experience, that God is patient. Unbelievably patient. He's unbelievably patient with me. He's unbelievably patient with people that I believe he should have not been patient with starting right here for a very long time. Okay, you know what I'm talking about? Is there anything I learned about God in my Christian experience? He is very patient. I'll tell you another thing I've learned about God that He's just. And when God says, my patience is done, I'm now going to deal more firmly, guess what? That line has been crossed. And the consequences can be very, very great. Romans chapter 2, verse 2, it says, We are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth. Thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God Despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. God will render to every man according to his deeds. Folks, I want to encourage you this morning that if God points to something in your life and you are twinging in your conscience, And you're resisting that work, don't continue in that resistance. Submit to God. Confess it to him. Look at the cross and what Jesus has done for you. Let him deal with that matter. If you need help, reach out and get the help you need. If you need to go to someone and make something right, be willing to do it. When we presume against the mercies of God, we are gambling in an unbelievably dangerous way. You know, when we talk about the difference between gambling and investing, I guess for some people maybe it's not a huge difference, but an investment is something that is calculated. I'm taking that money. I know what I'm putting it in. I know what the history is. I know about the quality of this company or this fund. And I'm making a conscious decision to put my money where it is safe and it's going to grow. But that's not the way the gambler thinks A gambler impulsively says, if I roll the dice one more time, I'm gonna get the jackpot. If I pull the lever one more time, I'm gonna get it. If I throw down this card, that's gonna end the game. And the gambler is impulsive and is presumptuous and gets crushed and the system wins. I mean we wouldn't have casinos if the system didn't win, right? Don't be a gambler with the mercy of God. When God is working in your heart, submit to what he's saying. That is the challenge this morning. God wants us to think biblically about the foundational truths that ultimately supported the message that John was preaching. He wants us to be a regenerate people who are fruitful, productive spiritually. He wants us to live lives that are not lifeless structures, but are vibrant trees He's calling the non-Christian to repent and believe in the gospel. Turn to Christ. Trust in what He's done for you. He's calling the believer to allow the Word of God to get into our souls. So that as our mind thinking is changed, repentance, we are transformed through the renewing of our minds by the power of the Spirit. That's sanctification. That's what he wants. I challenge you, let's not presume against the goodness of God. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Before we go to prayer, I want to ask just two questions. Is there a person here today that would say, Pastor, I am not I'm not saved? I never trusted Christ. I know it. This sermon has just torn into my heart. I need to deal with this matter of salvation. Repentance, faith, trust, and the gospel. Pastor, can you remember me in prayer? Is there anybody here that say, Pastor, that's me, I don't know for sure that I'm saved, or I know I'm not saved, I need to deal with this matter. Anybody at all? There's always an open invitation for you to come and allow me to take a Bible and show you how to be saved. Not just me. Anybody in this church who knows the Lord a savior can take a Bible and show you how to be saved If you're on the live stream listening, please respond to the gospel. Second question. Is there a believer here that say, Pastor? And I'm not asking you to confess what it is or anything like that. Pastor, there's an area in my life right now I have been presumptuous, I've been self-righteous, I've been self-deceived. And I'm going to deal with this matter before God because I do not want to presume against his mercy. Is there anybody that raised your hand and say that's any pastor? I need to do that. There are many, many hands around here. Pray Praise God for that. Put them down. And ask the Lord to take these words and to use them to strengthen his people. Let's pray. Father. This text of scripture is very, very convicting. It's very challenging theologically And it is so very practical. I pray for those in our midst or those who have joined us in a live stream that have not placed their faith in the finished work of Christ. Father, I pray that you would press their consciences, not let them go, until they turn to you and they rest in the finished work of Christ. I know that might sound cruel to some, but Father, it's the most merciful thing you could ever do. Convict and convince. That people might be saved. And Father, I pray for those in our midst and on the live stream who have trusted you as Savior. But are stumbling in their walk. They're concealing sin. They've allowed their hearts to become deceived. They become very self-righteous and self-promoting. Father, I pray that That presumption would be would be confronted immediately, and that any person that is struggling in such a way might humble their hearts in your presence Call their sin what it is before your face. As David confessed his sin, Psalm 51, they would do the same And I pray that they would look to Christ in the gospel and be reminded that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanses from every sin. I pray that their hearts that are broken would be met with comfort, and that the Holy Spirit would strengthen them as they seek to walk according to your will and way. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, I'd like to ask you to take your hymn books and let's turn together to hymn 400. The song is Take My Life and Let It Be Consecrated Lord to Thee. And as I always say If anyone needs to reach out, please don't hesitate to do that. We are all sinners, saved by grace, striving to walk with the Lord, and by his power we can. And together we must. And so I want to remind you that. Let's stand together. Hymn number 400, take my life and let it be. We'll sing the The first through the fourth verses together. Take my being and I can be swift and beautiful for me. Take my voice and me, always on me for my name. Take my letters and let them be praised for you. Take my silver and my gold not out. On the last take my love, my love , I love My deal is nice to be only. Want to remind you that tonight uh we have A uh hymn singing in the back as well as a farewell fellowship. And then also we're going to need some help getting a couple of lights It looks like two out here. So if it looks like I'm standing in the dark, it's because I am. Um so uh please if you can uh stay a little bit after um tonight. That would be much appreciated. We're going to really miss the Nikki family, but we're praying for you as as God moves you to be a part of this church planting endeavor. And uh we'll be praying that God strengthens your family and that uh when times are encouraging you'll enjoy them, and when times are difficult that you'll find your strength in the Lord. So um Eric, please come and uh close us in prayer. And uh if you can come back tonight, we hope that you will. It'll be a great time of fellowship, and uh I know that they'll be encouraged as well. So go ahead, Eric. Let's pray. Dear Lord, we thank you for this day and this time we've had in your house. Thank you for the passage that we heard from today and just the clarity that it brings to what it looks like to be born again. Saved by grace alone, Lord. We thank you for that, and we pray that it would just permeate our lives, Lord, and that you would help us to dwell on that. Just pray that you go before us uh this afternoon and bring us back tonight. In Christ's name. Amen.