Hope that you're having a good uh good Sunday, had a good afternoon. I did not really go much over the uh the upcoming events, so I'm going to mention those Tonight, and those who are on the live stream will be able to see this as well. First of all, tonight after the service, we have a teens inspiration. So all teens Please meet in the back and our family is hosting that. So please do make sure that you uh head to the back for that. Um this is the week that we go to the Baltimore Rescue Mission, and so uh the van leaves at 60. from the church and we get back maybe close to nine, but we run two services. Um the the ladies service and then the men's service Service. So please do note that on your calendar if you're planning to go that. Also on the 13th, that's this Friday, we have a team skating event. And um the the goal is to do an outside rink, but uh the weather's not looking really good. So uh stay tuned. We'll we'll let you know how that goes or what we're gonna do with that if uh there are any changes. But the plan is uh to do teen uh ice skating. Also we have our men's breakfast and Bible study. Uh that's at 8 a. m and uh something that we're starting in the new year is we're going to have two Saturdays a month that we will be going out on door-to-door visitation canvassing on Saturday mornings. And the first one will be when we have our men's breakfast, so that's the 14th. And the second one is the 28th. So after the breakfast, about 9 o'clock is when we'll go out. It says 9 to 10, but it's kind of flexible, okay? So just letting you know that that's on there. And there's a sign-up sheet, not that you have to sign up but just gives us an idea of how many um routes to be planned for. And then also we have a senior luncheon on the 19th. We did not originally put that on the calendar that was an oversight on our part um but that will be the 19th at uh 12 noon and then our college and career studies on the 20th and that'll be um at our house at 7 p. m And uh it goes till whenever. Till we kick John Lynn out, right? John, no. John loves chatting uh late But please do remember those events. So we're really looking forward to that. It'd be a lot of fun. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer to open up our service and then Torah will come with our songs. Father, we thank you for your word and the opportunity we've had this week to study it together today to sit under the preaching. ministry and I pray that you'll bless our evening service, help uh your word to be expounded with clarity as we sing these songs, help it to be very encouraging and Christ-centered and our fellowship. I pray that it'd be very sweet around the word. Bless the teens as they have us inspiration this evening. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. That 's true. All right, good evening. Let's get started with some singing. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number three hundred seventy-one. A passion for thee. We'll sing both verses of hymn number three hundred seventy-one. Great singing. Let's turn back to hymn number 334. 334. Jesus I come. We'll sing all four. I don't know if I want to know that I'm not going to do anything. Okay, well on Sunday nights we'd like to take a few minutes to give you an opportunity to share testimonies of It's a lot of people. So the world is a very good idea. One oh nine in the blue books. One hundred nine in the blue book. I try and go. Right, so let's go ahead and book four ninety-two For the beauty of the earth. All right, thirty-five in the blue book. Grace alone. Can you play through this one? Right, sixty in the blue book. It is well with my soul. All right, let's go to five hundred and eighty seven in the red book. Victory in Jesus And All right, let's turn back to sixty-eight in the red book. Sixty-eight in the red book. Holy, holy, holy. Two hundred three in the Red Book Two hundred three. Oh holy night. All right, let's turn to number twenty seven in the blue book. Uh do not know the slide. Can you play it through? This is We'll sing this one. Here we go. Why wish you come into those messages? Just to linger with the No one set me free as I live my absence be his awesome glory. I read me. He is giving up. In his hands he holds the power of his voice he broke and all his give to me. Yet he hears me I will never be for me when I only take you to Mamani , Marine Marine. We employed an open family. We 'll be forgiven all our joy. And he will come. There we go, is that better? Ooh. I can hear myself. Maybe I'll quiet down. But we're in the middle of Joseph's accounts as we uh get into Genesis 42, and we had seen his rise providentially to power. As the second highest ruler of the nation, the Empire of Egypt. And all this time, we're we're kind of Seeing him apart from his brothers, and not really, you don't see any kind of thoughts with him regarding what had happened with them. We don't see um Kind of what his demeanor was as we lead up to really what is the series that brings the family back together. But we're going to see essentially the reconciliation Between Joseph and his family in Genesis 42 to 46. And we're going to cover all these chapters, but we're not going to obviously be able to read all of these chapters. But I do want to provide a bit of an overview of So as we get into Genesis 42, or really the end of 41, we see Joseph And it was during this famine in chapter 42 that Jacob sends his Ten sons, you know, saving Benjamin and letting them go down into Egypt to get food. In fact, the whole world was going to Egypt for food. Because it was the only nation that was prepared for this tremendous worldwide famine. And Jacob's sons then returned to Canaan. With the food and their money. Of course, they run into Joseph. Joseph recognizes recognizes them, but does not yet reveal himself to them. And in the process, the money that they had tried to pay the food with ends up remaining in their possession. Of course, they're worried about that. And of course, they were required to bring Benjamin back down with them. Now, in chapter 43, we see Jacob's sons returning to Egypt, this time with Benjamin. And also a double payment, a payment for the first time, as well as this upcoming time, and a small gift out of a token of apology. And when they go down there, Joseph invites his brothers to feast with him in his own home. Of course, this is where he seats them according to age, and they're wondering: how can this be? And it kind of disturbed them a little bit. It's actually a pretty humorous account. And after that they they pack up their things, and as they're preparing, Joseph tells his steward to put a silver cup Into Benjamin's sack. And as they're leaving and as they're starting to get away from the city, the steward catches up with them and accuses them of stealing this silver cup. And Jacob's sons then foolishly swear that if the cup is found, then that son would die, and the brothers would come back and become servants to Joseph. Of course, they find the cup, and Jacob's sons return to Joseph to beg for mercy. And it was at this point that Joseph reveals his identity, restores his relationship with his brother. And in fact, Pharaoh is the one that steps in and says, Bring your entire household down from Canaan into Egypt so that they can have food during this time of famine. And Jacob then moves his entire household into the land of Goshen, and Eden possessing a further promise from God that he would produce the nation that he promised from his descendants while they were in Egypt. And that is chapters 42 to 46. We can go home now, right? Now, what we were going to see in these four chapters is that God wants us, like Joseph and his His family to seek reconciliation with others. And this can be a very difficult subject for some because I recognize obviously there are situations that are irreconcilable for one reason or another. But our heart's posture should always be leaning toward a pursuit of forgiveness and restoration, and bringing together a Christ-honoring religion. Relationship with others. We should always want to forgive. We should always want to apologize. And even when reconciliation seems improbable or even impossible, that should be. But how do we go about seeking reconciliation with others? I think as we go through these chapters, we're going to kind of jump around a bit, um, but we're going to see that there are really three humbling aspects To God's design for reconciliation. And we see it particularly in Genesis 42 to 46, but we're also going to be looking at some New Testament passages. The first aspect that we look at when it comes to reconciliation is that reconciliation really comes with a providential opportunity. And this this whole account is filled with evidence of God's hand bringing these young men not maybe not so young anymore Back together to reconcile them. And I would remind you that when we get to the end of Genesis, Genesis 50, you really see Joseph's heart throughout this entire passage. You know the verse. He says, As for you, ye thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good, to bring it to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. And this is his mindset as he's going through all of this that we are covering. Now, as far as God's providence In bringing these men together for reconciliation, we see first of all that God brought ten of Joseph's brothers to Egypt in the first place. Look with me in Genesis 42, starting in verse 1. It says, Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why look ye upon one upon another? He said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt. Get you down thither, and buy for us from thence, that we may live and not die. Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt. But Benjamin, Joseph 's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren, for he said, Lest he peradventure mischief befall him. And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came, for the famine was in the land of Canaan. And Joseph was governor over the land, and he it was that sold to all the people of the land. And Joseph's brethren came and both bowed themselves before him with their faces to the earth. And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself strange. unto them, and spake roughly unto them. Now by the time that the famine had reached global proportions. It was well known among the nations that Egypt was supplying food to those in need. And many traveled incredible distances to do this. In fact there's some evidence to say that There are records in Egypt, or excuse me, in China, of this famine and its tremendous reach. And while many traveled incredible distance to do this, there were ten sons of Jacob who also made this journey. And while Benjamin stayed behind, it would be these ten who would travel to Egypt to procure food to survive the famine. Now, we shouldn't say God caused the famine or that the famine is why God's or how God used the the these men to be reconciled. But he certainly did use them. Canaan. Because really they they had a reason to. They had God's promise that they would become a great nation in that land. This was the promise that God gave to the patriarchs, to Abraham, to Isaac, to Jacob. But when this famine got to the point where it was, there was no choice but to go to where there would be some relief, some sustenance, some food. And it just so happened that the brother whom these men had wronged was the one in charge of distributing this food. God's providence at work. time, but it it certainly seems that he had forgiven them already because he was in a position more than any other uh person in the Bible that we probably can read about to get revenge on these brothers Who put him in such a horrible position at the beginning. But he doesn't do that. Instead, I would say Joseph at this point, when he sees his brothers, Began the process of reconciliation, which proceeded over a length of time. We'll talk more about that later. But it's important for us to know that reconciliation may not always be achievable at any given moment. We can most certainly initiate the process by doing what is God honoring every time the opportunity to do so is available. So when opportunities present themselves through providence, seize them, seek reconciliation. We see Joseph doing this as God brought ten of his brothers down into Egypt. But of course the brothers go back to Canaan and They um they're told that they can't even return without their their brothers. So we now go to Genesis 43 and we see now God bringing Joseph's all of Joseph's brothers down to Egypt. Look in verse one there. It says, and the famine was sore in the land of chapter 43, and it came to pass when they had eaten up the corn which they had bought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy us a little food. And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face except your brother be with you. If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food. But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down, for the man said unto us, He shall not see my face again. Except your brother be with you. And Israel said, W wherefore wherefore dealt ye so ill with me as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother Of course, they protest and argue that it was not a fair assessment. Verse 8, Judah said unto Israel, his father, send the lad with me. We will arise and go that we may live and not die, both we and thou and also our little ones. I will be assured thee for him. Of my hand shalt thou require him. If I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame for everybody And finally, in verse 13 and 14, Jacob says, Take also your brother, arise and go again unto the man. And God Almighty give you mercy before the man that he may send away your other brother and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of my children, I am bereaved. Again, such a positive outlook from Jacob. But nevertheless, God worked in Jacob's life. Did you catch that? With the famine continuing for years to come, it was inevitable that they would have to go back for more food. And only this time there was a stipulation they couldn't go back without Benjamin. The son who Jacob clinged to with ferocity, who Jacob would in no short terms, he would say, if he something happened to Benjamin, I would surely die. Yeah, of course, Jacob would eventually consent because they needed food. But we also have another indication That God was working in their midst to ensure that they would eventually be reunited with Joseph. I mean, let's be honest here. Jacob was a very stubborn man. But the fact that a stubborn man like Jacob could be swayed is an indication that God is at work in his life. And when it comes to this matter of reconciliation, one of the most difficult aspects of being that person who wants to reconcile is when the other person Or people are either refusing to do so or are ignorant that there is even an offense. But we can be encouraged to know that in those circumstances Whatever reason that there is for them existing, God can change those people. It's not a guarantee, which is why we go back to needing to initiate or seize those opportunities when we can. But we can trust that God is working in people's lives, whether it's apparent or not. And that is evident with the second trip that Joseph's brothers made. But it's also apparent that God is at work here when finally God brought Joseph's father to Egypt Look with me over in chapter 45. This is after the events that led up to Joseph revealing himself had occurred, and now we see we see it happening. Verse 1 of chapter 45 And Joseph could not refrain himself before all before all them that stood by him. And he cried, Cause every man to go out from me And there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren. And he wept aloud, and the Egyptians in the house of Pharaoh heard, and Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph, doth my father yet live And his brethren could not answer him, for they were troubled at his presence. And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom you sold into Egypt. Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves that you sold me hither. For God did send me before you to preserve life. For these two years hath the famine been in the land, yet there are five years in which there shall neither be earring or harvest. And God sent me before you to preserve you, a posterity in the earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance. So now it w it was not you that sent me hither, but God. And he hath made me a father to Pharaoh and Lord of all his house and the ruler throughout all the land of Egypt. The remainder of the chapter sees Joseph asking his brothers to bring his father down. And of course Pharaoh steps in and invites them to to take the land of Goshen for themselves. But what's key here is the fact that finally Joseph is reconciled to His brothers. And then he entreats them to bring the entire household of Jacob down into Egypt to live with him. Now of course there's a tremendous providence in the fact that uh they were brought back together and they were all even still alive to be back together. But think about that journey back down. And of course they go back to Jacob and tell him Joseph's alive and Jacob is It disturbs him so much that they would even bring it up. But finally he consents to go down, and here is a hundred and thirty-year-old man. Who travels for days through some really rough terrain to go down into Egypt? I'd say that's God's hand of providence right there. A man Jo Jacob's age, a man as troubled as Jacob, a man as stubborn as Jacob. Jacob, who had seen as much hardship as Jacob, was willing to go through rough terrain Was willing to risk the threat of bandits, was willing to put up with even going into Egypt where they were hated and despised by the general population. He was willing to go down because God saw fit to bring them all down into Egypt. And in doing so, he demonstrated his providentiality care to allow them not only to be reunited but to live together for the rest of their lives, even to ensure that the promise of a nation would be kept. And it was. But you know it's it's it's easy to say sitting here, you know, it's the right thing to forgive and to apologize, to reconcile. And we know, of course, it's it's challenging to actually go and apologize to someone, to forgive someone, to reconcile with someone. But how much harder is it to live with someone after seeking forgiveness, after apologizing to them, after restoring them That relationship. That memory doesn't go away. But God in His providential care can step into that relationship. And allow those hurt parties to live in reconciliation because he cares for us. Because he watches over us. He is able to do this. We also see the second aspect of Now we'll be moving quickly through these next few portions, these aspects. But we've already looked through the the the account. We see of course all throughout Joseph postponing his revelation of himself. He doesn't reveal himself to his brothers. When he first sees them, he doesn't tell them who he is. When we get to the second reunited uh the second reunion. He again, he invites them into his home, and he provides a meal for them and sits down and eats with them, but still does not reveal himself to them. Joseph waited until their third visit, when they, of course, only went a short distance from the city, but still a period of time passed before they left and came back. And that was when Joseph revealed himself to his brethren. Now, why Joseph hid himself from his brethren, I don't know that we can honestly dogmatically say. Why. There's some clues, there's some hints as to why, but it doesn't specifically say. But what we can say is Joseph was intentional with what he did. He was thoughtful. He processed things as he went. And while he initiated the process of reconciliation, of restoring that fellowship, restoring that relationship. He didn't do so with impatience. He didn't do so thinking it can be fixed just like that. He was patient and thought. Thoughtful. He allowed the process to move forward at its own pace. Knowing, of course, as we looked at God is at work. But also recognizing he can't rush reconciliation. We can't expect someone to be okay with us just because we said sorry, right? We can't expect someone to accept our forgiveness and move on. Reconciliation takes time. It takes patience. And we must allow God to go at his pace as he works in that relationship. So reconciliation, of course, must be seen as providential. It must, of course, come with some patient thoughtfulness. But ultimately, probably most prominently, the most important thing about reconciliation is this third aspect. And that is that it should be Christ 's honoring. Matthew eighteen is a is a tremendous passage on reconciliation with the church. If you were to turn there, and we won't for sake of time, we would see that is the passage where Jesus tells his disciples, If your brother offends you, go to him. And tell him this fault between thee and him, and if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. And he goes through the process of what would happen if he refused to reconcile with you. But what's interesting is what Peter said asks right after that. He says then Peter it says Peter came to him and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me and I forgive him? So seven times, and we all know the course that was The normal expectation back in those days. Jesus saith up to him, I say not until seven times, but uh until seventy times seven. Essentially saying you forgive them every time. Why? So that we can keep count of forgiveness and apologies? No. The point is reconciliation. And what's interesting is that passage comes at the heels of what horrible an offense it is to harm little ones. Did you ever notice that in Matthew 18? The fact that A lack of reconciliation can be an offense to our youngest people And parents and church members and especially pastors should take heed that the real there's a reality that our young people are watching us as the church. And whether they know Christ or not, they know whether we're living in reconciliation with others. And that's not just reconciliation with people in the church. It's reconciliation with those outside. How they perceive our relationships both in and out of the church will have an incredible effect on our young people. faith. I say among all the good that we can do in the lives of our young people, of our children, we ought to seek reconciliation. That's because reconciliation is commanded by Christ. But also it's it's characteristic of Christ. We know from Colossians 3, Paul writes, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long suffering, forbearing one another. And forgiving one another. Why? If any man have any quarrel against thee, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye Why should we seek reconciliation? How is reconciliation Christ-like? It's not only commanded by our Lord. But it reminds people of when God stepped down and was hung on a cross To bring reconciliation between mankind and himself. So why should we seek reconciliation with others? Because if God, who has every right to hate us for the sin we've committed, sought reconciliation with us, how can't we? If we're to be conformed into the image of Christ, then let us like Christ seek reconciliation with others Father, thank you for this this message It's spoken to my heart all this week, and it's a tremendous concept. The fact that reconciliation is really at the core of the gospel. And it's a reminder, along with the accounts and the story of Jake Joseph and his brothers and his family, of how important reconciliation is. is not just between us and you, but amongst ourselves. Help us, Lord, to have a heart posture of reconciliation. Forgiveness to humbly apologize. Whoever you see fit, Lord, help us to do so in Christ's name. Amen. You know the story of Joseph, how he was treated by By his brothers, how he ends up in Egypt, and ultimately how he forgives them. And uh the way that he processed that whole thing, that is a very powerful story. And um there are lots and lots of layers of application there. We learn about God's providence. We we learn about how to how to process suffering. We learn about how God works sometimes completely outside of our control. We do learn about uh Joseph was very discerning. He's very wise about how he handled his brothers. And ultimately he tested them to see if they were different people than when he had left them. And um the whole purpose of the situation with Benjamin was to find out if they were the same brothers that he left or if they were to Totally different. They had matured and changed and and they really had. And uh that's really uh powerful. It it's uh shows you how God can pour grace into situations. So I'd encourage you, take time to look at that entire passage of Scripture, that entire story. There's been a pretty distinct thing today. It's been God's providence, sovereignty. and uh how God works in amazing ways. And so what I'd encourage you this week is to ask the Lord to help you to see the evidences of his hand at work in your life. And that you would respond properly to that. Let's go ahead and turn to our final hymn. And that hymn will be hymn 390, I Surrender All. I Surrender All. We're going to sing the first , the second, and the fourth verses together of I Surrender All. Let's stand together. Let's sing this song. And you know that really ought to be our heart. Every time the Word of God is opened, uh we are confronted with truth and we have a decision to make make about it? Are we going to allow our thinking to be shaped by the Bible? Are we going to submit our wills to Him? Are we going to purpose to walk in obedience? Or we not? We need to have surrendered hearts to the Lord. Uh Charlie Archibald, could you please close us in prayer uh this evening and I want to remind you uh in the middle of the week we'll be coming back for our midweek study we're looking at issues related to the family And so I'm excited about that. Also our anchored in the word studies are going this week. And so I'll be breaking down throughout the week the message that we looked at this morning. We also have the handout in your bulletin that gives you kind of our preaching schedule so you know what themes we'll be covering, and then also some Bible reading plans. So I hope that you'll take those and use them and that they'll be an encouragement. Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your love. Thank you for bringing us together this evening. The example you gave us in Joseph and um just the the wonderful things that we can learn from his life and it's uh especially this evening the thinking of reconciling with his brothers and the um the process there and the um was um shown there does help us to draw these uh principles into our lives and help us to um to follow close to you through it and just uh be with us through this week. Help us love you and glorify you in Jesus' name. Amen.