All right, well, good evening. We're uh gonna go ahead and get started here with our evening service. So let's have a word of prayer and then we'll get started. Father, we're so grateful to you for your many blessings , all of which we are completely undeserving. And we want to lift up our voices in praise to who you are as our Almighty Gracious Father. I pray tonight you would be glorified, you'd be honored, and most of all you would be proclaimed that we may know you more. And proclaim you to a lost and dying world as we leave. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. Good evening. And as we get ready to start our song services, take your hymnal. And I think we're going to page Ninety-nine? Or is it ninety-nine? It is ninety-nine. Okay. A little bit that's what this is the song we're gonna sing. Anyway. It may or may not be on the screen. Stand with me. Turn to page ninety-nine. We're gonna sing all four verses of A Shelter in the Time of Storm. Is that good, guys? We're good. All right. Isn't technology wonderful? All right. Sing out All four verses. Right, rock and him we find a shelter in the time of the. . A shelter in the time of storm. Oh , Jesus is a rock in a weary man, a weary Oh, Jesus is locked in a weary land, a shelter in the time of storm, A shed by dead death as my night. A shelter in the time of storm, No fears of arm, no bones of price, a shelter in the time of storm. Oh, Jesus is a right of me. Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a shelter in the time of a day. Storms around us beat, a shelter in the time of storm. We'll never leave our safety lead, a shelter in the time of storm. So Jesus are up in the wheel level. A chapter is a good. Watch me on the course now. Oh, rock there, no refuse here, a shelter in the time of dawn. If thou art ever helped near a shelter in the thy mustore Oh Jesus is a right in a weary land, a weary land, a weary land, oh Jesus is a right in a weary land. Weltering the time of storm. Go ahead and have a seat. There's a couple funny things about that. Oh, if you're an Orioles fan, you know what that's all about But uh last uh last week there was a baseball game. Was it baseball or football? Football game. I think up in uh New York where they started to singing the national anthem. Young lady was singing it beautifully And all of a sudden the mics cut out. The technology went kaputski. But the crowd picked it up. And it was it was really neat. I di I wasn't watching the game, but I caught the replay of it. And it was really, really neat to hear a group, a crowd that size singing the national anthem. And then when they got at the end and and they they hit the O and they held it out, it was it was pretty. Then the mics came back on and everything was good But it was fun. So it's good to hear a crowd sing like that. Good to hear you singing. We're going to go to page 592. Page 592. And soldiers of Christ arise. We can't sit on this one. Please stand. Soldiers of Christ arise. All three verses. Soldiers of Christ arrive and put your armor on Stung in the snake with God 's fight through his eternal And in with my demand Who in the thing that Jesus God is more than conquered? And then it is great, my weapon is great. And take the warming for the fight, the community. The coming of things and all your conflict Ye may or come to Christ alone and stand inside. Leave no unguarded place, no weakness. Take every birth to every great participant Don't drink to drink go on revolver by the break. Turn all the cause of darkness down and window well. Amen. Go ahead and we will have a seat Well, we turn to page 459. 459. I almost turned there And all three verses of leaning on the everlasting arms. What a fellowship, what a joy divine They make on the everlasting arm, water blessed death, water peace and light, they hang on the everlasting arm. Leaning leaning, I dunno cure from alling on the everlasting. Oh how sweet to walk in this pilgrim light hanging on the everlasting arm Oh how bright the path goes from day to day Leaning on the everlasting arms, leaning on Jesus Christ my Savior, safe and secure from all the warm. Leaning on Jesus Christ my Savior. On the everlasting arms, I have led It is with my Lord's are here, laying on the everlasting arms, leaning leaning Say back the cure from all of us , leaning, leaning , lean on the ever left Amen. We may be down in numbers tonight, but we are mighty in song. All right, well on Sunday nights we'd like to take some testimonies. Let's see. Page 122. As the deer. Sure. Okay. And I heard the second verse, right? Okay. Second verse of as the deer. Stay one twenty-three in the blue book You're my friend and you are my brother even though you are a king. I love you more than any other global. Much more than anything. You alone, only my strength and shield, and you alone, may my spirit wield. Al Lord are my heart's desire and I long to worship you. That's an excellent prayer. Now page one hundred and thirty in the blue book. I think Give me the first play through it once for me. Make sure I know. Okay, that's in six eight times. I think I can catch on to that. Here we go. Give us an interview. The throne room of ever I an exalted sits the king on his throne , terapying. Loudly they're crying unto the Lord alone. He is holy, holy earth. It 's brought up his glory, holy holy It is the Lord God of host. Well, I've got it now. Very good. That was a good one. Okay. Red book, page 271. Page 271. Page 271. Page 271. Going once. Going twice. I know it's in here. Christ that rose from the dead. Okay, well it's been a long time. Can you Yeah, can you try? Go ahead. Wow. Let's let's w I'll be late and singing next Sunday. Uh today I wasn't scheduled. Let's we'll save that for next Sunday, okay? Okay. I will circle two seventy-one. I like Like that. It has been a very long time since I've heard the song. Oh my goodness. Okay, now next one is page one. Page Uno Numo. From the Blue Book, a servant's heart. Page one Make me a servant like you, dear Lord. Living for others each humble and meek helping the weak loving and all that I said Give me Lord a servant part. Give my life, take every part, give me Lord, a servant heart. Help me draw so close to you that your love comes shining through. Give me Lord a servant. Give me Lord a servant. Okay. Now page two fifty two in the red book Page two fifty two. Nothing but the blood. Okay First verse. What can wash me my sin? Nothing but the blood of Jesus What can make me whole again? Nothing but the blood of Jesus. So precious is the flow that Makes me white as snow, no other felt I know, nothing but the blood of Jesus Okay, and we'll have our last song before the message is page 56. Page 56 in the blue book. Then we'll sing all ver both verses, all two verses, but both verses. Please stand with me on this one. All I ever want to be. All I ever want to be is what you want of me, Lord. I give my life to you. And all my hopes and dreams and plans I place within your hands, Lord, and give my life to you Here am I, Lord, use me. Take my life and mold me. All I ever want to be Is what you want of me, Lord. I give my life to you and all my hopes and dreams and plans. I place within your hands, Lord, and I give my life to you unless. Every day you give me grace, I find my strength in you, Lord. I give my life to you, and though it seems that I will fail, though you I will prevail. Oh Lord, I give my life to you. Here am I, Lord, use me. Take my life and hold me. All I ever want to be is what you want of me, Lord. I give my life to you. And all my hopes and dreams and plans I place within your hands, Lord, and give my life to you. Amen. Please be seated. Turn your Bibles, please, to the book of Genesis. We'll be in chapter 37. Genesis 37. If you're familiar with the chapter, you know that we're going to begin looking at the life of Joseph. And I'm excited because Joseph is a remarkable figure in the book of Genesis. He's very uh much contrast, a contrast to um many of the patriarchs that we've looked at. And so there's really not a whole lot that we can say by way of introduction. We're very familiar with the story just of how he began. As a young man being sold into slavery, being brought being brought into Egypt, and eventually being used of God to save countless lives. during the time of intense famine and ultimately bringing the people of God into Egypt who will eventually be let out. Uh so as we begin our study of Joseph, just want to start by looking at chapter thirty-seven where it begins chronicling chronicling the events surrounding Joseph as a testimony of how God brought him into Egypt and how he shaped Joseph into the man whom God would use to save those countless lives later in life. So let's go ahead and begin reading. We'll start by reading verses one through eleven. It says, and Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren, and the lad with the sons of Bilho, and with the sons of Zilpha, his father's wives, and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children because he was the son of his old age and made him a coat of many colors. And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him. And Joseph dreamed a dream, then he told it to his brethren, and they hated him yet the more. And he said unto them, Hear I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed. For behold I was we were binding sheaves in the field, and lo my sheep arose And also stood upright, and behold, your sheaves stood up round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf. And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams and for his words. And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it to his brethren, and said, Behold. I have dreamed a dream more, and behold the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obedience unto me. And he told it to his father and to his brethren, and his father rebuked him. And said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth? And his bret brethren envied him, but his father observed the same. As we look at this chapter this evening, we're going to see really a very, again, as I said, a very familiar story. In fact, many, if not all of us, could probably tell the story of Joseph by heart. And in so doing, we probably, when we come to this chapter, kind of Gloss over it and probably skip all the way over to chapter 39 and so on. But let's pause and look here tonight at how God Really plays a role in Joseph's life at this very beginning of the story. And in so doing, we're going to see that God wants us to reflect upon his providence in using our difficult experience to make us the people he desires. to use. That's what he did in Joseph's life. He intervened, he used the uh the the events of Joseph's life. The very difficult, tragic, traumatizing experiences that he had and shaped him, molded him into the vessel that God would use. And we're going to see how he does so in our own lives as well. We're going to see first of two areas that God uses in our lives is our own personal growth. God's providence is seen, first of all, in personal growth. We just read verses 1 through 11. And probably if we are going to read this chapter, these are the verses that we might skip over faster than the rest Because we know Jesse was the favorite son. He got the the coat of many colors and he was hated. And he dreamed those dreams and moving on But pause and look with me at who Joseph really was at the beginning of this account. Again, looking at verses 1 and 2, it says Jacob dwells in the land wherein his father was a stranger in the land of Canaan. These are the generations of Jacob, Joseph, being seventeen years old. Was feeding the flock with his brethren. The lad was with the sons of Bilhah and the sons of Zilpah. If you remember that those are the two uh handmaidens of Rachel and Leah. Who were given to Jacob to be the his concubines, his uh extra wives. And it goes on saying, Joseph brought unto his father their evil Now as we look at those two verses, I'm going to point out that Joseph isn't necessarily a golden child in this. story, at least starting out. He's a 17 -year-old boy. Whereas usually when we get introduced to the patriarchs, they're either in their 70s or 80s. They're older. And now that we're focusing on in on J Joseph, it can be easy to kind of assume that he's had that same years of experience to bring him to the same level of maturity that the other patriarchs had. That's not the case. He's a young man. He's by all accounts not even a young man. He's still a boy. And given with his age, there's a little bit of immaturity that you can see here. And with immaturity, there is sadly a greater propensity to sin And Joseph, as a boy, he's a favorite child, he's in a dysfunctional family. It's easy to see that there's a temptation at least to be Little up uh uh uptight about it, uh up nosed about it, I guess you could say He's uh he's going to work with his uh half-brothers, the ones that who are closest in age to him, and it says that he brings to his father their evil report. And that phrase, evil report, if you uh study it out where else it's used in the Old Testament, you're going to find it uh used in some interesting context. In fact, it's used particularly in the accounts where the s the uh spies came back from the land uh in uh Moses ' time. And says that they brought their evil report of the land. In other places, it's also translated as slander, infamy Defaming. It's a very specific term. Hebrew doesn't have a whole lot of very specific terms. In this one, it it's interesting that it's it is used. It's not a positive thing that Joseph is doing here. He's not just saying, listen, Father, these are the evil things that your sons are doing. He's slandering One might say he's titletelling on his brothers. Really what he's doing is he's Trying to diminish his brothers in the eyes of his father. It's not a good thing that he's doing, but I mean, are you surprised that a young man would do that? Particularly a a favorite son, a f uh a son who is loved more than all the other ones, it shouldn't surprise us that there is sibling rivalry in this family. And on top of that, it shouldn't surprise us that a teenager is salty or gossipy or a bully. It's nothing you new. In fact, if we probably look back at our younger years, we might cringe a little bit in how we treated people, right? So it shouldn't shock us that Joseph, as a young person, is disrespectful of his brother, broth brothers, slanderous toward them. Because even young people in our Christian homes are that way sometimes too, right? So what do we do? Well We need to be involved in teaching them and exemplifying for them what mature loving Christianity looks like. If you would turn hold your place and turn over to Titus 3. I can't help but think of this passage in light of uh This position that Joseph is in here. Titus chapter three. Practically at the other end of your Bible there. And follow the thought here that Paul is writing. And think about what kind of an example we should be teaching our young people. He writes in chapter 3 of Titus, put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers. Speaking to Titus about his congregation. To obey magistrations, to be ready, uh to ready, be ready to every good work. Now notice what he says in verse 2: to speak evil of no man. Can I put it a different way? Don't slander people. Don't speak evil of other people, to be no brawlers, but gentle, showing all meekness unto all men. And he says why. This is why We shouldn't do this. For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving diverse lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful and hating one another. But after that the kindness and love of God, our Savior toward man appeared, not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy, he saved us. By the washing of regeneration and renewing of the Holy Ghost, which He shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Savior, that being justified by His grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life. This is a faithful saying, and these things will I uh I will that thou affirm constantly that they which were believed in God might be careful to maintain good will works. These things are good and profitable unto men. Verse eleven says, knowing that He that is oh sorry, s uh verse ten. A man that is an heretic after the first and second admonition reject, knowing that he that is such is subverted and sinneth. being condemned of himself. It's interesting that it's all wrapped up in that same context. The point being, listen, we're a redeemed people. So we ought to act like it and exemplify it. Not just for our own benefit, but so that we can teach others. We need to be mindful of it, as Paul writes there in Titus 3:1. Speak evil and no man. Joseph, going back to chapter thirty-seven, was a young, immature man, a young man who Slander his brothers. But what do we know about him after that? God has matured him and developed in him a love and a compassion toward his brothers. Brothers. And how they do that? He did it through the events that he providentially allowed Joseph to experience. And those events shaped him. And grew him. Joseph grew into a godly adult despite his slander. But notice what he also does in verses three to through eleven. I'm kind of beating up Joseph. Tonight, but uh look look at what he does here in verses three to eleven. I'll just read part of it. And he made him a coat of many colors. Now later when we see him at the pit, he's wearing it, right? You think he wore it just because his dad gave it to him? I tend to think that he was probably wearing Let me show you why I think that says in verse five four. And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him and could not Speak peaceably unto him. So they they spoke roughly with him. They mistreated him. They verbally attacked him. And you would think that a young man would say, you know what, maybe it's not such a good idea to wear this around my brothers. It it really bothers them. No, he went ahead and wore it. He's like, oh this And he dreamed yet another dream. Sorry, going back to verse five. Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren. They hated him yet the more. And he said unto them, Hear I pray you this dream which I have dreamed. For behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and lo my sheaf arose, and also stood upright, and behold your sheaves stood round about and made obeisance to my sheaf. And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? Basically saying, Joseph, you how could you say this to us? You really think that that's going to happen? It only grew their animosity, grew their hatred of their brother. And Joseph, yes, there's a prophetic side to this dream that Joseph had. And there's a desire to communicate prophecy. But Joseph, again, is a young man. And if you've had siblings or you have more than one child, you know what children like to do with their siblings. They like to get under their skin. They know exactly how to get their brother or sister riled up, don't they? You know, maybe you were that sibling. You just you knew what button buttons to push and you knew how to do it in such a way where they would get upset and the parents wouldn't even assume that you did anything, right? We just we just had that ability to provoke our siblings But despite his immaturity, Joseph was again matured by his experiences in life. I like what Psalm 105 has to say about this. Psalm 105, 12 through 19 says, When they the patriarchs were but a few men in number, yea, very few, and strangers in the land of Canaan. When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people, he suffered no man to do them wrong. Yea, he reproved kings for their sake, saying, Touch not mine anointed. and do my prophets no harm. Moreover, he called for a famine upon the land, he break the whole staff of bread. He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant Servant, whose feet they hurt with fetters, he was laid in iron until the time that his word came, the word of the Lord came Tried him. The word of the Lord tried Joseph Despite the fact that Joseph, like many young people, had a propensity to provoke his brothers, mainly to kind of probably show Off a little bit, maybe get under their skin a little bit. It shouldn't surprise us. But it it's not necessarily sinful to provoke someone At least in the sense that provoking someone could either provoke them to wickedness, or it could provoke them to to good works. We know that from Hebrews 10 24, that we ought to provoke, stir up one another to love, to good works, to grace, to maturity. And that kind of grow that kind of provocation. Only comes through the loving providence of God working in our lives. And we can see that happening in Joseph's life. As he goes from being an immature kind of a a kind kind of a a a a kid who likes to get under his siblings s skin. To becoming a man of God, whom God would use to save many lives. So God's providence is seen in not only Joseph's personal growth. But in our personal growth. Consider where you and I have been. And how God has used experiences in life, hardship, Sometimes to shape us into vessels fit for his service. And that leads me to the second area in which God rose and develops us and uses us. shapes us to those whom he would use. And that's in the area of personal trauma. God's providence is seen in personal trauma. Now , this may seem a little pointed. I don't want to exclude anybody. In this area. So I pulled together some statistics, and I hope that as we go through the rest of this passage, we can uh think through this a little bit And see how God can work in our lives through this area of personal trauma or just the general hardships of life. I would distinguish those. There's a difference between trauma and just hardship. But what's interesting is that there's a study that was done, and it showed that an estimate of 70% of Americans have experienced some form of trauma in their lives. And that's a pretty broad definition that they provide in that study. But let's say it's 70%. Can you imagine 70% of the people in this room having experienced trauma? So how do we see God's providence? in this area. Well let's see what happens with Joseph. I won't read to you the the remainder of the passage. We're very familiar with it. But in verses 12 through 24, we see Joseph, first of all, experiencing near death. We know how Joseph was told by his father, go up to Shechem. And find your brothers who are herding the sheep. And he goes up there about 45 plus mile journey and finds out that they had gone even further to Dothan. It's about fifty-seven, almost sixty miles altogether. It's a long, long trip. And as he approaches them, the brothers, about Uh nine of the ten or eleven that were who there who were there is kind of iffy on whether Benjamin was a part of this. But at least nine said, you know what? Here comes that dreamer, let's kill him. And we kind of are very desensitized in this area, but think about it. Joseph's brothers wanted to murder him. Yet even when Reuben the Eldest stepped in to preserve Joseph, he he he told him, let's just put him in the pit. We don't need to take his life. He had the desire to preserve Joseph's life and bring him back to his father, Jacob. At some point, Reuben stepped away. And they still had the desire to kill him. In verse 26, Judah said to his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother and conceal his blood? It was still in their minds. Reuben had stepped away. We see him coming back here later. And in their minds are thinking, okay, he's in the pit. How do we kill him now? Of course they don't. But people who are prepared to kill carry themselves in a very specific Way. They have an aura about them that can be sensed. And no doubt Joseph, as he approached his brothers and they they took him and they ripped his coat off and threw him into that deep cistern. I have no doubt Joseph feared for his life. It was a very traumatizing event. Not just to be threatened by one's life, but to be threatened by your own flesh and blood. It's traumatizing. Now, most have not experienced a near-death experience. One study that was updated here recently said between the U. S. Australia, and Germany, 4 to 15 percent of the population have had a near-death experience. Now still a significant number. That's about eight hundred a day in America. A significant group of people. And these near-death experiences they vary case by case. I actually have a friend who's experienced three near-death experiences in his life. And what's interesting is that in this study, they determine every single case is different, but there's one common thread in all of them. Every near-death experience says it has had a very deep and positive transformation as a result. It's very interesting. Every near-death experience in the study had a deep and positive transformation as a result. And I would say in Joseph's case, that's no different. It should serve as a reminder. Then not only can these near-death experiences have benefit, as horrible as they are, but they serve as a reminder that God is able and willing to use That kind of devastating trauma. Not just for his glory, but to fundamentally mature a person. Joseph's life was changed permanently from this point. I have no doubt that God used this near-death experience to shape him into the vessel he would use. You know, history has no shortage of people who have grown in their faith as a result of facing death head on. Just to name a few, you can read about Corey Timbun, you can read about Edin Aaron Judson, Graysha Burnham, John Bunyan, all these names in history, all these Christians who face death. And walked away, grown and matured in their faith. And if God can use that level of hardship in people's lives, lives, we can be assured that he will use them to mature us if we love and we seek him. If only to help mature in our understanding of his glory and his sovereignty. Seek the Lord in his strength. Seek his face. evermore, as Psalm 1054 says. Joseph experienced a near-death event. That's not the only trauma he experienced, unfortunately. He also experiences and uh moving on, he experienced literal human trafficking. And I know we don't like to use that that phrase with such uh ancient history, especially because human trafficking is such a prevalent uh issue in our own modern day. But it's not Joseph experienced it. Joseph was not only in the pit fearing for his life, but he was soon dragged out of the pit to be given over to complete strangers. to be taken hundreds of miles into Egypt, forced into labor in a context completely foreign to his upbringing. And later he was nearly exploited by Potiphar's wife. In the midst of all this horrific trauma, we see a boy. Grow into a hard-working young man of integrity. It's because of this that not only was God glorified when Joseph became a ruler of Egypt. But God was glorified while Joseph was in the midst of his trauma. I have statistics here of modern-day human trafficking. I would spare you those if you want them. I'll give them to you later The vast majority of us just can't imagine the trauma that a man or woman experiences a trafficked in person. But we all experience exploitation and mistreatment, don't we? You know, if you work in a secular job, or even if you don't. You've experienced some form of mistreatment, some form of exploitation, some sort of demeaning treatment. And all of it is wrong. All of it is sinful. Those who commit such acts will face consequences for their sin. But we're reminded that as Joseph was horribly mistreated, horribly exploited, horribly demeaned, God said Still glorify himself in that. And he can glorify himself in us. As we mature in the midst of hardship, as we grow, into the vessels whom he would use. God's proven himself capable of glorifying himself even in the darkest of situations. And Joseph is just one of Untold numbers of examples throughout history. Joseph experienced near death and Experienced human trafficking. But there's the last area here in which he experienced trauma, and I didn't quite know how to phrase this, I'll be honest. But there in the closing verses, as Joseph is being dragged off into Egypt, we see his brothers getting together and trying to figure out what do we do about our father? And they decide to go to him with the the coat of many colors covered in animals' blood and convince them your son has been killed by A wild animal. They deceived their father. And the only way I know how to describe this act is is fraud. And Joseph, I don't know afterwards what he knew about what they did, but nonetheless, he was a victim of fraud. And if you've ever been a victim of fraud, that's that can be a devastating life event. I don't know what for sure what he would have said or did. Because the scripture is silent on this area. But probably all of us have been lied about at some point. Few, if any of us had someone claimed that we were dead But you know what? Fraud is a serious crime. Lying about someone is a terrible sin. Especially if it's to the benefit of the liar. And despite the tremendous negative influence of fraud, of deceit. We can still learn from Joseph's apparent silence concerning the matter. There's really more important matters to focus on. Joseph could not freely go back to his father and prove that he was alive. We never see Joseph going to his father after he revealed himself to his brother and saying, listen, I want them punished for lying. You could have come after me, but you couldn't because they deceived you. We never see him trying to get even. He simply focused on doing what was right in God's eye. As difficult as it was, as difficult as it can be, especially when we know no people are lying about us for their own personal benefit We must remain a testimony of the Lord Jesus. Are probably familiar with these words. But consider this in the midst of others' fraudulent claims. Jesus taught us in the Sermon on the Mount in Matthew 5. He says, Blessed are you when ye men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely. For my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad. For great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you And no doubt Christ was probably thinking about Joseph in this very instance. Joseph was defrauded. He was claimed to be dead by his own brothers, falsely. And yet, God used this in all the trauma that he experienced, in all the providence To make him the one who would one day stand at the right hand of Pharaoh and save countless lives to the glory of God. How will God use us? He wants us to reflect upon his providence and using our difficult experiences. to make us the people he wants to use. Listen, life can be difficult, it can be excruciating, it can be traumatizing. Sometimes life is just us being immature and difficult and problematic. But by seeing God's providence at work in the midst of our personal growth, our trauma, our hardship, we can allow ourselves to have an eternally minded perspective. Man 's sinful acts are always wrong. They're always worthy of condemnation. And while we're all sinners in need of God's grace, God will work in the midst of your life. He will make you a vessel, a vessel suitable for his service, so long as we are willing to grow and seek his face by recognizing Recognizing his providential hand in our lives. Let's seek to know his providence, to see it, to learn of it. to grow in it. Father, we come before you admitting we Rather than see your hand at work in our lives, we are neglect to consider what you you are doing and all the challenges that we face. And our desire, Lord, is to confess that we do find Fall short. We do experience hardship. Sometimes at our own hand, sometimes through the wickedness of the world. But as your children, you are actively working in us to make us vessels. To honor. And I pray, Lord, you would help us to see that, acknowledge it, and to give you all the praise and glory for it. We pray all this in Christ's precious name. Amen. If you would please we'll stand and sing our closing hymn for the evening. Hymn number five seventy-seven. I can't honestly think of a better Hymn to close out on after that passage. Hymn 577, we'll sing all three verses of Be Strong in the Lord. Be strong in the Lord and be of good courage, your mighty defender is always the same. Mountain up with wings as they call us heavy. Is there when you call on his name Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be of good courage, for he is your guide. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and rejoice for the victory is yours. So put on the armor the Lord has provided, And place your defensives on failing care For he will be with you in battle, lighting your path to avoid every snare Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be of good courage, for he is your guide. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and rejoice for the victory is yours. Be strong in the Lord and be of good courage. Your mighty commander will vanquish the foe Fear not the battle, for the victory is always his. He will protect you wherever you go. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and be of good courage, for he is your guide. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord, and rejoice, for the victory is yours. Amen. It's been good to be in the house of the Lord today. And I hope you guys have a wonderful week. Mr. Chitty, would you like to close this out in a word of prayer? Let us pray. Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, once again, for the great opportunity to be here in your house again. this evening. Lord, we have enjoyed such uh good Bible teaching and good Christian music, Lord. I pray, Lord, that you would just continue to be with each one of us as we depart from here that we go out into our uh our mission field, Lord, with the purpose of spreading the good news of the gospel. Thank you for your watch care over us. just as your watch care was over Joseph, Lord, that you would just continue to protect your children here, your family. Pray, Lord, that you would just guide and direct us, that we might be the testimony. only witness that uh that you desire us to be. Pray now that you just guide and direct us we go to our homes and bring us back safely for the next meeting. And we'll give you praise for that in Jesus' name. Amen.