Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles together to the book of 2nd Chronicles. And we are in 2 Chronicles 36 tonight. Um I can't even remember how long we've been doing this. series through the Old Testament. It's it's been quite a while. But basically what we've done is we've done one series through the Old Testament, but we split it into like four different sections so that it doesn't look like we have 150 sermons in there. But this is actually the end of a section that we're dealing with, and that is looking at the story of Israel's history from Solomon, where the kingdom is together and then it divides, and then ultimately together to the destruction of Jerusalem and the destruction of Judah, and you say, well, what a horrible way to end the story. Well it's not really over when the nation goes into captivity. In fact, this chapter that we're going to look at is going to put just one final remember reminder that God is a gracious God and he loves his people. And he's going to be faithful to the nation. And so let's go ahead and look at verses 11 through 23 as we look at this story. of God working through the nation despite their disobedience. Here's what the scripture says. Zedekiah was one and twenty years old when he began to reign. And he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem, and he did that which was evil in the sight of the Lord his God, and humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet. speaking from the mouth of the Lord. He also rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear by God, but he stiffened his neck and hardened his heart from turning up Moreover, all the chief of the priests and of the people transgressed very much after all the abominations of the heathen and polluted the house of the Lord, which he had hallowed in Jerusalem. The Lord God of their fathers sent to them by his messenger, rising up before Abitans and sending, because he had compassion on his people. But they mocked the messengers of the Lord, and despised his words, and misused his prophets, until the wrath of the Lord rose against his people. Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chalides, who slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary Who had no compassion on their young man or maiden, old man of him that stooped from age, he gave them all into their hands, all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, the treasures of the house of the Lord. and the treasures of the king and his princes, all these he brought to Babylon. And they burned the house of God, and broke down the wall of Jerusalem, and burned all the palaces thereof with fire. And destroyed all the goodly vessels thereof, and them that had escaped from the sword carried he away to Babylon, where they were servants to him and his sons. Pause and ask the question if that was all the story. What a horrible way to end. But it's not the end of the story. It says they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia. Interesting statement, isn't it? To fulfill the word of the God of the mouth of Jeremiah until the land had enjoyed her Sabbaths. Another interesting Interesting statement. statement. As long as she lay desolate, she kept Sabbaths to fulfill three score and ten years. Now in the first year of Cyrus, King of Persia, that the word of the Lord spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, the Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia. That he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and put it also in writing, saying, Thus saith Cyrus, King of Persia. All the kingdoms of the earth hath the Lord God of heaven given me, and he hath charged me to build him a house in Jerusalem. Which is in Judah. Who is there among you of all his people? The Lord his God be with him. And let him go up. What an absolutely stunning way to end this book. And so let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to really glean some wonderful truths. From this text. Our Father, as we read your word tonight, and as we think about the content of this passage, help us to see both the sober warnings of your justice against sin. not just on the individual, but even on nations, as they rebel against you, how they put themselves in a very dangerous position. And help us to also see the tremendous measure of of grace that you poured on the on these people, not only on nations, but yes, even on individuals. How you take us in our lowest places when we are humbled and you draw us to yourself and you pour out your kindness upon us. I pray that as we look at this passage of scripture, you would speak to us The passage in front of us is so very interesting. I would summarize it like this. We are looking at the culmination of 425 years of Judah's history. And that 425 years of history, if you're to kind of put in perspective, that's like us today looking all the way back. to the time of the writing of the King James Version of the Bible. I mean, we're talking about 400 years of history. That's kind of crazy to think about. And think about all the different things that have taken place during that time. Israel had kings come to power and fall out of power. The nation was together as a people, and then it became divided as a people. There were many, many different things that happened along the way. And what do we see? We see 1 and 2 Kings being the history of all these different kings. And we see first and second chronicles being the history of all these different kings, and it shows you the miserable condition of the people, but it also shows you that that misery did not end without hope from God. And so let's kind of talk a little bit about just kind of digesting all the different things that we have talked about over quite a long period of time when we think about the history. So when we think about the history of this 425-year period, we're talking about from David all the way to a man named Zedekiah, who's named in this passage of Scripture. During that period, the nation experienced the rise and fall of many different kings. There are at least 20 different kings that are mentioned in this portion of Scripture. Of all those kings. Only four of them are mentioned as people who led some kind of spiritual reformation. Put that into perspective. Twenty kings, and out of those twenty that are mentioned, only four were really good kings. And by the way, all four of those good kings had some pretty serious Flaws that were laid out for us in those texts. We talk about David. David was probably the greatest of Israel's kings, but we know about the story of David and Bathsheba. And we see about how David's family just totally fell apart at the end of his reign. And we think about the fact that there was a split in the family and there was a split in the nation. And so even though David was a great king, he was a very flawed king. Then we see the story of Solomon. Solomon is the one who leads the kingdom to its greatest period of peace and prosperity and the greatest influence geopolitically. out of all the kings that are there. Yet what does Solomon do? He doesn't end very well, does he? At the end of his life, we see that he's a man that 's spiritually compromised in many, many different ways. And so from David to Solomon we've seen people like Asa. Asa was one who removed idols, he renewed the covenant. Amazing story. We see Jehoshaphat who sent teams of teachers all throughout the land and he's teaching the law of gor God, but when we talk about Jehoshaphat, we also talk about someone who was aligned with Ahab and he had a lot of problems associated with that. We talk about Hezekiah. I think Hezekiah leads one of the greatest periods in Israel's or Judah's history. He reopens the temple. And after he reopens the temple, what does he do? He destroys the high places. He tells the people, you need to seek the Lord. And he leads them through the Assyrian siege and which ultimately falls flat. Another great king. And then we see Josiah, the one that Pastor Josh talked about. This is the king that led probably the most comprehensive reform in the entire period of history. So over 400 years of history, only four individuals. Really lead the nation through a period of seeking the Lord. Now I think sometimes we look at our own country and we're like, oh, not so good, the the things that we're seeing in our culture, and I'm in no way trying to diminish the things that we see in our culture, but we ought to be thankful that even with all the terrible and all the troubles that we see in our country, there are many, many strong and vibrant churches all over this God has raised up many different people that are teaching the Word of God faithfully. Some of them you don't know them, but the fact is they're faithfully ministering. in a community, nobody knows their name, and uh at the judgment seat of Christ they're going to be found faithful. But the truth is those communities are being blessed as they are served by people who are faithfully teaching the word of God. God. It's true there's a lot of families that are uh falling apart in our nations today. It's also true there's a lot of really strong families. People that are raising their kids well and they're preparing them for life and they're gonna get married, they're gonna have children, they're gonna be faithful to to the Lord. And so what we see is over 400 years only four people, four names, that you could say they really led the nation well. Then there were three other kings who were known for following the Lord, but there was some significant qualification to what they're saying. Joash, Amaziah, and Uzziah would fall into those categories. So the question is, how do we summarize this history? We could summarize it with three thoughts. The first is this. Israel as a nation failed to do what God had appointed them to do as a people. In Exodus 19, verse 5 at Mount Sinai, this is what God says to the people. He's establishing a covenant with them. And he says, if you will obey my voice and keep my covenant. You shall be to me a peculiar treasure above all the peoples of the earth, for all the earth is mine. You shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, a holy nation, and these are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel. And Moses came and called the elders of the children of the people and laid before their faces all these words which the Lord commanded him. Israel. And all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord has spoken we will do. And then guess what? They failed. I mean, they failed from one generation after another generation after another generation. The people did not follow through with what God told them to do. The second thing I would say is this. For the most part, her kings failed to do what God had appointed them to do. And I go to Deuteronomy chapter 17, verse 14. This is a really, really important statement. The scriptures say, when thou art come into the land which the Lord thy God giveth thee, And shall possess it and dwell therein, thou shalt say, I will set a king over me like as the nations that are above me. It shall be When the king sits on the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write him a copy of this law. Could you imagine that? Not that he has a copy of the scripture, but he has a copy that he has personally with his own hand, he has written out the law of God. Why is that? Because as he is writing out the law of God, what's supposed to be going through his mind is, this kingdom does not belong to me. This kingdom belongs to God. These are his people. My position is simply one of mediating his rule to them. And the law of the land is not my opinion, it's not my whims, it's his law. And so as he's writing out these laws, he's being reminded this is God's nation. These are God's laws. I'm responsible to him to care for these people. And he was also to be aware of those laws. And so as he's writing these things out, this copy of the law, it says, it shall be to him, he shall read there in all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes to do them, that his heart be not lifted up above his brethren, that he turn not aside from the commandment to the right hand, to the left, to the end that he may prolong his days in this kingdom. Could you imagine if the presidents of the United States had to sit down and copy their own version of their own copy of the Word of God and that they were reminded that they answer to God? The answer to God. I think about the time of Joash. Joash didn't even have a copy of the Bible available to him. They're cleaning out the temple, which is an absolute mess, and they're like, look what we found. We found this scroll And they're like, What's the scroll? And he said, Well, it it looks like it's a scroll that's the law of God and he's like, Well then let's hear what it has to say and they open it up and they read it to him and as he's hearing these words, he's like, Where is We totally disregarded God. We don't listen to his law. It's not just that he wasn't writing down this copy and he wasn't ruling in the fear of the Lord, but he was not even having access to the scripture. So what does this tell you? Well, the nation failed, the kings failed. But what does God do? The answer is God is faithful. When God says he's going to do a thing, he does it. Even if all the odds are stacked against God accomplishing his purposes, he does it. does it. When God puts his word on the line, when his character is on the line, he is always faithful. And what I think is So amazing is what he says in Jeremiah 31, at one of the lowest moments in the history of these people, they are very close to going into captivity. They don't realize how close they are historically to the this moment they think they're okay God sending Jeremiah the prophet he's warning them he's preaching to them He's thrown into prison. He's writing the scripture. They tear it up. They throw it in the fire. This man had a very difficult ministry. And this is what he writes. Jeremiah 31, 31. Behold, the day comes, saith the Lord, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel. And with the house of Judah, not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt. Why? Because this is a covenant they broke. They broke the covenant. I'm going to establish a new one. He says, after those days I will put my law in their inward parts. I will write it in their hearts. I will be their God. They shall be my people. They shall teach no more every man his neighbor, every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord, they shall be known of me. From the least to the greatest, I will forgive their iniquity. I will remember their sins no more What is God saying? I'm going to be faithful even when my people are not. It's a pretty amazing thing to consider. God is going to follow through with his word. So that is the introduction to what we're looking at in these verses. What are we looking at in these verses? We're looking at both the failure of the people and the So let's look secondly at Judah's demise described in verses eleven through seventeen. Here's what it says. Zedekiah was twenty-one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. Jerusalem, and he did what was that which was evil in the sight of the Lord his God, and he humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet. Now I'm going to stop there, and what I'm going to do is I'm going to kind of work through some of the details of what we are seeing in these verses. First of all, we're looking at a period of time that is close to 150 years of history. Now that 150 years is kind of all of the tension that is building, leading up to what's going to be the ultimate captivity of these people. And during that period of 150 years, this is kind of at the latter end of it, there's constant power struggle in this portion of the world. By the way, still is. Okay. Obviously there still is a lot of power struggle in the world. By the way, isn't it amazing? Here's a story. Thousands of years ago, and you have The land of Judah in captivity and God raises up a Persian king nonetheless to rebuild Jerusalem To rebuild the temple, to send the people back, to literally fund the project, to literally protect the people while they're due. Pretty amazing to think about. Like who would have ever predicted that one? By the way, there's more history coming. Okay. So here's all this struggle between Egypt and Assyria. Assyria and the Babylonians, and there's constant struggle between Assyria and Egypt, and then ultimately the Babylonians rise to power and they conquered the Assyrians. And guess who's caught in the middle of that? Judah. Assyria falls to the Babylonians in a very short time in the early 600s. And so the last 22 years that are being talked about in these verses. are the most tumultuous and the weakest moments in the history of these people before they go into captivity. It's a time of political chaos. It's a time of moral decadence. And you have the names of four kings, Jehoihaz and Jehoiachib. Each of them they only reigned three months. It's like, welcome to the throne. You're not going to be here very long. That's what happened. Now, why is that? Why is it that these two guys only last three months? It's because they really weren't in charge. It's because they were basically puppet kings. And then we have two other names that are mentioned. This is Jehoiakim, not Jehoiakim, Jehoiakim, and Zedekiah. Each of these men reigned for eleven years each. But there's a little bit of a twist here. These men were essentially vassals. They were appointed by either the Egyptians or the Babylonians. And Jehoiakim, a vassal king to Egypt, ultimately ends up being a vassal king to the Babylonians because the Babylonians conquered the Egyptians. And then we have Zedekiah, who is appointed by Nebuchadnezzar, and what happens when he pushes back against Nebuchadnezzar? Well, he's crushed. And that's what ultimately leads to the destruction of Jerusalem. So what is the what is the legacy of this man Zedekiah? There are three things that are stayed about him that we need to miss that we need to not miss here. The first is in verse 12, and it talks about his attitude towards God. It says he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord his God. Number two, he did not humble himself before Jeremiah the prophet. Who spoke by the mouth of the Lord. One word. He was proud. He was arrogant. Here's this man who's at a time when the nation is so weak, has no power. And he still is pushing against what God tells him to do. The second thing we see is that he was arrogant towards Verse number 13 it says, He rebelled against King Nebuchadnezzar, who made him swear by God, he stiffened his neck, he hardened his heart from turning unto the Lord God of Israel. So it's not just that he ignored what God had to say through the prophet Jeremiah, but here's Nebuchadnezzar who basically appoints him to this position. He is a vassal king. And he says, you know, I'm going to push back against Nebuchadnezzar. Nebuchadnezzar says, that was a really bad move. And he basically comes and he says, I'm going to remove you, I'm going to crush you, and I'm going to completely decimate the space. And this people's never going to be able to stand up and do what they've done before because I'm going to impose my will on them. That's what Nebuchadnezzar chose to do. But it wasn't just this man's attitude towards God and the king. It was also the attitude of the people Let's not get in our minds that we have this holy and righteous people and they love God and they fear the Lord and they're doing what's right, but they have a king who's really a nutcase. That's not what's going on On. From the lowest of the low to the highest of the high, that the nation was thoroughly corrupted. There was a little remnant of believers there amongst the people people and God preserved those people both there in Jerusalem in those that rubble that was left of a city and those who were transported into Babylon who were going God had a remnant of people that loved him, that served him, that were faithful. He preserved their lives, but for the most part, the nation was arrogant towards God and could care less about what was sacred. Here's what he says in verse 14. Moreover, all the chief of the priest and the people transgressed very much after all the abominations of the heathen. They polluted the house of the Lord, which he had hallowed in Jerusalem. So here's my question. If that's the state of the nation, why should God overlook this incredible wickedness? How should God respond to such wickedness? Simple answer: punish it. He should judge it. He has been kind, he has been merciful, he has been forbearing, he's given opportunity after opportunity. There comes a point Where the line's been crossed. And this passage of scripture shows us the character of God. And that's really being highlighted, not just the legacy of Zedekiah, a man who is proud. Against God and man, a people who are arrogant against the things of the Lord, but also the character of God. In verse 15 he says this The Lord God of their fathers sent them by his messenger Rising up betimes. The idea is over and over and over and over and over again. He sends these people, and the question is: why? Because he had compassion on his people. and on his dwelling place. Now go back over 400 plus years of history and ask the question, how patient is God? He's patient enough that despite only four kings leading a true time of peace and submission to God, he did not judge the nation in all those years. But there comes a point where God has to deal with the people. God is righteous. Verse number 16, it says, they mocked The messengers of God, they despised his words, they misused his prophets until the wrath of the Lord rose against his people. And this statement is very sobering. Till there was no remedy. So God is patient and God is merciful and he is forbearing and he extends his hand over and over and over again. But there comes a point. Where the people have crossed the line, and what does God do? He says, I must punish this wickedness. And there's no way that this is something that you are going to miss. They constantly mocked, they despised, they misused God's prophets. And there was no remedy. That leads us finally to the justice of God. Verses 17 through 20, it says this: For this reason, therefore, he brought on them the king of the Caladees. He slew their young men with the sword. He had no compassion on young man, made an old man, him that stooped for age. He gave them all into his hand They burnt the house of God. They break down the wall of Jerusalem. They burnt the palaces with fire. And those that escaped with the sword, they c from the sword they carried away into Babylon, where they were servants. To him and to his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia. That's so sobering. All of this history, and that's where it ends. God's justice. But that's not the end. There's one more component to God's character that is demonstrated here, and that is the fact that God is a gracious God. And that phrase, until the reign of the kingdom of Persia, leads us into one final thing that God says. He wasn't done with the people. And verses 22 and 23 it says, In the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, so that the word of the Lord spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, and he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and put it in writing, saying, Thus saith Cyrus, king of Persia, all the kingdoms of the earth has the Lord, the God of heaven, given to me. He hath charged me To build a house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there among you of all the people, the Lord his God, be with him, and let him go up? Now, when Jeremiah gave that prediction, Persia was not a world power. Cyrus was not yet born. The question is, how in the world was Jeremiah able to make such a prediction? It's very simple, because God gave him that revelation. Can you imagine what 's going through the mind of this Persian king Cyrus when he says, I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to rebuild Jerusalem? I'm going to rebuild their temple. I'm going to rebuild their land. I'm going to send people in captivity back to this region. I'm going to put financial backing behind them. I'm even going to protect them as they do the work. What in the world is going on in this man's mind? The answer is the providence of God working. It's the way to explain it. God moved and worked and stirred up this man's heart. Whatever his motives were, God's word was accomplished. So the question we should all ask is this. What do we learn from all this? What do we learn from this story of the history of these people? The good, the bad, their failures. God's justice, God's forbearance, God's grace. What do we learn from that? Let me give you a couple of thoughts here as we kind of pull this together to close out this study. The first thing is this, events do not happen in a vacuum. One of the most valuable things you and I can do is read history and learn from it. It might also be one of the most frustrating things we do as well. Because what we see as we study history is that that people repeat these things over and over and over again. Because human nature is consistently broken and stubborn and foolish and self-centered and proud. People don't learn from the past. But there's another thing that we learn from history. There's a God in heaven who works in all of that mess to accomplish his purposes. That's one of the things that we learn about history. And the events that are going on in these verses that are recorded for us, they do not happen in a vacuum. We could explain these things simply by talking about, we could say the dynamics that were going on in that region at the time. Judah became very unstable politically. They became very weak. And that did practically lead to their demise. But the weakness of these people was not just about the the strength of their economics or something like that or the rise of Assyria or Babylon. There was more to it than that. Her problem was not the strength of the enemy, we know the story of the Assyrians coming to lay siege on Hezekiah. The problem, the rejection of God, the rejection of his ways. When the people were backed into a corner and they got on their knees and they cried out to God and said, God save us, guess what he did? He did that. But when the people had nothing to do with them, guess what? God said, You'll face the fruit of your labors. We also see that God gave these people so many opportunities to correct course. He says, here's an opportunity. You're in a low position. Turn to me. He raises up a king who is faithful and he says, follow me. And then the next generation doesn't. So many times God gave these people opportunity to course correct. Yet what did they do? They mocked him. They ignored him. But what does God do? He continues to do his work despite all the turmoil. Events don't happen in a vacuum. Second thing is this: people can reach a point of no return. Now I think that we should be a forbearing people. Personally, we should be forbearing. We should be patient with people. We should give them opportunity to humble themselves, the course correct, and all those things. But it is true that there comes a point Where someone has pushed so hard against what God says that when they cross that line, God says, it's over. You don't get another opportunity. You say that's not fair. No, that's the way life works. It works in our interpersonal lives sometimes. A person can cross the line. And the reality is you have to protect yourself. You have to defend yourself. You have to be cautious in that around that individual. When it comes to God's dealings with people, there comes a point where the forbearance and the mercy and the grace is now replaced with pure justice. You say, when's that day? Well it's the day you die for sure. It's the day that people gather around your casket. You're not going to be able to make any more decisions. It's over. The choices you made in life have been sealed. Either you're with the Lord or you're not. You'll face the consequences of your action. There is a day that the line gets crossed. It's true in our personal lives. It's also true in history with nations. The third thing we see is this. God offers grace even when people are at their lowest points. Till a person has reached that line, God extends grace. And by the way, even there are times that a person reaches a very low place. And that would be the time above all else that God lays out his grace to that person. And it reminds me of Lamentations 3. 22. Lamentations is written, as people are mourning the destruction of their city. By the way, they're mourning because they survived it. And this is what he says. It is of the Lord's mercies we are not consumed. A lot of people were, but the ones who wrote this, and the ones who spoke this, and the ones who reflected on this, they were the survivors. It's of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. His compassions fail not. They are new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. The Lord is my portion. saith my soul, therefore will I hope in him. The Lord is good to them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him. It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the Lord. When God has humbled people and they have the presence of mind to recognize I'm still here despite all of this misery, guess what? It's an opportunity. It was an opportunity for those people that survived this horrible season of their history. They were the remnant. They were the ones who were left. They were the ones who needed to rebuild the city. They were the ones who needed to rebuild their civilization. They were the ones that needed to have children and have families and see their offspring raised behind them. Those survivors said it's of God's mercy. were not consumed. And so what do you see? Justice and grace together. And we see that in this text. When we think about 1 and 2 Kings, we see God demonstrating that it was justifiable for him to judge the people. When we look at 1 and 2 Chronicles, we see that God is saying, I'm not done with you as a people. I still love you. I've still made promises, and those promises are valid, and I'm going to work through them. And you know what God did? He raised up this king Cyrus. Who treated the nation with kindness, and he initiated the rebuilding of their society from the ground up. You know, I pray that we never have to live through such a terrible thing in our own lives. But the fact is there are people historically that have. And when they live through those traumatic moments, guess what? Those who were left had an opportunity to rebuild freshly. And that's what the people did. And by the way, that period in Judah's history, from that time all the way to the time of Christ, was something that defined those people in a very significant way. Last thing I want to mention is this, and what I think is the most significant. There is no greater example that God is faithful to his people. Than what he did for us when he sent his son. God is a faithful God, and he demonstrates this on a national scale God is a faithful God. He demonstrates that on a personal level in our lives. God is a faithful God in that he demonstrated this to humanity. The greatest testimony of God's faithfulness is the gospel. He promised to keep. He promised that he was going to give us a Savior, and despite all the different obstacles, that came up throughout all that history. Guess what? God followed through. He worked through people that had mixed motives, faulty character, made really bad choices. He worked through them. He dealt with our sin once and for all in a way that didn't compromise his justice at the cross. And he calls us repent and believe. And he says, whoever is willing to turn to him and place their faith in Christ, he's not willing that any should perish, that all should come to repentance. You can be saved. So we think about the God that we serve. Don't ever forget He's a God of justice. He's a God of patience. God of faithfulness. That is really, I think, the greatest takeaway from the history of these people. May we never forget that. This is the God we serve. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, we're so thankful that despite a lot of history of turmoil A lot of failure, a lot of sin, a lot of pride, a lot of turmoil and weakness. You continued to show kindness to these people. And even when they crossed the line and were judged You preserved a remnant, and that remnant was given an opportunity, and you raised up a king who would ultimately be used of you to help these people rebuild. I thank you for the way that you teach these lessons to us through the history of these people. Father, help us to remember that you are the same God in our lives. When you bring us low, it's not because you hate us. But it's because you love us and you want to humble us and you want to work in our lives. Father, I thank you for the greatest testament of your faithfulness, the work of Christ, and his redemption for us. May we never get over that wonderful, wonderful blessing that we have in Christ. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen