I think it's on the last new technology. It's on. Hit on. Thanks for coming up. Nice to meet you. It's good to have you here today. Is it working now? You know, sound guys get blamed for a lot of things. And most of the time it's the speaker's fault. And we've we've realized that quite o quite a few times. Well li this is so exciting. Uh I remember I was talking to Pastor Joel, texting Pastor Joel back uh I don't know when it was, probably in the summer, and And um yeah, I was like I I just didn't didn't anticipate this one happening. I was kind of putting a schedule together and and uh seeing what was going on and uh and uh I was like, you think this is gonna happen, Pastor? Absolutely it's gonna happen. And uh all along and I'm like, okay, we'll see. And uh, you know, because uh because the things going back and forth with everything, um, and I'm so excited uh to be able to be here and to be able to have the the lit conference. I can't remember now how many lit conferences there are now, what lit conference this is, but it's been going on for quite some time. And it's been a very profitable thing. This church has had a mi opportunity and ministry to do over the last number of years. I'm very thankful for it. Thank you guys for coming out. And uh uh and for those who are who are listening and uh you know on on online as well. Thank you for being here. And uh I think it's gonna be a very profitable thing. And I heard the topic, uh talking about social media and technology and stuff like that. I'm like, okay, if there's not something that's more pertinent to this day and age, I don't know what it is. uh maybe masks. But uh we could have a whole conference on masks. That's what we should do. Uh although, you know, I think after we're done with these mask things, f I think we're gonna actually have to still wear 'em for a few more months, even though they tell us we don't have to wear them. them anymore. I just think we're gonna have to wear them backwards to retrain our ears to go back. So we put them on the back of our head to keep our ears back. That was a joke. That was funny So, okay. Uh anyway, uh I'm I'm I'm very uh very excited about you about being here, me being able to be here and you guys being here today uh as well. I'm looking forward to a wonderful day And uh obviously we're going to center all of this. I love the direction of everything. We're centering it around how the Bible teaches us to live our lives. And uh specifically in this topic, we're gonna talk about a lot of the meat that goes into a decision about your social media, about uh technology and different things like that. And so guys listen listen closely and uh and really take these principles to heart. Really understand what uh God has uh for you uh uh this uh this this uh this day. And uh let's pray. Ask God to help us and uh we will uh we will continue on with our session here. Let's pray. Father, thank you again uh for the opportunity you've given to us to be able to uh be here today And Lord, we don't want to look at this day as just something, as an opportunity to be able to get out and uh go finally interact with somebody else, uh, uh, Lord. But I pray that you would help us. to really take the truth from your word. And we, Lord, I pray, you know I've prayed this many times. I don't want anything that I say to interfere, to destroy From how your word teaches us to live our lives. Lord, I pray that you would help that to be the case today. I pray that as we walk out these doors this afternoon, this evening, that uh we're we're different, uh not because of anything necessarily we've done, not even because of the interaction, Lord, oh, that's a profitable thing we know. But because we've interacted with your word, your Holy Spirit has taught us. And Lord, I pray that that would be the case today. Give us truth. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Were you the one that was up here with me just a minute ago? Okay, I want to give you, thank you for participating. I want to give you our latest Six week. I've got a couple of others we're gonna be giving away. I'm gonna give you our latest six-week devotional. And many of you, how many of you are familiar with oh, my name is Willie Parton. I'm from the Wilds Christian camp. How many of you have ever been to the Wilds? Okay, how many of you have not been to the wilds? Sinners. I'm just kidding. We'd love to have all of you. No, there's a lot of good camps. The edges here as well. And uh know there's a lot of good options. out there. We'd love to have you come to the wilds for sure. One of the ministries we have is Rand Hummel, who was here last year, should be here again next year for this. conference. He and I kind of go back and forth on it. But he has a a ministry of the wild that that that he writes six-week devotionals. And about a year and a half to two years ago he started working on our latest six-week devotionals. emotional and uh like to and we it's actually just come out about three weeks ago and uh here it is it's called contagious That was not intentional. I do th I do think that's extremely funny though. Uh Lord knows, man. He's the he there's humor in this even though we hate it all Uh but uh you know, I just think uh Lord knows and uh he's obviously he's not talking about pandemics in this, uh but he is talking about true joy and love and different things that come from obviously from Christ. So I've got a couple of those one but I want to go ahead and give you that. Uh it's fresh off the press there. So uh but uh uh there's a a couple other things that we'll be talking about as well um throughout the course of of this day. And we'll be given some uh some promotionals as well for these different camps. If I can remember the password to my iPad, I there we go. Okay. Um I appreciate uh the Marinatha guys as well and uh their ministry. They they're I'm telling you they they love k they love teens and this is why we're this is why we're here man. We love you guys. And uh it's not just because we love to hang out with teenagers, okay? We do that is true. But we want our passion guy and and and I I feel like this is the the ministry of the church here, uh talking to edge guys earlier, obviously for up And uh we're here because we want you to walk away with the truth of the word of God because we know that liberates us. You know, this world is a pretty stinky place to live. But you know what? God has called us to live here. And uh we can live here extremely effectively. And our desire for you is that you hear truth, not our not our our uh perception of different things, not our ideas. I don't really care to mean this. I don't care if you walk away with anything today from what Willie says. Okay? I absolutely care that you hear God's word and you walk away with that truth. I love the uh the the song that we picked out that the guys picked out for for the theme song. Uh and he he it walks through the whole life as a as a Christian. We're justified. Okay? And guys, you understand what that means. You are justified. How many of you sin? All right, every single one of us can raise our hands. But you know what? If you know Jesus Christ as personal savior, you are justified. You are, and that what that means is you are made just. I don't understand. I don't understand necessarily how God did this. I understand how the process of what he did. I don't understand how he can do this because I sin But when Christ, when God looks at Willie, you know what he sees? He sees righteousness. But I sin every single day. That's God's business. And God says, this is what I'm going to do for you. And you are justified, and you never have to worry about it. There is therefore now no condemnation. To those of us who know Christ. Now I do want to say this. I'm going to be amiss if we didn't say this. If you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you sit condemned. It's not a safe place to be. But if you do know Jesus Christ, let me say this: if you're sitting here and you don't know Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, our prayer is that today would be the day of salvation for you. That today would be the acceptable time for you, that you would undercome to a saving knowledge of Him. Because what that song is even talking about, first you're justified, and guess what? Now you walk through this life, and there is sanctification. That comes. That's the purpose of the church. That's the purpose of what we're doing today. It's to help us. And the only way we can be more sanctified, and what we're talking about being sanctified. This is something that happens throughout the course of our life, okay? You grow throughout the course of your life to be more like Jesus. That's exactly what the intent of the Bible is. And so when you hear truth, not any of my opinion, okay, honestly, but when you hear truth from God's Word If you are a believer, if you're a Christian, the Holy Spirit lives within you to teach you that truth. And guess what? Because of that, you start to grow. And you start to take this truth and the truth that might not necessarily, you might have to understand how it applies to daily life. Why? Because even the topic we're talking about today, there is truth in Scripture to guide you in this. There is truth in Scripture to guide you in your use of social media. The Bible teaches us how to do this. Now, does anybody has anybody come up with a verse that actually talks specifically about social media in Scripture? No, okay. It's the same thing with TV when I was growing up. There were no verses that necessarily talked about what you do with a television. Why? That's not a trick question. Here are they weren't invented. They weren't invented The Apostle Paul did not have a TV set. Okay? We understand that. However, 2 Peter tells us this. That God has given us everything. And he wasn't just talking about back then. Guys, this is a living and a breathing book. And what it does, it applies to you today. In 2 Peter, we see that God has given us everything we need for life and godliness. And there is nothing left out. That absolutely applies to social media. Okay? Now, I do want to say this. We are not here to demonize social media. Okay? If we did that, we would be all hypocrites. Okay? Because I just posted a picture of you guys, sorry, I just told you. On f on Facebook, okay? Not individually, but as a group. And and I use social media Okay? There are benefits to it. There are obviously some things that are not benefits to social media, things that honestly can be bad. But there are principles in the Word of God to guide you in these truths. The key is balance. Understanding the truths and then making sure that things are balanced Okay, this is just natural, okay, this illustration. Okay. Things that are out of balance don't work properly. Okay? Give me some illustrations. You might have to be more distinct in what you're saying because you all have things on your faces. What are some things that, if out of balance, do not work well? Yeah. Ma something mechanical? A c That's why this uh he said a catapult, I think, right? Okay. I love these masks. I uh ma ca a catapult, why? Because if it's out of balance you might end up getting tracked in the thing with a rock instead of tracking the motor I love that. Anybody hear anybody said? Because it's out of balance. You might get f smacked in the face with a rock instead of smacking somebody else in the face with a rock. But he's exactly right. Okay? It could be a very dangerous thing for somebody to use a catapult and it's not balanced. You don't know. I love it. I love that illustration. I will take that one from here and use it again. Yeah. What government. Not going there. Oh I could, but I'm not. Okay. Point taken. Next. Yeah. Okay, now you're you're you're using some scripture, that's good. No man can serve two masters. There's a biblical illustration of something being out of balance when we're when we're serving this thing, we can't serve something else. Good, thank you. What are some what are some physical illustrations? Yeah. A tire on a car. Okay, why? It'll wobble. Has anybody ridden a car like that? Okay, yeah I I I love that we have an auto shop like literally twenty feet from my house and I like working on cars and we have a a auto a wheel balancer in there Well, I was learning to use this wheel balancer and I'd be able to put the weights and stuff and and I couldn't really get it, so I was like, eh, whatever. So I stuck my tire on my car. It does not work well Okay? Going with an alignment as well, which affects that as well. Your car will veer off to one side. Why would that be a bad thing? Think crash. Okay. Alright, good. Very good. Anything ill illustration? Yeah. Forks on a forklift. Forks on a forklift. You have one and you don't have another, it ain't gonna lift nothing. That was a double negative It's not gonna work, okay? Alright, some girls. What's some illustrations from you some of you girls? Who are you pointing at? Oh. I don't see it. Yeah. Say it again? A scale. Oh, oh good, yeah. Well that's a perfect illustration because it's m it's intended, it's created to balance, right? And if you have something on this side and there's nothing on it's not gonna I mean it is actually working properly, but it's not what we want. I'm sorry, I'm coming off of social media, I'm sorry So about social media, and I'm stepping off of the actual social media source. Um good. So anything anything else that weights, what about lifting weights? What would be a problem if that was out of balance? If you put 150 pounds on this side and nothing on this side. Okay, you're probably going to die. You're going to get hit in the face with a weight. Okay? Things that Girl illustrate. What if there was makeup on one side of a face and not on the other? Okay? What would that do? I mean you're looking at this side, you're like, oh, and you look at this side, ooh. Okay Guys, things in balance. God created things to be balanced. And we can we can look at that in scripture. Again, I don't want to take that down a road too far because I think that could lead us astray. However, the point is this: our balance is what is necessary for proper use of social media. And I don't want we're not we're not here to demonize this. I'm not I I I don't want to stand up here and be like and I I I experienced that a lot growing up of people demonizing certain things and I'm looking at them like Okay, I don't really see that. There was a a book out that talked about a lot of the demons back when I was young, demons in a toy box, and I'm like, I play with some of these toys. I'm like, oh, I don't want to serve Satan. Um I I think that was out of proportion. I'm not here, we're not here to do this. The reality is this social media is a part of our lives. Okay? And uh I think it can be a very good part. The question is, how are we going to handle it? What are going to be the governing choices as you use social media? And we'll throw technology in, okay? In your life. What is going to govern you? Because, guys, something has to govern you. You can't just say that social media, there's nothing wrong with it, because we know that there can be things that are that are wrong with social media We can't be blind to this. We can't be blind to the fact that these things could be out of balance. And the key is to be able to do this is to have the right mindset. Okay? And we're talking about the right mindset. We're talking about The mindset of having a view of eternal compared to the view of the temporal. Over and over in the scripture, we are instructed to not be consumed with the things of this world. We are taught to be consumed with the things of heaven and live in this world. That's how we're to live. I'd like you to take your Bibles, turn to Romans chapter 12. This passage right here, Romans chapter 12 is kind of a transition point in the book of Romans It kind of talks about what we were talking about earlier, even with the theme of the song that we were singing. And the book of Romans. I mean there's a couple of transitions in here, but it basically talks about what justification is. What how how justification happens To those of us who know Christ. And then it kind of transitions into, okay, this is how you live in light of that justification. This is how you walk. We see that in Romans chapter 6. It also happens again in Romans chapter 12. Romans chapters 12, chapter 12, verses 1 and 2 really kind of give us a guiding point to to being able to understand how the transition happens into everyday life. There's so much instruction that comes in the in the rest of this book of Romans. But Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2, they really teach us how to make decisions. It teaches us how we look at something and say, okay, I can be confident in knowing I am making a right decision based on Romans chapters 12, verses 1 and 2. Okay? I think you'll see that clearly as we walk through this here in the next next couple of minutes. Romans chapter 12, verses 1 and 2. Let me read that. You follow along. It says this, wherefore I'm sorry, that's Hebrews. Don't go there. Romans chapter twelve, verses one and two , says this. I beseech you therefore, brethren. Obviously he's talking to believers. the word brethren. I beseech you therefore, brethren. Now what is the word therefore therefore? Well that word therefore is there because he's saying in light of everything you've been instructed in the first eleven chapters. What have we been instructed in in the first 11 chapters? This is what justification is. Because you have been justified, obviously there's a lot more there. But because you have been justified, this is what should happen. For you. Okay? So understand as we walk through this verse, okay, as we kind of tear apart this verse and really understand it from a from a biblical perspective, uh what Where we are in the context, I beseech you, therefore, brethren, in light of everything you've seen in first eleven chapters, and I say, by the mercies of God, because Of what Christ has done for you. Let me say this: the mercies of God And our understanding of the mercies of God from a biblical perspective should motivate us. Okay? Okay, we're listen. This is a deep passage, okay? Um, but I am confident that you can get this. I I I know that you can understand it. We're going to talk about some deep uh deep deep deep passage here. But I know you can get this. A couple reasons. Number one, you're not stupid. Okay? And secondly, most importantly If you have Jesus Christ living within, you have the Holy Spirit to teach you this truth. Now, what you need to do is pay attention and focus. Okay, that's your responsibility So you pay attention and you focus and you think, which is what this verse talks about, you will get the deep things of God. Okay, I am not under the mindset that teenagers can't understand Scripture. They absolutely can. Okay? Now, you do need to focus. You need to pay attention. You need to have the Word of God. You have the Holy Spirit living within you to teach you the Word of God. So you can get this. I've heard it said before that there are places in Scripture that are uh shallow enough to wade through. I've also heard that there are places in scripture that are deep enough to drown an elephant in. Okay? Guess which one this one is This is a drowny elephant passage. Okay, but you can get this. Okay? And we're jumping in the deep end of this pool here. Okay? I'm like that crazy uncle at family reunions that pushes you in the deep end. You can't push I'm that crazy uncle, okay? So we're pushing you in the deep end, but you can get this. Okay? So that being said, really focus, really pay attention. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. Now, I'm going to ask you this question. After I say this statement. The mercies of God should motivate us. You talk to me. This is why this is deep. What are we talking about? We're talking about the mercies of God. Yeah. What has he done for us? Yeah, what has he done for us? that we can use it in some different things without and um and a thing I'm just going to get you up here to preach this. Because he's got the illustrations and he's got the passage. Okay? It's exactly right. He's given us all these things. And bottom line, he boiled down in one time, he has saved you. In spite of you. We don't deserve it. That's the mercies of God. God has done this for you. Why? Because it's his responsibility? Nope. Why has he done this? Because he loves us. Because he loves us He loves you. Not you as a group. He loves you. And if you were the only person that ever walked on this planet, he would have done the exact same thing. He would have sent Jesus Christ to die for you if you're the only person that ever existed because he loves you. He is a personal God And you've got to understand that truth. You've got to live that truth. You've got to understand why. Because when we really contemplate these mercies of God, what does it do? It motivates us. You know, guys, what we're doing, and over this, you're like, where's he go? How's he going to get to social media here? We're getting there, okay? But we've got to build this foundation of truth before we can apply it. I therefore beseech you, therefore, by the mercies of God to do what? The Bible study. To do what? Huh? You've got to be real distinct in your con what you say. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you do what? Present your body what? How? What kind of a living sacrifice? And? Which is what? You guys just said a Bible study He said, by the mercy of God, I am begging you, I am I am pleading with you that you would present your body. So guys, in this, okay, so we're gonna talk about decision making. And as we walk through, we'll talk about specific decision making in regards to our social media. This passage teaches us what it means to make a decision. For the glory of God. If you're saved, He's given you these mercies, and I am begging you, Paul is saying to the church, I am begging you, in light of the mercies of God, that you would present your body a living sacrifice. You would present your body. So when we're thinking about social media and thinking about our decision making, number one, you have to have proper priorities. Okay? That should be it should come up on the screen there. To having the proper priorities. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that what is our priority? That you present your body a living sacrifice Holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. Say, okay, by the mercy of God, God, I am yours So the very first thing, if you're going to make a decision, and again we're applying this to social media, if you're going to make a godly decision, the very first thing that has to be a part of your life is that you are presenting your body a living sacrifice. Romans chapter 6, the other places in this book that, in the book of Romans, that uses that word present is in Romans chapter 6. In Romans chapter 6, he is telling us that we need to present our members, our body, as instruments of righteousness to God, as opposed to instruments of unrighteousness to sin. So when you boil this point down, okay? When you boil this point down, presenting your bodies and living sacrifice, when you boil this down. What is he saying? You must be committed to living for God. I am presenting my body. Obviously, this is a picture. This living sacrifice is a picture of what we see in the Old Testament, of a lamb. And this lamb The sacrifice, the intent was that obviously it wasn't dead. Okay? It came to the altar living. It didn't bring in a dead sacrifice And this this sacrifice was uh blameless, the the word that they would use, but it was spotless. Didn't have any issues. As much as possible, it was the perfect Lamb to bring to the sacrifice. And Paul is saying, listen, this is us. Now he is not saying that we are a dead sacrifice. That would be martyrdom. He's not calling for that here. I mean that there have been plenty of kinds of scripture when it came to that. That's not what he's asking. He's not asking you to go to go specifically die at this point. He's saying, listen, as you live. You are to present your body this living sacrifice. What should it look like? It should be holy. It should be acceptable to God, which by the way is a reasonable service if you think about it. So what are we talking about here? Again, let me back it up so you understand, because this is deep. You're like, where does it apply to social media? It applies to social media because this is how we learn to make decisions. Social media every single day should be a decision. So so and every single time we use it should be a a godly decision. So we have proper priorities. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. What kind of a living sacrifice? Holy and acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service. So as you guys look at your social media, again, this is to help you guide you in making decisions about social media. Number one, you have to be committed. To following God no matter what. That has to be priority. Okay, in regards to my social media, then Lord, this should be used for your glory. This should be used to not bring you disglory. Does that make sense? I am motivated when I pull up Instagram or pull up Facebook or something like that. Am I using this in a God-honoring way? Or am I not using this in a God-honoring way? Social media If we look at social media and think, okay, that's just one of those things that really doesn't apply to Scripture. It doesn't really , absolutely, there's principles that govern it. And the top priority is: am I doing this to the glory of God? Am I using this to the disglory of God? That's got to be governing us. Is it wrong to use social media? And you might be sitting here saying, well, I mean, I'm not necessarily using it to glorify God. Listen, God has given us things in this life to enjoy. Okay? And there's nothing wrong with that. How many of you enjoy going out to eat? So do I. How many of you like red velvet cake? How many of you don't like red velvet cake? Sinners. This is wrong. Now , a ridiculous illustration, but can't am I necessarily eating red velvet cake to glorify God? Well it depends on how you look at it. No, you're right. I am not looking at it and saying, okay, because I'm eating this cake, I am glorifying God However, I can glorify God, and I must glorify God in that. Can I eat red velvet cake? Again, this is a ridiculous illustration, but I think it proves our point. To the dishonor of God. Okay? How? What? Gluttony. Gluttony If I eat a whole cake, which oh I wanna oh I would love to do that I think I could do that. But I couldn't do that. And honor God. Okay? So backing this up to social media, it's the same type of thing. God has given us things. Uh the passage in John where he says he says, God has given us life. That first life there is he's talking about uh li eternal life. And then he goes on to say, And he has given it more abundantly. That phrase, more abundantly, means things that are super added to life to make life even more enjoyable. God has given us things to enjoy We live in a day where there is social media and we can we can use those in a in our in a righteous way. But absolutely we can use them in an unrighteous way as well. But the point is this. Our priority doesn't mean that social media just doesn't apply, absolutely doesn't apply. Our priority must be what? Commitment to God. I am presenting my body a living sacrifice. God, everything that I do is for your glory. And the thing that I do Again, you've been to the wilds, you know whether therefore ye eat or or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory. Of God. We're not putting that verse in front of a meal just because, like, oh, it says eat and drink. It applies to food. Let's say it. No. There's a purpose. Everything we do should be to glorify God. And we can absolutely use red velvet cake and still bring God glory , social media and still bring God glory, but we can't if it's disproportionate in our priorities And I hope you're getting this because this is a huge point in again listen. This is we're using this as a base illustration because This is for any decision we make in life. This passage right here guides us in any decision that we will ever make in life if we use it. So Paul again is saying, I'm begging you, church, Christian, that as you dwell on the mercy of God, they should motivate you by the mercy of God that you do what? That you number one, you step there and you say, Okay, I'm presenting my body a living sacrifice. I have to have proper priorities. My first priority is to please and honor God with everything that I do. So in my social media, how do I make how do I make God my priority? Well, number one, under having proper priority, you must build your life around the word of God. I'm saying it again. You must build your life around the word of God. Does that make sense? How does that apply? Okay, you guys talk to me a little bit. How would that apply to social media? Okay, share a verse with okay, something on uh okay, good. I think there's something even more of a more of a thought, but that's good. That's a practical application, it's good, is where we're going. What else? How does this apply? Building your life around the Word of God as opposed to social media. Not posting anything um inappropriate free or anything like that on first. So what he said and then what you said, he said not appro not not posting anything that would not be honoring to God Right? If there are things that might cause people that this is why it takes discernment, which we'll talk about in just a second It takes a proper understanding of saying, okay, can this be construed in a wrong way? Can it be taken in a wrong way? Will it direct people away from honoring God? Doesn't mean we can't post certain things. There's sometimes really I rarely post on Facebook. Sometimes I'm speaking someplace or when my team wins a game that they shouldn't win. Um I post about that. But I uh but honestly if I'm gonna post accurately, I think I I think I try to do this. Okay, I look at that post, I think about that post. Will that detract? from honoring God. Will that cause somebody else to not honor God? That's the point. Okay? Good. Somebody back here has a thought? Yeah. Anything inappropriate, obviously. And then that applies to someplace else in scripture that governs what would be appropriate, right? We know there are certain things in the Word of God that are that would tell it, God would say, this is inappropriate. Okay? What else? There's a big one Okay, we're getting there. We're not there yet. That's our next point, okay? That that's gonna be the application, but you're good, you're right. Okay? What is something else when when when the word of God Should be we should center our life, we should create our life around the Word of God. What is the first thing? Read the Word of God Okay. Study God's word and make that a priority. I have I have put it into my into into my uh into my life that I I don't want to get on not just Not just social media, but you know, I like in the morning I'm wondering, okay, I've been asleep for eight hours and I'm sure the world is blowing up more than it was eight hours ago, so I want to get on and look at the news, okay? 'Cause that's what happens. You can turn the on every 15 minutes and no there's another area that the world is blowing up. And I'm, you know, I'm interested in that. But I've made it a priority in my life That I don't want to get on anything social media or news or sports And I I I just I have a I have a 16-year-old and a 15-year-old, I have a 16-year-old daughter, 15-year-old son. And we just gave them not Budget phones our old phones because when they go down to camp we want to be able to hey we need a ride. They don't have access to they don't have access not you can't use their phone, there's no phone number, but they can get on the internet down there. with it. So we gave them those. But I'm instilling these things in their life. I'm like, okay, this is how you use this. Okay? And I've told them, you're not to be on those things. You shouldn't even pick them up until you've spent time in God's Word. Now Am I saying that you have to spend, have your time in the Word first thing in the morning? I don't believe the Bible necessarily tells us that However, I think that's the healthiest thing to do. Okay. Now when I was a teenager, I had my when the Lord really started working my heart, I had my time in the word from ten to ten thirty. That's what I did. Nothing it I Obviously if I were away or something like that, that interfered, but nothing else interfered. Um So I'm not saying I'm not saying the Bible tea tells us we have to do that. However, I think it's the healthiest thing. Why? Because it's so easy to just be distracted with the things of the world and then we stop, we don't contemplate the things of God. And that means our life's a little bit out of whack. Priorities aren't right. And guys, if we're going to be governed by principles of the Word of God, then guess what? In our social media and everything else, then The word of God has to be our priority. Next, it does say in this as far as proper priorities, minister to real-life people. Okay? Um In reality, what we're seeing here is that the the things, our priorities, must be things that are eternal. Okay? What is eternal? How God teaches us. What God says is eternal. What else is eternal? People are eternal. Well yeah, you know, there are people on social media. I'm talking about real live people. Real live people. No our family. Now I I get distracted with this sometimes, but because emails and stuff like yeah, but no no s no phones at the table. Uh why? Because there's real live people at the table. I can actually have a real live conversation. With a real person. You come to the wilds. What's the first thing that uh we say you can't have? Cell phones. Why? Because we hate you and want you to have a bad time. No. No. No, there's there's multiple reasons. Number one, it's a distraction. Let's not have it. It's cool. Fifteen years ago, or whenever cell phones came out, uh That was a huge thing. When the kids started really bringing cell phones, they were like, What you take on cell phone? No, wait, no, you're not gonna do that, you can't do that. And they would obviously be hiding it, I'm sure. Some of them still do. But um it's funny now when I make that announcement, and whoever makes that announcement, you don't feel kids balking as much anymore. Because they're like, I think, I think, I think you're seeing it I think you're seeing how how cell phones can really govern your life. And you're like, you know what? It's not a bad thing. I picked up a girl from the airport, uh wife and up uh for CIT uh a couple years ago and she had no clue about the wild. She came to the wilds. Her dad had been a camper when he was in the high school and remembered, Oh, the Wilds is a good place. I think I'll send my daughter and this girl came that she had no idea what the Wilds is all about. And we were talking about all the things and she's like, Well what are the things I can't or can't have or whatever I was like, Well we first thing you do is we take your cell phone away and I'm like Oh boy. She didn't know anything about the wild. She's gonna hate this. And she's like, you know what? That's not a bad thing. I think I can detox for a couple weeks. That's the perspective. Okay? Because there's real life people. And actually we can get to the point where we get in touch with reality. Because honestly. True reality, I know that's a that's redundant there, but true reality for a Christian is not the things of earth. Real reality for a Christian are things that are eternal So get in touch with real reality. Um the next next thought here and wrap I'll put it up here in a couple minutes. We have to have proper priorities. We have to have the proper perspective. Where do we see this? The next verse, the next part of the verse says, and be not conformed to this world, but be transformed. So when we're talking about making decision, number one, we have to say, okay, number one, first and foremost, I am committed to you, Lord. And what I do is going to glorify you. God, give me the grace to do that. And God can take that and run with it, okay? Being committed to this. But secondly, have a proper perspective. How do we do this? Well, don't be conformed to the world. We don't live like the world. No, for a Christian, we have to be transformed, metamorphosized. We have to be different than the world. Don't live like the world. The world says social media is where, yeah, get the biggest best phone, whatever, blah, blah, blah. And be honest with me, this is this is what the word this is where the world's going. This is the trans. No, don't be conformed to the world. Be ye transformed. How does that happen? Yes. Firstly, we see that in verse 1, but in this verse, okay, be not conformed to this world, but be transformed. How? By the renewing of your mind. What does that mean to renew your mind? Yeah. It's a bit more fun when you start buttons on your brain. Kind of, he said, kind of pressing a restart button on your brain, but how do you do this? Because the world is teaching you to do one thing. Okay? How do you do it? Spending time in God's Word. If you're going to be renewed in the spirit of your mind, you must be in God's Word. That's the only way. You can be renewed in the spirit of your mind. So you have this proper perspective by being renewed in the spirit of your mind. So what do we do? We go to the Word of God and say, okay, Lord, how do I do this? Well that's what we see next. Number one, we have to be intentional. Okay? Be intentional, number one, in your time. Ephesians chapter 5, verses 15 through 17, basically that key part of that, we're not going to turn that right now for sake of time, but Ephesians 5 says, see then that you walk out circumspectly. How does that happen? Redeeming the time. Why? Because the days are evil. See then that word circumspect means be careful. Be very careful about your social media experience. Be very careful when you're on when you're in the social media world. Be very careful. That's what circumspectly means. How do you do this? By redeeming the time. Anyone know what the word redeem in the Bible means? It's got a connotation there. The specific word means to buy back. Can you buy back time? Have you ever done that? Have you ever have you ever have you ever gone through time and been like, man, I wish I could do that again? Or have you ever said something you wish you hadn't said and wish you could buy back that time? Has everybody ever done that I've done it. I asked the lady one time she was pregnant. And she wasn't. I wish for everything in me that I could just be like, ugh, I could shove those words back in my mouth. I'm going to go back two minutes and we're going to have this conversation again. I can't do that. So what is the Bible saying about redeeming the time? What does that mean? It means this Live every moment of your life as if you're buying back that moment. Stop, think, before you act. So, how does that apply to social media? Don't go in to just browse. Stop, think before you act. We could talk a lot more about that. Be intentional in your time. Because social media is teaching us to not be social. Kind of like an oxymoron. Like sweet tart Or crash landing. Or student teacher. Living dead. Here's one that clearly misunderstanding. No, I can't really do that. Or pretty ugly. You know, he's all awesome. Really social media is teaching us to not be social. As we 're going back to that point just a minute ago, is you pull out your phone and your table like this and you're like, what are you doing? Well I'm socializing. He's like, you can literally socialize with me Be intentional in your time. Be intentional in your searching for content. Powers 4, 23 through 27 says, guard your heart. So keep your heart with all keepings. Why? For out of it, keep your heart with all keepings, with all diligence, why? For out of it are the issues of life. Be intentional when you're searching for content. Guard your heart. Be intentional in your friends on social media. I opened up social media on the uh coming up here yesterday in the airport, just kind of checking out a couple things and and uh I noticed that there was somebody asking me to be a friend and I'm like I have no idea who this person is. And the picture wasn't necessarily inappropriate, but I'm like, eh , I deleted it. I'm not gonna just You know, take take any friends on social media if I don't know who they are. Be intentional with accountability. Guys, everybody look here. Let your parents see your phones. Let your parents see your phones. Matter of fact, my challenge to you is to go and say, hey, you want to look at my phone? Don't have a pat don't have a password on your phone your parents don't know. I actually have a password on my kids that they don't know. Because my question is this, if you if you don't want your parents to see your phone, why? You'll you'll understand one day. I don't I'm not trying to do this to my kids just because You know, I you know, I'm trying to make their life miserable. No, I'm doing this because I care. And my goal in their life is that they be more holy. And if there are things on their self, I'm so thankful for my kids, my son's like, yeah, go for it Um be intentional with it. Let your opponents let your unchallenge when you go home today. Hey, take a look. Okay? And guys, listen Love them enough, trust them enough, that yeah, they might be upset if there's something on there that's inappropriate. But trust them enough that they that they want the motivation of you to live a holy life. Trust them that that's their motivation. And if there's something on there, guys, just work with it. Deal with it. You should not have social media without accountability. Why? Because you're a Christian. And that last point here, okay, again, there's a lot we're trying to narrow it down. There's a lot we could talk about here Then we can be discerning. We read this verse again. I beseech you, therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, in light of your being a saved person , By the mercy of God, that you do what? That you present your bodies. You're committed to God. That's my priority. I'm first and foremost gods. And therefore my social media is first and foremost gods. Presenting your body as a living sacrifice as you live on this earth. What kind of a living sacrifice? A holy living sacrifice. An acceptable to God living sacrifice, which by the way is my reasonable service. So, how do I create this priority? Well, I can't be conform to this world. I can't be living for the things of this world, be not conformed to this world. How do I do that? Okay, if I don't want to be conform to this world, how do I do that? I have to be transformed. To think eternally. How does that happen? By the renewing of my mind. I'm thanking Scripture. The Holy Spirit is using Scripture in my heart to make proper decisions. And then, and only then, can I , next part of this verse, be not formed in this world, be transformed by the renewing of your mind, and then you can prove That word prove means to discern. Means to examine something and to determine it's genuous, to make sure it's the right thing, make sure it's a proper thing. At that point, I can discern what is that good and the acceptable and the perfect will of God But that could only happen, number one, if I'm a Christian. And the mercies of God are motivating me to live a life that pleases God. By presenting my body. God, I'm yours. I am yours. I'm presenting my body as a living sacrifice. A holy living sacrifice. The acceptable God living sacrifice because that's my reasonable service. And to do this, I'm going to choose to not be conformed to this world. In the area of my social media, I'm not going to just do all these things because that's what the world's doing. I want to be transformed. I want to know what pleases God. And the only way I can know what pleases God is to be renewed in the spirit of my mind by God's word. And at that point, I can start making godly decisions that I can discern, that I can prove what is good and acceptable and perfect, God's will for me. my life. This applies to every decision we make. It absolutely applies to social media because that is a decision. It's just the one we make constantly. We make it all the time. So it makes sense. Does that make sense? Real quick question. Anybody got a question? I don't want to walk away and listen, I'm here all day, okay? Unless I'm on my social media, then don't bother me. But uh just just kidding. But uh if you got a question, come up. Talk to me. We'll talk to each other through these masks. And uh God's not gonna little masks aren't gonna interfere with uh with how God works in our hearts. Okay. So uh come up and talk and uh would I love to be able to discuss this even more. Kö