Of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We're back in Ecclesiastes chapter 1. Today we're looking at verses 12 through 18 together. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and let's read these verses together. Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verses 12 through 18. I, the preacher, was king over Israel and Jerusalem, and I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven. This sore travail hath God given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith. I've seen all the works that are done under the sun, and behold all is vanity and vexation of spirit That which is crooked cannot be made straight, and that which is wanting cannot be numbered. I communed with my own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to great to a great estate. And have gotten more wisdom than all they which had been before me in Jerusalem. Yea, my heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge And I gave my heart to know wisdom and to know madness and folly, perceived that this was also van vexation of spirit For in much wisdom is much grief, and in that increase he that increaseth knowledge increaseth also in sorrow When we come to this passage of Scripture, we're going to see one very simple fact, and that is that increased knowledge doesn't solve all of our problems. You know, one of the things that the modern man thinks is that the way that society advances is by an increase of information and an increase of knowledge. And we can essentially make ourselves better as humanity simply by education. But one of the things that this passage is going to show you is that an increase of knowledge has its limits. And there comes a point where the more that you know actually ends up becoming a liability to you. Because the more that you know ends up showing you how little you actually know about a certain topic. So the summary that we'll give of this passage is that while we need sufficient information, to make good, wise decisions. Acquiring knowledge doesn't solve all of our problems. We're going to see how Solomon kind of lays this out in these verses. The first thing is we see a fact that Solomon decided one day, he set his heart to get as much information as possible, and then he tried to internalize that information that he had. Here's what it says in verse 13. I gave my heart to seek and to search out wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven. Now what we see is we see the mentality of a young person who says, you know what, I'm going to be different than all the people that went before me. I 'm going to learn as much as I can about every topic that I can, and by getting more and more information, I will be as good a person as I can possibly be. In fact, it may be when you were very young and idealistic you had sort of this view. You're going to become an expert in all these areas And so Solomon said, I'm going to become an expert in life. I'm going to get as much information, as much knowledge, and as much wisdom as I can because I want to be an expert. I want to do things right. I want to find success through knowledge. That's really the sense that Solomon is putting here. But we see the second fact that he puts out. In verse 13, he says, this is sore travail that God has given to the sons of man. He says the result of this quest that he put himself on was that he found himself surprisingly empty as he searched out everything that he could finally figure out about everything in life, it seemed like. In other words, Solomon became this researcher of life And the more he studied, the more he said, this is an empty pursuit. As I learn more and I learn more, I find myself more and more empty. And there are two words that really characterize the emptiness that he feels. In verse 14, he says, it's vanity and it's vexation of spirit. In other words, it's empty. It's meaningless. It doesn't seem to have any value. And at the end, he said, I'm more frustrated than when I began. In other words, by learning more, Solomon didn't begin to have more joy and more peace and more satisfaction. He actually became more empty and more frustrated with life. And the question is why? Why is it that increasing knowledge for Solomon, when he went to become the expert, why is it that he began to feel more empty and more frustrated the more that he knew And here's the answer. Increased knowledge leaves us empty and frustrated because it leaves us with this realization that we cannot correct every matter we uncover. We can't fix everything. We can't learn everything that there is to know about life. In other words, we are finite, not infinite. We are not omniscient. We are not all-knowing. We begin to see our limits and our limits become more and more pronounced the more we know. This is the way he puts it. That which is crooked cannot be made straight, and that which is wanting cannot be numbered. He talks about two things that he learned on this quest of knowledge. The first is you can't fix everything. There are some things in life that when you discover there's a problem, you have absolutely zero ability to fix them. Now there are some things in life that we can fix. And when we come across those things, we should fix them. We should address them. But the more you know, the more you realize you don't know. Take an example of this virus scenario. How many of you listening to this trust both sides in the reporting? How many of you trust all the data? How many of you trust all the data that the right is pushing and all the data that the left is pushing? The reality is the more that we get into this situation, the more confusing it becomes, the more frustrating it becomes. the more we begin to realize who do I actually trust as an authority in these matters? Well this is what Solomon's saying. There are times in life that you uncover circumstances you cannot fix. If it's crooked, you can't straighten it. You know, think about we went camping this week. And when we went camping, we had these little tent pegs, and we were driving these tent pegs into the gravel. And you would drive that in and all of a sudden it would start bending. And you know, you can bend it back, but when you bend it back, it will never be the same as when you took it out of the box. It just can't. You don't have the ability to perfectly set back to be straight what was crooked. And this is what Solomon's expressing. He said, the more that I learn, the more I realize there are certain things I can't fix. But then he talks about a second thing. He says, things that are missing can't be restored. If it's gone, you can't count it There are some things in life that once you cross that line, you can't go back and fix them. There are certain things that once they're gone, you can't put them back the way that they were. It's an impossibility And so Solomon says, the more that I learn, the more frustrated I become, the more it vexes my soul because I can't fix many of the things that I uncover. I can't restore many of the things that have been lost. And when we get frustrated by these kinds of circumstances, we get frustrated by this information, it needs to remind us of something. We are limited As creatures, we are not sovereign. We are not all-wise. We are not all-knowing. We are not all-powerful. But there is somebody who is sovereign. who is all wise, who can correct things that have been been made wrong. You know, it's so interesting. You and I do not have the power to take a pet peg a tent peg that has been made crooked and restore it to its original original perfection. I don't know if perfection is the right word, but to restore it back to the way that it was when it came out of the box. We don't have the ability to do that. We can't replace things that are gone and restore them back to the way that they were before. Yet there's a God in heaven who created this world. And he allowed this world to have mankind in it who had free moral choice. And mankind chooses to sin against God. Adam disobeyed God and he brought the fall upon humanity. And this is a fallen, broken world. But what do we see about God? God is going to restore this creation back to its original beauty and glory. He's redeeming the creation. He's redeeming mankind. And he did it by his own power through the cross and the resurrection. And so what we see is the incredible sart difference between a God who is sovereign, a God who's all-wise, a God who's all-knowing, a God who's all-powerful, and humanity who's just a creature. And this is what Solomon's expressing. He's saying, the more that I know, the more I know I'm limited. The more I know I can't. The more I know what I can and can't do. And that is frustrating to me. Ask this question. How many of you live your life like Solomon? The more that you learn, the more frustrated you become. Really, we need to get back to a biblical perspective where the more that we learn, the more frustrated we become until we turn those things over to a God who can bear those burdens, who can restore those situations. who can fix what has been made crooked. The truth is that the more thoroughly we study a matter, the more we realize our limits. So that moves us to a fifth fact that we see in this text. Knowledge doesn't solve all of our problems, and it's because we're finite creatures living in a complex, broken world. In verses 16 through 18 he expresses it this way. I communed with my own heart, saying, I'm come to a great estate. I've gotten more wisdom in all they that have been before me in Jerusalem. I perceive that this is vexation of spirit. In much wisdom is much grief, and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow. Solomon basically throws up his hands and he says, I know more than anybody around me, and I'm frustrated because of the burden that all of this information has given me. You know, we live in a tech world. We have more information available to us today than we've ever had in all of humanity. It's the truth. There is so much information available, but it hasn't made us better people at all. All this information has just given us a greater burden to bear. So what's the answer to all this? How do we practically apply this? This really lament that Solomon makes when he says, I set out on this quest to know as much as I could about everything that I could. And in the end, I became frustrated and I saw the emptiness of it. And I throw my hands up in the air and I say, I can't fix what's broken. I can't restore what's been lost. I can't count it. What do I do? Here's the point. Recognize that you are a finite creature. You are not God. You are not Lord. You are not sovereign. Don't think that you are. Let the increase in knowledge that shows you your limits sink into your soul and say, I can't control and fix everything, and I'm not supposed to. The second thing that stands out is this. Look up and trust the one who is in control. The truth is when we throw up our hands and say, I can't fix and control everything, God says, but I'm the sovereign that you need to trust in the midst of that. So come and trust me and let me work in those circumstances. Let me work in those situations. Let me be the one who can draw good even out of evil circumstances. Trust me. That's what we need to do. We need to also rest in his care and glory in the fact that he's in control and we're not. We need to realize we don't have all the answers. Folks, the purpose of this section is not to tell us don't go out and search for knowledge and don't get wisdom and make poor choices. That's not the point that Solomon is saying. The point that he's making is this. Don't think that an increase of knowledge and wisdom is going to make your life better, is going to get you to this Standard of perfection where everything works smoothly. Realize that the more you know, the more you'll realize you're limited. And that's why we need a biblical worldview. That's why we need to trust in a God who is sovereign. I want to remind you of what Jesus said in Matthew 6, 25, because I really think this harmonizes very well with the point that Solomon is making. And this really is how we're supposed to respond to this reality that Solomon is expressing. Jesus said, I say unto you, take no thought for your life. what you shall eat, what you shall drink, nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat and the body than raiment? Behold, the fowls of the air they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns, yet your heavenly father feedeth them. Are you not much better than they? He says, consider the lilies of the field, how they grow, they toil not, neither do they spin. Yet I say unto you that even Solomon in all of his glory was not arrayed like one of these. Wherefore, if God so clothed the grass of the field, which today is, and tomorrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith? Therefore take no thought saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or wherewithal shall we be clothed? For after all these things do the Gentiles seek Yet your heavenly father knoweth they have need of all these things. But seek ye first the kingdom of God and his righteousness And all these things shall be added unto you. Take therefore no thought for the morrow, for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. The whole point of Ecclesiastes chapter 1, verses 12 through 18, is that if you set your heart on getting knowledge and wisdom, and you think that that will satisfy you, and you think that that will bring fulfillment and joy, you are wrong. You need to recognize that that quest for knowledge will leave you recognizing you have limits. But there's a God in heaven that you need to focus your attention on and trust in him to take care of you in the midst of your struggles. I hope that this will have been an encouragement to you this morning. It was an encouragement to me as I thought about it today, and I'm praying that tomorrow And throughout the weekend, you'll be able to really think about these things and that they'll be a blessing to you. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then, Lord willing, we'll see you next week on Monday when we start back into our study. Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity to study your word and to be reminded that wisdom and knowledge have their limits. And the more we know, often the more we recognize we don't know. I pray that you'd help us to be a people who recognize how limited we are and we rest in the one who is in control. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see each of you this morning. I hope that you'll just leave a word of encouragement, perhaps share this with a friend who can be blessed by it as well. And Lord willing, we will catch up with you next week. Bye now.