I want to welcome each of you tonight. Hope that you're having a good Sunday and looking forward to our service tonight. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we will get started with our singing. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity tonight to gather again together. And I pray that as the Word of God is open, that you'll speak to our hearts as we sing praise, may we do it from our hearts and as we think about the implication of the truths that will be laid before us, I pray that you will use them to strengthen and challenge us as your people. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening, Inchor Baptist Church, as we start our song service out. Grab a hymnal or watch on the screen. We're going to go to page, we're going to be in the 500s all night long. So page 504. 504 stand with me and sing out on oh say but I'm glad. And so sing like you're glad, alright? That's a challenge. All three verses There is a song in my heart today, something I never had. Jesus has taken my sins away. Oh say that I'm glad Oh say that I'm glad I'm glad Oh say that I'm glad Jesus Oh Sriv Won't you come to him with all of your hair? Where you are You will think of this love you share. All finger on man , all save and land. General kind of my rock of the raw trackablacks. Okay, now I know why you've got all you've all got hymnals out. Page 512. Page 512, that's good. I expect to hear from Now that you got the books out. So I want to hear soprano, alcohol and bass. Redeemed, I love to proclaim it. All four verses Praise him now I love the proclaim, praise him by the blood of the land, praise him. No language my record can tell I don't know I think of everyone, I think or I get up. If love is the figure of my heart. Rigging , ringing, bringing by the love of hand , bringing. I know I shall see if you 're glad to mind the God of my And give the people in the house revealing, revealing , reading my love , reading. Amen. That's a joyful noise. Have a seat, but turn to page five hundred and eighteen. Page 518. And oh, it is wonderful to be a Christian. Now it's glad. You were glad. Now it's wonderful. Sing it out. All three verses. And the wrong thing is going on with me, it is going to be now I remember me, more than wonderful , and we can wonder. And the hope of heaven. Where I late for triumph, I know that it is highly I determined every wonderful O 'Manical Week. All the wonderful to have your sins forgiven. All is wonderful to be and justified forever like its God. Amen Niin hän on miuni, niin olen ihan oma niin ihan oma, että maailman huomaa maailman mihin Siihen Moniana Ma'immini, il huma Minahomina ma jemoni ma ilmanhom Well, let's see. what we're gonna do. Let's go to page 92 in the red book. Let me see which one is. I'd like to like to Okay, that's just a little chorus. Very good. I'll live for him, will you? Amen. Let's sing it through twice. For him, who died for me, I say your heaven might die. Live for him, who died for me. There is a whole song to that song Some place. That's just the chorus. Okay, well you say. That was not even few. Okay, one fifty in the woodwork. Let's see what 150 in the blue book is. Day by day. Amen. First verse Day by day I will be my single Street by coming here, trusting in my father white system I don't call for worry or for fear. He respect his time beyond all measure. Yes, I do each day what he display Loving pleasure Let's go to page four hundred and eighty-two. Well I put that one off. Page four hundred and eighty-two. All right. Far away the light and I hear it's following Then I know the thing that is Averted way to me are calling Nanadi shall move me from you, lov I'm living on the mountain underneath the cloudless sky. I'm drinking at the fountain. That never shall run dry. Oh yes, I'm feasting on the mana from a bountiful supply, for I am dwelling. In you love Now you were in time, kids, but somebody was a little sharp on that one. All right, let's go to 545. Let's go to 545. Yeah, somebody was a little sharp on that. First verse, hark, tis the shepherd's voice I hear. Bring them in Hark is the shepherd 's voice I hear Out in the desert, dark and grear. Halling the sheep have gone astray, far from the shepherds, fall away. Bring them in, bring them in, bring them in from the fields of sin. Bring them in, bring them in, bring the wandering ones to Jesus. Okay. Okay, page one in the blue book now. A servant's heart, and we're gonna sing both verses On this one. If you'll stand with me, we'll sing both verses of Servant's Heart. Make me a servant like you, dear Lord Living for others each year , humble and meek, helping the weak Loving in all that I say, give me, Lord, a servant's heart. Here's my life, take every part, give me Lord as service fart. Help me draw so close to you that your love come shining through. Give me, Lord, a serve and heart. Give me, Lord, a servant heart. Make me a witness like you, dear Lord. Showing the love of the cross, sharing your word till all have heard Serving whatever the cause Give me, Lord, a servant's heart. Here's my life, take every part. Give me, Lord, a servant art. Help me draw so close to you. That your love come shining through. Give me, Lord, a servant Give me Lord a servet. Amen. Please be seated. You want this thing? So we're gonna um we're gonna sing three verses of this song and you're all invited to stand and join us on the third verse. We can say whenever you want to, really, but on the third verse you're officially invited. Of times the day seems long Our trials are to bring would have been to conf To the murder To a title to catch the car. God gave our When we die. When we call strong when we call it. Why the love is today was our room so great on the brain we go Glory came and share the join no time. And I 'll I 've never been in time. It will be work. When we take these life and go again. Still not every day of the day you wheat. Number sixteen is where we're going to be tonight Number sixteen. Despite what it says on the screen for the title, the song it will be worth a all actually segues very nicely into what we're talking about tonight. You'll see what I mean. Number sixteen. So regarding the title for my t my message tonight , I know that the word delusional probably comes off very strong. And uh I'm not one to come off strong in my mess. But um I thought to kind of take the edge off of that word, I would provide the uh the description of what delusion is from the great and powerful Wikipedia. So, according to Wikipedia, a delusion is a false, fixed belief that is not amenable to change in light of conflicting evidence. As a pathology, it is distinct from a belief based on false or incomplete information, dogma, illusion, hallucination, or some other misleading effects of perception. As individuals with those beliefs are able to change or readjust their beliefs upon reviewing the evidence. In other words , These people will believe no matter what, in what they think is reality. You see, in number 16, we find the record Of God's judgment against Korah and his band of rebels when they tried to rebel against Moses and Aaron in utter delusion. And during this event, God reemphasized his authority as delegated in Moses and Aaron and the Iranic priesthood. That is really the thrust of the text. But we're going to see just how delusional these rebels are and how it really has tremendous benefit for us to look at how to interact with a delusional generation. Now, as I mentioned before in the paragraph I just read to you, there's a difference between people who are simply misinformed and will come to a better conclusion of things if you present them, the evidence. And then there are the people who are bought into whatever lie they believe in so much that they will deny any evidence given to them. That contradicts what they believe. Now, from what we've seen to this point, this generation of Israel could be characterized Very well by delusion. You see, they were living lives completely in rejection of God's revelation while thinking themselves to be living rightly. It really is a tragic description of the generation that G saw God bring them out of Egypt with the ten plagues. They saw God parting the Red Sea. They got saw God destroying Pharaoh's armies. They received manna in the wilderness, water from the rock, quail in the desert, God descending upon Mount Sinai, and they even just heard the testimony of the richness of the promised land. Yet this generation would ultimately be wiped out in the wilderness. And this is where we really begin to see where God judges a delusional, rebellious. people. Now, what does that have to do with today? Why does it benefit us to look at this generation of Israelites and say, well, I don't know how to interact with society today? Well just look around. Are we not inundated by delusional people in our Western society? And I'm not talking about, when I talk about generations, I'm not talking about just Gen Z or millennials or Gen X or Boomers or Assan. I'm not talking about specific generations. I'm talking about the people, the world in which we live in. Is utterly filled with people who refuse to face reality. Now how do you feel living in a delusional generation? Hopeless? Angry? Frustrated? If I had to be transparent, I'd find myself somewhat callous. Almost thinking, what's the point of trying to deal with this generation? But just as Moses and Aaron were called to serve God and this generation in their time, we have been called to serve God and this generation in ours. And what we need to learn by looking at this chapter is that God wants us to be faithful in the midst of a delusional generation. But in order to do that from this text, we need to take note of the three tragic ways in which Korah, the rebellious leaders in Israel, demonstrated their delusion. So let's begin finally looking at what this text has to teach us, beginning in verse one of number sixteen. Now Korah, the son of Izar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab and On, the son of Peleph, sons of Reuben, took men. And they rose up before Moses with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown. And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the Lord is among them. Wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the Lord? Now right there, right off of that We're introduced to Korah, the leader of this rebellious band. And he's communicating to Moses what really could be described As a delusional faith. And that's the first thing that we need to take note of in these ways in which Israel rebelled. They demonstrated, specifically Korah demonstrated a delusional faith. Korah, along with Dathan and Abiram. And on, and two hundred and fifty famous leaders in Israel went up to Moses and Aaron Aaron to tell them, You take too much upon you. And then we're trying to say, oh, we see this heavy load that's on you and you you're just taking too much on you. You need to you need to take a break. You need to step back a bit. No, they were really communicating enough of you. What about the rest of us? Korah and the rebels considered themselves and the entirety of Israel holy, every one of them. He says. And the irony is that God did tell them back in Exodus 19 that they shall be unto him a kingdom of priests and holy nation. But as we've seen since then. This generation of the Israelites were anything but holy. They were riotous, they were idolatrous, they were rebellious, and they were insufferably implacable. So for Korah and these men to stand up to Moses and to claim that this congregation was holy is nothing short of utter delusion. Now, what caused their delusion? Well, I would say for Korah, it was a faith in self. And a faith in self, really to achieve personal ambition. You see, Korah wanted to establish his own priesthood, his own leadership. He thought that's what Moses did after all. His presumption against Moses really portrayed that rather than he having faith in God, he said, I have faith in self. God didn't establish the priesthood. Moses did. So if Moses can do it, I can. Such self-faith leads To a delusional faith. But we see a contrast when Moses communicates a godly faith to Korah. Verse 4. The following. Moses, when he heard it, fell upon his face, and he spake unto Korah and to all his company, saying, Even tomorrow the Lord will show who are his. and who is holy, and will cause him to come near unto him. Even him whom he hath chosen will he cause to come near unto him. This do, take you censors, Korah, and all his company By the way, the little picture that you're seeing is a sensor. That's a contraption that held incense as they lit it and burned it. And he describes this in verse 7. Put fire therein, and put incense in them before the Lord tomorrow. And it shall be that the men whom the Lord doth choose, he shall be holy. Ye take too much upon you, ye sons of Levi. And Moses said unto Korah, Hear I pray you, ye sons of Levi, seemeth it but a small thing unto you That the God of Israel has separated you from the congregation of Israel to bring you near to himself to do the service of the tabernacle of the Lord and to stand before the congregation to minister unto them. And he hath brought thee near to him, and all thy brethren, the sons of Levi, with thee. And seek ye the priesthood also? For which cause both thou and all thy company are gathered together against the Lord? And what is Aaron? That ye murmur against him. Now clearly Korah was coming up against the priesthood, but did you notice here that Moses Doesn't necessarily stand up for himself or really for Aaron either. Rather, he defers to God's authority. You see, Moses probably recognized that in defending himself he would fall into the same trap that Korah was in, a faith in a personal belief. If he had communicated that his faith was in something that he knew rather than in God, he would come across as someone who is just as delusional as these rebels. Now we should know what we believe, and we should draw confidence from what we know and understand. But the object of our faith is not in our knowledge and our understanding. Korah is a clear example of knowledge and understanding going terribly wrong. But we are just as capable of falling into this trap as he is. For example, there's many people who would say something like, I believe this because I know what I've experienced. Or I prayed about this and God gave me peace about it. Pastor actually talked about this just this morning. Now, does God give peace when we pray and seek his wisdom in matters of great importance? Absolutely. But our subjective emotions and experiences are always subject to the objective standard of Scripture. Now I'm not downing anyone who really believes that they felt or experienced something that they believe came from God. God absolutely works through those avenues. The issue is when our feelings and experiences are the objects of our faith rather than in God and His Word. When people proudly declare that anything clearly contrary to the Bible is true. It is safe to say that they are living in deceit and faith in themselves. Their faith is in something subjective, not objective. And Scripture even will not sway them. They are living in utter delusion, and it is a sad state to be in Now for the believer, there's confidence. Not in themselves, not in what he necessarily knows. But in the inerrant, infallible, infinitely true word of God. As one professor of mine said in school, we can be completely wrong, but God's word is always right. By the way, if you are concerned whether your feelings or experiences are in line with Scripture, I'd say you're not in a bad place. It's the person who's not concerned, really, that I'd be worried about. Just turn to the scriptures and allow the Spirit of God to shape your feelings and experiences so that your faith in God grows. So note that where there is delusional faith in this generation, there is objective truth in the preserved word of God that we can place our full faith in. But there's a second area in which we need to take note in this delusional generation that we're reading about. And beginning in verse 12, we'll see that there is What I call a delusional defiance. We see Dathan and Abiram communicating this defiant delusion toward Moses in verse 12. Says Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram the sons of Eliab, which said, We will not come up. Is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land that floweth with milk and honey? By the way, they're speaking of Egypt. To kill us in the wilderness? Except thou make thyself altogether a prince over us? Moreover, thou hast not brought us into a land that floweth with milk and honey, or giveth us inheritance of fields and vineyards. Wilt thou not wilt thou put out the eyes of these men? We will not come up Now there's a lot here that is hateful and defiant. They accuse Moses of seeking their death in the wilderness as if he was some kind of tyrannical ruler asserting his authority. And they further accuse him of failing to bring them into the promised land to receive their inheritance. Finally they assert, well thou put out the eyes of these men. In other words, do you expect people to turn a blind eye to what you are doing? I have a question. Who shut the door to the Promised Land? Was it Moses or the people? It's neither. God shut the door because of Israel's repeated rebellion and unbelief. And when they presumed upon God to enter it after the fact, they got slaughtered by the Canaanites. Now to assume that Moses was some kind of malevolent dictator. who sadistically drags millions of people through the desert in order to crush their hopes and dreams is outright delusion. And in their delusion, Dathan and Aviram demonstrate outright defiance against God's prophet. Now Moses, in the following twenty verses , becomes the executor of God's divine judgment. I'll summarize verses 15 to 35. You see, Moses here is rightfully angry against such defiance. But he goes to the Lord with his request and complaint, then goes to Korah again with the test of whom the Lord will declare as holy. The next day comes And they perform the test, every man holding his firepan and sensor of burning incense. And at that moment. God commands the people to get away from Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, and the elders who followed them. And as the people fled, God opened up the earth beneath the tents of these three men and their families. Swallowing them up in the earth before closing it again. And then a fire directly from God consumes the men holding the incense. This is a terrifying miracle and an act of divine judgment at the request of Moses, who prayed. Respect not thou their offering. I want to point out the fact that God did judge the families Of these men. You may ask, isn't that a bit harsh? God literally swallowing up these three men and their wives and their children, even their whole households into the earth. But I have to ask you, why didn't these wives flee when Moses gave them opportunity to? This wasn't a swift judgment. This happened over the course of at least two days. Why weren't they concerned for the well-being of their children when it became clear in verse 26 that these three men would be consumed? The fact is, these three families. For these families were brought into the delusion of these men. And it teaches us this: the delusion of man has a powerful influence. On the most fundamental components of our society. Families and generations can buy into these delusions and be caught up into defying the living God as a result. And it is a tragic reality. But it is a tragedy brought on by the sinfulness of mankind. And it is a reminder that man freely chooses to perpetuate It shouldn't make us angry with God. It shouldn't necessarily make us frustrated with people. It should break our hearts that people willfully Defy a merciful, long-suffering God, whom today we look back at for having personally died to pay the penalty for our sins. Now noting here that Moses was slandered by Dathan and Abiram. We note that God does hear the cry of his people as they are wronged and slandered, but there is a key truth here that cannot be missed. Man and his delusion will always stand in defiance against God and his people. Sure, they might have a smile on their face, and they may be sincere in their religions. They may even feed the poor and strengthen the weak. But all of these are acts of delusion. For man who jer the man who rejects God acts in defiance of his will, at the very least, to repent and come to the knowledge of salvation in Christ. Now it can be challenging, especially if we feel the weight of the defiance toward God being directed at us. But know this. There will come a day when man's open defiance will come to an end. Christ will return, and he will usher his judgment against rebellious mankind. And God's people will know true rest and true peace, even on this earth. Where there is delusional defiance, there is justice. And we should take hope and encouragement from that. And that leads me to the final area in which we see delusion from number sixteen. And that is mass delusion from the Israelites. Now going through the text here, we begin in verse 36, just following the events with Korah and his men. It says, And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Speak unto Eliezer, the son of Aaron, the priest, that he take up the censors out of the burning, and scatter thou the fire yonder, for they are hollowed. The censors of these sinners against their own souls, let them make them broad plates for a covering of the altar. For they offered them before the Lord. Therefore they are hallowed. And they shall be a sign unto the children of Israel. And Eleazar, the priest, took the brazen censors wherewith they that were burnt had offered. And they were made broad plates for a covering of the altar. To be a memorial unto the children of Israel, that no stranger which is not of the seed of Aaron come near to offer incense before the Lord, that he be not as Korah. And as his company, as the Lord said to him by the hand of Moses. And we see here in the follow-up to Korah's punishment that the Lord set out to keep in memory the acts that These sinful rebels committed by having these censors beat into place for the altar at the tabernacle is a testimony. That anyone outside of the lineage of Aaron would be forbidden from offering incense before the Lord, as Corinth and his company did. But it seems like immediately after God presents this memorial and this reminder That Israel comes in and demonstrates its mass delusion in verse 41. But on the morrow All the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye have killed the people of the Lord. Rather than heed the warning established by the plates and taking note of the unmistakable judgment from the Lord. They outright refuse to acknowledge that the earth swallowing up people and fire coming down from heaven, consuming people, was an act of God. They blame Moses and Aaron for this divine act. Now Moses did specifically pray that God would open up the earth, but if If I did that and it happened in the middle of the auditorium, you wouldn't blame me for that. At least I wouldn't hope so. Unless I was some kind of a demolitionist. But in the wake of this mass delusion, God issues his judgment. God begins judging the Israelites in verse 42 and following by issuing a massive plague. Immediately, Moses has Aaron offer incense to intercede on Israel's behalf. And upon Aaron making the atonement for the people, the plague subsides. Leaving 14 ,700 dead beside those rebels that die with Korah. This should have confirmed beyond all that's already happened that Moses was God's prophet and Aaron is God's high priest. But when one person is bought into a lie and is utterly delusional , it's only a matter of time before the tragedy of mass delusion comes in and tips the scale. In a devastating way. Now there may be those out there who would say whole societies used to get sucked into lies, but the modern person can't possibly be that dumb. Well, if the current generation isn't proof enough that we are still susceptible to mass delusion, just think of the last century. You got the Bolshevik Revolution and the rise of communism. You have the rise of fascism in Italy and Germany. You have fanaticism and desperation in a Japanese military during World War Two. You have the rise of radical Islamic terrorism. Or jihadist terrorism beginning in the late nineteen seventies. You have the rise of skinny genes in the last twenty years Certainly new, nothing new under the sun. Mankind will continually demonstrate its ability to be delusional on a mass scale Now the point in pointing out this mass delusion is to remind us that there is hope. And you might be looking at number 16 saying, Chris, I don't see any kind of hope in this. And if you were to look just at number 16, I probably would agree with you. But keep in mind, number 16 isn't all there is. You can continue on through the history of Israel And while many generations failed after them, of course, there were generations that followed God faithfully. And served him and were godly as a people. There's a time Far down the road, or maybe not as far down on the road as we think. When Christ comes in, and as Zechariah 13 states, It shall come to pass that in all the land two parts therein shall be cut off and die, but a third shall be left therein. And I will bring the third part through the fire, and I will refine them as silver is refined, and I will try them. As gold is tried, they shall call upon my name, and I will hear them. I will say, It is my people. And they shall say, The Lord is my God. Micah four reminds us that in Christ's millennial reign, in the last days it shall come to pass that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains. And that it shall be exalted above the hills, and the people shall flow unto it, and many nations shall come and say, Come, let us go up to the mountain of the Lord, and to the house of the God of Jacob, and he will teach us his ways And we will walk in his paths before the Lord, for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the Lord from Jerusalem, and he shall judge among many people. people and rebuke strong nations afar off. And they shall beat their swords into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nation shall not lift the sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more We have eternal hope through our Lord Jesus Christ. But we don't even need to look that far ahead to realize that God has and will continue to have generations of people. Who will love and follow him. All it takes is a swift look through the history of the church to see that in the darkest of times even of human chronology, generations have arisen that have served God faithfully. I mean, just look at the Reformation, the First Great Awakening, the missionary movements of the 1800s, just a few examples of generations that served God with tremendous fervor. But what were the days surrounding these generations? Reformation came after hundreds of years of spiritual darkness under the Roman Catholic Church. The first Great Awakening came after a time when people knowingly brought unsaved people into church membership and even into the pulpit to pastor. The missionary movements came after Enlightenment theory had its effects on the Western world, preparing for the early days of Darwinian evolution in society. Listen, just because there are dark days, it doesn't presume that God won't bring a generation that will faithfully serve God. For now we can rest in this hope. God is consistent in his judgment of the wicked, but he will uphold his people so that generations will rise up that will serve him faithfully for his glory. As for us, let's take note of this generation of Israel. Let's take note of how Moses and Aaron, and even Joshua and Caleb As we read about last week, faithfully served God. And let us be faithful in the midst of a delusional, sinful generation. Father, we thank you for this text. We thank you for the tremendous testimony of your people, both the good and the wicked. As we're warned of how dark a delusional generation can be. We're also mindful of the fact that you are a great, powerful, and loving God who will sustain this generation of believers and even raise up more. Lord, you are a great and powerful God, and you will sustain us. Help us to be faithful in the midst of a delusional generation. In Christ's name. Amen. You know, when we look around us, uh The way that we process what we see in our society can can really be troubling. And I really appreciate the last little section. of what was said. And that is the hopeful side. And there are three passages that I want to encourage you to jot down. And I want you to see how they're significant to what we heard tonight. Numbers 1632, there's a statement that says, all the men that appertain to Korah died. Numbers 26, 11 says, notwithstanding the children of Korah died not. Sorry, I know it's a little bit contradiction, but And in Psalm 84, 10 it says, I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. Do you know who wrote that? It was the sons of Korah. So there were many people from those households that died that day, but God did spare some of them. And amazingly, that generation who lived had children and had children. and had children. And they wrote, Psalm eighty-four, I would rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God than to dwell in the tents of wickedness. The fact is that the sons of Korah were not given the priesthood. They were given the role of keeping the door. And we could see that when we dig into all these passages. And the reason that I bring that up. is to say that we really don't know where we stand in church history. I'm anticipating the return of Christ. I'm looking forward to that day and I hope that he comes before I die. Absolutely, I desire that and I hope that and I'm anticipating that. But I also know Paul did too, and Peter and all the saints of the first century. And the fact is that there are people in this generation right now who may very well be delusional, but someday their children will not be. And there may be some people that at the moment they are, and God's going to work in their life. Maybe it's 20 years from now, maybe it's 15 years from now. But he's going to get their attention. He's going to bring them to himself. And they're going to have a lot of wounds and they're going to have a lot of scars and they're going to have a lot of pain. That's a result of what they've lived through at this time. But God's going to use them. And so I want to keep that in our minds as we think about this passage. We are called to a difficult time, but God can use us. And that's something to be so thankful for, is it not? All right, let's turn in our hymn books to our final hymn, and that is hymn 527. And it's revive us again, 527. Let's all stand together. And I'd like us to sing all four verses together of 527. We praise thee, O God, for the Son of thy love, for Jesus who died and is now gone above. Hallelujah, thine the glory. Hallelujah, Amen. Hallelujah, thine the glory. Revive us again We praise thee, O God, for the Spirit of light, who has shown us our Savior and scattered our night. Hallelujah, thine the glory. Hallelujah, Amen. Hallelujah, thine the glory. Re by us again. All glory and praise to the Lamb that was strained, who has borne all our sins and has Swedst every stain, Hallelujah, thine the glory, Hallelujah, Amen, Hallelujah, thine the glory Viva Basavien, Viva Basa again, fill me part with thy love. May so be rekindled with fire. Hallelujah, thy glory. Hallelujah. Amen. Hallelujah. I hope that's your prayer. By the way, for what it's worth, there's at least another 1,007 years. of human history left. Even if Christ comes tonight. So just keep that in the back of your mind. There are people living today who may very well, God may completely turn into himself. Whether it's during the tribulation, during the millennium, whatever it is, we should be thankful for that. Billy, can you please close in prayer and uh hope that uh we'll have a wonderful week. Hope to see you back on Wednesday. And uh don't forget teens that we have spiration tonight and this is going to be some really nice weather For the outside and the back. So, Bill. Dear Lord, thank you for bringing us here together tonight to worship you. Thank you for Pastor Chris's message. Thank you for the time. That you've given us here, Lord, by your grace, those of us you you've kept from the delusion of the current generation, and also for your grace for those who can come out of it, Lord. I pray that we would continue to take that to heart, to pray for those around us. to encourage those around us and to continually examine ourselves to ensure that we align with what your mind is and what your word is. In Christ's name. Amen.