Anyway, let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and we will dig into the scriptures tonight. Let's pray Father, thank you for the privilege of being your children, the opportunity to open up the Word of God tonight, and I pray that you would speak to our hearts. As we open up the scriptures, I pray that we would uh have clarity in our minds, that you would just work in our hearts, help me to communicate these things in a way that is helpful. very practical and thoroughly biblical. Bless the children in the back as they have their classes. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, well let's all turn together to Matthew chapter six. Matthew chapter six, we're working our way through the Sermon on the Mount, and the passage uh is now at Almost the end of the Lord's Prayer. So let's go ahead and read it. Matthew 6. We'll begin in verse 5, and we'll read to the end of the Lord's Prayer. It says, And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray, standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret. And thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. But when ye pray, use not vain repetition, as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard of their much speaking. Be not ye therefore like unto them. For your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him After this manner, therefore, pray ye, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. In earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now the passage in front of us is talking about the the section we're going to look at at is the section where it says lead us not into temptation, but rather deliver us from evil. Now we're going to look at this in two parts, and the way that we're going to address this issue is I'm going to I'm going to list a series of questions that I'd like us to answer that I think will help us to understand what Jesus is saying, why he is saying that, and why this is something we need to understand. So first of all, a summary of these verses Christ teaches us to seek God's intervention in and deliverance from temptation. He wants us to admit our need and to be guided by his hand before endless potential temptations. And so a couple of introductory thoughts. First of all, the Christians' relationship to temptation and the struggles that we encounter with indwelling sin, this is one of the most practical topics addressed in the Bible. Everybody in this room deals with temptation. And when we talk about temptation, there's all different kinds of temptation. There are sexual temptations, there's greed. There's pride, there's anger, there are all different kinds of ways that we can become self-centered and that we can fall into temptation. And we struggle with temptation because of what we are. Our heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked, even though we have trusted Christ. as our Savior, we're new creatures in Christ, we still have indwelling sin that we have to contend with. So this is an important topic. It's a daily struggle, one that we need to understand and we need to stay motivated in the battle that we are encountering. So here are the five questions that we're going to answer. Probably uh well I think we'll get through them all tonight. We'll see what happens. But the last one we're not going to address tonight. We're going to actually address this, word willing, next week. But here are the questions. The first one is what is temptation? Obviously, that would be a the first question we'd ask ourselves if he says, lead us not into temptation. What is that? Second question, why does Christ teach us to pray? Lead us not into temptation. What is the motivation for this prayer? Thirdly, what is our responsibility in this area? Do we just pray and then God just miraculously takes away temptation? And so it's like this formula. We just say, God, take it away and then it goes away. Is that how it works? No, it's not that way. I promise you it's not that way. What does this prayer teach us about temptation? Interesting, we'll break that down. And then how does God deliver us from evil? So those are the questions we're going to deal with one at a time as we look at this section. So question one, what is temptation? The term that is used in this phrase, lead us not into temptation, and the the Greek term doesn't matter to you, but it is uh Peresmas and the idea has a couple of different aspects to it. A couple of verses where this term is used, the Greek term. The first one I want to draw your attention to is 1 Corinthians 10, 13. He says, there is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. God is faithful who will not suffer or not allow you. to be tempted above that ye are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. He uses the word several times in these verses. He says, if we're tempted, it's not something another person has never encountered. God's not going to allow you to be tempted beyond what you can handle with his enabling. And he's also always going to provide a way for us to be able to escape the temptation. So the first verse. The second one I want to draw your attention to is 1 Timothy 6. 9. He says, they that will be rich. And that that statement, they that will be rich, is not like if you become rich. It's If you have a passion, a consuming covetousness or greed, you want to become wealthy. Nobody like that, right? Ah, a lot of people like that, all right? He says, if you are longing to become rich, you will fall into temptation. and a snare and many foolish and hurtful lusts which drown men in destruction and perdition. There's the word again. And then James 1, 2, he says, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptation or various kinds of temptation. And then chapter 1, verse 12, he says, Blessed is the man who endureth temptation. When he's tried, he's going to receive a crown of life which the Lord has promised to them that fear him. The last one is 1 Peter 4. 12. Think it not strange concerning the fiery trial, which is to try you as though some strange thing has happened unto you. Now what you can see is that the term that is translated temptation is not always translated temptation. There are some places where it's translated trial. It's because this is a word that has a bit of nuance to it. So there are at least four different sides to this word temptation. The first aspect is one of enticement. So in some context, the word temptation has the idea of being lured or being enticed. That's the James passage. So if anybody in here likes to fish, I like to fish. The whole idea of fishing is you have this lure that is supposed to look like something that the fish wants to eat. And so you cast it out there and you begin bringing it in, and as you bring it in, it's darting back and forth, and this fish that's sitting in the water, mining in his his own business, all of a sudden he sees this thing moving in the water. It draws his attention, he turns toward it, and it's like an instinctive response. He just goes after it. It's not like the fish is like reasoning. Is this like a piece of plastic? Does it have hooks? Or is this the real deal? That's not what a fish does. It's it's It's an instinctive response. Okay? And so that enticement is that when you are in a situation Where you have opportunity to do wrong, your sin nature begins to engage and you are drawn into this whereas you want And he says we're tempted of our own lust. It's not like Satan makes us sin or our mother makes us sin or our Whoever, alright? Yeah. The person in our life, neighbor, friend, brother, sister, spouse, whatever. Those people don't make us sin. We sin of our own choice. But there's the enticement side. But there are other sides as well. For instance, that of testing. I mean, that is one of the ways the word is translated. Given an opportunity to demonstrate maturity and progress. So let's say that you are in the military, you go to basic training, and then you go through all these Training phases, and then it comes to a point where you have to do physical fitness tests, runs, and push-ups, and pull-ups, and all those kinds of things. Is the purpose of that to make you fail? Well, it kind of depends on who the person is administrating the test. But no, the purpose is to is to recognize whether or not you have reached a level that makes you qualified to go to the next step. It's a test. It's to show your progress. The reason that teachers give tests is not because they're cruel and sadistic. In most situations, there might be some examples. But they do it to know your progress God does the same thing with us. Not that He doesn't know what's in our hearts, but He puts us in situations that give us the opportunity to demonstrate maturity and progress. That's what God does, testing. The third word is the word training. We're being developed by the stresses and the strains of life Now, when a person goes to the gym and they pick up that weight, what do they do? They might have a program and they say, okay I'm gonna do three sets of ten or I'm gonna do they have these different programs, they build each time you go in, different muscle groups. What are they doing? They're training, and so they may have a coach, they may have a buddy, they may just be personally motivated because they're getting ready to go into competition or something like that. And they put their body through strain. To build strength and endurance. You do not develop strength and endurance without strain on the body. Your body responds to the strain by becoming stronger. So training. And there's a fourth. It's called re-evaluation. Hardship and confrontation is something we need sometimes. We need it because our priorities are out of line. They're out of balance. And so what God will do us sometimes is He will shake us with circumstance to make us realize we've got to make some changes in the way that we think. And if it wasn't for those things coming to the surface, we would just continue as we are. And we would hurt ourselves or hurt the people around us. So what's amazing about this is when we have a situation that is challenging, we may have Satan who is trying to entice us to do evil And God is testing our maturity, and He is strengthening us and training us to develop in strength, and He's causing us to re-evaluate, and it's all a part of the same thing going on in our lives. Health issue, conflict with a person at work, some challenge we're dealing with with our children, something's not going on the way that we want it to. God may use a circumstance And all of those pieces are actually at play in that situation. So that's what temptation is. In this context, he's talking about the challenging circumstances of life That Satan is trying to lure you to do the wrong thing. You have this internal compulsion towards what is sinful. God is testing you. God is training you. He is causing you to re-evaluate. It's all there. Second question. Why does Christ teach us to pray, lead us not into temptation? Well, because we need to do it. Great answer. Let's go a little deeper than that. Why not? All right? Why does Christ teach us to pray, lead us not into temptation? Well, it's because we need to remind ourselves daily that we are dependent on God in temptation. I really believe that one of the effects of God allowing us to face temptation is to remind us that we've not arrived. We've not reached this plateau of maturity where we don't struggle anymore. Sometimes God allows us to deal with besetting troubles in our lives because it's his way of saying get back on your knees. Quit being so self-absorbed and so confident in yourself, get on your knees and realize you need me every single moment. That's what he's doing. In the same way that we needed to follow these reminders, hallowed be thy name, we need to daily adore and praise his name. Thy kingdom come, we need to daily refocus on the advance of Christ's kingdom. Thy will be done, we need to daily refocus on his will, not our will. Give us today our daily bread. We need to daily be reminded that our lives are they're sustained by his provision. Forgive us our debts. We need to remind ourselves that though we are saints, we're still sinners. We still struggle with daily temptations. Forgive us our debts. We need to remind our forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. We need to remind ourselves that we're a forgiven people. We have a responsibility to forgive because of the position, the way that God has dealt with us. Lead us not into temptation. We need to remind ourselves every day that we are vulnerable to temptation. Deliver us from evil. We need to remind ourselves daily that the way out of trouble is through his enabling. Do you see these are things that we need to remember every day? And the same way that you and I don't eat a meal and then it sustains us for the next 10 years. We eat, and then we get hungry about, well, if you're a teenager, you know an hour and a half later, right? And then we eat again. If you're not a teenager and you get hungry an hour and a half later, it starts adding up. As I have learned myself, right? You have to eat and it sustains you, and you eat, and it sustains you. It's just a part of life. And these are things that we constantly need to be reminded of. We don't ever get to the place we don't have to remind ourselves we need to praise God's name. And we need to ask for forgiveness and we need to be reminded he needs our name. We never reach a place where we don't need those forgiveness. reminders. And they're so basic. They're so ABC. So simple. But we need them. We need to be reminded that we're vulnerable people. Think about what David said. This is an amazing statement. He says in Psalm 131, My heart is not haughty and my eyes lofty, neither do I exercise myself in great matters or in things too high for me. He was a king for crying out loud He says, I've behaved and quieted myself as a child that is winged of his mother. Instead of the child constantly feed me, feed me, feed me, he realizes That season is done. I don't have to do this anymore. Mama's not going to let me do this anymore. I'm at peace. My soul is as a weaned child. What is David expressing? He's expressing humility. He's expressing that he is vulnerable. We need to be reminded that that's who we are, whether we feel it or not. We are like that. We are weak and vulnerable. Psalm 124, verses 1 and following, he says, if it had not been for the Lord who was on our side, they would have swallowed us up quick When their wrath was kindled against us, blessed be the Lord who hath not given us as prey to their teeth. Whew, that's quite an interesting statement, is it not? Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowler. The snare is broken and we are escaped. Our help is in the name of the Lord. This past Sunday, when we came home from church, the dog was going wild. I was like, what in the world's going on? So I walk into the kitchen, I look out the back window, and I couldn't believe it. There was a wild turkey right next to our porch. I was like, where did this thing come from? And so of course what am I gonna do? I'm gonna go after and get that thing, right? He's lucky I didn't shoot him. The only reason I didn't is because my neighbors would have called the police probably if I'd have done that. But anyway, I go out there and boy, I think he's running for his life. And I backed him into the corner. What do you do? It's funny to watch a turkey fly, but turkeys can fly, just not very fast and not very far. But what was the point? He felt this vulnerability. He's running for his life. And David says, that's that's all. I was like a bird that's running away from the one he snatched it and caught it. I'm like like someone running away from this wild animal that's got me in their teeth and I get away. He's talking about vulnerability And then 1 Corinthians 10, we already mentioned this, but the fact that God is faithful, who will not allow us to be tempted beyond what we're able, he will always provide a way of escape. What do all these things show us? We're needy people. And if you don't realize you're needy people, needy person, wrong word, person, God will give you opportunities to be reminded. That's what he does. It's not because he's mean and cruel and harsh and nasty. It's because it's not good when we're full of ourselves. Question three. What is our responsibility in this area? We cannot ask God, actually I mean we can, but it doesn't make sense, to ask God to do something like this for us when we are failing to take our s our spiritual duties in this area seriously. It's like a person who says, God teach me to be patient. And then when God brings circumstances into our lives, That are a part of the process, we get angry at God because how dare you bring this into my life? And he's like, Did you not ask for me to develop you in this area? Okay, you know. Protect me from temptation, but I'm just gonna I'm gonna watch anything I want on on the what do people watch television anymore? Internet. We'll go with the internet, all right? Because that's You know, on my phone, whatever. And we can feed our flesh and feed our flesh and feed our flesh and movies and music and all those different things. Oh God, please keep me from temptation. He's like Well quit putting your face in the phone and then you won't have to deal with it. That's what he's saying. This let go and let God theology is not scriptural. And there there are some that would teach, well, you know, if you're having this burden, you have your struggle Just give it to God and it'll go away. Has anybody ever given that thing to God a million times? And it just seems like it's still there? Why is that? Well, the fact is that there's more to it than just saying, here, you take it and it's gone. They're actual real spiritual disciplines that we have to develop. We've got to get the Word of God into our mind. We've got to think scripturally. We've got to develop disciplines in the way that we think. You know, when our minds go down a certain path a number of times, guess what? That's the path of least resistance and that's where we're going to go. And until we come to the the place where we say, that's wrong, that's sin, and I can't do that. Here's what is right and here's what is true. And I'm going to turn from this path to this path. You say, well, that's hard. It's not easy. I know it's not easy. It's called establishing a new way, the right way. Eventually, as we move down that road, God makes it easier for us to move down that road. So there are a couple of duties that we find that are a part of this from other scriptures on this issue of temptation. Let me give them to you really quick. The first duty is to consider our position. Now, we know Romans chapter 6. Paul writes, Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? Of course not. God forbid. How shall we who are dead to sins live any longer there in. Now what's interesting is he doesn't say, well you could go to hell if you uh continue in sin and do that And you're going to feel miserable and guilty if you continue in sin. He didn't say that. He said, how can those who are dead to sin live any longer in it? And later on he makes this statement. Verse 11, he says, reckon yourself to be dead to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. You know what he says? Your first duty when it comes to dealing with temptation is to remind yourself who you are, not who you feel you are. Or who you wish you were, or who other people think you are. You remind yourself who you are based on the scriptures. That is objective truth. And when I remind myself who I am in Christ, I go, why would I do what I'm contemplating? It's so inconsistent with my position. And so whenever the scripture tells the believer, here's how you're to live, he goes back to, here's who you are, therefore, this is how you are to live. And here's who you are, therefore you can live in this way because you are enabled by the Spirit who indwells you. So A person who doesn't preach the gospel to themselves regularly and remind themselves who they are in Christ, well, they're going to say, God take this away, and he's going to say, well, why don't you start with reminding yourself who you are in Christ? That is exactly what Paul says in Romans chapter 6. That's what he says in Ephesians. That's what he says in Colossians. The second, responsibility. Refuse to make provision. Refuse to make provision. Romans chapter 13, verse 14 says this: put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ. And make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. You know how you can know if a nation's getting ready to go to war? Look at what they spend their money on. Well, they're making a lot of tanks. They're ramping up the production of their uh of all of their resources. It's funny how they're moving all of their troops to uh to a certain border. Um you remember you remember when Russia invaded Ukraine? It's been a while ago now. What what did they do? Oh, we're going to do some military exercise. You know, a couple hundred thousand troops on the Ukraine border, you know, just doing some practice runs here, and then guess what? Boom, they came right in. What were they doing? Making provision for war. I mean, you don't you don't you don't mount an attack from a sitting-back position. You you you get in there and you get ready to go. It's like when a guy steps on the mat to wrestle, you just stand there and go, hey man, what's going on? Oh man, he's boy, he's right there. He's ready. He's in the position He's got his head up. He's got his boat up, man. He's ready to go. You grab that guy, man, he's going to take it to you. That's the idea. Make provision. Make provision. In other words, I'm preparing for battle. I'm preparing for conflicts. Except in this situation, I'm prepared to do the wrong thing. You say, well, how do you do that? Stuff you put in your mind, the stuff you entertain yourself with, the people you hang out with, the places that you go. There are all kinds of ways that we make provision for our flesh. We say, well, here's the line. I'm just gonna walk right down that line. I'm not crossing the line. I'm just walking right down the line. Guess what? You're playing a game. And you're going to walk down the other side of the line. It's called making provision for the flesh. So remind yourself who you are. Don't make provision for the flesh. Don't give Satan a place. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 26. He says, be ye angry and sin not. Did you know that there's a way to be angry and it's not sin? It's true It's not where we find ourselves most of the time, just to be totally honest with you, but there is a kind of anger that is completely appropriate, completely right, completely justifiable. But he says, when you're angry, don't sin. He says, don't let the sun go down on your wrath. In other words, don't nurse the wound. And the next statement is important. It says, don't give place to the devil. You say, well, what does that mean? What that means is that when you respond And you nurse the wound, you know what you do? You give Satan a little place to work from. It's called a root of bitterness that springs up. And when it springs up, you know what it does? It creates all kinds of problems. I mean we talked about Ruth on Mother's Day a little bit in Naomi. This is what happens in Naomi. In the book of Hebrews, he talks about this. He uses that exact phrase. He says, Don't let a root of bitterness spring up, and through it many are defiled. You know how bitterness will affect your relationships? You know how bitterness will hurt your marriage and bitterness will hurt your relationship with your kids and people that you work with and things like that. It's very destructive. And so the idea is, he says, remind yourself who you are, don't make provision for the flesh, and don't nurse your wounds and give Satan a place to go after you and others. The fourth is resist presumption. Now that word presumption is an interesting one. I'm going to read Psalm 19, verse 13. Here's what it says: He says, keep back thy servant from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then will I be upright and I shall be innocent of the great transgression You say, well, what is a presumptuous sin? This is what a presumptuous sin is. I know it is right, and I'm just gonna ask for I'm gonna ask for forgiveness rather than permission. That's exactly what a sin of presumption is. I mean, I think Braxton mentioned something about this statement, you know, it's it's better to ask for forgiveness than to ask for permission because you know if you ask for permission, they're going to say no. Well you know what that is? That's saying, I know what the answer is. I'm just gonna do what I want to do. I know what God says, I'm just gonna do what I want to do. He's a God of mercy, he's a God of grace. He's a forgiving God. He's a loving God. It's just a little thing. It won't matter. You know what that is? That's called arrogance and pride. That's me saying I'm above the rules. That's me saying I can do anything that I want and it's it's okay. I I can I can play by my own rules. I can do things on my own. That's what he's saying And so he reminds us. Remind yourself who you are, reckon yourself dead to sin, alive unto God. Don't make provision for your flesh. Don't give Satan a place, and don't be presumptuous. Now, if that's where your heart is, then say, God, lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from evil. And if that's not where your heart is Well, then get it there, and then say, lead me not into temptation, but deliver me from evil. Question four. What does this prayer teach us about temptation? Well, here's what it teaches. God's providential care governs our lives in every area, including temptation. Now, this is actually a really important principle for us to understand. When I talk to people who have faced real heavy hardship. And they have overcome and they have matured and they have grown through that. This is what I hear over and over and over again. This is what they'll say. They'll say, I know that God is sovereign over my problems. And they'll say something like this. It's not an accident. He had a reason for allowing me to pass through that. And that gives me comfort. That gives me hope. You say, well, aren't you saying God did that to you? No, that's that's not that's not what we're saying. We're saying that God allowed for a reason to accomplish something that is good. And there's a lot of scripture that talks about this. Huge amount of scripture that talks about it. I mean, you think about the story of Joseph. He says, you meant it for evil and God meant it for good. Now, did God throw Joseph in prison? No. Did God throw him down in the pit? No. Did God stop his brothers from doing what they wanted? No, he didn't. But God protected him, and God preserved him, and God uplifted him, and he brought it to a head many, many years later, and that is when it started to become a lot clearer. This is what God does. And so there are a couple reminders that we have to keep in our minds when we think about this issue of the redemptive value of suffering and temptation. Now you will never hear this kind of teaching in a prosperity theology kind of church because they will teach you that God doesn't want you to ever struggle. Now I'm not saying God enjoys watching people struggle, but God wants people to grow. He wants them to mature. He wants them to develop wisdom. He doesn't want them to stay simple and foolish and weak and immature. He wants us to grow, and there's a process that actually causes that to happen. So a few reminders about this. The first is this He uses these things to cultivate godly humility. If you want to serve God, then you will inevitably have situations in your life That are outside of your control. You didn't bring upon yourself. You didn't choose them. You didn't want them. But God allows them. He permits them because he's going to use it to make you the person he wants you to be You say, well, then I want to serve God. Because I want to have that kind of a thing. You're gonna you're gonna spiritual trouble no matter what in life. Just be frank with you, okay? But those who serve God, they're going to face hardships. Read missionary biographies. Some of these missionary biographies, the great breakthroughs that they experienced, When they were planting churches, working with people in a very difficult environment, they came on the back of tremendous hardship. And there's an example of this in 2 Corinthians chapter 12. Here's what it says. Paul writes, lest I should be exalted above measure. Through the abundance of the revelation, there was given me a thorn in the flesh, the messenger of Satan to buffet me lest I should be exalted above measure. And this is fascinating. Paul asks God three times, he says, please take this away from me. And God never said, well, I can't do it because I don't have the strength to do that. He didn't do that. This is what he said. My grace is sufficient for you. My grace is sufficient in you. Sufficient for you. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. Now what is that telling us? God was telling Paul, I'm not going to remove this. I'm not going to deliver you from this. I'm going to give you the grace to endure this because of what it is accomplishing in your life. And this is a hard thing for us to wrestle with, and it's a hard thing for us to come to terms with, but this is a reality for the Christian. And there are times in our life that things happen that we cannot change them. This is the way it's going to be till the day I die. And I need to recognize that God is using this in my life to accomplish a good purpose. I have to be willing to accept his fatherly care in those situations. So a reminder, he uses it to cultivate godly humility. Second reminder, he uses it to give an objective test of our progress towards spiritual maturity. Think about the story of Abraham in Genesis 22. He says, it came to pass after these things that God did tempt Abraham. Now That word tempt could also be translated test, okay? The term can be translated those ways interchangeably. And to be very frank with you, I think that the sense is not that God wants Abraham, and well it's clearly God doesn't want Abraham to fail. He wants to demonstrate the the level of faith and the maturity of that faith that Abraham had. And even when James talks about how faith works And faith without works is dead. And he talks about the story of Abraham. And he he he mentions how it is Abraham's willingness to offer his son that convinces us he has real faith. Not that what saved him. He was saved long before this took place. It was the test that demonstrated it. And Genesis 22, verse 12, after the test is coming to its high point , He says this, lay not thine hand on the lad, neither do anything unto him. For now I know thou fearest God, seeing that thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me Now, is God omniscient? He knows everything? Yes. Okay. It's not like he's going, well, I didn't know what you were going to do, and I really hoped that you wouldn't kill your son, and I really hoped that you wouldn't choose to not follow through. That's not what's going on. So here's the demonstration of who you are as a person. Reminder three, he uses it to train us. James 1, 2-4. He says, count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptation. Knowing that the trying of your faith worketh. Patience. That's how you get strong. That's how you develop endurance. That's how you develop maturacy. Know that the trying of your faith works. Patience. Let patience have her perfect work. Ye may be in the perfect and entire wanting nothing. He 's saying you should thank God that he is doing something in your life. Not God thank you for the misery I'm dealing with. No, no, no, that's not what he's saying. Thank God for the purpose that he has and what he's accomplishing through that thing. Hebrews 12. 11, he says, no chastening of the present seems joyous, but Grievous, nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Same thing. Reminder four. He uses it to cause us to reconsider our priorities. In Psalm 11971, David writes, It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might learn thy statutes. He wasn't like, I'm a glutton for punishment, I love getting hurt, I love misery in life. That's all he said. It's good because I have learned your statutes through what I've encountered. That's what he's saying. He causes us To reconsider our priorities. One of the greatest examples in the Bible of this is Nebuchadnezzar in Daniel chapter 4. It says at the end of the days, meaning the days of his humiliation , Eating grass like an animal out in the field, the most powerful man in the world is acting like this. At the end of those days, he says, I lifted up my eyes to heaven, my understanding returned to me, I blessed the Most High. Praise and honor him who liveth forever, whose dominion is everlasting and his kingdom from generation to generation. What is he saying? He's saying it's because God humbled me that I can do this. I mean how many people in this room, not not raise your hand, but how many people in this room or even on the live stream tonight? You're a Christian today because of something that shook your life. Some kind of heartache. Could have been an encounter with law enforcement. Could have been you ended up in prison, you got in a fight, you got your jaw broken. I don't know. It's all kinds of different ways that God gets a hold of people's attention. He does that because he loves us. To wake us up, to reorient our thinking towards what is true. He does it in the unbeliever's life, he does it in the believer's life. it because he's good. So we re- we need to remember that he cares and that his care is personal and it is meticulous. God governs the nature of our trials. Like the stuff that they're made of. He governs them. God governs the duration, how long these things deal. Some of the struggles that we deal with, they're short and they're intense. Others are long. And they're very long. And it's the length of it, not the intensity, but it's the length of it that wears us down. He governs the intensity, it governs the timing. There are certain things if we'd if we'd encountered that 20 years ago or 10 years ago, we would have surely crumbled. But because God allowed us to pass through those waters at this point in our life, we endured. He knew we couldn't do it at that time. So you know you did? He strengthened us bit by bit, piece by piece. And now we're in the situation today, and he's using it to accomplish good. He knows what we can handle, not in our own strength, but by his enabling. We need to remember that God works through our prayers. There are times that when we don't pray, guess what? God doesn't work. Now he can work if he wants to, but he may choose to only work through the means of prayer. In 1 Kings chapter 3, this is an interesting story. It says, In Gideon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask what I shall give thee. And Solomon said, I am but a little child, I know I know not how to go out or to come in. And thy servant is in the midst of thy people, which thou hast chosen a great people that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge the people, that I might discern between good and bad. Who is able to judge this, thy so great a people? The speech pleased the Lord that Solomon had asked this thing, and God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for long life or riches. I have done according to thy words. I've given thee a wise and understanding heart, so that there was none like thee before thee, neither shall there be any like unto thee. Did you notice what he said? Because. Because. In other words, it is the way that Solomon prayed that God attributes to why he worked the way that he did. Prayer actually matters, folks. You have not because you ask not. 2 Kings 19, 14, Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messenger and read it. And he went up into the house of the Lord and he spread it before the Lord. You know what he said? He said, here's what our enemies say to us. What do you enjoy? Isaiah the son of Amos sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the Lord, that which thou hast prayed to me against Sennacherib, king of Israel, I have heard. What's he saying? You prayed. I'm gonna take action. Again, God isn't bound. It's not like he's ringing his hands going, boy, I really hope Pastor Josh prays for his kids because if he doesn't I don't know what I'm gonna do. I hope Pastor Joel prays for his church family because if he you know he has a week that he doesn't do it then Everybody's lives will just fall apart. I can't do it. My hands are tied. I can't work in this situation unless people do this. That's not the way God operates. He doesn't need you and he doesn't need me. He's bigger than that. But you know what he does do? He condescends to our level. And he says, when you pray, I will answer. When you pray, I will move. When you pray, I will work. And so God actually works through our prayers. And we get on our knees and we bring our request to the Lord and then we see how he works and we step back and we say, God, you did that because I prayed. And so when we think about this simple issue of temptation, he tells us, you need to pray, lead us not into temptation, because that's one of the ways that he works in our lives. He wants us to admit our great need and be guided by his hand as we face an endless number of potential temptations. There is no limit to the kind of stuff out there that can that can bring be brought to bear on our lives. There's just none. One day his name's going to be reverenced. But he says, pray, hallowed be thy name. He can accomplish his will on earth without our input or assistance. Yet he tells us, pray, thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. He's taken upon himself the burden to provide our basic daily needs that he tells us, pray, give us this day our daily bread He governs the nature of our testing and always provides a way of escape. Yet he tells us to pray, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. And so the encouragement is very simple. May we be a people who pray, lead us not into temptation, but deliver Deliver us us from evil. from us Let's bow for prayer, please. Father, thank you for the word as we've been able to look at it tonight. These are such important and practical truths. And I pray that the things that have been presented from the Word of God would take root in our souls. Father, help us not to just move past these truths. But help them to be our meditation as we go home. And may we reflect on these things as we go throughout our days. Father, help us to humble ourselves on a daily basis. And say, lead us not into temptation, deliver us from evil. Help us to continually remind ourselves that we are vulnerable and we are weak. We have responsibilities to remind ourselves who we are in Christ, not to make provision for the flesh, and not to be presumptuous. Father, help us to be a praying people. As we share requests, I pray that you would strengthen us. As we bear the burdens of those in our midst, I pray that you would be at work in each of these situations. Be with those who can't be here tonight for whatever reason. I pray that you would strengthen them and be with them. I pray for our ladies who are very close to giving birth. We have several ladies that probably any day in the next week or two they will will be. give birth. I pray that you would give them physical strength, protect them. May your hands guide and all of those things. May their deliveries go as smoothly as possible, and I pray that you would help them in the recovery and bless their families. We ask that you would be with Those who have lost family members and they love them dearly and it's a great loss. Those who are dealing with great struggles in their hearts that maybe are unknown to others, I pray that your hands would be at work in these Situations. We ask all this in Christ's name amen