Okay, good evening. Welcome. Hope that your week is going well, that your your year is starting out reasonably well. Let's go ahead and get started with prayer. And then we will sing one song and then get into part number four of bringing up children biblically. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we ask that you'd help us tonight to have clarity in our thinking as we look at this. passage of scripture helped me to uh communicate it well and uh help us to uh just be objective about what the scripture says and how to properly apply it Be with those in our church who are dealing with hardships. Think about a church member who just got taken to the hospital about an hour ago. Pray that you'll strengthen her. As she's uh getting treated and be with those who uh have been going through surgeries and have surgeries, uh people that have um had uh family members Pass over the holidays. We've dealt with a lot of challenges, and I pray that you'll minister to each of those situations. Blessing our time together, a fellowship as well, and we ask all of it in Christ's name. Christ's name, Amen. Okay, 512 is where we're going to sing. Uh it's Redeemed How I Love to Proclaim It. 512, Redeemed How I Love To Proclaim. Love to proclaim it. Preaching by the blood of the Lamb , preaching Harris, heaven and birth is God and forever I am reading. You know what's significant about that? Yeah, the writer was blind. So she was saying, one day I'm going to see the Lord in his beauty. And uh She'd never seen anything. So it's a very significant uh portion of that song, something to think about. Okay, let's go ahead and take our Bibles, please, and turn to Hebrews chapter twelve. Hebrews chapter 12, and we have been looking at a very important topic, and the topic is bringing up children biblically. And as we've done uh this particular study, we've spent, I think, about four or five weeks here. This will be either the fourth or fifth week. And uh we've dealt with some Proverbs, we've dealt with Ephesians and Colossians. And we've looked at the responsibilities of children's duties to their parents and parents' duties to their children. What I'd like to do tonight is I'd like us to kind of close out this particular section looking at the ultimate example. As parents, how are we supposed to function in the role that God has given us? Who are we supposed to pattern this after? And I think uh there's a lot of value for a person who's grown up in a good, solid home. Uh they've watched a mom and a dad who've related reasonably well to uh one another, they've learned a lot. just by living in a household where things are functioning properly. Frankly, there's a lot that can be learned if you've lived in a very bad situation and you see what can happen when things are not being done correctly. But no matter what kind of a home you grow up in, whoever you're looking at is flawed. But the example that I want us to look at tonight is a person who is not Flawed in any way. And that's God. When we talk about the way that we should parent, we should recognize that the ultimate example that we should follow when it comes to to how we raise our children is how our Heavenly Father deals with us. And that is extremely important. And I will say that our view of God as parents is really going to shape how we relate to our children. If you have a view of God that is kind of twisted and warped, and you see God as a very heavy-handed, cruel, dictatorial kind of an individual, that's how you're going to be as a parent. Okay? You're going to take that out on your children. If you see God is extremely permissive and He's not holy and He's not just, He just kind of lets people do whatever they want, then you are going to be that kind of a parent, and you will get run over by your children, and they will embarrass you the rest of your life. We need to recognize who God is, what he's like. He is holy, he is righteous, he is just, he's also a God who is rich in mercy. He's very kind. He's very patient. And the reality is that as parents, we need to pattern ourselves after the righteousness of Christ and the patience. And the love and the goodness and the mercy. And we need to find this balance. And I think in Hebrews chapter 12, we see that. And I want us to look at some of these details. Obviously Hebrews twelve was not written to tell you how to be a parent. It was actually written to talk to you about how God is dealing with you when you are drifting away from him. And how sometimes we become very upset at God when in his fatherly care, out of love, he actually deals with us very firmly. Hebrews chapter 12, verse 5. Here's what it says. It says, you have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children, my son. Despise not the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him, for whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. For what son is he whom the Father chasteneth not. Now to kind of give you a summary of the passage, basically it's saying this. God chastens his children, and we need to learn by his example, or from his example. And that word chastening is an important word. It's not just God deals with you with a firm hand, but chastening talks about the entirety of the process of training someone into There are times when chastening is a very firm hand of correction, of rebuke. There are times that part of chastening is going through, we could say, establishing good patterns. There are times that chastening involves just the teaching aspect. And I think by the end of our study you'll see kind of where I'm going with some of those things. But we see that in the way that the term is used in other parts of the So, first of all, I want to start out with a couple of introductory thoughts. When it comes to how we think about parenting, we need to consider God's example. And there are three words that I want you to think about when we talk about the way that God uh fathers us as his children. And the way that we should uh relate to our children when it comes to this example. The first word is the word authority. God is the ultimate authority. Now, when we talk about looking at God as our example, it's important for us To recognize that the authority we have is not inherent, it is delegated. When we talk about the authority that God has, it's not delegated, it's inherent, it's who He is. Okay And when we talk about delegated authority as parents, our authority is given to us by God, and we're supposed to manage or use that authority with pointing people back to God. God's authority. But he is the ultimate authority. And so when we talk about how God fathers his children, how he manages them, how how he works in their life as a father taking care of a child. Child, we see this concept of authority. The second word is the word example. We need to follow the example that God has put before us. We need to look at the way that God deals with us. In fact, one of the things that I think is very helpful is that when we're dealing with a frustration with our children, sometimes we need to step back and ask the question, How has God dealt with me when I've been as stubborn as my son is being right now or as my daughter is being right now? When I've been in a position where I'm drifting, how has God dealt with me in that situation? It actually can be very helpful because what it'll do is it'll show there's got to be a firmness, there's got to be And adherence to truth. There's also got to be a patience and there's got to be a kindness. Those things are going to come out. So we see the issue of example. And then the third word is a word that people love to use today. That's the word empowerment. When we talk about empowerment, we can say it this way. God equips us and he empowers or he enables us to be faithful in our obedience to him. I was listening to a sermon today and the the preacher said said something to the effect of anything that God calls you to do or commands you to do, He will enable you to do it. Okay? Now, just because you've been called to do it doesn't mean that in your own strength you can do it. It means you need his enabling many times. And when it comes to the strength So the word authority, example, and empowerment. So let's dig into these verses and look at some of uh the truths that I think are found in the This passage that shows us how God relates to his children. The first truth I want you to see is that just like God feels a sense of gravity in the way that he relates to his children, we must Sense the gravity of parenting. Verse seven, it says it this way if you endure chastening, and listen carefully the way this is worded, God dealeth with you as with sons. That tells us that when we see God dealing with us, we should go, this is the way parents are supposed to relate to their children. He's dealing with them as a son. By the way, I didn't read the entire section, especially because the way it's worded in the King James Version. We talks about an illegitimate child. But he basically says this: He says, if God doesn't deal with you. Then you're not his child. Because someone feels the weight of responsibility to take care of their own children. There's a responsibility there. And so he actually makes that very So he says, God deals with you as with children. What son is he whom the father chasteneth not? He said, if you belong to God, he's going to chasten you, he's going to discipline you. He's going to father you. That's what he's saying. So that word responsibility is extremely important. If we have a child We have a duty to raise that child properly. And that really comes out in this phrase, God dealeth with you as with sons. What son is he in whom the father chasteneth not? We are duty-bound to raise our children biblically. Now, we we know that because when we go to passages like Ephesians and Colossians, they're commanded to obey us and to honor us And so that would by implication mean that we have authority and we're actually functioning as someone in authority. And then when he says, Don't provoke your children to wrath and don't provoke them to discouragement , He's basically saying you're supposed to be the authority, but you've got to be the authority in an appropriate way. We see that coming out. This issue of chastening means every aspect of a person's development, physical, mental, spiritual. You and I as parents are responsible. Responsible to focus on these issues. And we see the phrase nurture and admonition of the Lord in the Ephesians and the Colossians passage. Our duty is to raise our children biblically. And I want to say This it is a higher duty than the job that you have. Don't miss that. Your responsibility to raise your children is more important than the job you have. If your job keeps you from being a father or a mother the way that you should, you need a different job. I know that sounds kinda harsh, but it's true. Because you might be able to put food on the table, but one day you'll regret all And sometimes we need to kind of disconnect. I know that that's sort of important part uh sometimes of diversion god created within a seven-day week a day that we're supposed to disconnect from our work it's called the Lord's day That's why we set aside a day to rest and to refresh and ultimately to focus on the Lord. God wants our delight to be in him more than some high And the truth is there are lots and lots of people that they really neglect their family life because of what they love to do outside of their work. It's more important than our extended family. And what they might think about how we should raise our family. Just putting that out there. It's more important than what the government thinks too. The fact is that within a society that's becoming more and more secular, there's a lot and more pressure on families on how to raise our kids and how to teach and instruct our kids. It is not the government's role to tell us how to teach our kids. Children. It's none of their business. They don't have that authority. It's not given to them by God. Secondly, I'll say this it isn't the duty of the church Church to raise your kids. It isn't the duty of camps every single summer to raise your kids. It isn't the duty of your pastor or your youth pastor to raise your kids. Or a Christian school or a Christian college. Knowledge. The duty to raise your children belongs to you. Now, I am not against the church. I'm a pastor. I'm not against a youth worker or a youth pastor. We have one, okay? We have truth trackers and these other things. I'm not against Christian college. I'd encourage you to consider kit sending your kids to Christian college. I would went to Christian college and I'm thankful that I did. But those things you might say are supplemental to the role that we are supposed to function in As parents. In other words, I don't see church as what raises my kids. I see that I'm raising my kids and I take them to church because what I'm teaching in the home is being reinforced in their Sunday school classes and in their church. Youth tracker classes and and in the youth group and all those different places. It's being reinforced in the pulpit. What I'm trying to instill in them in the home is something that is being instilled all around them in these other Camp's a great thing, but camp's not where people grow spiritually. It's where they make sometimes decisions that might affect the the the course of their life for a while, but that's not where real growth takes place. Real growth takes place in your home life, in your day-to-day life. If your kids are rebel against God and you send them to a Christian school, change anything. A Christian college isn't going to change anything. They're going to find people that think the exact same way they do, and they're just going to continue as they are. The responsibility to raise children is mom and dad. Dads. Very, very important. Second thing I'll say is this, and we find this in verse number six. We need to stay properly motivated in the way that we do our parenting He says in verse number six it says, Whom the Lord what? He loveth. Whom the Lord loveth. He chasteneth. Now, he could have used other words like whom the Lord is tired of, he chastens. Who the Lord is fed up with, he chastens. Who the Lord is embarrassed by, he chasten. That's not what he said. And the Lord loveth. He chastens. That word love is really, really important. A love for Christ. That produces a love for our children must be the center of what motivates us to raise our children. And by the way, when we talk about loving our children, this is something that is a continual source of of pressing us to fulfill our duties and to be faithful and to handle all those tough conversations and have to apologize and have to sometimes Come in with a heavy hand and have to discipline and all those things, have to make those hard decisions. What's going to keep us steadily doing what we're called to do as parents is a love for our children. And a love for our children is not something that just naturally pops into our lives. When we talk about love in the biblical sense, this is a Christian grace, this is a fruit of the Spirit. It is produced as one walks with the Lord. So if one is not walking with the Lord, if one's not growing in grace, he's not going to love his children. Simple. The reason people love other people is because God is producing that in them. They are becoming channels through which God works. And I want you to see that from a couple of passages, 1 John chapter 4, verse 7. He says, Beloved, let us love one another. That's the duty, that's the responsibility. For love is of God 's That means that the source for love, what he's telling us we need to do, it's in God Himself. And then he makes this amazing statement. He says, Everyone that loveth is born of God and knoweth God. It's not just born of God, stop, or knows God, stop. It's born of God and knows God. They both come together. In other words, you have to be a genuinely converted person. To have the capacity to love in the way that God's talking about. And not only do you have to be a genuinely converted person, but you need to be a genuinely converted person who is growing in your knowledge of God. of the Lord. You are growing in Christian grace. That is how this love is produced. Another verse that kind of shows us the same thing in the same chapter, verse number nine, first John 4 He says, In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten son into the world, that we might live through him That's an amazing statement. That means that God saved me so that through Him I could live the way that He intended me to live. The ability to function as a parent in love comes from being a Christian, walking with God, and God's love being channeled through. Through us. First John four twelve. No man hath seen God at any time if we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected. That means it's brought to maturity and fullness in us. These truths are foundational to this concept. And so if I want to be a godly father, and you want to be a godly father or mother, that means that you have to be motivated by love and And that motivation by love comes to walking with God. We cannot afford to drift into worldly pragmatic motivation. Everybody relates to their children somehow Okay? Everybody does. There are lots of people that the way that they raise their children is is nothing more than the pride of self promotion. Their full sense of value is found in how athletic their children are, how smart they are, and how they do academically. How well people receive them, and you can go into so many different areas. Their value and their sense of value is nothing more than pride and self-promotion rooted in And that's why they they they raise them the way that they do. That is no replacement for love. Self-preservation. This is an interesting one. If I wanna survive in this world and I've got four or five kids, I've gotta learn how to somehow survive that household and so I've gotta I've gotta start raising my kids somehow. So it's about self preservation or thinking about the security of the future You know how many people all around the world, when they have children and their mind are thinking, someday I'm going to be old, and when I'm old, I need somebody to take care of me, so I need to have an And they start directing them in life and all those things are really based around this fact that I want to preserve myself. Lots and lots of people think this way. In fact, that might be one of the most dominant ways that people look at children, at least throughout human history. That's probably one of the most dominant ways that they've looked at them. A fear of man. I don't want people in the community where I live to look bad at me, so I'm going to try to do everything that I can to say. they face. And so we raise our children afraid of what people would think about their behavior, their their poor grades, how they do in athletics or whatever it is, you know, keep them out of jail. And it's nothing more than I'm afraid of the people around me. I've got to A lot of people raise their kids out of pure frustration. They're just reacting to how disruptive and how complicated life has become Because of their kids. And so the way that they discipline them, the way that they train them, uh the the entertainments that they have them do so they don't have to deal with them anymore during a period of time, it's nothing more than frustration. You know what's consistent about all these? They're wrong. And they're common. And they're all about the flesh. The works of the flesh are really what are being manifested in these things. Distraction and resentment, being disconnected from our duty. You know how many parents are like, you know, I'm tired of being a parent. I'm just I'm just gonna go absorb myself in this, and I'm just gonna go play games. I'm gonna go play video games, I'm gonna get on a basketball team, and I'm gonna go do that. I'm gonna be a workaholic so I don't have to be at the house and I don't have to deal with all the complications of a household. Disconnected from duty. Resentment. Let me put another one in there. I'm exhausted, so I have earned the right to just let my kids watch YouTube the rest of the day It's true. A lot of people think this way. I think I thought this way before. Let's just watch football all Saturday so we don't have to deal with all the complications and the frustrations. Let's just disconnect us I'm exhausted. You raise your kids with these motivations, you will know it when they are grown. God deals with us as children out of love, and that's the way we need to relate to our children. The third thing: we must set the right goal in our parenting. What are we ultimately hoping to see accomplished in the lives of our children? We have to set the right goal. Look at verses 10 and 11 of chapter 12. He says, Verily, for a few days they chastened us after their own pleasure. Not saying that they delighted in, you know. Beating their kids. He's saying they they they they disciplined us based on what they thought was best for what they wanted. Okay, he's he's talking about human father. Others, but we for our prophet that or but he for our prophet that we might be partakers of his holiness. No chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous, nevertheless. Afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. This is an interesting statement that he makes. He for our prophet. Does God need anything from you? I mean, is he like, you know, he's running a little short on cash, so he needs you to help him out? I mean, is God that way? Or he's feeling a little deficient and he's feeling a little down Today, so he needs you to kind of pick him up. Does God need you? Does he need something from you? No. The way that God deals with us is for our profit. He's not getting a great deal out of this whole thing. He's doing it for our good. The reason that God deals with us is ultimately for our benefit. And it's ultimately, I love the way that he puts it, he says, that we might be partakers of his holiness And he says it it seems to be for a period grievous, but afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto them which are exercised their body. I guess the simplest way to put it is God's goal for you and me is holiness. Holiness. He wants you to be conformed to the image of Christ. Christ. He wants you to walk in holiness and he wants you to have a spiritually fruitful and vibrant life. If that's what God wants for his children, we should want the same thing for our children. Ultimately, our greatest desire as parents should be to see our children grow into Christ's likeness. I love those statements. He for our prophet, that we might be partakers of his holiness. Afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness. righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. To put it very simply, on the negative, we cannot allow worldly values to shape the goal of our parenting. And I jotted down some things, and I'll tell you, I jotted them down thinking about the kinds of things that I struggle with. as a parent. So if you think, oh I wonder who what Pastor Joel was thinking about when he wrote these things, I'm thinking about myself, okay? It might be that we have something in common. Who knows? It's very possible. And the first thing that I wrote on this list was the word athletics. Now, if you didn't know me when I was in high school, I don't know what you're going to think about me, but when I was in high school, probably number one priority in my life was sports. Number one priority. Number one priority. I sat in my last hour classes just waiting for practice. Not the games. Practice. I loved practice. I used to be very diligent about athletics. I love sports. I still enjoy it, but not like that. And you know, there are a lot of parents that when they get past that stage of being able to do sports themselves, which happens to all of us. They live through their kids. You know how many kids spiritually are damaged? Because what is emphasized in the home more than anything else, what is prior Prioritize above everything else. What dictates the schedule in the home is the god of sports. I just think about it. It's stunning what people will sacrifice So that people can go kick a ball around on the field, throw a ball into a hoop, hit a ball and run around bases, or get crushed because you're trying to catch a ball, or you just happen to be the guy with With the ball, okay? I mean, sports are fun, but they better not be our life. They better not take away from what really matters in life. It is a game. My boys and I were watching Monday Night Football and we saw the player on the Bills collapse. He's in critical care still. And there was talk like, do we keep the game going? And and and I told my boys, I said, this is a game. This young man may die. Let that bring you into perspective. Athletics. Academics. Now I think that a lot of people would say, you know, athletics is kind of like the fleshly thing that we want our kids to do. And academics is good because academics is like, that's their future. Now I'm not against academics, okay? I hope your kids work really hard in school and I hope they excel. But here is the truth. There are many parents who put so much weight on academics that they ultimately damage the souls of their children Where they put them in school, uh what activities they have them involved in. Uh the the fact is there are lots of people. Their entire schedule is wrapped around Academics. We've got to have a balance. We need to recognize that we can put our kids in an environment that's going to destroy them. They're not ready to handle some of the things that are out there We may take things that we view as very important, and without realizing it, because of how much weight we put on academics, we actually downplay the importance of much more important things. Financial security. How many people have gone and taken a job because they knew they were gonna make more money Money and they moved into a community, no church, no Christian friends, no Christian community They simply moved and went there for one purpose, to make more money. Now they would not tell you that, okay? Oh, God is leading us in this direction. But they have no Christian community. And you know what ends up happening? You just watch the deterioration of the spiritual well-being of that household. And because of money, they make a decision that destroys the It does. Now now listen, a child is responsible for the decisions they make. I'm not trying to suggest that, you know, you're you're you're you're responsible for all the decisions you're kids make the rest of your life. making. I'm not saying that at all. But what I am saying is when your children are very young and very impressionable and they're watching you and the the people that you allow into their life Are they shaping them? These decisions really, really matter. Influence. How many parents are willing to sacrifice their family? families because they want some kind of influence. They they want a higher position in a company. They want to step into an arena where all of a sudden they're going to be known and they're going to have opportunities. And it really becomes a lot of out them and it really crushes their family. And ultimately their walk with the Lord, it's gone. Their kids follow suit Influence. Socialization. Our culture is putting an incredible pressure on people to be inclusive, okay? That's the word. To be accepting of things that God Are clearly sinful, wrong. We'll even use the word abomination because that's what God uses. And the fact is that we have to be very cautious that out of a desire to fit into our society, To get along with everybody that we do not ultimately damage the souls of our children. Now, the things that I mentioned are just a few things. There's so many things that can pop into there. I think it would really be worthwhile for us to sit down and say, God, is it possible that my motivation is wrong? Or is it possible that the goal that I'm shooting for Is ultimately wrong, and I need to reorient how I function as a parent in the new year. Very, very important. So our goal should be I want Would say pretty simple and focused. I didn't say easy, but I say simple and focused. Lead your child to Christ, mentor them as a disciple of Christ. Help equip them to serve Him as faithfully as they can in the place that He calls them. Show them how to live a healthy Christian life And enjoy the Christian life so that they actually want that kind of a life. That's a really simple thing. If you are a healthy Christian, you're gonna do that. It 's true. If you're a healthy Christian, you're gonna you're gonna be burdened for your child's salvation. When you understand they've come to faith in Christ, you're gonna want to teach them the word of God. You're gonna work with them like a mentor works with a young Christian because that's That's what they are. They're a young Christian. They live in your household. You're going to give them as much equipping as possible because you want them to be effective wherever God places them. And you're not calling them into some certain area. God's the one who's going to judge Direct them, but you want them to be well equipped for whatever it is, well-rounded, very important. You can show them what healthy Christianity looks like. The pattern that they see day in and day out. They say, you know what? I watched my dad. He he was faithful at church. He was faithful in his work. He was honest. He was faithful to my mother. He disciplined me. He taught me the word of God. He prayed for us. He was a faithful, godly man. I want to be like my dad. That's the way that all of our boys should be thinking. All of our girls should be thinking the exact same thing about mom. You know what? My mom was a a faithful, godly woman. She served faithfully in our church. She she She uh she demonstrates to me what a godly woman is supposed to be in the home, and and and they just go through this thing and say, I want to be a godly mother like my mom. I want to have the same joy centered on the the Lord that my parents had. That's what our children should see. Now you know what that is very simple and that's very focused. Not easy, but simple and focused. And so really what it comes down to is are we healthy Christians so that our children are observing this and we are actually really influencing Last thing that I'll mention tonight is we must not neglect a biblical model or method of parents. In verses six and seven of chapter twelve he says this whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. Now, very, very important. When he uses the word chasten He's talking about the whole process. , Scourging, he's talking about he's talking about forceful discipline. And then receiving means that while he is teaching and instructing and training, and sometimes he's got to be forceful in enforcing the rules. You might say, that child knows dad, mom, love me, and they accept me as their child and I don't have to prove anything to them. They accept me and they love me and they care about me. And there's like this balance right there. But I want you to notice that what a godly parent is supposed to do, all of it is provided by the Scripture. The whole process. In order to show it, I want you to turn with me just for a few moments, not very long, to 2 Timothy 3, verses 15 to 17. And I want you to notice what he says about Scripture and how the Scripture actually fits the need for everything that a parent needs to do. with their children when it comes to their spiritual development. Listen to what it says. 2 Timothy 3. 15. Continue thou in the things which thou hast learned. And hast been assured of that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God. That means every word is breathed out by God. That's what it means. Authority lies. Every word given by inspiration of God, it's profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness That the man of God may be perfect, and that word perfect means the idea, fully matured, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. I'll put it in like the simple layman's terms. Every word of Scripture is God's word, and God's word is fully sufficient to bring you to spiritual maturity. For you to function and live the Christian life the way God intended. That's what he's saying. And the way that it does it is it gives us doctrine, it reproves us, it corrects us, and it gives us instruction in righteousness. And you know what's amazing about each of those little details? That's exactly what we do as parents. You know what doctrine is? It's teaching. One of the most important things that we're supposed to do as parents is Teach. We teach our kids the most basic life skills, hopefully. We teach them how to live and how to function in the world, but the most important thing we do is we teach them about God. And we point them to him. And we shape their worldview so that their worldview is biblical. That's teaching, doctrine. He uses the word reproof. You know what reproof is? It's confrontation. Confrontation meaning there's something that's not right and I can't let it go. It has risen to the level that it's serious enough that it absolutely hasn't And reproof means that I'm going to this person and I'm telling them this is wrong. It's rebuke. It's it's confrontation Hate to say this, but as a parent, you've got to do this all the time. Okay? When your kids are fighting and they're bickering and they're arguing or when when they had some you know issue in the schooling context. Or they've been assigned to do a task and they're lazy and they're not wholehearted in it and they cut corners and maybe they're dishonest about what they did or didn't do. You can't just let that go. You gotta sit down, you've got to address those issues. say, well, you know, it's just they're just kids. Hey, listen, being dishonest isn't just being a kid, it's called sin. Okay? Being lazy, it's sin. And if they're lazy, it's gonna hurt them the rest of their lives. If they cut corners, if they don't seize the opportunities and the responsibilities in front of them, seems gonna hurt them in life. We have to address those issues. The word of God, what does it do? It tells us Us where we're wrong, it confronts us. But it doesn't just leave there. The Bible doesn't just leave us wounded and laying there and feeling like garbage. The Bible gives us Us correction. Correction is helping someone get back where they need to be. And the picture that I think would be really good in our minds, maybe don't think about this too much, is somebody they break their arm. And their arm needs to be reset. And so they go and they, you know, they're they're feeling awful and all this pain, and they go in to do an x-ray and somebody says, Okay you your your your arm is broken. We're gonna have to reset. It's gonna hurt a little bit when we do this. Then we're gonna wrap it up and we're gonna put it in a cast. You're not gonna be able to move it for a while, but eventually it's gonna heal properly and it's gonna be right. If we don't do this, you're gonna have a messed up arm the rest of your life, okay? And so what do they do? They correct it, they they reset it to where it needs to be to be. And you know what? When we discipline our children, we don't just leave them crying in their room. We need to sit down with them and we need to talk about how you resolve the issue. How do you resolve the issue with the person Or how do you deal with the person who has wronged you? And how do you relate to God on this issue? This is extremely important. Reproof correction. And then the next statement is Instruction and righteousness. How is a Christian supposed to live? Most of the Christian life shouldn't be reproof and correction. It actually should be doctrine, teaching, and instruction in righteousness, and from time to time there has to be reproof and there has to be correction. And by the way, healthy parenting isn't reproof, reproof, reproof, reproof, reproof, correction, correction, correction. It's doctrine. Okay, reproof correction. Instruction righteousness. Instruction righteousness. Instruction righteousness. Up. Reproof correction. Instruction righteousness. In other words, the vast majority of the time, what are we doing? We're teaching our children how to walk with God. Where do we find the answer to these things? It's all in the Word of God. When we talk about the Bible being fully sufficient, that's what we mean. It's sufficient to teach, to approve, to correct, to instruct us in righteousness. So let me give you a couple of final considerations We need to consider the way that God guides his children. He's a perfect father. God's motive is always pure. Mine's not. Yours isn't, his is. He could do whatever he pleases, but what he pleases to do is consistent with what is right. Right. What I please to do sometimes isn't. And what you please to do sometimes isn't. He's exceedingly patient. I am amazed at the patience of God. I'm frustrated at the patience of God when I think that He needs to be a little more just with somebody. And he says, Well, patience. We're not as patient as God is. In fact, sometimes God gives us kids and allows us to have struggles with Him so that we can learn a little bit more about His patience with us. He knows when even to allow us to stumble. You realize that? Sometimes God lets people fall on their face. It's true. You say, oh, because he's harsh? No. Because he knows the only thing that's going to get their attention. We have a hard time doing that as parents sometimes. Sometimes we actually have to do this. We have to allow our children to face the real consequences of their really foolish decisions so that they realize actually Mom and Dad are right. The Bible is true. We need to listen. He knows when to lift us up. He knows when to protect us. He knows how to be forceful. When we need to be humbled and restrained, his ways are perfectly guided by his infinite wisdom. He has the full picture and view. That's God. Question. Wouldn't you want a friend like that to guide you as a parent? You can, if you'll let him. You need the word of God and a close walk with the Lord to be what shapes your motives, how you function as a parent, how patient you are. Whether or not you restrain and how hard, all those things. Walking with God is absolutely the the foundation To be a godly parent. Second consideration. The way that we often relate to him should be considered. Even though he is a perfect father, have you ever rebelled against him? No. Yes you have. Think about how we fly off the handle when our kid does something crazy. I mean, if God were as harsh with us as we are with our own children sometimes, be scary. He He watches us do foolish things. Sometimes we are very frustrated with his ways. You ever complain to God and said, I don't understand why you're doing this? I wanted to do it this way and you're not letting me do it. And it was even a good idea. You know, it just he just he frustrates our plans sometimes Times. How many times do we not appreciate what he's doing until a lot of time has passed? Now, if we can do that with God , Our kids can do it with us. I'm not saying they should do it with us because we shouldn't do it with him. He's a perfect, perfect father. We are imperfect parents. We need to consider this. So the question is, how do we practically respond to this? Well, we've got to walk with God so that He is shaping us into the people He wants us to be. And ultimately Shaping us into the responders the way we should respond. We need his wisdom. That means we can't neglect his word. We need his daily supply of grace. Sometimes The things that we have to do as parents are really hard, and the only thing we can do is say, God, I desperately need your strength to function today. I desperately need your strength to have this conversation. I desperately need your strength to get through this period that has been very troubling and difficult for me. We need his daily supply of grace. We need to stay encouraged when our children don't respond as they should. I don't think it should shock us. I'm not saying that we should be permissive and just allow our kids to do whatever, but what I'm saying is when a child sins, that shouldn't shock us. We know theologically they're sinners. The question is, how are we supposed to respond to them as parents, their authority? We need to allow the parent-child relationship to broaden our appreciation for God's goodness and his We need the ups and the downs of parenting to drive us to him where that relationship can be strengthened and grow in depth. I think one of the things that God wants to Wants us to do as parents is when we experience the sweet moments, we start having a greater appreciation for the relationship we have with him, and we go through the hard moments. Moments we start having a greater appreciation for how he deals with us when we're on the other side. We're the child in the relationship with him. May God help us to really grow as parents and to become more like our Heavenly Father. That's the challenge tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Father, help us. Help us. To really think about the truth of this text. I know the purpose of the text wasn't, here's how to be a godly parent. It's to tell us how you relate to your children. Children. But you are the greatest example. We need to follow the paths of our Heavenly Father. We need to value What you value. We need to see the end goal. We need to relate to our children with the kind of graces that reflect your communicable action. Attributes. I pray that you'd help us this evening to become more like Christ and to be purposed to become more like Christ. We ask it all in Christ's name, amen.