Thank you for that. Uh children ages four to seven may be dismissed to the back for junior church. And the rest of you who are above seven, uh ask you to Take your Bibles, please, and turn to the second Psalm. Psalm two. Psalm two. And as the young people are heading out, uh I did want to say that uh this week we had the opportunity to take uh several of our teenagers down to the wilds in North Carolina and we had a phenomenal week except for the roads. And uh actually the kids, uh the teens, they they really did have a great week. And uh Pastor Jim Shetler was the speaker at the Wilds this week, and he was my pastor when I was uh uh the age of my kids all the way up through college. And uh I was really blessed by his ministry and so when I saw that he was going to be one of the speakers this summer I said that's the week that I want our teens to go. And I really am thankful that our teens got to go that week. The the preaching was excellent. We do have the sermons and MP three in the office, so So if there's anyone that's interested in hearing some of the messages that were preached while the teens were at camp, those will be available to you. And I think you would really be blessed by the sermons. And I know a lot of Please be in prayer for them. Pray that the things that they learned this week, the things that they were challenged Challenged on, that they'll follow through with those things, and that the Lord will really bless them richly as they seek to live God-centered lives. Psalm 2, and I'll begin reading in verse number 1. Why do the heathen rage? And the people imagine a vain thing. The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord. And against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their cords from us. I want to ask you this question. Have you ever sat down and thought about The rebellion of some of the people around you. You ever ask the question, how is it that God allows people to continue to have the breath of life so that they can take the years that God gives them, the strength that God gives them the mind that God gives them, the opportunities that God gives them. And they take all those things and they throw it in God's face in rebellion and say, I don't want your authority. I want to be my own boss. I reject your right to rule over me. Have you ever looked at people who have set themselves in such a place and asked the question, Why does God let that person continue as they are? It was interesting. I have not watched the local news in probably eight years. That's true. I have not watched the local news maybe ten years, maybe twelve, I don't know. But this weekend, or this week, I was at my grandparents, and my grandparents watched the 6 o'clock news up in upstate South Carolina. I gotta be honest with you, if after not watching the Six O'Clock's news for ten or twelve years, it was pretty crazy some of the stuff that they talked about. And it was just, you know, with a straight face the person tells of one tragedy and tells of another tragedy. And this person was arrested for this. And This person was arrested for that and there was this shooting in this parking lot and this was the reason and they're just going through all these things and I sit down and I'm like, Wow, this is a messed up world. I guess if you watch the six o'clock Every single night, then you weren't surprised by anything you heard, but I guess I was. It'd been a while. And we asked the question Why does God sit back? And why does he let people do what they do? Why does he let them say what they say? Why does he let them make such destructive decisions Well the Psalm that's in front of us actually answers the question of why and then how God is ultimately going to deal with that mentality. Psalm 2 was written from this reason. The purpose of the Psalm is to reflect on the folly of men who rebel against God's authority. And it calls all of us to live Christ centered lives. The fact is if you fight God, you are a fool. Bottom line. And you say, Pastor, that is so harsh to say a thing like that. Well, I'm not going to say it as strongly as this text is going to be How is God going to deal with people who reject his constant care and work in their lives over and over and over again repeatedly? What will he do? The passage will tell us. But the purpose of that passage is not so much about saying, here's how God deals with rebellion. But he's saying, look at the utter folly of being a rebel. Look at how empty it is. Look at the ultimate end of it. How in the world do you think you can fight against your creator and get away with it? And he draws us to this final conclusion: You trust God, you're blessed. That's simple. That's what the text is all about. God wants us to live Christ-centered lives, and I want to encourage you, I want to come alongside of you. If you are struggling in this area, may this message Encourage and challenge you. I want to warn you, if you're walking in rebellion, God's word states very emphatically that you are playing the part of the fool. And what you're doing is dangerous, and you will not get away with it. God is not going to turn his eye indefinitely. There will be a day where he says, enough is enough. I've been patient, I've been merciful, I've been long-suffering, and you have crossed the line for the last time. I want to exhort all of us to live Christ-centered, worshipful life. lives. Because if that's how we live, we will enjoy God's rich blessings in that position. Well the question we have before us this morning is how can we as God's people today Live Christ-centered lives. Well, I want to walk through this psalm in the way that it's structured. It's actually broken down into basically four little sections. Each section has a different person talking, and the person who's talking is trying to emphasize a specific truth about either people or about God, and it's about different persons of the Godhead, depending on the section we're looking at. looking at. The first section teaches this simple truth. We need to understand human nature. We need to understand human nature And if you write down little thoughts here in your Bible or maybe on a notebook, write the word rebellion. Human nature is set in rebellion against God. The Bible says in Romans 3 that there is none who is righteous, there is none who seeketh after God, they are altogether become unprofitable, there is none that doeth good, no, not one. If God just left you to yourself, if he just left me to myself, no matter whose family I grow up in, no matter what the opportunities are that are available to me, if God just left me alone and left me to my own devices I would be a very self-destructive, godless person. My life would be consumed with me, and it would be consumed with my own lustful passions In fact, it's interesting when we look at humanity in general, we see that that is how people live their lives. You say, well, America is a Christian country. We don't have as a culture that kind of a mentality. Folks, that's not true at all. It's not true at all. Look at our entertainments. Look at the sitcoms. Look at the movies that are being produced. Look at the literature that's being written. Think about the discussions in the public forum. Think about the cultural shifts that have taken place in the last 10, 15, or 20 years. Think about the things that are going on in our school system. Think about the conversations that are being had on our university campuses, in our public squares. Think about the things that are being said. What you will see is that in general, mankind throws off and rebels against God's authority. In fact, it's not just the world out there, even within our own hearts. We all have this tremendous battle within To fight against God's authority and his right to rule us. The most universal thing that I can think of about humanity is that people want to rule themselves. They don't want God to rule them And ultimately, that is what Eve fell to in the garden. Satan comes to Eve, and it wasn't the smell of the fruit that got her attention. It was the fact that she could be wise and become like God. It was that she had the right to rule herself. God did not have the right to be her master and her lord, though he was her creator. Look at the passage in verse one. It says this Why do the heathen rage? That word rage is a powerful word. It means that there are people who don't just have a little bit of an issue with God. They hate him. They're angry with him. They hate his authority. His right to rule them is something that really infuriates them. And when he says the heathen, he's basically saying the nations of the world have set themselves in rebellion against God. If you don't hate God, it's because he's done a work of grace in you. It's because he's stirred up the fallow ground. It's because he's brought you to repentance And of faith, and you've seen the glories of Christ, and you've seen God's holiness, and you've seen his power, and you've seen his wisdom, and you've bowed the knee in repentance, and you've trusted in the finished work of Christ. If you're a worshiper of God. It's because his grace has done a work in you and through you. Think about what Newton says in the song Amazing Grace. He says, 'Twas grace that taught my heart to fear. Newton was a blasphemer. Newton was a wicked man. Newton was a man who was involved in the slave trade and in his mind it was about the bottom line dollar, well, pounds. He wasn't a Dollar guy, okay? There was no United States at that point. But Newton was about money. Newton was about power. He didn't care about people's lives He didn't care about the people that he was transporting. He didn't care about where they came from, what was going to happen to them on that ship, or what happened to them when they ended up in the places that they were going. It was all about money. evil man. And he says it was the grace of God that taught my heart to fear. And he said, when I saw God as he is, it created terror in me. But if it wasn't for God's grace that Newton writes about, he would have continued as he was. And the frank truth is this every person in our room, that is from me all the way down to every single person, the children That is where our hearts are naturally set in opposition against God. And the Psalmists ask, why? Do the heathen rage? He says, Why do they imagine a vain thing? He says, The kings of the earth they set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed, saying, Let us break their bands asunder and cast away their cords from us. This is written from the perspective of the observer, the historian, the person who looks at the world and says, this is what I've seen about humanity. Let me mention quickly five universal responses of the ungodly. And if not for the grace of God, this would be your heart and this would be my heart. And if the truth be told, that's where our heart was till God did a work in us. Response number one is this: mankind is angry with God. He says, why do the heathen rape You say, well, why would anybody be angry at God? Because they think God owes them something. Because they don't think God's dealt right with them. Because they think that God doesn't have the right to tell them what to do. Because they think God doesn't have the right to tell them what not to do. Because they want to be their own boss. You say, well, where does that come from? That comes from our own hearts If nobody influences you, you will want to be your own master and your own lord. People are angry With God. A second response of the ungodly is this mankind thinks that somehow they can beat God's justice system You know, you look at the story of Cain and Abel. Why did Cain kill his brother? He killed his brother because he was angry at God. Why did Jewish Sanhedrin plot together to kill Jesus? Because they were angry at God. God. Why did Elijah want to be killed after the Mount Carmel incident? Because he was angry at God. Why did Jonah say, just kill me? Why did Jonah say throw me in the water because I don't want to go to Nineveh? Because he was angry against God. God. The truth is, folks, it's not just the world out there that gets angry at God, it's you and me as well. And if we allow a root of bitterness to spring up in our hearts, many people Will be defiled. But that is the first universal truth. The second is that mankind thinks that somehow they can be God. When Cain kills his brother, somehow he thought God wasn't going to see that. That God saw it. When the Jewish Sanhedrin plotted to kill Jesus and they had him nailed to that cross, they thought they'd gotten away with it. And the bottom line is when you and I are angry at God, we become self-delusional and think we can get away with what we do too. It's amazing to me, it says that they imagine a vain thing. In other words, what they think has got no value. It's empty. It's worthless. It's fleeting. It holds no weight. It has no true power. I think about when Satan puts in the heart of Judas to betray Christ. To me that's one of the most perplexing stories in all the Bible. Satan prompts Judas to betray Christ so that Jesus goes to the cross to do ultimately what? To conquer sin, death, and Satan. I think of the mobs in Jerusalem that made this shocking statement: his blood be on us and on our children. The kinds of things that people will say when they're mad, and that they will say when they think somehow they can beat God. Is absolutely shocking. The reality is that those people did feel the weight of God's wrath when they had said. His blood be on us and our children. And then I think of the Pharaoh. Pharaoh sees all these plagues, one after another after another And at the end of the story, what happens? He sends the nation of Israel away and then he chases them into the sea. And you ask the question, what was that guy thinking? The fact is this, he imagined that he could somehow beat God's justice system, and we see this over and over and over again. repeated. Third, mankind takes active steps to coordinate how they can be God's justice system. I think of the nations at the Tower of Babel. The scripture here says that they've set themselves against God. In other words, they view it as a battle scene. God has set up Himself as the king, as the ruler, as the judge, and they say, we can stand against him, and we will do it, and we will do it together. It amazes me that at the end of the tribulation, when Christ comes at his second coming, he's not going to find the world saying, We welcome the Messiah. He's going to find nations standing at war against him saying, We don't want you. As he's about to establish a thousand years of peace and prosperity. At the end of that thousand-year rule, what's going to happen? The world is going to once again. Stand up and rage against him, and those who were under his rule, but rejected his authority in their hearts are going to stand against him for one final battle. I think of the nations at the Tower of Babel. God says, go and spread out throughout the world. Subdue this world. They've just experienced a world Wide flood. God has judged the nations, and what happens? They say, Come, let us make a tower for our name. That tower was, we don't care what you think, God, we're stronger than you. We're gonna fight you. Mankind does this. The Jewish religious establishment seeking to take Jesus. The third thing is this, or the last is this: mankind hates God's authority. They say, let us break their bands. I want you to realize something. God's commands are good. When God says don't do something, it's not because he's evil. It's not because he hates people. It's because God's ways are best. If God can order this universe and God creates things the way that they are, and he says, don't do this, it's because he knows it's going to have terrible consequences. He says, do this. He's got a good reason for it. But mankind says no. Let us break their bands. God has put shackles on me. It's like I'm a slave and I hate his authority and I say I want to fight it and I want to break these bands. I want to do my own thing. I want to be my own person You say, does the Bible teach that that's how mankind is? Absolutely it does. And here's the question of this section. Why do people do that? It makes no sense. No sense. I go to Ecclesiastes chapter 12, and this is what the text says. He says, remember now. Thy creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. And the day when the keepers of thine house shall tremble. Who's going to be the keeper of your house? Well, it might be you. He says there's going to be a day when you won't even be able to control your own basis. movements. The strongest man, the mightiest warrior, if he lives to be an old man, will come to a point where he can't do the most Basic things. He won't be able to hold a cup of water without spilling it. The carpenter won't be able to drive a nail when he had a livelihood by that for decades. Decade upon decade upon decade, the person who taught won't be able to teach with clarity anymore In Ecclesiastes 12, he says, this is what happens to people. Your intelligence one day will be gone. Your physical strength one day will be gone. Your valor one day will be gone. Your ability to control what you do and what you don't do, will it will be gone. You used to go out and used to travel the world, now you can't even go out of your house. You used to enjoy good meals and now you can't eat everything because you don't even have the teeth to chew it. You see that's so cruel. This is what it says. Listen listen to the statement. He says, the strong men shall bow down. They won't be able to stand up straight. The grinders will cease because they are few. Your teeth will fall out. Those that those that look out the windows will be darkened. It means you won't be able to see clearly anymore And the door shall be shut in the street. You won't be able to go out of your house. The sound of the grinding is low. You won't be able to hear the things that you used to hear. Some of you that might be a good thing. I wonder if that's because you have little kids running around the house. Eventually you just you tune it out and you can't hear anymore. No, you lose those abilities. It says the voice of the bird will wake you up in the morning. You won't be able to stay in bed. All the daughters of music shall be brought low. The childhood songs that we used to enjoy passing the time with, we won't even be able to hear them. They'll be lost. And he says, when they shall be afraid of that which is high, fear shall be in the way, and the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden. Little things that so easily could pick up and do the things that you used to do, you won't be able to do them. Why does he say this? He says, because everybody's going to one day need an end. And that end is the beginning of eternity. The strongest man one day won't be able to do the most bad And so he asked the question: why in the world would you, a mere mortal, rage against your creator? If you live to be a hundred years old, you won't be able to do the things that you could do when you were eighty, when you were sixty, and most certainly when you are 40 or 30. Folks, it is absolute folly to think we can beat God. Truth number two is righteousness. We need to understand how God will ultimately deal with mankind's rebellion. Verse 4, he says, He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh. The Lord shall have them in derision, then shall he speak unto them in his wrath and vex them in his sure displeasure. Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill. This section is written from the perspective of God the Father. And it's interesting, it's not written from the perspective of Christ the Son. That will be the third section. But the Father looks at this rebellion that is ultimately against the Godhead, but specifically against the Son. And he looks at people and he says, who do you think you are? I think that some of us may say God laughs at them. It seems a little harsh. Let me put it in perspective. You ever had a kid tell you what to do? You just look and you're like. Could you repeat that again? They just tell you what to do. Like they got it all figured out. And you're just sitting there going, I I've been around a little longer than you have. I've done a lot of things that you don't even know exist. What right do you have to say that to me? Get back in your place. Show some respect. Kind of think that way. It's true, alright? Just be real honest. It's true. A kid, teenager, confronting an adult, you go, You're a kid. Don't talk like that. Yet we think we can do that to God. We think that we can treat God with such disrespect. And we ask the question: what does God think about that? Well, the passage lays it out. God laughs. He goes, Who do you think you are? I'm the creator. Like the fact that you can breathe today and the fact that you can get up out of bed and that you can do the things that you do, it's because I sustain your life. The fact that you were born into this world is because I gave you life. The fact that you've enjoyed any good thing in this world is because I've given it to you. Every good and every perfect gift comes from me. And you have the the audacity to to ask. And God goes, Who are you? He laughs. He holds them in derision, it says. And then he says, I'm going to deal with you as the judge. How does God view people who have set themselves in anger and rebellion against Him? We have to take this question carefully. First of all, he begins with a season of grace and goodness. When we come to chapter 2, the second Psalm, we come to verses 4 to 6. Don't think that when the person is born into this world, God begins looking at them this way. Now he knows where it's gonna go and he knows where they're gonna end. But the reality is this, when God gives them life and as that person is growing up in the world, he gives them many good things. He takes good care of them, he gives them opportunity. He sent his son to the cross to die for their sins. That person may have opportunity to place their faith in Christ. And they rebel and they rebel and they rebel and they push and they push and they ignore and they live their life for many, many years, and then God says, Enough's enough The fact is that there's a season of God's gracious good hand, but that season's temporary. Matthew 45, verse 44. says this. Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use and persecute you. That ye may be the children of your Father, which is in heaven, for he maketh his son rise on the evil and on the good, and he sendeth his reign on the just and on the unjust. And Jesus is basically saying, God is good to people who hate him. But this passage tells us that's tempting. Pray. There comes a day when the mercy ends. There comes a day when the patience ends. There comes a day when the long-suffering ends. And then how does God deal with them? In fact, it's interesting. In Romans 5, he says Christ dies for the ungodly. In Acts 17, he says, the time of your ignorance God winks at, but he now commandeth all men everywhere to repent. Because he 's appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. In other words, Acts 17 tells us that God is patient with people. He knows that they're unaware of the truth. He knows that they're stumbling in the darkness, and he gives them time, he gives them space. He doesn't work quickly in this area, but he comes to a point where he says, Enough's enough. Repent, turn to me, embrace Christ. Or you will face the consequence. In Romans chapter 2, he says, We're sure that the judgment of God is according to truth. Thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest That you shall escape the judgment of God. Does you despise the riches and goodness and forbearance of God, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? But after thy hardness and impenitent heart, treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath, and the revelation of the righteous judgment of God who will render to every man according to his deeds. That passage tells us that God gives us time and God gives us space and God is merciful and God is patient. And God is long suffering. But as he waits and as you linger, the case builds against you. And there will be a day when he says, enough's enough. He sitteth in the heavens. He laughs and he has them in derision. And then he will speak. I have set my king on his holy hill. God will establish Christ. As the rightful judge and heir of his kingdom. You know, we've been going through the book of Revelation on Sunday nights And I have really enjoyed that study, but I've also been sobered by that study. In Revelation 5, we see a scene, and I'm going to remind you of it in just a moment. He says this. He's looking into the the throne room of heaven, and John sees some things going on, and he hears some things, and this is what he sees, and this is what he hears. I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside sealed with seven seals. And I saw a strong angel proclaim with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals thereof? Now here's the picture. If you're if you know, if you've heard Heard the message, then you know, but if you haven't heard, you won't realize what he's talking about. Basically, this scroll is like a title deed. It's the right to rule the nations. It's a right to rule the creation. It's a right to be set as the sovereign, the king, that there is none higher than this individual. And the angels say, that the individuals say, is there anybody in heaven and in earth who has the ability who has the right to pick up that document, to break open those seals, and to seize possession of the right to rule over the nations. Sadly Many a person thinks that they have the right. Maybe not to rule the whole n the whole creation, but at least my part of it. I have the right to rule my own heart. I have the right to do what I want to do. I have the right to handle everything under my care the way that I want to. And in some sense, you do. God lets you do it But do you have the right? The answer is ultimately no, because you will stand before God and give an account. For what you've done. And those individuals in that throne room, they say, who is worthy? And it says, they looked, and there was no man in heaven. Nor on earth, neither under the earth who was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. He's making a point that there is no mere mortal who has the right to be his own. God, his own king, his own judge. And it says he began to weep He says, I wept much because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, and neither to look thereon. And one of the elders said unto him, Weep not. Behold, a lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, hath prevailed to open the book and to loose the seven seals thereof. The whole point of that story is that there's one person who has the right to rule, and that person is Jesus And the bottom line is, folks, as the nations rage, God looks at them and he says, This, I give you space. And in that time you must turn to me. But if you don't, you will face the judge. You will face the king. You will fe face the sovereign, the ruler over everything, and you will You won't be able to turn away from him. You won't be able to answer back to him. You won't be able to escape him. You will face him. You will be judged by him. There will be no other opportunity. Folks, I want to ask you, how do you set yourself toward God? Do you worship Him? Do you love him? Do you obey him? Do you delight in him? Or do you view him as your enemy? Do you view him as the The one that you think you can hide from. You know, there may be someone in here today, or there may be individuals in here today, that if they were completely honest before God They would say, I hate God. I wouldn't tell you that. But I do. He's not right to me, he doesn't have the right to say this or that. I mean I think it was Walt Whitman who said he was the captain of his own fate. When he died, he found Not that wasn't true. And there are lots and lots of people that live by that view, and they're wrong. Tonight I'd like us to look at the second half of the psalm. Which is really the application. But you can't get an application without an understanding of the basics. The reality is that mankind does set themselves Against God. And God lets them. And God is patient. And we ask why. But there comes a day When he says enough's enough. My greatest challenge to you this morning is don't be like the nations. He is going to crush The rebellion set against him. And he's not just gonna crush it in time, but he's gonna crush it for eternity. And if you set yourself against that king, You'll be part of not just the rebellion, but the destruction of the rebellion. There might be someone here today who's not a Christian. You've never placed your faith in the Lord Jesus. I want to remind you that he holds his arm out to you and he says, While I will judge you, I've judged my son already in your place. I extend to you grace. I extend to you opportunity. I call you to repent, and I call you to trust Christ. And if you will turn to my Son, and you will trust in his finished work, there will be no condemnation to you. You will not be judged with the wicked. You will be blessed You will enjoy the glories of heaven forever. You will enjoy the creation as I intended it. You can escape this terrible judgment. I want to ask you a question today What is your disposition toward your God? You cannot hide from him. You cannot beat him You will meet him, and you'll meet him on his terms, at his time. I pray that you're ready to meet the Lord when your time comes. Let's be our hearts together in prayer, please. I want to ask this question. Is there a person here this morning that would say, Pastor, I am not ready to meet God. The truth is, I'm a rebel. I've I've never taken seriously the gospel I want to be my own boss, my own king. I never looked at it this way, but in fact I hate God's rule. And today he has convicted my heart. And I know I need to turn to him and trust in what his son did for me. Pastor, I want to let you know that I need to be saved. saved today. Is there anyone that would raise your hand and say, Pastor, I need to trust Christ as my Savior. I have rejected him. I have rebelled against him. And I see that today. Is there anyone like that? that. Is there anyone who would say, Pastor, I'm not sure if I'm saved? A passage like this one is very scary to me, and I really need to talk to someone Is there anyone like that? Raise your hand and say, Pastor, I'm not sure if I'm saved. I'm gonna ask a third question is there a Christian here today that would say Pastor I know I'm saved but there have been circumstances in my life that have made made me angry with God. And I know that I need to deal with that today. So would you quietly pray for me in the closing? Is there anyone like that? Say, Pastor, I'm angry at God. And I need I need to do right. I need to repent. I need his forgiveness, cleansing, restoration. Pray quietly from anyone like that. You can put your hands down. Let's pray together. Father in heaven, this passage is very Very sobering. I pray that you'd help us to get the full sense of what's being stated. Help us to realize that we cannot hide from your presence. You are the judge. You are God. And you will judge if we reject your Son. I pray that you help each person here today to be humbled by you. That and as we look at the rest of the psalm tonight, that we would respond as the psalm commands us to worship you and glory you in you to have a deep personal Christ-centered life where we experience your rich blessing. I pray that you would do the appropriate work at each heart that is here today, and those who may join us on the internet later. We ask that you would do a work in and through us in Christ's name. Amen.