Let's turn together to the book of 2 Samuel. 2 Samuel chapter 15. And we are going to read tonight verses 1 through 12. And uh Ironically, this will be the last sermon preached in our church in 2024. And so this is kind of uh an interesting passage of scripture for us to kind of go out of the old year and into the new year with. It's a passage that's pretty heavy, but in fact there's some very in very, very important truths for us too. Dig into this evening and I think some of them are going to be very sobering and some of them are going to be extremely comforting. And so The goal is to hit both of them tonight. So let's go ahead and read together 2 Samuel chapter 15, and we'll begin in verse 1. And it came to pass after this that Absalom prepared his horse his chariots and horses and fifty men to run before him. And Absalom rose up early and stood beside the way of the gate, and it was so, that when any man that had a controversy came to the king for judgment, Then Absalom called unto him and said, Of what city art thou? He said, Thy servant is one of the tribes of Israel. Absalom said unto him, See, thy matters are good and right, but there's no man deputed of the king to hear thee. Absalom said, moreover, O that I were made judge in the land, that every man which hath any suit or cause might come unto me, and I would do him justice. And it was so that when any man came nigh to him to do him obeisance, he put forth his hand, and took him and kissed him. And on this manner did Absalom to all Israel that came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we look at this passage of Scripture, I pray that you'd help us. To think about it in the light of all of these passages that we've been dealing with in the lives of Saul and David. Father, help us to see how David's actions and his inaction. How those things led to what we're going to read about tonight. Father, I pray that we would be sobered by the tremendous danger. of allowing a root of bitterness to spring up in our hearts and to be left unchecked and to be allowed to take root in our souls. And Father, I pray that we would see the tremendous damage that is done by a root of bitterness And Father, I pray that we would see how comforting it is that despite all of the difficulties that came from that root of bitterness And David's lack of justice, even in his own home. We see your great mercy. We see your power and your grace and how you guided in the situation despite all of the misery. to accomplish something that in fact is very good. And we thank you for the fact that your plan of redemption and your promises that were made to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob And David were all kept intact because of your work behind the scenes despite all of these challenges. And so we ask that you would speak to us through your word tonight in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a challenging passage. It reminds us that sin always leads to tragic consequences and misery. Yet it also reminds us that God remains faithful and provides our only hope. And we're going to see those two things set side by side The troubles that David brought into his household because of his sin, and the faithfulness of God, and the mercy of God, and the power of God, and the kindness of God, those are two themes. that are going to be a major part of the story in front of us. And so as we look at this passage, what I think we will take away from the text is that God's desire for us is to walk soberly, considering the terrible consequences of sin, but also with great comfort in the fact that we can glory in God's grace despite these difficult challenges. So with this in mind, I want us to look at three basic themes that we find in the passage. The first two are very sobering themes. The third theme, in fact, is very comforting. So, theme number one, the tragic consequences of sin. Look down in your Bibles again at verses one through four and notice the details. of what is stated in the text. It says, and it came to pass after this, that Absalom prepared his chariots and horses. and fifty men to run before him, and Absalom rose early in the morning, stood beside the way of the gate, and it was so that whenever any man came and had a controversy And came to the king for judgment, then Absalom called to him and said, Of what city art thou? And he said, Thy servant is one of the tribes of Israel. Absalom said, See thy matter is good and right, but there is no man of the king to hear thee. Absalom said, moreover, O that I were made king, our judge in the land, that every man which hath a suit or cause might come unto me, and I would do him justice. Now, a couple of statements in these verses should really capture our attention. Because they are describing the way, the very manipulative way, the very shrewd way, that this young man, Absalom, is stealing the hearts of the people from his father, who he has tremendous anger and bitterness in his heart toward. And I first of all want us to notice that there is a cause for these events. And verse 1 it says, it came to pass after this. And that word this is referring to some things that have been taking place. earlier in the in the book of 2 Samuel. In fact, if we really want to appreciate everything that is behind that word, this, we've got to go all the way back to chapter 11. And if we want to see the conclusion of this, we've got to go all the way beyond this, really, to about chapter 21. Actually, the end of chapter 20. So we're talking about basically 10 solid chapters that are a part of this story that is coming to a head here with Absalom's rebellion. The things that he's talking about are things like David's sin with Bathsheba. We think about David's indecision. When it came to how he dealt with problems within his own household. We think about David's injustice. The fact is that there was a person who was abused by her brother, and David did nothing about it. And there was a man who went and killed his brother, and David did nothing about it. And then the man was banished, and he ran for his life, and then he's brought back, and when he's brought back, David does nothing about it. In fact, David's indecision is a huge factor in what's going on here. David was not just a poor father in these verses, he was a poor king. And his sin was really at the root cause of why he was so indecisive. We see his injustice. His job is to maintain order in the country. Order in the family, order in the palace. He didn't do those things. We see the coldness of David toward his son that led to this moment The fact is, it is possible, we don't really know all of what would have taken place, but it is possible that had David received his son Absalom. And had he sat down with Absalom and actually reconciled with his son, then perhaps all of these things could have been avoided. But that's not what happened. David is cold towards his son. He refuses to meet with him. And as his son is sitting there in the shadows and watching his father show kindness to other people, Absalom is internally stewing with anger and bitterness toward his dad. And this is going to come to a head in these verses. Absalom's bitterness is at the heart of this problem. And Absalom began to act out of this bitterness because of years of holding this inside. And really there are several key moments in the story where David could have stepped in and done right, and he could have resolved a bad situation and made it a little bit better, but in every single situation, guess what David did? He failed. And I can even say this as a pastoral note. Many times when I see relationships break down, especially in the family context, I will see opportunity after opportunity after opportunity where people can resolve issues. And sometimes it's both parties or sometimes it's one party, but because of a root of bitterness, there's an unwillingness to address issues. And when that happens, guess what? There does come a point of no return. There comes a point when you cross the line and you can't clean up the past and things begin to get very dark and very difficult. That's what we see in the passage in front of us. David did not act right. Absalom did not act right. And a lot of pain comes as a result of this. Not only do we see the cause of these events, but I want us to consider the years of premeditation in the heart It says in verse number one that Absalom prepared. That means he spent several years stewing over the issue. This saga took probably ten to twelve years of David's life. A huge portion of 2 Samuel is dedicated to this issue. And during all this time, what is Absalom doing? He still He's stewing. And so the next thing we see is not only does is there a background leading up to this, and Absalom is obvious this obviously stewing over this issue, but we see that Absalom takes action to a exploit the people around him that are discontented with David's leadership. Now I think we have to be careful when we come to a passage like this. I I don't want to present David as if he is this incredible hero and then uh really David is is is pure and he's he's right and he he has done nothing wrong and and Absalom is simply taking advantage of the situation. The fact is David was not doing right on his side. So I don't want to excuse the things that David did. But on the other side to this, Absalom is looking for opportunity. to take a situation and to take advantage of it. And I want you to notice the way it is put in verse 3. When the people came to Absalom as he is sitting there at the gate, he says, Thy matters are good and right. But there is no man deputed of the king to hear thee. Do you notice what he's saying? This in Aslam is basically indicting his father's leadership He's saying, you know, it's really unfortunate that you don't have a person to listen to your case. It's really unfortunate my dad is such a busy person. It's so unfortunate that he didn't have the foresight. To think of a wise person that could sit in his stead and hear these cases out because you need somebody to hear your case. You need somebody to step in. You need somebody to help you. You know what that's called? Called flattery. This man is using people's egos to get into the situation and to create some leverage between the people and David himself. And people can do this. We have to be so very cautious about individuals that would kind of prop up our egos Or people that would plant little seeds to cause us to become frustrated unnecessarily with people in our lives. Absalom does an outstanding job and a bad thing of exploiting the discontentment that was beginning to develop with the people toward David. And we also see that Absalom skillfully plants the seeds of rebellion in people's minds. He says in verse 4, Oh that I were made judge! That every man which had any suit or cause might come unto me, I would do him justice. What's he saying? You need a different king. You need a better king. You need a wiser king. You need a more compassionate king. You need a king who thinks ahead. You need a king who's looking out for you. And so Absalom takes advantage of the situation. But really, I think the heart of this passage is not so much about David's indecision or about Absalom exploiting people's weakness and discontented, but it's really about the wages of sin being death. That's really what this passage is all about. You could talk about any kind of sinful any kind of sinful pattern in a person's life. When people plant the seeds of sin, they will reap the harvest of sin. And we know what it says in Romans 6. 23. It says the wage of the sin is death. Or James 1. 15 it says, When lust has conceived, it brings forth sin. And sin when it is finished bringeth forth death. That death comes in a lot of different ways. A death to a rich quality of life. The fact is, Absalom was the king's son. He had a good life. He had a lot of opportunity. David had been a king for a long time. He's a middle-aged man. But what do we see? Disruption in the home. Disruption in the country. We see disruption all across the board. What does it do? Sin provides opportunity for terrible consequences. The relationships broke down, the dreams that David and his children had, they break down. People's futures are disrupted by sin. Let's not walk away from this text without that concept being driven into our minds. You cannot play with sin. without paying a price as a result of that behavior. It may seem small and insignificant at the time that it begins. But as it grows and as it metastasizes, as it says in James 1. 15, as lust is conceived, it brings forth sin, and when it is finished, it brings forth death. Sin also brings a lot of pain. Hebrews chapter 12, verses 14 through 17. Listen to what this text says, and it is so applicable to what's right in front of us in the passage we're looking at tonight. He says, follow peace, and that word follow has the idea of pursue it. Okay? Kind of like in Romans where it says, as much as lies within you, live peaceably with all men. There are limits to what we can do with people, situations. But we should pursue peace with individuals. He says, pursue peace with all men and holiness without which no man will see the Lord, looking diligently lest any root of bitterness And he failed the grace of Godless and he would of bitterness spring up, trouble you, and thereby many be defiled, lest there be any fornicator or profane person as Esau. For one morsel of meat sold his birthright, for you know how that afterwards, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected. He found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. What does bitterness do? Well, it brings pain. It brings pain to those who have sinned. So when Absalom sinned, guess what? It brought him pain. And when David sinned, guess what? It brought him pain. It brings pain to those who are sinned against. As much as David sinned against his family, in this particular case, his family sinned against him. So you could say there was guilt on Absalom's side. You could say there was guilt on David's side. There was guilt on many different sides. Sin hurts people who are sinned against. Sin brings pain and hurts those who are close associates. Everybody in David's family was affected by this. It even brings pain and misery to those who seem to be well removed from the situation. What's sad about the text in front of us is it shows us that David had an issue with Absalom, and Absalom had an issue with David. They didn't resolve their differences appropriately, and it didn't just bring consequences to David and Absalom. It brought consequences to the entire household And then it brought consequences to the entire nation because this is the royal family. What's going on in this family is affecting everybody in the country. Thirdly, we see that sin brings unnecessary complications. Or maybe we could use the word entanglements. Proverbs 5. 21. The ways of a man are before the eyes of the Lord. He pondereth all his goings. His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself. And this next statement is very, very powerful. He shall be holden with the cords of his sin. In my mind, I get this picture of someone who's all tangled up. And there are these chords that are binding this individual. And he's seeing that's what sin does. Sin makes life extremely complicated. It makes life extremely difficult. It makes life extremely overburdened It says he will die without instruction, and the greatness of his folly shall he go away. Interestingly, in the context, he's talking about the sin of adultery. In Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1, he says, Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Sin complicates families, work environments, even countries. And so let's not miss that first theme. The danger of sin. The second theme I want you to notice is kind of leaning in a little bit to the first one. And that is the specific consequences of bitterness. In verse 6 he says, On this manner did Absalom to all Israel that came to the king for judgment. So Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel. That little statement is very important. He stole the hearts of the men of Israel. He took what did not belong rightfully to him. He took it in a very underhanded way. He took it through plotting, and he patiently executed his plan. His actions would ultimately shame his dad and would demonstrate his complete disdain for him. This is what the sin of bitterness does. It causes people to say things they would never have dreamed of saying if they were thinking clearly. to do things that they would never consider to be wise and sound and appropriate had that root not taken hold of their hearts. In fact, when we go back to the example in Hebrews, it talks about Esau, and here is Esau. He's willing to sell his birthright for a pot of soup. And the question is, why was he willing to do that? It's actually because he was bitter against his brother. He had this bitterness in his heart, and because he had this bitterness in his heart that had taken root in his soul, he was willing to give up something of great value. We see that his actions would lead to all kinds of misery. The kingdom would split. Many people died needlessly. We think about war. War is a horrible thing. And really, when you step back sometimes and ask yourself, what was the ultimate cause of this conflict that caused so many people to lose their lives, sometimes you'll step back and go, that makes no sense. Like why these people who held this viewpoint and these people who held this viewpoint would be willing to throw their children into battle with one another? I literally see an entire generation of young people whose lives would be traumatized, people who would lose parents. Young people who would never marry because they would be cut off at a young age. Sometimes people go, why in the world would people pick up arms for such a cause? Yep, that's what happens sometimes and people begin to think in a very self-oriented way. That's what bitterness did in the heart of Absalom. It led to the splitting of the kingdom. Many people died needlessly. Ahithophel, David's advisor, kills himself. David would endure incredible humiliation. Out of all the stories in David's life, this one might be the most humiliating and dehumanizing as it is relating to him as a person. I'm not even going to read all the details. I'm just going to let you do that. Because in great detail, the scriptures talk about how David was completely humiliated by his son. Absalom would ultimately be killed in cold blood by Joab, and the situation would not be completed until after David was dead. Interestingly, when David is giving his last words of encouragement to Solomon, he says, here are people who you need to deal very carefully with. And you will know how to deal with them when the time comes. And it's interesting that when those situations are addressed, they started during this time in David's life. So David never even saw the full resolution of the problems that came as a result of this period in his life. Third theme, and this is where I want to leave you with some encouragement. I don't want this to just be a dark text. It is a dark text. It is a sobering text. But I want you to realize there's actually tremendous encouragement here as well. Third theme is this the enduring faithfulness of God despite human misery. Now, when we read through this passage of scripture, And we think about the humiliation that David encountered. We think about the bitterness of Absalom. We think about David's injustice. We think about how it tore apart his family. We think about how it split the nation. We think about all the terrible things that happened. The question we should all ask in our minds is, was there anything good that came out of this? And the answer is, well yeah, there was. And it was in no way attributed to David's good decisions. It was in no way attributed to the good decisions of Absalom. Or to the good decisions of Joab or the good decisions of the counselors that were around these men. It was all attributed to the mercy of God. 100%. And the first thing I want you to notice here is that despite all of this, David would maintain the throne to the end of his life. You might say, well, why does that matter? It matters because God made promises to David. And God not only made promises to David, but God made promises to David's children. And their children's children. And those promises actually connect into the story of the gospel. All the way back to the book of Matthew. Who is Jesus? He is the son of David. Why does that matter? Because God made covenant promises to David Listen to what it says in 2 Samuel 19, verses 9 through 11. This is four chapters of drama later. Here's what it says. And all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, The king saved us out of the hand of our enemies. He delivered us out of the hand of the Philistines. And now he has fled out of the land for Absalom. And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now therefore, why speak ye not a word of bringing the king back? Skip ahead a few more verses and he says, the people come to David and they say, We want you to come back. Says he bowed the heart of God, bowed the heart of all the men of Judah. Even as the heart of one man, so that they sent this word unto the king, Return thou, and all thy servants. So the king returned. Now, you know, war is terrible. But I'll tell you what could be worse than war is when people try to recover after it's over. It's really true. I'm reading about the uh assassination of Abraham Lincoln right now. It's in that killing series, right? My wife gave that to me for Christmas. Very interesting stuff. Yes, I know. It's a little interesting, right? So I'm I'm reading about the end of the Civil War. And it's it's horrible. It's graphic. It's violent. Do you realize Abraham Lincoln was assassinated within a couple of days of the war ending? I mean, here is this country that has gone through five years essentially of horrible conflict. Brothers fighting against brothers, fathers taking up arms against their own children Brutality. Unspeakable brutality. And now it's over, and the president is dead. And guess what? The country's got to figure how to put itself back together. And the truth is, that happened in 1860. And today we still, believe it or not, we still are experiencing some of the lingering effects of that portion of our nation's history. It takes a very, very long time for a nation to heal. It takes a very, very long time. It takes generations for people to lay aside their grievances and embrace one another. Yet here we're looking at a passage of Scripture where David's own son took up arms against him. He runs for his life And the people that went in league with David's own son, who humiliated him, who now has been killed in cold blood, they're telling David, as one nation, come back. And we want you to be our king. And he does it. And David is not a young man. He is an old man. He's not going to live a lot longer than this period in his life. Yet God in his great mercy, he establishes him again. You know, the Bible says the heart of the king is in the hands of the Lord as the rivers of water. He turns it whithersoever he will. true. The Bible says that it is God who lifts up and he puts down. It's absolutely true. And the text shows us that And the text reminds us of the fact that it is the mercy of God that brought such stability back to the nation so rapidly when there was so much turmoil amongst the people. Second thing I want you to notice is that his son Solomon would reign in his father's stead. Now David had a lot of children. He had a lot of children because he had a lot of wives. And because he had a lot of wives and he had a lot of children, he had a lot of drama and he had a lot of misery in his household because he didn't follow God's very simple plan. One woman, one man. For life, raise your kids together for the glory of God. David decides to disregard God's plan, and he has all kinds of trouble as a direct result of that. But interestingly, when we think about the promises that God made to Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, Moses, and David. The one given to David is one of the most fascinating because it emphasizes the fact that there is going to be a king who rules in the stead of his father. And so in order for this to take place, you have to have a peaceful transition of power from one generation to the next generation, and God is going to have to do this work. Out of all the sons of David, Absalom may have been the worst candidate to take the throne in his absence. He's gone Interestingly, Solomon would have been a son to David when David was the average age of a typical grandfather. And when we read the book of Proverbs, what do we see? We see that Solomon talks about the incredible love that his father had for him. And he talks about the fact that his father taught him the word of God. Now, we don't know what David did with his other children. But I would have to assume based on the choices that they made, and based on the choices that David made, it's very likely he didn't do it very well with them. Very likely. I don't think I'm going out on a limb to say that, but we know that he actually did a decent job with Solomon. And so what do we see in 1 Kings 2 verse 1? Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die. And he charged Solomon his son, saying, I go the way of all the earth. Be thou strong therefore, and show thyself a man. And keep the charge of the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways, to keep his judgments and his statutes and his jud uh and his testimonies as is written in the law of Moses. That thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest thyself, that the Lord may continue his word, which he spake concerning me. Despite all the challenges, David is able to peacefully transition power over to Solomon. The passage of scripture that we read this morning, where David is just glorying in the Lord, that happened after what we're reading tonight. How did David get to such a place? The mercies of God. Third thing I want to mention here is that God would ultimately fulfill his covenant promises. Isaiah 9, 6 and 7, unto us a child is born, a son is given. The government shall be on his shoulders, his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace, of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order and establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform this. Guess what? He did it. And so we see that God re-establishes David. God allows for there to be a peaceful transition of power from David to Solomon. God keeps his plan intact that he's going to send the Messiah into the world through David's lineage. And I want to give you one final one that I think is very comforting. In David's later years, he would testify to the overwhelming goodness and the faithfulness of God. I read this text this morning. But I think it really, really will hit home when we think about it in light of this passage in front of us. It says, now, these be the last words of David, David the son of Jesse. He said, the man who was raised up on high and anointed of the God of Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel, said, The Spirit of the Lord spake by me, his word was in my tongue. The God of Israel said, the rock of Israel spake to me, he that ruleth over men should be just, ruling in the fear of the Lord. Did he do that well? He really didn't. Although my house be not so with God, yet he hath made with me an everlasting covenant. Ordered in all things, sure, this is all my salvation. Pretty amazing statement. You know what David's saying? I sure made a wreck of my own family. And I'm glad that God was faithful. Now listen, we don't have to go to the place that David did. We can learn from David. But there's a lot of comfort here. There's a lot of comfort that God isn't done with us when we have stumbled and failed. God isn't done with us because we have, let's say, not handled things the way that we should. You know what he said? He says, get back up. Move forward. Let me pour my grace into the situation. It might be that as we enter into the new year this week, we need to be reminded of both sides here. The fact that our sin is serious, and if we entertain it, there'll be terrible consequences. But there's also the side where God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. He says, humble yourself in the sight of God, and he'll lift you up. That's what God does. When we have failed and we have sinned. And we are moving down a path of great potential destruction. God says, humble yourself and I will lift you up. And that's what we need to do when we think about a text like this. So how do we apply a passage like this? Let me give you some final thoughts to consider. First of all, remember that sin brings misery. Sin brings death, it brings pain, it brings entanglements, all unnecessary. You can escape those things if you don't plant the seed. Two, we cannot presume against God's ways without real-life consequences. Is God a God of grace? Yes. But that should never be the seed of presumption. Thirdly, let's walk with sobriety and humility. What I mean by that is we need to walk with a seriousness about life. We don't play games with sin. We don't make excuses for things that are very, very destructive. We deal with them. We walk humbly. We need to remember that bitterness is an exceptionally destructive sin. All bitterness against others ultimately leads to a bitterness against God. And this is something that we have to remember in our minds. When we have an anger in our heart, and by the way, bitterness doesn't necessarily start, I mean, our response when people wrong us. It may not be wrong initially, but what we do is that, that's where the problem lies. How we allow something to fester rather than addressing it appropriately, that's where the problem lies. And ultimately, bitterness leads back to God. Why did God let this person say this? Why did he let them do this? Why did he allow me to experience this heartache? Ultimately, we're upset with him. Next, deal with your pain in a distinctly Christian manner. The fact is, how we think and how we live ought to be a truly Christian manner We don't live like the world. We don't pursue conflict resolution like the world. We actually approach things as Christians in a distinctly Christian manner. Let's remind ourselves that God is always faithful. Because he's faithful, we can glory in him. We should love him. We should walk with him We should never get over the blessedness of the gospel. I know that the gospel is never once directly mentioned in this text, but let me tell you, this text drives us to the gospel. And it reminds us, had God not intervened for good despite all of these troubles, his plan of redemption would have to be have fallen short. And God would never allow that to happen. He's faithful to his word. Let's bow in prayer and ask the Lord to help us to think through these things. And really take action upon them. Our Father, thank you for your word. Help your word to take root in our hearts. I know that this is a tough text. I know this is a tough topic. And I pray that you would help us to have the courage and the strength to address our sin in a godly way. Father, help us to be humble people. Help us to turn to you in times of great need and help us to see the way that you are able to work despite our failures. Father, I thank you for the faithfulness that is demonstrated in this passage that despite all of the trouble and the misery and the entanglements, you remained faithful. And at the end of David's life, he bore testimony to that. May we be a people who never lose sight of that. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.