Okay, well let's go ahead and uh turn our Bibles to the book of First Kings tonight. First Kings chapter two is where we're going to be And uh tonight we're starting a new series, which is just a continuation of an old series. And uh tonight we're going to be looking at David's final words. as he's encouraging Solomon. And so we are now going to move into a series looking at the kings of Israel. We're going to start with Solomon and we're going to work our way through good and bad all the way up to ultimately the captivity of Judah. And so that is what we will be looking at over the next good little while as we're working our way through the Old Testament. The passage in front of us is a very, very practical one. And it's not just a very practical one, but it also is very similar. There are a lot of themes we're going to talk about tonight. That are are going to dovetail very well with what we talked about this morning from Psalm 45. So I think it's going to be really encouraging to look at these two texts together, both in the morning and in the evening. 1 Kings chapter 2 verse 1 says the following. Now, the days of David drew nigh that he should die. And he charged Solomon his sons, saying, I go the way of all the earth. Be thou strong therefore. Show thyself a man. Keep the charge of the Lord thy God. To walk in his ways, to keep his statutes and his judgment, his commandments, and his judgments. And his testimonies as it was written in the law of Moses. That thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, whithersoever thou turnest thyself, that the Lord may continue his word. which he spake concerning me, saying, If thy children take heed to their way, to walk before me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not fail thee, said he. A man on the throne of Israel. Please let's bow together for prayer as the Lord really speaks our hearts tonight from his word. Father, as we think about the text in front of us, I pray that you would help our hearts to be quiet. And help our hearts to be sensitive to the things that you have for us. As we think about the reality that we will all one day face, death. One day our bodies will begin to deteriorate. We will not be as strong and as vibrant as we once were. At that point in our life, There are things that will be very serious to us. And if we have not lived well, they will be a great weight to our hearts. And so I pray that as we look at the words of David to his son, we think about how we encouraged him and challenged him in the Lord, that we would take these truths to heart tonight. And then as we think about the fact that David and Solomon were just They were just individuals that you used in your redemptive plan, ultimately to bring the Messiah into the world to redeem us from our sins. I pray that we would see these truths also that are a major part of the text in front of us. So help me as I teach your word tonight. Help me to do it effectively. Help us. as listeners to hear the word and to be doers of it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Now as we work our way through the book of First Kings, I want to just say a couple of things about the difference between the way that First Kings and Second Kings are written. And 1st and 2nd Chronicles are written. If you are reading through the Old Testament, a lot of times you'll come to stories about Solomon or about David or about some of the kings, and you'll notice That the way that they're described in 1 and 2 Chronicles is different than the way that they're described in 1 and 2 Kings. Now when I say they're different, I don't mean that they're contradicting one another. What I mean is that the details that are included in 1 and 2 Chronicles tend to be a lot smoother, and then the details that are included in 1, 2 Kings tend to give a lot of detail that is very negative. For instance, last week when Pastor Josh was preaching and he's talking about the end of David's life and how Solomon becomes the new king, he talked about how in in 1 Chronicles it simply says the second time Solomon was saved. going to be the king, okay? But it doesn't give all the details that are there in First Kings. First Kings talks about the fact that Adonijah was trying to take the throne, that there was a lot of tension and internal turmoil within the administration of David. And we also realize that when those things were going on, David is a very elderly man. He's not strong. He's not the kind of person that's going to really Hold the line and do things with the kind of strength and resilience that he would have done years before. He's now a very weakened, a very diminished, a very elderly person. And that's important for us to realize. When we read 1 and 2 Kings, we're going to get a lot of the negative details that are not highlighted in 1 and 2 Chronicles. The question is why? That's because the writing of 1 and 2 Kings was actually different in its intent than 1 and 2 Chronicles. 1 and 2 Chronicles were meant to encourage the people as they were coming back from the exile. God wasn't done with them. He still had a purpose for them. All those promises that had been made to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob and really highlighted in David, the Davidic covenant. God was going to follow through with all of those promises, and so the people could be encouraged as they were back in the land after the exile. Rashad when we go to 1 and 2 Kings, the purpose of those books of history were written to warn the people that, in fact, God was just And God was right to bring these judgments on the people. And so all of these negative details are written so that the people would understand it was a lot worse than maybe you thought. When God is looking at what's going on amongst his people, he sees lots of sin, lots of unfaithfulness, lots of examples of him extending his mercy, extending his grace. Sending prophets and the people just completely blowing it off. So I think it's helpful for us to understand the difference between the intent of those two books. The details are going to highlight something different in the Chronicles than in the Kings. So when we come to the passage in front of us, We see both the weakness of David, but also the resilience of him as he's about to give his final words of encouragement to Solomon. And so I think as we read these verses, we're going to see that what God wants us to do is he wants us to learn from an old man who was about to die He wants us to learn about what mattered to him at the end of his life. He wants us to learn from him on how he really invested in his son and how he emphasized his duties and his responsibilities. As we look at those things, we need to take note. And before we come to that time, we need to invest wisely. So with that in mind, let's go ahead and work our way through the truths that we find in the text in front of us. The first truth that we find in this passage is that no one, no one escapes death. I know it's a very dark statement, but it's true. In fact, when we read the book of Ecclesiastes, the way that the book ends, he says, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. before the evil days draw nigh, and you look back over your life and you say, I wish I had done things differently. And what does Solomon say at the end of his life? He lays out what happens to us as we get older. He talks about teeth falling out. He talks about people losing their strength. He talks about the fears that people experience. the vulnerabilities that they have. He describes all this in a poetic way to help us to realize that's where we're headed if we live to be old. And what's interesting about the text that we're reading in is that the way that the book of 1 Kings starts really shows David as a weak An elderly dying man. Notice what it says in verses 1 and 2, and then we're going to go back at something else that was stated in chapter before. It says, now the days of David drew nigh that he should die. And he charged Solomon, his son, saying, I go the way of all the earth. Now turn with me back one chapter and notice how the book of 1 Kings begins. In 1 Kings chapter 1, verse 1, it says, Now King David was old. and stricken in years, and they covered him with clothes because he gat no heat. Now they're not saying that David was laying there without clothing on. They're saying They had to bundle him up because he was freezing. Okay? So, you know, maybe you remember going and visiting an elderly person. And they're sitting there and they have this blanket over them and they're sitting there and they're shivering. You're like, it's so hot in this room. Why are they cold? It's because their body can't retain heat anymore It's hard to imagine this. But that was David. Here is this man that had lived an incredibly remarkable life. I just want you to go back in your mind, I'm not going to go through great details, but I just want to think of this in generalization. David 's life began very humbly. He was a shepherd. But what do we know about him as he's a shepherd? He goes out and he kills a lion and he kills a bear. I mean this guy is one really tough kid, right? He goes out and he is a hero who defeats Goliath. Here are all of his brothers. Here is Saul the king. Here are these mighty warriors. And for weeks on end Uh they have watched as Goliath has walked out into that valley and he has mocked the armies of Israel. He has mocked the God of Israel. And David comes and he's like, I'm gonna see my my brothers as mighty warriors. And what does he see? He sees them trembling and they're fearful. He's like, what's going on here, guys? Is there not a cause? We gotta go and do something about this. This is the guy we're talking about. When he was a young man, he was willing to go fight a bear, he was willing to go fight a lion, he's willing to go fight Goliath In fact, as we think about David as he rises to prominence and becomes a mighty warrior and he distinguishes himself, Saul sets his eye on him, and he's fearful of David. He wants to kill David because He's afraid that David's going to take his turn. By the way, he did. Not by force, but by the providence of God. There was nothing Saul could do to stop it, but Saul did everything in his power to stop it. And so Saul works to kill David, this person he is fearful of. There's no reason for him to be fearful of him. This is his father-in-law, don't forget. God preserves his life during these years of turmoil. We think about the tragic sin of David's life. We think about how God blessed him in his kingdom and established him. We think about all the terrible consequences of David's sin and his family. We talked about the story of Absalom. We talked about all of this dramatic stuff that happens when Absalom leads this rebellion and the kingdom splits for a period of time. And some of David's most trusted advisors, they go and they stand with Absalom, and they're doing everything in their power to destroy and humiliate David. He lives through all that. And what do we see? The grace of God preserved David's kingdom. And the grace of God established his son Solomon. That's a pretty remarkable life. I said last Sunday, I was like, what would it be like to preach David's funeral? Well, I guess I'm kind of going through it right now, right? We're talking about what his life was like. Very remarkable. Second thing I want to think about here as well is he was fortunate to live to be an old man. Now, I'm gonna make a statement here. He was only 70 guys. Some of you are like, he's a young man. Well he was an old 70, let me tell you. Think about some of the stuff that David lived through that was very difficult. He faced numerous dangers in battle. David endured incredible internal stress. I mean you think what it's like when you have a a problem with a person maybe you work with or maybe there's there's tension in a family and and and for years people deal with all this anxiety and all this drama and all this internal pain David lived with a lot of internal trouble. In fact, when we read the Psalms, David is very transparent about the things that he experienced. I would even say when we read some of the things that David writes about his internal thoughts and the kind of pain that he felt, you go, man, that guy needed to talk to a therapist. I mean, he was really troubled, was he not? David was a man who when he was when he was doing well, he was passionate for God. When he was doing poorly, you know what? He was in the darkest of places. And so part of this was his temperament, but it wasn't just his temperament. It was the fact that David lived through a lot of difficulty. He knew injustice. He knew it was like to have a plagued conscience. He knew it was like to live with the natural consequences of very foolish and sinful choices. He knew it was like to have people hate him so much that they'd do anything in their power to kill him if they had the opportunity. He knew it was like to be absolutely humiliated. Guess what? That weighed in on that man's body. That weighed in on that man's disposition and all of those things. He experienced the heartache of losing three children. You think about the child that died after his sin with Bathsheba. You think about his son Absalom, who was killed by Joab. And David said, Don't kill my son Absalom. And Job's like, I'm going to kill this guy. He disrupted and split the kingdom. He wants to kill his father. I'm going to take him out. And look at how David responded to that. Think about the story of how all this drama unfolded when his daughter was raped and then her brother kills his other brother. David experienced a lot of misery. And do you realize that David lived through three periods of national strife? Where the nation was either split or it was on the verge of splitting. When David came to power, he did not start ruling in Jerusalem. There was a power struggle between the family of Saul and David. Then David experiences a split when his son tries to steal the uh the throne from him, and then at the end of his life when he's an elderly man And he's sitting there in the corner all covered up because he's cold. His son Adonijah is trying to take the throne from Solomon, who is going to be the one who replaces David. I say all that to put this very simply. It's amazing that David lived to be an old man. It's amazing because of all the stress. It's amazing because of all the dangerous situations. The reason he made it to that period of life is because God preserved him. But his time came. Verse 2. David drew David said, The days are drawing nigh that I should die. I go the way of all the earth. And as we step back and we reflect on that, I just I'm going to remind you of a very simple fact. You will not live forever on this planet. And actually, I'm thankful that I'm going to die and be with the Lord one day because there's a lot of misery in this life. But there's also a lot of blessing. It's a lot of lessons. A lot of opportunity. And the fact is that we need to wrestle with this reality that we are not going to live forever. We're going to die. And one day we're going to be absent from this body and present with the Lord. And before that time comes, we need to live wisely, or when we come to this time, we will regret how we lived our lives. And so we need to view David, and I would say not just David, but anyone we view in history with balance. We should be inspired by their noble decisions. They're noble characters. When I read David's life, I should be inspired by his willingness to go and fight Goliath. I should be inspired by how he handled certain situations very, very well. On the other side, I should be honest about his tragedies Nobody is perfect. Everyone has tragic flaws. We need to learn from those and be honest about them. But we need to glean wisdom from both the inspirational, noble principles that we see and also the tragic things we see. Second truth I want you to notice from the text tonight is that we must invest in the next generation. Now this is interesting for us to think about. In verses 2 to 3, listen to the words of David to his son, and remember that as David says this, he's not a strong and vibrant man, he is a very weak and a very elderly man. It's almost as if here is a man, he is on his bed, they're trying to keep him warm, he's not strong, he's not vibrant, but he knows what he wants to say to his son. And here's what he says in verses 2 and 3. Solomon. Be thou strong, therefore. Show thyself a man. Could you imagine David telling you, be a man? You know it's funny, there's certain people that you only know them when they're old. You don't know what they were like when they were younger. And you meet somebody who maybe really looked up to them. Let's say that this is a guy who's like 80, 90 years old. And there are people that when this guy was in his 30s, they were like teenagers, all right? And they and they they say, you see that man right there? If you knew him when he was in his 30s, 40s, and 50s. He was a tough guy. He was a vibrant person. The things that that guy accomplished, that guy's my hero. When I was a teenager, that guy was my hero. And you you just see him as an old man Imagine David, the Smitey Warrior. He's saying, Solomon, be strong. Be a man Keep the charge of the Lord thy God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes and his commandments and his judgments and his testimonies, as it is written in the law of Moses, that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest. I want you to realize that when David is speaking these words to his son , He is not speaking these words to his son as someone who has never heard David say this to him. In fact, if we read through this and we were to take note of the various statements that he makes, We would find all of these statements in the book of Deuteronomy. Be strong, keep the charge, walk in the Lord's ways, keep his statutes and his judgments and his testimonies. so that you will prosper in all that you do. Do not turn to the right hand, do not turn to the left hand. You'll see all of this in the book of Deuteronomy. Why was that so important? Because the book of Deuteronomy was it was a covenant book that was given to the people. That was to remind them that God has chosen you as a people. But you have responsibilities as his people if you want to prosper and you want to be blessed under this covenantal arrangement. But there's even more to it than that. David was a king who God had made very specific promises to. And so David obviously taught his son these things. Notice the details. Of what he says that he would have said repeatedly to his son. The first thing he says is, you need to be strong. I can't imagine what would have been going through the mind of Solomon as he realizes it's about to happen. My dad has been the king of Israel for 40 years. He has been a national hero. Yes, he's had his flaws. Yes, he's had his problems. Yes, there are things people can pick at at him, but for 40 years this man has led this nation. And I'm about to watch my dad die. And I'm about to take all that responsibility And the people that were his advisors at the end of his life. These people remember, he wouldn't use the phrase when I was in diapers, but they would. You understand? They remember when I was a toddler. They remember when I was a little kid. There are people that I'm as young as their grandchildren, and I'm going to lead this nation. And I'm going to be filling the shoes of a great man who God has blessed immensely. And that's scary. If that doesn't scare you, you're not thinking right. You're not. I just think about like just practically when somebody steps into a role that someone has been filling for a very long time, it is not easy for that person. To step into that role. Why? Because they're all the well, I remember when so-and-so did it this way, and you're not like them, and this and that, and a lot of stuff people can say and think, and they may not say it. They're like, well, you know, my kid He's your he you guys grew up together. Like why should I respect what you have to say? This is the kind of stuff Solomon's thinking. But what does David say? Be strong, Solomon. This is your job. Don't be weak. Don't wimp out. Don't back down. Be strong. Second thing he says is keep the charge. This is really important. He needed to feel the weight of a divine mandate. Do you know who gave him the kingdom? It wasn't David. It was God. The reason that Solomon could stand up and be strong is because he had the firm conviction that God wanted him in that place. And the fact is that when you understand that what you are doing is given as a divine mandate from God, that affects how you function. A lot of people say, well, how do I know that? Well, do you have children? God gave them to you. You have a divine mandate. Are you married? Yes. You entered into a covenant arrangement. And you have duties before God as a husband or as a wife, as a father, as a mother, the places that God has established you. He has established you in those places for a reason. You should feel the weight of God put me here. God gave me these duties. I need to rise up to the occasion and be faithful. And Solomon is hearing this from his father as an old man. Solomon maybe is 18, 19, 20 years old. He's a very young man. Thirdly, he said, walk in his ways. He needed to establish healthy patterns of life. Now, David had been a good example in some ways, and in other ways he'd been a horrible example. And he could easily point to his son and say, hey son, do you see what I did there? You'll experience the same kinds of heartaches that I did if you do what I did. Do you see what I did here? You'll experience the same kinds of blessings that I experienced if you do that. That's what's so important about being honest with our children about both our strengths and our weaknesses. When you fail, don't pretend to your children that you haven't. You actually really hurt your children when you're not willing to admit your failures. And you're not willing to state, this is where I was wrong, this is what I learned. You don't have to do that. Your children can learn from that. And Solomon had the example of his dad. Fourthly, he says that thou mightest prosper. He needed to understand what was on the line. By the way, it wasn't just about Solomon's advancement. It was about Solomon being a faithful king. And by the way, everybody under that rule is going to be blessed, or they're going to struggle as a result of that. You know, when we have leadership that is vibrant and healthy and doing what is right, it helps people. And when we have leaders that are evil and unjust, it hurts people. And so there's a lot on the line. Basically, as David talks to his son, he says, Son, be a godly king who does your duties faithfully. What's interesting is we see this repeated over and over and over again in the scriptures. Think about the story of Moses and Joshua. If we go back to the book of Deuteronomy at the end of Moses ' life, we read the beginning of Joshua, Joshua chapter 1, it'll sound almost exactly like what David is saying to his son here. We think about Christ in the upper room as he's preparing his disciples. He's about to go and be crucified. And in a large chunk of the book of John. Is Jesus in the upper room encouraging and strengthening his disciples, preparing them for what they were about to encounter? We read the pastoral epistle, 2 Timothy. What is 2 Timothy? It is Paul's encouragement to Timothy. He says, Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. The things you have heard of me among many witnesses, commit to faithful men who shall be able to teach others also. This pattern is repeated over and over and over again. This is how leadership transfers are supposed to happen. And when those who are doing their work faithfully do it faithfully to the end. They often have the opportunity to do that. And what a sweet thing for David. Even though he's an old man, he's a weak man, he's about to die, he has the joy. Of knowing he invested in this young man. And this young man is going to take the baton and he's going to do it well. And so we see that encouragement. We know that David invested his son because of what's stated in Proverbs 4. Listen carefully to what it says. It says, Hear ye children, the instruction of a father, attend to no understanding. I give you good doctrine. Forsake ye not my law. Now here's where it gets very interesting. For I was my father's son, tender, only beloved in the sight of my mother. That's Bathsheba, and that's David. You realize that when Solomon was a little boy, David was in his 50s. So he was the age of a lot of people when they have their grandchildren. And so when David thinks about his relations, so uh to Solomon, he had a tender affection for him, not just because he was his child, but he had that that period of life where it's like, you know, when you're younger and you're you're raising kids, there's a lot of things you don't appreciate. And then as you start getting older, you kind of mellow out a little bit. Anybody like that? I feel like I'm a mellowing parent a little bit. I don't know if my kids would think that or not. But the truth is you look at grandparents with their kids and you their grandchildren you're like, what happened to that guy? Dad, what did you do? What did you what have you become? You're a grandfather now. Ma, you're yeah, listen to that. Well imagine if you're raising your own children in your fifties. That was so is David. And so when he says I was my father's son, tender and only beloved in the side of my mother. He taught me and said to me, Let thine heart retain my words, keep my commandments, live, get wisdom, get understanding, forget it not. That's a really amazing picture, isn't it? A guy who's raising his children is really more like the age of a grandparent. You realize he's only going to live maybe 15 to 20 more years. Fifteen probably. Ten to fifteen years when he is teaching a lot of these things to his son. He's teaching with his words. He's teaching by his example. He's walking alongside his son to help him develop. He's leaving a legacy. And here's my question. Dads, what are we doing? What kind of legacy are we leaving? I mean, do we speak the truth to our children? Are we a good example? Are we walking alongside of them and helping them develop? That really is what Solomon experienced. Out of all of David's children, I think that the scripture tends to show that Solomon was probably the son who had the most healthy upbringing of all the children. It appears that way. May we learn from his example in this particular area. Truth number three, we must point them to God's enduring works. Now this is an interesting point that I don't want us to miss. The first half is, you know, David's gonna die, we're gonna die. We understand that. David invested in his son, he reminds his son of that investment. We ought to do the same thing. This third part's very interesting. We've got to point our children to the things that endure. Look down in verse 4. It says that the Lord may, and here's the key, continue his word. Which he spake concerning me, saying, if, don't miss that word, if thy children take heed to their way. And walk before me in truth with all their heart and all their soul, there shall not fail thee, said he, a man on the throne of Israel. That word if is a conditional statement, the Jupitzda. If your children walked in my ways, there will never fail a man on the throne of Israel. By the way, let me read to you how the book of 2 Kings ends. It starts out now that King David was old and stricken in years. They covered him with clothes because he got no heat. And this is how the book of Second Kings ends and it's it's one unit together. And his allowance, this is the last of the kings before the captivity. His allowance was a continual allowance given him of the kings, a daily rate for every day, all the days of his life. What does that sound like? Does that sound like a king on a throne? Or does that sound like a subject living in someone's house? It would be the second. So if we read the book of 1 and 2 Kings, we're going to see that in fact the kings of Israel didn't follow through. They were not faithful. And so we see kind of two aspects to this Davidic covenant. The first being the conditional side, if thy children take heed to their ways. Then there shall not fail a man on the throne of Israel. Condition. Each generation had a duty to be faithful. They were going to experience the blessing or the cursing of their obedience or their disobedience. And every generation that rose up after David failed, including Solomon. Lots of great things we could say about Solomon, but we're going to say a lot of negative things too. That word if means that we have a problem. They needed to be faithful. But I want to remind you of something that was written about a son of David in Isaiah chapter 9. One of the things that we see about the books of prophecy is that every time you came to a point where Israel's kings were failing and Israel was as a nation, they were drawing away from the Lord, and God warns them, He's going to judge them through prophets. He would always bring this negative message of judgment for disobedience. He does it over and over and over and over and over again. But you know what he also did? He also gave them a word of encouragement. Because God wasn't done with the people yet. And I want you to listen to one of these, and I want you to think about how this affects the Davidic covenant. In Isaiah chapter 9, verse 2, it says this: The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. They that dwell in the land of the shadow of death upon them hath shined light. You say that sounds like something I read in the New Testament one time. There's a reason for that. Keep moving. 4. Verse 6. Unto us a child is born. Unto us a son is given, the government shall be on his shoulders, his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the Everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end. Here's the statement that should really catch our attention. Upon the throne of David, upon his kingdom to order it and establish it with judgment and with justice, from henceforth even forever, the zeal of the Lord of hosts Shall perform this. You remember that word if? If your children obey me, there will never be failing of kings on that throne. They all failed. Save one. And that is the one predicted in Isaiah chapter 9. Jesus Christ, the Son of David. God, in his zeal and faithfulness to his word, said, Well you can't do it, I'm going to raise up a son in David's stead who will. God in flesh, Emmanuel. The Lord Jesus Christ. And what's very interesting is even though David and Solomon and every king that followed in David's stead Failed, they were a part of a genealogy that led to Christ. It's pretty fascinating to think about that. Though every single one of those children, they live their lives, they did good, they did bad, they experienced blessing, they experienced heartache, and when it comes to the standard that's accepted, not one of them made it. Their lives contributed to a lineage that would ultimately bring the Messiah into the world. And so even though they failed, God still worked through them. Pretty awesome to think about that. Everybody in this room, as a parent, you're gonna fail at times. Now I'm not saying this to kind of give you a cop out, like, ah, you know, God's gracious, so he's gonna work it all out in the end. I'm not s suggesting we should look at it that way. We ought to be faithful, obedient. There are real life consequences for real bad choices. But we ought to step back and go, God, you're a God of grace and mercy. And I thank you that you will do your work. Through my life as flawed as it is. And that's exactly what he did with David and Solomon and his descendants. Even in their failures, God used their lives to push forward his promise. He preserved his people, he preserved the lineage of David, and in his time he brought the Redeemer and accomplished that redemption. There's a lot packaged in this text, is there not? How do we apply it? Let me give you some final thoughts that I hope will encourage you as we walk away from this text. The first is this, live soberly with as little regret as possible. Nobody in this room can change what you did yesterday or what you've done in the past. But you can face it You can admit it. You can turn from it. You can grow from it. You can use it as an object to teach others so they do not fall into the same kinds of traps that you have. We need to live soberly with as little regret as possible. Secondly, invest in the rising generation. Every single one of us needs to recognize we have a part to play in that. Now obviously the most immediate application of that is when we have our own children. But the truth is God doesn't just use parents to encourage children. The fact is that there are teachers that I grew up under when I was in junior high, high school, there are coaches that I that I had that coached me when I was in high school and in college. Some of those people made an incredible impact on my life. Some of the most influential people in my life that are really a part of the story of how I even became a pastor were people like wrestling coaches and baseball coaches. They were not my parents. That the period of time that they worked with me was over the course of my life not super long? Did did they shape my values to the same extent that my own parents did? Of course not. But their lives are very important. And so the fact is, all of us, whether it's our children, whether it's our grandchildren, whether it's kids we teach in Sunday school, whether it's people that we just encourage in the church setting, there are lots and lots of areas. where God wants us to invest in the rising generation. Thirdly, rejoice in the fact that God is building his kingdom both through us and at times despite us. God is a good God. He's a gracious God. We should never get over the fact that He is such a good God. There are times that he's going to build because we have labored well. Through that, he used it. And there are times he's going to say, you blew it, but I'm not done doing my work. We've got to remember that lesson. Fourthly, rejoice in the fact that the gospel rests entirely on his shoulders, not ours. He will accomplish entirely everything he has promised. If there was any part of the gospel that was on your shoulders, there'd be no security. You are the weakest link. I am the weakest link. How is my salvation completed? It is entirely the work of God. He is the author and the finisher of our faith. We have a hope that is steadfast because it is given to us by a God who cannot lie who has promised. And so when we think about the gospel, we ought to be so very grateful that despite all the failures of men, including our own, he remains faithful. He cannot deny himself. Lastly, each day matters, so we should strive to be faithful with the time we've been given. Build to the best of your ability. Teach what you've learned. Endure the challenges you encounter. Marvel at his grace that includes you in his work. May God help us to apply his word tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we thank you for the passage that we've looked at this evening. May you take the word and use it in our lives. I don't know what's going on in some people's hearts at as they came to service this evening. It may be that this passage was just Exactly what they needed. It may be that this is exactly what they'll need a month from now. But I pray that the Spirit of God would take the truths of Scripture and impress them on our hearts and really speak to us. May we be not just hearers of your word, but doers. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen.