Well, good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. And uh let's go ahead and we'll get started with a word of prayer. And then after that, uh we will uh Sing some songs, and we're looking forward to a great time together this evening. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, we're so grateful for your goodness to us. Thank you for the opportunity to fellowship tonight around your word. I'm so looking forward to being able to share the many blessings that uh Brother Cheryl and I were able to uh just enjoy as we were over in Ghana this past week. Thank you for the traveling mercies. Thank you for Just so many rich blessings. And I pray that tonight, as I have the opportunity to share those things, that you would really bless and encourage your people through that. Just bless our time together as we uh listen to your word being preached tonight. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's uh pull out our hymn books tonight, and we will turn uh to our first hymn. And that is hymn number 530, Rescue the Perishing. Hymn number 530, Rescue the Perishing. Let's stand together and we will sing all four verses tonight. Rescue the perishing, care for the dying Snatch them and give me from sin and the grave. We for the erring one, lift up the fallen. Tell them of Jesus the mighty to save that through the perishing care for the dying. Jesus is merciful She 's also saying, so that our spiling and still he is waiting, waiting, not anything shall he receive , sleep with earnest faith. We witnessed He will forgive anything only believe that he does everything carefully Jesus is merciful, Jesus. We'll sing on the third down into human heart crushed by step and feelings by very can restore touch by the loving part way. kindness, ports that are broken will vibrate once more. Rescue the perishing, care for the dying. Jesus is merciful. Jesus will save on the last rescue the perishing duty demanded straight for thy labor the Lord will provide back to the narrow way age of the wind Tell the forewarner a Savior has died. Rescue the perishing care for the dying. Jesus is merciful. He just will save. Great singing, you can go ahead and sit sit down, and we will go to him 534, send the light And make sure that when you sing this song you really emphasize that key so that we don't think you're saying send the lie, okay? But hymn 534, send the light, we'll be singing all three verses together this evening Here's the call comes thinking for the restlet me, send the line, send the line. There are souls to rest, there are souls to say, Stand a light, stand a light, stand alive, the blessed gospel by God. From shore to shore, stand alive, the blessed gospel, light shine forevermore. We have heard that masses dunning for And the golden offering at the property lay standards , stand the light , stand the light. The blessing gush full night shine forevermore on the last Let's pray thy safety everywhere I found send the light who send the lights and the Christ by Spirit everywhere be found send the light send the light Stand alive, the bloody gospel light, let us try, from shore to shore. Stand alive, the bloody gospel light, magic. Okay, and the last one we'll sing before uh our presentation tonight is hymn 545. And five hundred and forty-five, bring them in. Bring them in. Five hundred and forty-five. Let's go ahead and stand for this one. Here we go. Art is the shepherd's voice I hear, Now is the shepherd's not here, always the sheep who caught us straight , I don't know. Bring them in, bring them in, bring them in from the field of sun, bring them in, bring them in. Bring the one that wants to Jesus Will grow and help their shall we find Help and the one thing once you find To bring the lost money. Bring them in, bring them in, bring them in from the middle of sin. Bring them in, bring them in, bring the one in one. Let's sing it out in the last. Here we go Out in the desert in their cry, Out on the mountains, wide and high, Hark is the Savior speech to me, go by my deep with her head. Where they be, bring them in, bring them in, bring them in from the field of sin, bring them in, bring them in, bring them in. All right, thank you so much. And you may be seated. Uh typically on Sunday evenings And uh we'll start there. Yes. God re walking with me on your face. Alright, then we'll sing one fifty-five in the red book. And we'll end there by singing the first and the last of 155. Let's let's stand for for this one. We we can't sit for that. Prefer this one at all. With an all my spirit, I thought we 'd like to be away from my own. No much of a motherfucking spectrum All right , right. On the last one of the tea, please take the most in my own. You've got to enjoy personally for all the wonderful ways of the. Rather than the struggle, my Lord will end all things. Great singing, you all mean you see it. Okay, well if you could, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles tonight and we're gonna uh we're gonna pause for a moment on our uh typical series that we've been doing on Sunday nights as we're working our way through Old Testament passages. And I wanted us to focus on a passage of scripture that I thought really communicated a lot of what I experienced. And uh what I think really was the great value of a trip like the one uh that uh Cheryl and I were able to take. And so if you could turn with me to 2 John, and there's only one chapter, so We're in chapter one tonight. And I don't know have you ever heard a a sermon preached out of Second John? I don't know. Anybody ever Second John? This is not one of those books of the Bible that people are like, hey, there's some really rich and And deep doctrine. Let's go to 2 John and let's expound the text that we have there. What we're looking at is actually a very personal And not a very long letter that the Apostle John wrote as a pastor, as an elder to a woman that was a part of the church that he had pastored. there at the Church of Ephesus. And more than likely when John wrote this letter to this woman, he was a pretty old man. And what's wonderful about this letter that we're going to read tonight is it gives us insight into the heart of someone who has a pastor's heart. Now, every pastor needs a pastor's heart. Not every pastor has a pastor's heart the way they should. The truth is that over the course of someone's pastoral ministry, there are times that just like you have high points and low points, so do pastors. There are times that they have a deep love for the people, and if you were to have conversation with them, what you're going to see is that their heart is is is clearly in a healthy place and they're walking with the Lord and The way that they are communicating the Word of God is the way it needs to be. There are also times in a pastor's life where they get cold and complacent. And sometimes they get disgruntled, they get frustrated, they get angry. And so the fact is that when we talk about this issue of being a pastor, there's no pastor that you're going to interact with over the course of your lifetime that you're going to say, that guy, he's always a great example. But this passage of Scripture is actually a tremendous example. Because out of all of the pastors that we know about in Scripture, when I say pastors, I'm not talking about a chief shepherd, the Lord Jesus Christ. But I'm talking about a guy who pastored a church. This guy is one of the greatest of the greatest. Whenever we read what the Apostle John writes in a pastoral way, it is rich. It is so practical, it is so insightful, it shows us the kind of heart that we all need And so I want us to read a portion of this letter this evening, and I'd like us to reflect on it because I think that there's some great pastoral insight, practical insight. about the heart of the pastor that we need when it comes to raising our kids and discipling younger Christians and teaching a Sunday school class, whatever the role is that God's called us to, or the diverse roles that God has called us to. We need this kind of a heart. So I think there's a lot that we can learn here. 2 John chapter 1, obviously only chapter 1. We're going to look in verses 4 through 13. Here's what John writes under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, he says, I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth. As we have received the commandment from the Father, and now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we have heard from the beginning, that we love one another. And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment that as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it. For many deceivers are entered into the world who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh This is a deceiver and an antichrist. Look to yourselves that we lose not those things which we have wrought. that we receive a full reward. Whosoever transgresseth and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son. If there come any unto you and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house. Neither bid him godspeed, for he that biddeth him godspeed is partaker of his evil deeds. Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink, but I trust to come unto you and speak face to face That our joy may be full. The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen. There's a word that was written many, many times in this letter, and that's the word we. I don't know. Did you notice how many times he uses the word we? You know, a lot of times when someone is teaching, they think in terms of you You need to do this, you need to do this, you need to do this, you need to do this. But what's very interesting about the way that John writes this letter is he constantly says, we need to do this. We need to do this. We need to do this. I want to ask the question, why do you think John spoke in those kinds of terms? The answer, I believe, is that John has a pastor's heart. And as one with a pastor's heart, he doesn't see him as someone who's to lord it over this woman But he's to appeal to her as a brother to a sister in Christ. Yes, with pastoral authority. Pastor authority is a real thing. Okay? You're to obey those that have the rule over you. They watch for your souls as those who give an account. A pastor is called an overseer, a bishop. That means someone who actually has authority in the church. But a pastor is also just a brother in Christ. He's just another believer who is growing in grace just like you're growing in grace. And John's going to communicate that in this letter. And so I'd like us to see some of the very practical and rich things that he says. And I'd like us to kind of like take these and try to assimilate them into our own walk with the Lord. So first of all, let me give you a summary statement for the text we're looking at. And then let's dig into some very practical things tonight. The following letter from a pastor to a sister in Christ reveals practical details regarding the nature and the heart of Christian ministry. We see what a minister does, and we also see how he does it, why he does it. This tells us a lot about the heart of a pastor. God wants us to learn from those who are faithful leaders so that we can be encouraged to follow good examples. Now, like I said earlier, we all are flawed in some ways. And so the very best ministers of the gospel are people that you don't follow completely. There are areas where they have blind spots, they have weaknesses. But these examples right here are inspired examples This is God speaking through the Apostle John. And so it's not just John's heart coming out, but it's his heart coming out in a way that honors the Lord very clearly. I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts about this. When we read the scripture, the scripture is almost entirely written within the context of a story. I mean, what's an epistle? An epistle is a letter. Why do people write letters? Well, it's because they're thinking about something. They're concerned about something. Maybe they want to encourage somebody. Maybe they want to correct a problem. But there's always an occasion for the letter. There's a background story to every single epistle that's written. Even when we read the book of Romans, we go, what a deep, rich, practical doctrinal book of the Bible. Yet that book was a letter that was written within a context, with an occasion. There's stuff going on. Paul's heart is burdened. God gave us his word in the context of story. If you aren't a pastor and you aren't a missionary, I don't think you think like a pastor or missionary. Now I'm not saying that in pride. I'm saying it as a statement of fact There are certain things, there are certain pressures that pastors feel that everybody in the church doesn't feel. There are certain pressures that missionaries feel That everybody that is not a missionary doesn't feel. There's something about when pastors get together and they have good Christian fellowship, there's something about you can pour out your heart about things that you just can't talk to the average person about Or when missionaries get together, they may have certain practical and philosophical differences and where they come down on issues, but because they're in the same kind of work the same nature of ministry, there are certain things that that they just enjoy fellowship around. But understand something While you may not be in the pastoral office, and you may not be a missionary, you have a lot to learn from those who are. And there's a lot that you need to assimilate from those who are good examples that can be practically worked out in your own life. When we have our missions month in October. I purposely don't do a conference, I do a month. Now part of it is because it's hard to get everybody there in one week, all right? That's a practical matter. But there's another side to it I want the people that come to be able to spend a solid hour talking about what they're doing and why. And letting you ask questions of them. Why? Because it gives you insight. It stirs up your thinking process in these things. We have them preaching and teaching and we get to interact with them. We get to have them into our homes. That is so good because there's a lot that we can learn from these people. They are normal people. They have the same struggles that you have and that I have, but they're in a context that makes their perspective very unique. But just because someone's not a pastor, just because someone's not a missionary, doesn't mean they don't need that perspective. All of us are called into shepherding roles. A parent is a shepherd. Shepherding the souls of little children. You're trying to lead that little child to Christ. You're trying to disciple that little child who has placed their faith in Christ You're teaching them this is right, this is wrong, you're helping to develop disciplines in the life of that child. The role of a parent is shepherds. The role of a grandparent has a shepherding aspect to it The role of a teacher has a shepherding aspect to it. The role of a discipler has a shepherding aspect to it. Lots and lots of areas of Christian ministry go back to this shepherding attitude. And so there's a lot that we can glean from someone who lived a very long time and who did this very well and was very close to Christ in a personal way when it comes to this issue of shepherding. We need this kind of encouragement. And so let's work our way through a couple of practical things. The first part that I want us to talk about this evening is found in verse number four. And that is the personal nature of Christian ministry. In verse 4 he says, I rejoice greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father. Now, when you read this quickly, you probably read it this way. I rejoice greatly that I found of my children walking in truth. Anybody when you read it, that's the way you saw it, even though that's not what it says? There's a reason for that. It's because we tend to think that the people he's talking to are the people he's personally worked with. In fact, in 3 John, he talks about the blessing of seeing his children walking in the truth. But what's intriguing to me about this letter is he doesn't say my children. He says your children. That's an interesting thing to notice. He also says, we have received a commandment from the Father. He doesn't say you have received a commandment, though they had, but he says we Those two details to me are very, very important. They reveal to us how personal this issue of ministry was. Let me give you a couple of examples. First of all, this ministry, a healthy ministry, involved a giving of himself to others. And it was something that was deeply on his heart. He says, I rejoice greatly. In other words, his heart was fully invested. It also talks about how he was engaged interpersonally in the lives of these people. It was more than just a duty. He says, I found of your children. This means that John wasn't just focused on this lady, which is what we tend to do when we are involved in ministry, you know, a pastor kind of focuses on the husband and I'm gonna work on the husband or the pastor's wife. She kind of focuses on the wife and a family. And a lot of times we kind of forget about the kids. That's wrong. It's not the way it should be, but that's the way it often is. Why? Because I'm thinking I want to reach the head of the household. I want to influence his thinking. She should influence her thinking, and then they'll treat, they'll teach their children right But what John is saying is, I didn't just have a relationship with you, I had a relationship with them. Do you understand what I'm saying there? He's saying, I was in your house. I interacted very personally with not just the adults, but with the kids. That's pretty significant, is it not? We also see that the way that he speaks is very disarming. It's very vulnerable. He is willing to relate to this woman as just a brother to a sister in Christ. He has every right to say, I'm your pastor, but he says, I'm your brother. Now both are true. He has absolutely the right to come at it from that angle, but he says, we have received the commandment from the Father. So he's saying it's I'm not just telling you you need to do this, I'm saying we need to do this. Do you see the vulnerability of that? Do you see how personal that is? That's the first thing that really stands out to me about the text. The second thing I want us to notice is how rich the joys were as he was saying the maturing process that was going on in the church of Ephesus and in the life of this particular lady that he was writing to. Here's what he says in verse 4. I rejoice greatly When I found your children walking in the truth, as we've received commandment from the Father, these joys were rich joys. It's sort of like when we went to Ghana and I'm I'm sitting there and I'm I'm holding Enoch's baby. Like That's really something right there, okay? So I mean like Enoch and I used to like cut the grass together. We used to go out to the river and fish together. We used to pull weeds in the garden. We used to go on evangelism together We used to just eat food together, you know, like kill snakes, kill kill, monitor lizards, cook them on the grill, you know, all the fun stuff that people do in a context like that. We used to go out into the bush and you know work out there. And here I am, I'm holding his baby, and there's his wife, and here's this guy, he was a boy, he's now a man. He's the head of a household. I can't tell you how sweet the blessing of that is. Or being there at the ordination of Michael and Eric and I think about, you know, when when Eric came to Cape Coast, I think he was 18 years old. He just graduated from high school. Michael went to the UK and he did schooling there. He was in Ireland and did schooling there. He was in our Bible Institute. Our interaction was in so many different contexts. And then to see this culmination, I can't tell you how sweet that is. There is something very rich and very joyful about seeing people grow in spiritual maturity. Maturity is something that ultimately is demonstrated by that person's ability to take what you've learned and to practically assimilate it themselves. Why is it that a grandparent's joy is so much richer than a parent's joy when they see that child developing? I I can't tell you this from practical experience because I'm no grandparent. But there's got to be something really neat about seeing your kid who you, you know Changed his diapers, wiped his snotty nose, cleaned up a lot of puke and cars, had to separate a lot of fights Had to deal with all kinds of craziness and now you're looking at that little kid who's now a man, who's a husband, and has his own kids, and he's doing what you did. He's doing it as well or better. Now how does that happen? It's because your investment was a full investment. That's all there is to it. I mean for that kid to become a matured adult that can take what you put into their life And then they can give it in a practical way with wisdom and grace. That's huge. And the reality is that you see that in ministry too. When you see a brand new believer who's got all this baggage from their before conversion time , And they place their faith in Christ and you just you see them grow ever so slowly and then you start to see more and more growth and more and more depth and more and more maturity. You start having these kind of conversations that are the mature kind of conversations. And then you see them do it themselves. That's incredible. That's really awesome. And so that's why he says, I greatly rejoiced. We receive the commandments. I found thy children walking in the truth. That's what's all bound up in there. Rich blessings. The truth is that one of the reasons that it is so sweet to see people grow is that the truth is you haven't got the power to make it happen. We don't have that power. I mean, we have the book that God uses. We get on our knees and we plead with God to do it But he does it. That's what makes it so sweet. You know, you you invest and you invest and you know that you stumble. I mean one of the things that really came up in the conversations we had, you know, driving is I mean, I'm reminded of my failures. Okay? I mean sweet fellowship, but I'm reminded of I didn't handle that situation very well and boy my investment at that time and my perspective at that time, it was really flawed. And God's grace overcame that. I can't tell you how sweet that is. Realizing that your investment, as flawed as it was, because it was faithful, God used it. That's sweet. We get to be a part of something bigger than ourselves. You know, one of the greatest tragedies of the culture that we have today is that people don't value life. They don't value kids. They don't value marriage. You know what they don't value? They don't value the fact that when you get married and you have a family and you invest in those kids. Your life has invested in future generations. They have no sense of that. None. It's all about the moment. It's all about me. It's all about what I want. It's all about my joy and my happiness. and me making the money that I want, me getting the position that I want. Folks, Christian ministry is sweet because you get to be a part of something way bigger than yourself. And you get to realize that, hey, God allowed me to be a part of something He did. Isn't that neat? What a blessing. Third thing I want you to notice. There is a heavy weight that is associated with caring for the spiritual well-being of people There is something that you cannot fully comprehend until you're in a role like that. When you're raising your children and you start feeling the weight of that responsibility, maybe about the time that they start getting old enough to start sassing you back And they sh they shouldn't do that, obviously, okay. But they're starting to, you know, feel like they're an adult and they kind of say, you know, they're they're fourteen, but they think they're twenty-four, right? All of a sudden you start going, Woo, I gotta get this kid ready because 18's coming quick. And they're gonna walk out of this house and I don't know what kind of decisions they're gonna make. And you start feeling the weight of that. That is a little bit of the sense of the the the weight that someone who is in ministry feels for the people that they care for I think about what it says in Hebrews. It says that that that elders watch for your souls as those who will give an account, and he says, let them do it with joy, this is profitable for you. The truth is that there are kids that are weights to their parents, and there are kids that are the richest blessing you can imagine. There are people in churches that are huge weights to their pastors. And there are others who are incredible blessings The fact is that some Christians are constantly fighting against what God teaches, and those who are teaching them. It could be a Sunday school teacher, it could be a pastor, it could be a mentor. is constantly feeling the weight of the burden of their stubbornness against God And you know what's amazing? John will address that in this letter. And actually, it's not so much about stubbornness, as much as he's afraid this woman is naive. She's not rebellious, she's naive. And he feels the weight of it. And he doesn't want her to lose the blessings of a full reward. And so he writes to her in this way. When we think about doctrinal purity, we think about good choices, those who are in shepherding roles, they feel the weight of that. Parents, you know what I'm talking about. Notice the way he puts it in verse 6. This is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment that as ye have heard from the beginning you should walk in it. For many deceivers are entered into the world who confess not that Jesus Christ has come into the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist. Look to yourselves that we, there's that we again, we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. Whoever transgresseth and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ hath not God He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Son and the Father. If there come any unto you that bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him Godspeed, for he that biddeth him Godspeed is partaker of his evil deeds. Notice he feels the weight of seeing this woman obey God. He feels the weight. Of this woman avoiding the entanglements of false teaching. Many deceivers are entered into the world. It's like someone who's Seeing their kid go off to college and they're like, what kind of friends is my son gonna make at college? What kind of girl is he gonna meet when he's over there? Is this person going to make good choices when it comes to the way that they work in the classroom? I just saw my son or my daughter take their first job. Are they going to get fired? Or are they going to be a good and faithful worker? And that that person working uh that that's overseeing them is gonna say, hey, I want to give you more hours. I'm gonna give you more opportunity because you're a good worker. You know, we feel that weight. The minister feels the weight of people becoming entangled with false teaching. He feels the weight of seeing a full reward at the judgment seat. In other words, John is saying, it's not just about you, it's about me too. I've given my life to seeing you grow in the Lord. I want to see you have a full reward. I want to see us have a full reward. Here's how he puts it. He says Look to yourself that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. You see the weight that he feels. The weight of seeing people use their resources wisely as faithful stewards. He says, if there come any unto you that bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him godspeed. He that biddeth him godspeed is partaker of his evil deeds. That's an intriguing statement. What is John ultimately getting out? God gave you a house. God gave you money. God gave you a heart for hospitality. Use them for the advancement of his kingdom, not to encourage those who are attacking it. That's what he's saying. Use those resources, the good gifts of God, for good purposes. It's like one of the reasons that I tell our young people, look, you need to be disciplined. You need to be academically sharp. You need to study the word. You need to walk with the Lord. What's the point? The point is everything God has given you is a gift entrusted to you. You're to use it, you're to steward it. So be a faithful steward of the good gifts of God. This is what John is ultimately saying. He is concerned That this lady and her children walk in the ways of the Lord. They don't become entangled with false teaching. They receive a full reward at the judgment seat of Christ, and they're faithful stewards of the resources God has given them. That is the weight that those in shepherding rules feel when it comes to the spiritual well-being and care of the people under them. I ask this question. Do you feel that about your children? Do you feel that about the kids that you teach in Sunday school? Do you pray that your pastor feels this way towards you and towards this church? Do you pray that our missionaries don't lose this heart? The truth is people go into ministry primarily, at least those who are doctrinally sound, because they love people. They care about the Lord working in their lives. People go to the mission field. They're willing to leave their families, sell their homes, sell their business, sometimes wipe out their entire bank account. Not spend time with family over holidays and their kids grow up not knowing grandma and grandpa like they would if they lived in the same community. They're willing to forsake all of that. Why? Because they're burdened for the people that they're going to reach. But as time goes on, you get weary. You get tired. We need to pray for our missionaries and those who are in these roles that they won't lose this kind of heart. and that we ourselves will have this kind of heart. The fourth and final thing that I want to draw up from this text is how sweet Christian fellowship is. In verses 12 and 13 he says this, having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink. But I trust to come unto you and to speak face to face to you that our joy may be full. Interesting statement he makes there. The Apostle John obviously knew how to write. I mean the book of John was an epistle, or was it a book that he wrote, 1 John was a book that he wrote, 2 John was a book that he wrote, 3rd John was a What that he wrote The book of Revelation was a book that he wrote. John knew how to write. But John wanted to communicate personally. And the reason he wanted to communicate personally was because he had affection for these people. He loved them. He was not living with them. He was not currently shepherding them in person as he had in the past. But his heart for them never changed. It's not that he's like, oh, I gotta go back and I gotta do what I was doing before. That's not the point. The point is he knows that these people have need and he's burdened for their need. And he wants to fellowship with them. That's what these verses tell us. He has an affection for them. He longs to share and he longs to listen. Why did he have many things to write to them? It's because there was a lot to talk about. There are some people you don't have a lot to talk about with. It's true. I mean, brutally true, right? Some people you you can sit in the same room for three hours and you won't say a thing to them. They won't say a thing to you because you got nothing to talk about. And there's other people you sit in the same room with them and there'll be nothing but talk for those three hours and you won't even know that three hours have passed Well the question is what's the difference? Well it's what you share between one another. When when we share the most important things We've got a lot to discuss. We've got a lot to share. We've got a lot to listen to. There's a lot to talk about. One of the sweetest and greatest things About this trip, what I really enjoyed about it, is here we'd spent ten hours in an airplane and gone through all the stuff with customs. And I don't know, I don't I mean I was tired physically and I sit in this car with Eric who I haven't talked to in four years. I mean in a one-on-one context in person. And we talked, you know, for four straight hours about all kinds of things. Why is that? Different culture, so many differences, but what did we have in common? What's most important And so when John says, I've got a lot to say to you, it's because there was a bond on the most important things. This godly affection caused him to treasure the moments that they spent together. He says, I trust to come unto you and to speak face to face with you. There are some Christians that don't like gathering for church. They don't like being with other Christians. And I ask why? It doesn't make any sense. Makes no sense. That we have the same Lord and Savior. We are united by the same doctrines, and we don't have anything to talk about. We don't have anything to commune about. We don't have anything to spend time together. This man, John, because of his affection for the people, said, we treasure the same stuff. I want to be with you face to face. Christian fellowship is rich and mutually encouraging. He says it's so that our joy may be full. That's a really neat statement, isn't it? Our joy. John wasn't like, oh, I want to feel good about myself, and so I want to talk to you He said, I want us to have a mutually encouraging and joyful and sweet interaction. Folks, that's what church is supposed to be. Some people don't value the Bible the body simply because they don't know the Lord. Some know the Lord, but they've never been taught about the church. Someone never been a part of a healthy church. You know, if you've never been a part of a healthy church, you don't understand what that sweet fellowship is Some have never invested in others enough to actually have their heart fully engaged with those who are other believers. Some need to grow in grace. But the point of this all is this. A godly person with a shepherding heart wants to be with God's people. And when they're with God's people, the fellowship is sweet. And it's full and it's rich. It's not about football and it's not about fishing. It's about the Lord. It's about the doctrines of the scriptures As I read these verses, there is one point that really drives into my heart, and that's this. John had a shepherding heart because he walked with Christ. If you don't have a shepherding heart, it's because there's a deficiency in your walk with Christ. I know that sounds kind of I I said it nice, but that's pretty blunt, okay? It really is. When we're walking with the Lord, we become this channel that he works through When we're growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, our hearts get engaged with what's going on around us And when we're not walking with the Lord, the source that connects us, that stirs up those affections, that causes us to desire to invest and pour into the lives of people, it's cut off. It's not there. And so the reason that John had this kind of a heart is because he walked with Christ. Let me read to you what it says in 1 John chapter 4 as my closing. He says, Beloved, let us love one another. For love is of God. He's the source. Everyone that loveth is born of God. That's conversion, regeneration. And knoweth God. So it's alive and growing in knowledge. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. So that means if you don't love the brothers and sisters in Christ, if you have this cold and callous attitude towards them, either you're not a Christian or you're a Christian that doesn't know God. That's what John's saying. So if I know the Lord, I'm going to be growing in this love for other believers. He says, in this was manifested the love of God towards us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. What a statement. Hearing his love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. If God so loved us, We ought also to love one another. No man hath seen God at any time if we love one another. God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. It's incredible, is it not? Where does the shepherding heart come from? Walking with God. That's what we need to do. We need to grow in a knowledge of the Lord. We need to fall in love with our Savior. And if we do, we're going to love our kids. We're going to love the people that God puts under our care. We're going to invest our resources. We're going to have this kind of a heart. May God give that to us. Let's bow for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to be like this text is showing us godly shepherds are. Father, we are so grateful that you are the source of love, that we are simply instruments, tools. That you channel this rich love through. You make us spiritually alive in Christ You allow us to grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, so that as we grow in this knowledge of you , We become more and more able to love others maturely. That love grows and matures, it has greater depth Father, help us to have shepherding hearts. Help me as a pastor to have a shepherding heart. Help me as a dad to have a shepherding heart. As a husband, a shepherd The heart Help our fathers to have shepherding hearts. Our teachers, shepherding hearts, our missionaries. Father, help us to be healthy Christians who are channels of your love to others. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. The song that I'd like to ask us to close with tonight is hymn number 537. The song is Jesus Saves. I love this, uh, I love this hymn. Something to be excited about that Jesus says. We talked about that this morning. We talked about Levi and how the Lord called him. A very unworthy person, a very unlikely person. We should be thankful they saved us. And that God uses us in reaching into the lives of others. Let's stand together and seeing 537. Jesus saves. We have heard the joyful sound. Jesus saves, Jesus saves. When I go around , Jesus said, Jesus me , there will news to every line , by the seat and cause away, I would say. Jesus says, Jesus says , Give the wind might be voice, Jesus says, Jesus says, But the nations now rejoice. Jesus says, Jesus says, Shall salvation full and free. I spirit that needless gaze. This our call if you 're Pastor Chris, can you come up and close us in prayer please And uh it's good to have each of you out tonight. Uh good to have some visitors with us. It's good to meet y'all and up from Alabama. And uh I hope y'all are Auburn fans. There you go. Give this guy some trouble. Now I'm just after preaching a message on on our fellowship as brothers and sisters of Christ, I will not descend into this chaos here. Pastor Chris, can you close us in prayer and I hope we'll have a just a sweet time of fellowship together tonight? Go ahead. Oh, hold on. Please pray for our VBS uh uh meetings this week. Pray for the teens in the morning 10 to 12 and pray for our uh evening VBS uh uh six fifteen to eight eight forty five. Is that correct? All right. I almost had a senior like moment. So I'm gonna be here, so uh pray for us and uh I'm just looking forward to a great week. Father, we're so grateful to you for the opportunity we've had to be in your house today and for the sweet fellowship we've been able to enjoy. lift up the the great time and effort that's been put into this this BBS, all the work that's been done uh physically and emotionally and mentally, and all of it, Lord, has been by your grace. And I pray, Lord, that we would see the fruit of it this week as we minister to the the children and to the teens that come out, that we would be able to pour into them what you've poured into us, the love and the grace and the teachings that we find in your word. And I pray, Lord, that we would give you all the honor and glory for what we see. This week and for what we've seen today, it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen