Let's go ahead and we will turn in our Bibles to the book of Luke. And you might say, well, Luke, I thought we were doing our study in the pastoral epistles. Well, for just a couple of weeks here in the month of December, um all of the preaching that I'm going to be doing, this is with the exception of Sunday school. So Sunday school, we're not going with the Christmas theme, but all of the messages that I'll be preaching this month leading up to the Christmas season are going to be focused on the incarnation, on the birth of Christ. And so we're actually going to deal with the entire chapter of Luke 1, and we're going to get into Luke chapter 2. So I've laid it out. There's going to be nine different sections that we're looking at. We've looked at the first two already this past Sunday. And tonight we're going to look at verses 18 through 25 together. So Luke chapter 1, verses 18 through 25 I'm going to go ahead and begin reading, and then we're going to dig into what I hope will be a really important practical study for you tonight. Luke 1. 18. And Zechariah said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? For I am an old man. My wife is well stricken in years. And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God. I am sent to speak unto thee and to show thee these glad tidings Behold, thou shalt be dumb and not able to speak until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my word, which shall be fulfilled in their season The people waited for Zecharias and marvelled that he tarried so long in the temple, and when he came out he could not speak unto them. They perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple, and he beckoned unto them and remained speechless. And it came to pass that as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house. After those days his wife Elizabeth conceived, and hid herself five months, saying, Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the days wherein he looked upon me. Now I want to kind of remind you again of the setting of what's going on. For 400 years, God has not spoken directly to his people in Israel. So when we're reading through the Old Testament, we come to the book of Malachi, Malachi was the last prophet to speak on God's behalf, to write on God's behalf. And so for several hundred years, in fact around 400 years, there was no revelation directly from God. Well, what's very interesting when we study the Old Testament is we see that in the book of Daniel, Daniel actually gives us a time frame for the time that the Messiah would be born into the world. A lot of times we don't realize that, but it's true. In fact, when the wise men came from the East and they were looking for the Messiah, the King of the Jews, we would say, why was it that these men knew that the Lord Jesus Christ had been born at that time. Most people would say, well, it's because they saw a star and because they saw the star then they knew that he was born. And I asked the question, well where in the Bible do we see anything about a star telling people the Messiah would be born? What it really came down to was these men were students of prophecy. They came in contact with the book of Daniel with other parts of the Old Testament, but particularly the book of Daniel. And in the book of Daniel, Daniel tells us that from the time that Jerusalem's temple was going to be rebuilt until the time that Messiah would come was a designated period of time. In other words, these guys were able to sit down and figure out better than the Jewish people around in that city that Jesus, the Messiah, would be born. Now what is interesting is they didn't know he'd be born in Bethlehem. And you say, well, why isn't that? They were such diligent students. Why wouldn't they know he was going to be born in Bethlehem? Well, let's realize they only had access to maybe some of the Old Testament. They may not have had. all of the Old Testament books. They clearly had Daniel because Daniel was a prophet there in that city or there in the land of Babylon. But the idea, the thing that we're pointing out here, is that Jesus was born in the fullness of time at the very moment that God wanted him to be born into the world. And really, we could say that the timing of this event, not just the location and not just the circumstances, but even the timing was according to God's perfect plan, and it was predicted perfectly by God. Well, what's interesting is when we come into the book of Luke, Luke begins the story not with the birth of Christ, but really with people getting this information that he was going to be born. And so we start really with Zacharias. Zecharias is going to father a son in his old age, and this son is going to be the prophet. In the spirit of Elijah, who's going to prepare the way for the Messiah. And so here's the purpose of the section in front of us This section of Luke recounting the details regarding the birth of John the Baptist reminds us that even when we trust God's ultimate purposes , It's often hard to trust him with the specific little details that must come together to work out those purposes. What we're going to see tonight in this Story and this account of Zecharias's life, that Zecharias was a man who loved God. Zecharias was a very godly man. He had walked with the Lord. He was a believer. He believed that God was going to send a Savior. But even though he was a godly man, and even though he was a believer, we're going to see that in a very practical way, his faith was going to be tested. And when his faith was tested, he wavered. We want to see how God responded to him in those circumstances. And really, practically speaking, we learn from this man How God responds to us when we find ourselves in these same kinds of circumstances. So let's dig into this passage and ask the question, how can we be people Who trust God, not just in the big picture, how we get to heaven by trusting in the Lord Jesus Christ for salvation, but in those little details, the events that are unfolding in our lives. First of all, I want to talk about a couple of facts in this passage. The first fact we're going to see is that Zechariah and his wife were both faithful Look at what it says in verses 5 and 6. This wasn't part of the text that we read, but it's definitely a major part of the story, and it helps us understand the verses we've just read. He says, There was in the day of Herod a key the king of the Jews, or the king of Judea, a certain priest named Zecharias, of the course of Abbiah, and his wife was of the daughter of daughters of Aaron Her name was Elizabeth. They were both, and notice how he describes it, righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord, blameless. Three things that are stated about this couple. First of all, they were righteous before God. Well, what does that mean? That means that they were believers. Now we turt use the term Christian when we're talking about this side of the cross, but before the cross, we would say they were Old Testament saints. They were justified before God, saved just like you and I are. Their sins are forgiven, they're cleansed, they're righteous before God because of the work of Christ who would come, and they were looking forward to that event in history. The second fact we see is that they were walking in the commandments and the ordinances of the Lord. In other words, they obeyed God's laws. And not just they obeyed God's laws, but they were following all of the elements of the Jewish festivals and feasts that God had commanded his people to obey. Now the question is this. Were they doing that because that was how they got right with God? The answer is no. They did those things because they were right with God. In other words, this is the outflowing or the outworking of a position that they had as men, as a man and a woman who believed in the coming Messiah. Just like you and I are not saved by our works, they weren't saved by their works. Just like we're saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, this couple was saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in the Messiah coming alone. But what we also see is that they were very, very obedient people. The third fact, it says they were blameless. You know what's interesting when we hear the word blameless, I think immediately of pastoral qualifications, okay? And one of the first things that's stated in those pastoral qualifications is If any desires the office of a bishop, he desires a good work, a bishop then must be blameless. And that word blameless has the idea that there's nothing that sticks To this person's reputation in the areas that are being stated. Doesn't mean it's a person that's sinless and perfect in that sense But he's somebody that doesn't have a blot that keeps them from being able to function in the capacity that God's called them to function at. Well, the idea is that this couple, if you looked at their life, you would say, you know what, these are people that are very faithful to God. I can't see anything in their life that would lead me to believe that they were anything but. So the question is, why is this significant? Those three little details. Well, the first reason is this, because they were trusting in the promise of redemption. I want you to think in your mind This couple in the big picture had faith that God was sending a Messiah. Just like when you were a child or a teenager or a young adult, whenever you became a Christian. And you trusted in Christ, you said, I know I'm a sinner. I know I deserve God's condemnation. Christ died for my sins. He rose from the dead. There's no other way I can be saved. I'm going to trust Christ right here, right now. I'm going to call on the Lord to save me. Just like we trust Christ, they trusted in redemption. Secondly, we see this: they live their lives conscientiously in obedience to God's commandments. I think that's really important. The reason it's really important is because it sheds light on what we're going to see a little bit later in our discussion tonight. But these are obedient people. If we're talking about the church context, this would be a family that they are very consistent. They are very faithful. You can say that family is dependable. They're always in their places. You ask them to do something, they do it. They are a very godly faithful. family. That's this couple. Thirdly, they lived this way consistently. It wasn't just like from time to time, you know, I mean we're all up and down, okay? But they were consistent. They were the kind of people you go, man, I I'd like to be consistent like that. That's how they were But the thing that's that I'd like to mention last is this. They had a consistent trust in God's work in the big picture, but We're going to see something in just a moment that's very interesting. The second fact we're going to look at tonight is this. Though they trusted God in the big picture, they doubted him. Catch this. They doubted him when pressed with the specific, difficult details connected to his plan. In other words, they said, I believe you're sending a redeemer, but all of a sudden God said, I'm going to send the Redeemer, and by the way, you're an old man, and your wife is an old lady, and you both have been barren all these years, but I'm giving you a son. And this son is going to be part of the plan, the redemption plan, because this son is going to be the one preparing the way for the Messiah. And all of a sudden, the faith that God would send the Redeemer didn't give them the confidence that God would be able to give them a child in their old age. Isn't that really interesting? Notice what it says in verse 13. The angel said unto them, Fear not, Zecharias, thy prayer is heard. I would think that Zecharias hadn't been praying for his son for a pretty long time. According to these verses, he was old enough that he was well stricken in years. And so I don't think Zecharias was continuing to pray, God give us a son. He was like, you know what, I guess I'm just going to have to accept we're not going to have a son. But he says, Thy prayer has been heard. Thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John, and thou shalt have joy and gladness, and many shall rejoice at his birth. He shall be great in the sight of the Lord and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. He shall be filled with the Holy Ghost even from his mother's womb. Many of the children of Israel shall return to the Lord their God, and he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children. and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just, and to make ready a people prepared for the Lord. Now pause for a moment. When that angel gave that instruction or that prophecy, that prediction, that promise from God, he is directly quoting or alluding to several prophecies. Now we talked about this the other day on Sunday night. He's alluding clearly he's talking about the Malachi prophecy. He's talking about several prophecies in Isaiah. Now, why was it that Zecharias was looking for the Messiah? It's because he believes those prophecies were going to come true. Does that make sense? In other words, he's a believer because he says, I believe what God said he's going to do. In the big picture, you trust God. But this is very interesting. When God says part of the story is you're going to have a child, you're going to father a son. He is going to be the very one who is talked about in Isaiah to prepare the way of the Lord. All of a sudden Zecharias goes, I don't know if that's really possible. Are you getting that? It's like we say, you know, I know that God loves people. I know that God is sovereign. I know that God is good. And we make this statement of fact that's doctrinally sound and true. And we even believe it intellectually, but all of a sudden we get in a series of circumstances that cause us to question that God is good. To question that God loves people, to question that God is sovereign. To question God's wisdom. In other words, we believe it when we state it as a fact. But when we're put to the test in a real practical situation, all of a sudden we see it differently. It's like a person who says, Oh, I can bench 400 pounds. It's okay. Get on the bench and let's see. Well, I don't know about this. Can you do it or not? Is it a theory or is it practical? We're going to find out when you get on the bench. And either you're going to crush your chest or you're going to press it back up. It's one or the other, right? In other words, he's saying, you believe this, right? Why won't you believe it when it's practical? Why won't you believe it when it's you, not somebody else, who's going to have a child? You know, you know the story of Abraham and Sarah? Didn't God give a child to Sarah in her old age? Didn't God make Abraham a great nation? Didn't God provide Isaac with a wife? And even when she was barren, didn't God give her a child? Didn't God preserve the nation of Israel? You believe all these testimonies of God? But when it's you, when you're gonna be in the position of the Abraham, do you really believe me or not? That's what's going on here. The first thing we see is that Zacharias said to the angel, Whereby shall I know this? For I'm an old man, my wife is well stricken in the ears. We know that when he says that, he says, I don't think this is possible. Physically, I know it's not possible. So how's this going to happen? Three facts about this. Zechariah knew his physical limitations. He believed that God was sending a redeemer, but when the story became personal, he began to doubt. I want to ask you a question. Do you ever find yourself in that place? I do. You know what I'm saying? We can tell people the right thing. But all of a sudden, when we're the one in that place. We have a hard time telling ourselves the right thing. You know what I mean? Like we need somebody else to come alongside of us and to tell us what we know in our minds. The truth is that what Zecharias experienced is something that we find a lot of in the Bible. I hate to say that, but it's true. I want to give you an example of this. And the example, the most prominent example in my mind is the example of Abraham. There are three passages in Genesis that kind of show us this progression. I want us to turn together to Genesis 15 first. Because in Genesis 15, we're going to see that God justifies Abraham by his faith. Genesis 15, verse 1, I'm going to pick up here. It says this. After these things, the word of the Lord came unto Abraham in a vision, saying, or excuse me, Abraham, I changed his name. His name wasn't changed yet at this point. Abram in a vision saying, Fear not, Abram, I'm thy shield , thy exceeding great reward. By the way, go to Genesis chapter 14, and you'll see why he said that. It's because we find out that Abraham Abraham, Abraham at the time, was actually a warrior. He actually went and he rescued his nephew Lot He was a part of a battle. He had powerful men that lived with him and took care of his animals and protected him and his flocks. But God says, I am the one who protects you. I am your shield, thy exceeding great reward. And Abram said, Lord God , What wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless? And the steward of my house is at Liezer of Damascus. And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed, and lo, one born in my house Is mine heir. Now, if we go earlier back in the story, we'll see that God already promised Abraham that he was going to give him a son. And Abram's basically saying, you tell me that you're going to give me a son, and here I am. Not happened yet. My heir is a servant, not my child. What are you going to do about this, God? God says this, this shall not be thine ear. He shall come forth out of thine own bowels. He shall be thine heir. And he brought him forth and said, Look toward the heavens and tell the stars if thou are able to number them. He said unto him, So sure, so shall thy seed be. And he believed in the Lord and he counted it to him for righteousness. You might say that doesn't sound like much of a gospel presentation right there. Well let me tell you, there is a whole line of instruction from God that leads us to help us to understand that what God's really telling this man Is that the way that I'm going to make of you a great nation is not just talking about a physical nation, and the way that I'm going to bless you and bless all nations of the earth is not just because your your nation's going to be a strong and mighty nation. But literally through your seed, I'm going to give the Redeemer who's going to connect all peoples of the world through the Lord Jesus Christ. But when Abraham believes that God is going to send him a son, and that that's going to be a part of the redemption plan, God saved him that moment. And you might say, well, it's very obvious that once he gets saved, he doesn't have any more doubts, right? We'll go to Genesis chapter 16, the next chapter. It tells us when Sarah Abraham's wife bore no children, she had a handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar. Sarai said to Abram, Behold, now the Lord hath restrained me from bearing. I praise thee, go into my maid, and it may be that I may obtain child by her And Abraham hearkened unto the voice of Sarai. You mean one chapter later we've already seen that what God told him was going to happen, he's doubting it? That's right. Then we come to Genesis chapter 17. And it says, When Abram was 90 years old, 90 and 9 years old, the Lord appeared to him and said to him, I am the Almighty God, walk before me and be thou perfect. And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly. And Abram fell on his face, and God talked to him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee. Neither shall thy name be any more Abram, but the name shall be Abraham, for a father of many nations I have made thee. As we work our way through these verses, we see that Abraham says to God, How in the world can this be? When God tells him, You're gonna have a son in your old age, it says he laughed. In fact, when God comes to him and to Sarah and says, You're gonna have a child Sarah laughed. Well, that means she laughed. She wasn't all giddy, like, this is great. I'll get to have a child. It was like, are you kidding me? That's impossible. That's how she felt. Why am I bringing this up? I'm bringing this up to say this. Abraham believed God was sending a redeemer, but when it came to the details, he doubted God. And I think sometimes we find ourselves in that place too. We believe God is good, we believe he is just, we believe he's righteous, we believe he's all wise. We believe that he's holy. We believe that he's sovereign. We believe it. But when it comes to a real practical, tough situation, we doubt him. And so here's the question. When this happens, how does God deal with us? I think this is the most wonderful part of the whole story. The third point I may want to make is this: even though he doubted God still worked through them. In verses twenty-three to twenty-five it says it came to pass that as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house, and after those days his wife Elizabeth conceived and hid herself five months, saying, Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the days wherein he looked on me. To take away my reproach among men. Let me let me put it to you this way: God's faithfulness to his promise and his plan of redemption. It was not thwarted by the weakness or the doubts of the people he worked through. That's a pretty significant thought, isn't it? If God was dependent on all of these people making the right choices all the way through the story, then we have no Redeemer. I mean look at the lineage of Christ. Look at some of the names that are Bathsheba 's on there. Tamar, that's worse than Bathsheba. That one's real bad. You look at these stories and you go, What in the world? It wasn't that God was validating those situations. Oh, that's okay. That's not what God's doing, folks. God dealt with David because of what he did to Bathsheba and her husband. God dealt with the people in these stories for their sin. But it didn't stop God from using them. It didn't stop God from accomplishing his purposes. In fact, we look at Jacob. Jacob was a miserable mess for pretty much his entire life. At the end of his life, he's still a tool God's using. And he's maturing and he's growing in the process. By the end of his life, he was a very different person than he was when he was a young man. Even when he was a middle-aged man. But God worked in spite of him. And the reality is that God works in spite of all of us. Now that is not to excuse our sin. That's not to encourage us to make bold and foolish and miserable decisions. That's simply a statement of fact. God works in spite of us. It's God's grace that accomplishes his purposes in our lives. If God only worked good in our lives when we did what was right. We'd rarely, if ever, get good by his hand. And the reality is when we experience God's goodness, we shouldn't think of it as we've earned it, or we deserve it, or we're entitled to it. It's grace. It's grace on every single level. And the reality is, even though this couple was a very faithful and godly couple, they stumbled in that moment, and God used them anyway. We should never doubt him, but when we do, he's faithful to accomplish his will. This demonstrates his sovereignty and reminds us that we are not the center of the story, he is. Folk, Zechariah was an amazing man, but he's not the hero of the story. You know, as he's doubting God, he's not the hero. God's the hero. Because God works in spite of him and God used him. And what it does is it makes us grateful that he includes us and allows us to have a front row seat in the situations that he demonstrates his power and sovereignty in. The reality is that when God uses us, we need to step back and say, thank you for using a wretch like me. I'm unworthy. You are good. Let me give you a couple of practical encouragements that we can think about in light of the scripture in front of us. The first one is this: we should never excuse our doubts or our failures But we must remember that even godly faithful people waver under intense tests of their faith. You know, it's really easy to say, I trust God in all circumstances, but when you get a call and find out you have cancer. You may handle it a lot differently than you think. When you have some very tragic and unexpected thing happen in your life, it may throw you in a way that you didn't anticipate. It really may. The fact is that people that get through these circumstances, they went up and down a lot on the way. Yeah, as a pastor, you walk through a lot of things with people. You walk through some of their toughest days. That be spiritual struggles, physical struggles. Emotional struggles, relational struggles. And you see the ups and the downs. And when people overcome those circumstances by God's strength and enabling, by his grace. It's not an immediate up and over. It's up and down. Up and down. But God keeps working and he keeps pressing. And he keeps churning, and he keeps working in us so that he begins to mature us more and more into the image of Christ Let's remember that he knows our frame and he remembers that we are dust. And as a father pities his children, so the Lord pities them that fear him. Now I'm not making this statement because I'm encouraging you to throw caution to the winds and say, you know, I doubted God, it doesn't matter. That's not what I'm saying. What I am saying is this: you should be humbled that God works in your life in spite of yourself. Secondly, we must learn to trust God not just in matters of salvation. But also in matters of our personal daily walks. I trusted Christ when I was a little child. I was sitting in the room with my dad, and he opened up his Bible and explained to me how to be saved. But I'll tell you what, I had no I had no clue what was gonna happen between then and where I stand today. The honest truth is I can't predict what'll happen in the next if I have 10, 20, 30 years. I don't know. None of us know. But the fact is this: we have to not just learn to trust God for our eternity, but we have to learn to trust God for today. We have to learn to walk with him today. We have to learn how to trust him in all circumstances. And that's really what sanctification is. It's God allowing us to walk through all kinds of circumstances. And He knows exactly what we need at the moment, not just so that we grow, but what we need so we can overcome. And he's going to provide what we need in those moments. And so we we learned that in this passage of Scripture, a third lesson that we learn Is that God's word is reliable and we must trust Him to do what He promises to do, even if it seems improbable or impossible. You know, I'm blown away by all of these promises in the Old Testament, and you just see one by one how God fulfills them. What does Jesus say? Until heaven and earth passes, not one jot or one tittle will pass from the law till all be fulfilled. The simplest way to put that is Jesus is saying, listen, everything God said he's going to do, it's going to happen. It's going to happen exactly how he said it's going to happen. He is going to accomplish his purposes. There's nothing that's going to fall short of what he said that he's going to do. And the fact is, there are times in our lives that we practically are put to the test as to whether or not we believe that that's true. Next, when life gets difficult, we must trust him to accomplish his good purposes in our lives. You know, there are a lot of outcomes in our lives that we don't have a definitive promise about. Okay? Let's say that I get in a set of circumstances where I lose my job or I I get a health, uh serious illness. or have some impossible scenario in front of me. I can't go to the Bible and find a promise that says, you are going to be cancer. You are going to have this area resolved. You are going to get this job. You don't have those promises in God's Word And we do have promises about the final outcome and that Christ is going to return and he's going to establish his eternal kingdom. We do have a promise that that we are going to be perfected into the image of Christ over the the process of our life and one day we're going to stand complete in Him. But we have no promise about some of these very specific issues. So the question is, so what's the promise that gets me through those moments? The promise is that God's sovereign. And the promise is that God's good. And the promises that God does what's right. And so knowing that God is good and that God is sovereign and that God does what's right is what carries me through those moments. Because I don't know the outcome, but I do know the God that guides the outcome. And so I rest in him. And so we have to do that. Lastly, we see this. We should be humbled and grateful when God works through us at all. It's not something that we're entitled to. When you get to sit down and lead someone to the Lord Jesus and they trust Christ as their Savior, you're not entitled to that moment. When you get to come alongside of somebody and really encourage them and help them in the Lord, you're not entitled to that moment. When you experience some tremendous blessing from God's hand, You're not entitled to those moments. And so when we know that we're not entitled to them, we become grateful for them when we get to experience them. The fact is, when we see God's good hand, we say thank you. We don't say thank you when we think we deserve things, folks. We say thankful, thank you when we realize we don't deserve them. And that's how we should live our lives. The fact is, though this couple prayed and prayed and prayed, and at some point they stopped. God heard their prayer. And he decided to answer their prayer, not in the time they were expecting, but in his perfect time. In fact, timing that had been established, frankly speaking, from the foundation of the world. The moment that Christ would come into this world The moment he would go to the cross, and the moment that John would be born to prepare the way for the Messiah, it was established in God's plan from eternity past. And it was part of the story of redemption. That's the kind of God we serve. I hope that as we read this passage of scripture and as we think about it , We would take this very practical lesson to heart. God wants us to trust him with the specific details of our lives, and he's worthy of it. Let's ask him to help us do that. Let's bow together for prayer Father, it has been very good to reflect on this text of Scripture and this couple before us. Father, help us to be humbled by this text. Help us to be gracious and loving to the people around us when they stumble, and help us to recognize there are days that we stumble. And when you work in spite of us, and when you work through us, and when we're able to see your good hand, help us to be very humbled and grateful for it, because we are in no way entitled to it. I pray that you would help us to live in the light of these truths. Father, help us to trust you with the details of life. Because you are good, because you do what's right, and because you are ultimately in control. We ask these things in Christ's name, Amen