1 Samuel chapter 12. 1 Samuel chapter 12. And the topic that we're going to address this morning in Sunday school I really think it's an important topic. In fact, all of the things that we're going to cover today from Sunday school, Sunday morning, Sunday night, these are very, very important topics. I wish my brain was a little bit more plugged in. 'Cause I don't think I'm gonna give a good do a good service to the content of these passages. But I'll tell you, we really have some important truths. Uh oh, can I get one of our young men? Doug, you're young. Young at heart. Hey Doug, tennis player. Young at heart. Throughout the course of our Christian life there are times, sad to say it, but it's true, where we get away from the Lord. And we backslide, we um say things, we do things that we really regret, we look back years later and we say, what in the world was I thinking? Uh why did I do that? And the truth is that every person in this room, either you've gone through that before, Or you may go through that down the road, or you will deal with somebody that you really love who goes through that It could be your teens, it could be your spouse, it could be your parents. It doesn't matter. We as Christians, though we are saved and though the Holy Spirit indwells us, And though we are new creatures in Christ, we're still very susceptible to Satan's devices. And in this passage, we're going to see how we should respond To God when we have failed and when we have stumbled and when we have played the part of the fool to be very blunt. And there'll be times that you need to have this conversation with someone else. They've they've sinned and they failed and They feel like they can't get back up. And you're the one in the position, or you're one of the people in the position who comes alongside of them. What do you say to a person in that situation. If we were to raise our hands and ask how many of you would say, I think I went through a season of teenage rebellion Maybe a couple of hands raised. Okay? Maybe maybe more than teenage years. Yet you're here today. You love the Lord. You want to serve Him. So even though you went through a season of rebellion, today you're trying to serve the Lord. And God's at work in your life, and that's a tremendous blessing. So the passage we're going to look at today is really going to address what to do and how to respond in situations like that. 1 Samuel chapter 12. We'll look at verse 13 to 15 and then we'll go down to verses 20 to 22. I'll read it just for the sake of time. Now therefore, behold the king whom ye have chosen, whom ye have desired. Behold, the Lord hath set a king over you. If ye will fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then shall both ye and also the king that reigneth over you continue following the Lord your God. But if ye will not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then shall the hand of the Lord be against you as it was against your fathers. Verse 20, and Samuel said unto the people, Fear not. Ye have done all this wickedness, yet turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart, and turn ye not aside. For then ye shall go after vain things which cannot profit nor deliver, for they are vain. For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased the Lord to make you his people. Let's pray and ask the Lord to help us with the contents that are before us today. Father, I pray that you would minister to every heart that's in this room through the scriptures that we will examine today. Most certainly, there are needs in this room to hear this passage. It's by your good hand It's by your sovereign working in our lives that we sit here this morning to examine this text together. And so I pray that you might do a special work in us and then through us. Inform your people, encourage your people, help us to see that you don't walk away from us when we come to our lowest point. Instead, you come alongside and say, there is grace to help in time of need. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Just a moment to kind of summarize the section in front of us. Samuel wants the people to realize the seriousness of their sin, the steadfast love of God, and his commitment to fulfill his covenant with them. So they could move forward in victory and experience his blessings even though they had failed him. Now I get this I I have had many conversations with young people about this. And perhaps you've been one of those young people. Not us having that conversation. Nobody in here is really young enough for me to have had that with you as a young person, okay? Well maybe one or two. I don't know. But you have a young person who looks at a decision that they have in life, and in their minds, God has laid out a plan for them. And this one moment in time is going to make or break the entire plan ahead of them. Anybody ever thought like that? Oh come on, be honest. It's true. So here I am, and I'm at this fork in the road. If I take this fork here Then I've ruined the plan, and if I take this fork here, then the plan continues, and then I'm going to come here again at another point. I'm going to hit that fork in the road. And what's interesting is a lot of times that fork in the road will be something like, what college do I attend? And it's not like, oh, I want to go and live out in the world and be a rebel. It's like, do I go to Bob Jones or do I go to PCC? Do I go to Marinette or do I go to Crown? You know, these are the kinds of things that people look at and it's like that whole plan hinges on whether or not I choose the right Christian college. Well, if that was how it worked, I don't think anybody in this room would enjoy God's plan for their life. Bottom line. The fact is how God works is in many ways a mystery, and we can't fully comprehend it. But God is going to continue his work even when you make the wrong decision. And what we're going to see in this particular passage Is that even though Israel didn't make a wrong decision like which Christian college do they attend, they made a wrong decision like do we want God to be our king or do we want to choose our own guy? I mean that that was a really serious decision. That was the difference between God and the world. Even with that kind of a decision made, God still came alongside of them in grace. Now I want to keep this in balance and say this. Don't get in your head that when you have the decision between God and the world, well I'll just choose the world and I'll take my chances. God's gracious. That is wrong. That is foolish. The reality is that the kind of pain that you may experience as a result of that kind of a decision will haunt you the rest of your life. It's interesting we had a the pastor was given an illustration and it's not a perfect illustration, but I do think it's uh I do think it gets the point across. And he said I need a lady to come up here, and I have two roses. They're beautiful roses. Which one do you want? She looks at the roses and says, I'll take that one. So okay, that's your rose. This one I'm going to put in a vase of water and I'm just going to let it sit here. He said, now here's what I want you to do. I want you to take that rose and you need to share it with other people Okay? They need to enjoy the rows too. So you can hand it to them and they'll just they'll pass it down through all the rows and at the end of the time you can get your rows back. Oh no problem. You know sharing is a good thing, sharing is caring and Sherry just fun, right? Isn't there a song about that for the little expensive? Yeah. Mrs. Hugh knows the song. So at the end of the service, he says, Hey, our friend here wants a rose back. Who's got it? Bring it up there. You still want that rose? It doesn't look too good, does it? It's been handled by every single person in the room. And he said, a lot of you, that's how you handle your life. The fact is, you let the world eat you up. of all the decisions you make. And at the end of your life, you've really gotten abused because you made really bad decisions after really bad decisions. And his point was that, yes, God is gracious, and God still loves the person who has been down in the valleys throughout their whole life. He still loves them. And he still works in their life and he cares about them. But their life isn't what it could have been. Doesn't have the same vibrance, doesn't have the same beauty, it doesn't have the same impact because people make bad decisions In spite of those things at play, we still have this text in front of us. And I want us to see what it says because I think it can really speak to our hearts today. God wants you to respond properly to Him when you've sinned, so you can experience His blessings again. That's the bottom line. That's what God wants, and we see it in this passage. So what are the truths that will help us to properly respond to God when we have sinned? And what are the truths that we need to share with other people If we're the one who's the counselor, we're the one who's the friend, we're the one who's the godly person, and they say, This is what I did, this is where I am, I'm miserable, I hate what I've done, isn't there any hope for me? Is there any future for me? These are the truths that I think we have to explain to them, because they're here in the passage. Truth one, the consequences of our decisions don't go away. Now that's not very encouraging, is it? But it's true. Now it is true that there are times that time heals wounds. Okay? I went away and came back and I love gardening and I found out that so do the woodchucks that live behind my fence. They decimated a couple of sections of my garden. The sweet potatoes look Well there aren't too many leaves. If there's leaves they grew last night. Okay. They destroyed it. But you know what? If I can keep those woodchucks out for the next week or two, it's gonna come back. Bottom line, it'll come back. But there'll still be scars. And that's the way it is when we sin. There are consequences. Time does heal wounds. It is true that God in his grace can can teach us lessons, good lessons, strong lessons, even when we have sinned. But you know there are certain consequences they nag us for the rest of our lives. And so with that in mind, we need to be very careful that we make right decisions. Yes, God is gracious, but consequences don't always go away. I've heard this statement before. You can choose your crime but not your time. Okay? And the fact is when we choose to sin, yeah we had the full freedom to make that decision, but we don't choose the consequence. The consequence could be something that really nags us for years and years and years. In verse 13, he says this: Behold the king whom you've chosen Whom ye desires. Behold, the Lord hath set a king over you. He's emphasizing something. Now Therefore, based on all of what's just gone on, you've rejected Samuel and you've rejected God and you want a king and now he's given you. You can't turn back. It's there That king's there. It's not like you're going to craft a God and say, we made a mistake, and he says, okay, let's take Saul out of here. No, Saul is there. He's now the king. And that is a consequence that was going to haunt them for some time. He says, therefore the change was based on the decisions that they made. You've chosen, you've desired, it wasn't God's plan, but that's what you have now. And he says, the Lord set the king over you. God said you've crossed the line and now you'll eat the fruit of your labor. I think of other passages like this as well I think of the example of the children of Israel when they were going to go into the promised land. This is before they wandered for 40 years in the wilderness. And what happened? Twelve men go to spy on Canaan, ten were what? Bad, and two were what? Good. Good. Yeah, we know the song. So they go into the land, they come back, and Penham goes, There's no way we can take this land. And they were actually right if God wasn't in the picture. That's the bottom line. And two of them said, Well, God's given us this land, He's promised us this land. He will fight for us. This is a promise that He's made, and let's act on this. And the people said, where with the ten, not with the two. We know it's really interesting. When that situation went down At some point, shortly after, God said, Okay, then for 40 years you wander in the wilderness, they said, Ho, ho, ho, we have sinned We've gone down the wrong road. We'd like to make a correction. We're gonna go in, go ahead and take the land now. And that's just don't do that They said, we're gonna do it. You know what happens? Crush. Everybody that went out there, they come back. And God said, look, we crossed the line. It's 40 years of wandering now. That happens sometimes, folks. And we need to keep that in the back of our minds. But there's truth number two. God's ways don't change. Verses 14 and 15. He says, If you fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then shall both ye and the king that reigneth over you continue following the Lord your God. If you'll not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then shall the hand of the Lord be against you as it was against your fathers. He's reminding them of a principle that was established in Deuteronomy 28. If you want to go to Deuteronomy 28 at another time, I'd encourage you to read it. It's a really sobering passage, actually. Now, this is a passage that's not given specifically to you and to me. We're not Jews. God is not in a Mosaic covenant with us, but what we do see is how God thinks And how God works in the lives of people. The bottom line is that when you make good choices, there are good outcomes. When you make bad choices, there are bad outcomes. In Galatians he says, he that sows to his flesh shall of the flesh reap what? Corruption. And he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit lead life everlasting. Basically, what he's saying is this: you live a fleshly life, at the end of it, you've got nothing to show for it You live a spirit-filled life, and all the blessings that come from God's work in your life, they last forever. You will enjoy those benefits, not just in this world, but in the world to come. But in Deuteronomy 28, I'll just summarize it with two verses. Here's what it says, verse 1. It shall come to pass if thou hearken diligently unto the voice of the Lord thy God To observe, to do all his commandments, which I command thee this day, the Lord thy God will set thee on high before all nations of the earth. And he lays out a whole host of incredible blessings that those people would experience. They would be saved They would thrive, they would have a fruitful land, they would be a people who the rest of the world would look at and go, We're serving idols and they serve God And that would stand out to the nations. And that's what God wanted. God didn't want to judge his people. He didn't want to send them into captivity. He didn't want to decimate their crops. He didn't want to see the Babylonians encamped around Jerusalem and then destroy that city. He didn't want that. He wanted the people to be a light to the Gentile nation. He wanted all the nations to come to Jerusalem and to hear the good things of God. He wanted them to be looking for the Messiah. But they didn't do that. Verse 15 he says, but It will come to pass, if thou wilt not hearken unto the voice of the Lord thy God, to observe to do all his commandments and his statutes, which I command thee this day, all these curses Shall come upon thee and overtake thee. You say, what are the curses? Well you read them. If you want to, read them and you'll find out The bottom line is that God preserved the nation. They weren't strong because they were strong. They were strong because God preserved them. They weren't thriving and prosperous because that's how they inherently were. They were thriving and prosperous because of God's good hand in them. They weren't stronger than their enemies because they were inherently stronger than their enemies. They were stronger than their enemies because God strengthened them Their enemies had no desire to attack them, not because their land wasn't maybe something that could catch their attention, but because God kept those people in check. But when they decided to rebel against God, God said, okay, I remove my protection, I remove those restraints, and I'm going to let you taste what I've kept you from. The fact is, God's ways don't change. And Samuel reminds them of that. When we've sinned, we have choices to make We can get back up, we can move forward, we can be faithful, we can experience God's grace and God's healing and God's strength and God's good hand. We can learn the lessons we can teach others, or we can wallow in our sin. We can just stumble and stumble and stumble in the darkness. We can refuse to get up. And the question is what will you do? God's ways don't change. These are laws. You fight against God's laws. Well they're established. It's like if you jump off of a building And you think that you can get away with not getting hurt, you're a fool. It's the bottom line. I mean, there are there are physical laws at place. You will hit the ground and you will either bounce or be smashed. That's how it works, okay? You can't beat those laws, they're there. Sometimes people think that somehow they can beat God's laws. It doesn't work that way. Whether you acknowledge him or not, he's there. He's going to do what he's going to do We see the positive and we see the negative. But I want to remind you of a very interesting text, Malachi III. He says, I'm the Lord. I change not. Don't miss the next statement. Therefore Ye sons of Jacob are not consumed. You say, why is that a significant passage? I'll tell you why it's significant. When he uses the term Jacob, he reminds the people that they're just like their daddy. Jacob was a trickster. Jacob was a corrupt man. He tricked people. He tried to work things out. His entire life. He was a fighter of God. Okay He fought and battled God. He said, if you bring me back, then I'll then I'll pay you my tithe and I'll be I'll I'll I'll serve you God. But until then, I'm on my own. I'm gonna do what I want to do But you know what's interesting? He says the reason that you're not consumed utterly is because I don't change. It's not because you've decided to start doing right. God entered into a covenant with those people. And even though they were rebellious and even though God let them be judged, God did not let them be destroyed utterly. Because he still loves them. Because of his grace. Again, we're not the nation of Israel here. We're, I don't know, maybe somebody in here's got some Jewish ethnicity. I don't know. Okay But the bottom line is in the New Testament God's not dealing with us as a nation. He deals with us as individuals. But the fact is when God saves a person He keeps them, he loves them, and he doesn't abandon them. And when that person begins to stumble and they begin to stray, because God doesn't change, though God lets them experience the fruit of their misery God continues to work in their life. And so when we go through that season on the other side, we find out that God didn't walk away. He's still there. And that's phenomenal. He is far better than we are. Truth number three. Any questions here? I I I've not really given you an opportunity to ask questions. Any questions? I'll put my hat up there. Any contributions? No. Kidding. Alright. Truth three. We need to refocus when we have sin. We need to refocus when we've sinned. You know, it's interesting. I I preached the message on Philippians, uh, I guess it could be like almost a year ago now And and the message was the remo dealing with the lingering effects of contention. And the idea is that when we have sin, certain kinds of sin They really affect our judgment. They uh they cloud our judgment. They cloud our ability to see things clearly. So one a lot of times when you look at a Christian, you go, why in the world is this person thinking the way that they're thinking? Like that's not logical. Their problem actually is usually a lot deeper than what you're looking at. There's usually something going on under the surface that is a lot more dangerous than what you're looking at right there Because sin affects us. If we're bitter, that bitterness has deep roots that dig into our hearts And that bitterness can blind us to the most basic things. When we're dealing with some kind of addiction or when there's sexual sin that's going on. A lot of times people's judgment is just it's completely gone. Those kinds of sin. Sin in one area, it affects our judgment in other areas. And so when a person finally comes to their senses, repentance toward God, God has grabbed their attention, there are lingering effects of that sin in their life. There's still things that they can't see clearly. But one thing that they do need to realize in that situation is that it's time to refocus. It's not time to just, I'm gonna ask the me time. And I'm just gonna kick back and I'm gonna enjoy life and don't anybody come near me, don't anybody bother me, don't rock my boat. I've got to refocus on myself. No, it's refocus on God. That's what we need to do. Because notice what he says in the passage. Samuel said to the people, Fear not, ye have done all this wickedness, yet turn not aside from following who? The Lord. In other words, the refocus isn't on me, it's on God. If I get my focus back on Him, then that helps to settle what's going on inside of me. He says, serve the Lord with all your heart. You cannot just leave a little section and say, I'll give God this part, but I'm going to hold on to this part. And this is how a lot of times repentance comes with people. I've got this little area that I want to kind of indulge, I want to play with, I want to hold on to that. So I'm giving God 85 % of my heart, but the 15%, the 15% is the chance that I'll kill you. That's the bottom line, it's the cancer that'll kill you. Having a conversation with someone this week who had gone to the dermatologist who were talking about skin cancer. Okay? Not not a pleasant topic, you know. But This individual says to me, well, I remember I went to dermatologists a couple weeks ago and you know I had this spot right here. And They you know they numbed it and I'm I'm there, I'm awake, I know what's going on. They I can feel like something's happening here. All right. Hope I'm not dressing me out 'cause it's gonna get better. And he's like and then I pulled they pulled, I can feel pull and it's like pull pull. And he's like, they said, would you like to see what we just pulled out of your skin? He's like, sure. He's like, I should not have done that. He said that thing had roots. That thing was down inside. In other words, what you see on the surface is not the thing that kills you. It's not the thing that does the major damage. It's what's deep down inside under the roots. And so he says, you have to serve the Lord with all your heart. You can't leave anything. He said, you know what they did is they went and they tested that and they said we gotta make sure that we got everything out And he said, I've had times they've had to go back three, four times, dig a little more, pull a little more, watch. Because if you just leave something small in there, it's coming back. It's coming back with a vengeance Well folks, the same thing is true about our own hearts. We have to do serious work. We've got to kill sin. We can't play with it. We can't entertain it. We can't tame the dragon. We've got to kill it If it comes back, we've got to kill it. We've got to do it with severity. We've got to do it consistently. He says, serve it with all your heart. Turn not aside. You can't start out and then go back. You gotta chart the course and move down that road. And he says then Should you go after he says and turn ye not aside for then should you go after vain things which cannot profit nor deliver for they are vain. He basically reminds them that when you've stumbled and you have opportunity Don't go back to the very things that just tripped you up. And that's what we do many times. You know, we go through that valley, we go through that season. We get back up, and then shortly we return to the same things. I remind you of Proverbs 24, it says in verse 16, that a just man falleth Seven times. Now, the point of that proverb is not to say, well, on number eight, it's done, okay? Because the idea is that he falls over and over and over again. He's not a perfect person. There's nobody that's perfect in this room. The just man falls seven times, but what? He gets back up. He gets back up. As discouraged, as beaten down as he is, as much as the consequences are weighing him down, he gets back up. He moves forward. Tenacious. We're wrong. I want to mention a couple of wrong responses to sin, just so we can think about this for a second. A lot of times when we've sinned, we think that God's finished with us. And we get discouraged. And that word discouraged is it's an okay word, but it may not always capture how we feel. You know, if you've watched Anna Green Gables she talked about being in the depths of despair and Marilla's like Right? And she, you know, she really goes after this little girl who doesn't understand a whole lot anyway. But the bottom line is there are times that we sin and we say, God is done with me. He doesn't want me. He can't use me. It's finished. And I tell you, that's a wrong response to sin. God isn't done with you. When he's done with you, you'll be with him. That's how it works, okay? When he's done with you, you'll be with him. But until he says it's time to take you He's not done with you. It has more things for you to do, more things for you to experience, more things to grow in, more experiences to have with him on this side, more opportunities to be faithful, because one day you'll stand before him. Two We're unwilling to face our sin honestly. We experience this when we're dealing with our children. When they're very small, they do something, and we say, What did you do? Now, we don't want a general answer. We want to know specifically what did you do? Now sometimes yes, we don't know what they did. But we know they did something. I've done that once or twice. And it's always great when they tell you what they didn't you're like, no, I know, good, that's great. But a lot of times what will they do? They will be very vague. What did you do? Oh, I did something bad. Yeah, I know that. We're talking about it What did you say to your mother? When your mom said, what did you say back? When I said, come, where did you go? What did you just do to your brother? Why did you do we want specifics? Why? Because we want the child to understand. That sin is serious and they have to face it. They have to call it what it is. If I'm going to tell God this is what I did, well I've got to be willing to tell myself this is what I did first. And the bottom line is a lot of times people are not willing to face the reality of what they're doing. They will generalize. I say they, we will generalize. We could be in a deep-seated addiction and we could say, well, you know, every now and again I stumble. That's true, but that every now and again is more than every now and again It's a way of life. It's a pattern. It's deeply rooted in your heart and your soul. And it's something you do constantly. Wrong response. Three, we get distracted by worthless things. Sometimes when we are down, rather than turning to the one who can really help us, we go after little things that can kind of like stop the bleeding for a moment. Folks, if I have a serious injury, I don't need a band-aid. I need serious medical attention. And the fact is that what will happen a lot of times is then we have a serious issue and we know it's there but we don't want to address it. We go to other places to kind of like put a bomb on that So let's say that I'm dealing with some real serious conviction in my heart. My conscience is tormenting me, and it's time it's tormenting me because I'm doing something that I know full well is wrong Well, you know a lot of people do, I just need a diversion. I'm gonna go take a vacation. You can take a vacation, you can feel good during your vacation, but when you come back, if you didn't deal with that issue, it's still there I just need to find some kind of, you know, something that can help me feel better about it. If your conscience is nagging you about something that's there, that's a good thing. Like then it's doing what God made it to do And if you're trying to cover it up with something, if you're trying to like cover the check engine light, well you're gonna have a problem. I give you this illustration. This week we were we went down to see my grandfather. And my brother came along on one of the days. So on Friday night my uncle walks in and he says this looks like this belongs to somebody and it looks like there's a problem. Basically it was a piece of my brother's break And uh you know we taught he's like, is that for the van or is that for the truck out in the driveway? We're on the well we don't know And my brother's like, well, you know, weird drive and I heard just like weird squeaking noise and I didn't think much of it. Well, let's just say that he should have thought much of it. Because that thing basically Well, let's just say it was more than a brake pad that he needed. Let's just put it that way. He needed more than a brake pad. He needed a lot of things to fix that problem The fact is that when you hear a weird sound, that means there's something going on. That squeaking, that grinding, that rattling, it indicates that there's something wrong. Like those noises don't just happen. for no reason. Okay? They're there because there's a malfunction of some kind. And a lot of times we ignore the malfunction, the noise. And you know what happens? By the time we decide to address it, it's because we had no other choice. We're on the side of the road. We can't go anywhere. That smoke pouring out of the hood of my vehicle is the consequence. The fact that I now have no pressure in my brakes, because there's no brake fluid is the consequence. And the bottom line is that we do that with our lives sometimes. If it's your car, hopefully you can go get a new one. Hopefully you don't get in a bad enough accident that everybody walks away okay But in life sometimes the things that we do to try to deal with our sin, to kind of cover the consequences of how we feel, they're the wrong thing. Four, we have a divided heart. What I mean by divided heart is if somebody asked us, do you want to serve the Lord, there would be a side of us that would say yes Do you know what your biblical responsibilities are in this situation? The answer would be yes. Do you want to do those things? Yes. Do you want to experience the consequences of your sin? No. But why are you doing this? Well, I want to do this too. Well, these things are incompatible. The bottom line is you will do what you want most. A dividing heart is a very complex way to live. And at some point, one side wins, and when that side wins, the consequences follow. If we finish, if we think God is done with us, we're wrong. If we're unwilling to face our sin, we're wrong. If we're distracted by the things around us and try to use those things to kind of You know, it's like taking Tylenol when you have cancer. You can't you know, it doesn't take care of the problem, okay? But here are some commands that he gives. And I want us to just see these quickly. The first one is this: do not fear. Now, if you're not going to deal with sin , Then you should fear. At the bottom line. You're playing with God's grace and mercy, and it's not forever. He is long-suffering. But we know that there's a limit to God's mercy. There is. But if we're willing to deal with our sin and we're going to take right decisions to heart and we're going to change and we're going to move in the right direction, God isn't our enemy. He doesn't hate us, he loves us. He's going to bring all the tools to bear in our lives so that we can walk forward and have victory. He's going to bring the people into our lives that we need to help us move through those situations. He hasn't abandoned us. And so what does he tell the people? He says, Don't fear. That's not your enemy. He loves you, cares for you. He wants to give you opportunity. Two, you need to reverence God. Verse 4, he says, if you will fear the Lord Serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandments of the Lord, then shall both ye and also the king that reigneth over you continue following the Lord your God The fact is that while we shouldn't fear, we should have reverence for God. And there's a difference. One is terror, I'm running from him, the other is I recognize his authority. And I would worship him and I bow down before him and I say, You're the Lord and I'm just your servant. You're a God and I'm just a creature. We keep him in his right place. Three. Don't think God is finished with you. Trust me, when God is done with your course, you won't be able to continue your course. If he's kept you here, he's got a reason for it. There are things he wants to do in your life. There are things he wants to do through you. There are things he wants you to see, things he wants you to experience Lessons he wants you to learn. There's still more that you need to grow. There are still opportunities that you need to have so that you can be found faithful and he can reward you for those things. He says in verse 19, All the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servant unto the Lord thy God, that we die not, for we have added unto all our sins this evil to ask us a king. And Samuel's going to say, I cannot cease to pray for you. God loves you. He hasn't abandoned you. Next, face your sin honestly. Verse 20. Samuel says, fear not, ye have done all this wickedness. He doesn't cover it up. He he doesn't uh say, oh, you didn't do anything, don't worry about it. He says, no, you You've done some terrible things. God still loves you. He's not done with you. That's what he says. And don't get distracted. Verse 21, he says this. Turn ye not aside, for then shall ye go after vain things. He says, You're at a point of humility before God. You have an opportunity. Don't waste it. Truth for, I'm going to finish quickly with this one. God's relationship to his people is always built on his grace. Verse 22 it says this the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because it hath pleased the Lord to make it his people. I think when we have sinned against God, when we face where we're at and we feel the full weight of that, and we turn to God and we call it what it is, and we ask His forgiveness and we desire to be restored. We need to really reflect on this truth. God loves us not because he should, but because of who he is. The fact is, if God gives us what we deserve, all of us universally end up in hell forever. Bottom line. God had no there he wasn't obligated to save anybody, okay? He wasn't. I mean he told Adam, you eat this fruit, here's what happens. He could have said, well You got what I told you was going to happen. Now you're on your own. It's going to be a self-destructive world. It's going to be painful to watch, but I'm just going to let it let it unfold. He didn't do that. In the garden, he says, I'm going to send a Savior. I haven't stopped loving you. And the fact is that we need to cherish the grace of God, not impose on his grace. Not just walk out and say, I'll do whatever I want because God's gracious. No, that's not the point. But when you come face to face with God's love for you, it's a beautiful thing. Romans chapter 8 says this, verse 31. What shall we then say to these things? If God before us Who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's delect? It is God that justifies Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died. Yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand, who also maketh intercession for us. I want to encourage you with this simple fact. When we stumble, we need to face it, we need to refocus on God, and we need to be reminded of His grace. And I pray that that's exactly what we'll do from this passage. Any questions this morning? Questions or comments? There's actually more there, but I uh don't have fun. Didn't gauge my time well, sorry guys. But those applications, I think they'll be encouraging to you if you if you read through them. Okay, let's pray and then we'll head to our service. Father, thank you so much for a passage like this that reminds us that when we have walked through the valley And we have rebelled against you. You still love us. You're still a God who's full of rich grace and mercy, and you are long-suffering. You want us to come to repentance. You want us to have restored fellowship. You want us to learn from our failures. You want to work in us and you want to work through us. And I pray that you'll help us to be people who always have this on our minds. May it be on our minds as we go through our day. May it be something that's on our heart as we interact with those who need to hear these things. We commit ourselves to you. We ask that you will preserve us from these kinds of situations, that we would not be a stubborn and rebellious people. That we would walk in your ways and experience the fruit of a glorious walk with you. Blessed our service that's following, may you be truly magnified, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.