Father, thank you so much for your faithfulness and your love. Thank you for the opportunity to study about the nature of the church and talk about uh the distinction of autonomy, why we believe that This church should be self-governing, how exactly that works out in practical situations. Help us as we look at these specific texts to understand very well that we have great responsibilities as a local church. Responsibilities to make godly judgments, responsibility to do things soberly and in a very humble manner, and also recognizing that The reason we do these things is out of love for one another and out of a desire to glorify you. We ask that you will bless all the discussion and the instruction today. In Christ's name, amen. Okay, please take your Bibles and turn with me to Acts chapter six. Acts chapter six. And what I'm going to do is just kind of briefly mention a couple of things that we discussed from last week and then pick up with the remainder of our discussion. So The topic that we're addressing is autonomy of the local church. And the question is, what is the relationship of a local church to other local churches? And how do we fellowship with one another? How much authority do other churches have over this one and do we have over other churches? And what we saw is that there's not one particular text that says the local church is supposed to be self-governing. Rather the way we come to that conclusion is we look at our responsibilities as a church in some very specific areas, and as we look at those and analyze them and see how those situations are supposed to be worked out That is how we come to the conclusion that a church should be self-governing. And then once we understand that a church is self-governing, then we ask, well, what's kind of the chain of command? in the church. Where does the authority lie and how does all that work itself out? And so that's really what the main part of our discussion is. What does it mean to be self-governing? How do we fellowship with other churches? How much of a role should other churches play in internal matters in a church? Or how much should we be concerned with the internal matters at other churches? And then when we have issues that we have to address, how do we go about doing those things? And so we saw five specific areas that we are responsible as a church to address and to deal with. The first one is arbitration, and that's what we dealt with last week. And that is let's say you have a conflict between two individuals in the church. How should we deal with that? Should we just like turn our head and say, we don't care about it? Should we say, why don't you just go into the legal system and settle your disputes How do we look at those kind of areas? And what we saw in Matthew chapter 18 was that there is a process. through which people who have conflicts with one another are supposed to resolve those things. And really God's desire is that those conflicts are resolved one-on-one. Okay? He doesn't want it to get to the next level, but there are times that that that can happen. And if that happens, then we have to be very cautious about how we go through those things. The purpose of that whole process is not to punish people. It's not a weapon. It's not a tool to get even with folks. to pressure them, it's it's a way to get biblical restoration and to keep those conflicts as isolated as possible so that they harm a group of people as little as possible. And so that's really the issue there. And I didn't get into the first Corinthians passage, but just for the sake of making sure we understand what it says, I'd like to ask you to turn To 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Keep your your thumb in the passage I just asked you to turn to. But I'd like you to go to 1 Corinthians 6 just so that you can see what the scripture says about this issue of conflicts. And we do have to understand that there's a limitation to this particular passage. And let's say that you're trying to resolve things one-on-one, it doesn't work out, and you try to resolve things within the church, and it gets to a place where one individual is being very, very stubborn and will not uh submit themselves to God's word and resolve that matter. In some situations, the person will have to be removed from the church membership. And then it could become a legal matter, and that that does happen. But notice what he says in 1 Corinthians chapter 6. Verse 1. He says, Dare any of you having a matter against another go to law before the unjust and not before the saints? Do you not know that the saints shall judge the world? If the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Know ye not that we shall judge angels? How much more things what pertain to this life? If then ye have judgment of things pertaining to this life, see then To uh to see set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church. I speak to your shame And you you gotta understand the context, but basically what's happening is at Corinth you have people in the church who want to get even with somebody that they have a grudge with And so what they're basically doing is they're dragging them into the legal system, and in their legal system, basically what what it amounted to was As much as possible, you're trying to undermine the credibility of that person, you're trying to destroy the reputation, and if you succeed, then you win the case It's actually a little bit like what's going on right now in our in our Senate, believe it or not. I mean, we have this accusation that's not really being dealt with in a legal manner. It's being dealt with in a court of public opinion matter and uh that's really messy. And so he's basically saying that as Christians you should not do that. Because if you have a conflict with another brother Resolve it with Christians, people who have a biblical worldview, people who love both of you, people who want to see you do right and who want to see this resolved. When you resolve something in the court It's going to be resolved legally, but not in a sweet and harmonious manner. And so you might win the case and never have a word with that person again. And that's basically what his concern is and how it's going to damage the reputation of the church. So what we see is that arbitration is an issue that God gives to the church. And so one of the ways that we can resolve conflicts with one another is we take the biblical approach. We go through it step by step and hopefully we isolate a problem, we address that problem, we resolve it scripturally, and people have sweet fellowship with one another. That is the purpose of this issue of arbitration. So then we come to a second situation. And the second situation, well, we talked a little bit about the three forms of church government last week. And don't want to get bogged down on that, but we had the Episcopalian, Presbyterian, and Congregational and talked a little bit about the differences between those three forms of government. Don't want to get bogged down too much in that. Okay. Situation number two, appointing church leadership. Let's go back in our Bibles to the book of Acts, chapter 6. Acts chapter six. And what we see is the first time that a church is appointing someone to leadership. Now somebody says well didn't the church at Jerusalem already have leadership? Sure it did. But who appointed the initial leadership of the church at Jerusalem? Christ did, okay. Who were those people? The twelve disciples, the the apostles. Okay? And so they were the authority or the leadership of the church. Now they didn't all stay at Jerusalem. As time goes on, they end up leaving Jerusalem and they're going and doing work. In other parts of the Roman Empire. But this is the first time that we see church leadership being established. Other than by Christ directly. Does anyone know what's going on in Acts chapter six? What else are we in neglected and regarding Okay, why were they being neglected, you know? Yes. Yeah. Different cultures. So within that church there were Jews who were coming strict strictly out of Judaism and we had Jews who were Hellenistic Jews. Okay? And they had a significant conflict with each other. It was there was a cultural uh conflict And it was a major conflict. And so being in Jerusalem, the Hellenistic widows were being neglected because they didn't want the church didn't want to give them the same kind of care that they gave their own. Huge problem. So how does how did the apostles resolve that conflict? Let's look down in Acts chapter 6 and we'll start in verse 1. He says this, in those days when the number of the disciples were multiplied, there arose a murmuring among the Grecians against the Hebrews. because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration. Now when we say their numbers were multiplied, how many people are we talking about? Two to three thousand. Oh more than that. Pentecost they have three thousand and then and then when we come a couple of chapters later we see there's a couple more thousand added. Now they weren't all gonna stay in Jerusalem But we're talking about a huge group of people. And so that twelve individuals that are basically managing several thousand people at the time who are a brand new church. They that's that's just like chaotic to even think about. But anyway, we continue. It says this. Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them and said, Who are the multitude of the disciples? It's the church. Great. Let's make sure we get our So it wasn't like two of the disciples called the Twelve. The Twelve called the church. They're called the disciples. And they said, it's not reason that we should leave the word and serve tables. Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business. Okay, let's get some details. First of all, who is going to make the selection of these individuals? The congregationists. Who determines the criteria for who gets nominated and established in this role? Who is? The disciples, okay? Now they are they are speaking under the authority of Christ. So they are not going to go out into that congregation and choose out the individuals. They are giving the instruction to the congregation, and then the congregation is going to make that decision. Then they're going to bring those nominations, and then they're going to have a formal or ordaining or appointment if you will, they're gonna appoint them to that work as being deacon. Now can anybody give me a practical reason why they might have done that? One of the things because of the size, I mean the twelve or the now the twelve, yeah. Do you think that the twelve knew all those thousand several thousand people? No, those people knew each other. I mean, they the reason that they became a part of this congregation, they had a relationship with one another So those people, they know themselves, I guess is how I put it. So there's a really practical reason why they do that, but there's kind of a secondary reason, I think. And that is really coming down to what we believe about this issue of the priesthood of the believer and how now the church is able to go directly to the Father through Christ, not through a priest system. And so things have changed in just a few short weeks, and now the church is going to be responsible to bring forward those people. So we have both the fact that we have the individual priesthood of all believers. We also have the fact that the leadership doesn't know the congregation all that well at this point. But let's keep that in the back of our minds. Verse 3, wherefore, brethren, look out among them and pick seven men of honest report. Verse 4, and by the way, how would you like to be one of the seven who's managing several thousand people? Well, they're actually not managing several thousand people. They're managing the widows from within that several thousand people. Okay? And what's also interesting is when we look at the names that come forward, they have Greek names. Can anybody tell us why that might have been significant? Yeah. Well they probably take better care of the three widows. Sure. Yeah. And by the way, that's a that's a great statement to the fact that the church really decided they're gonna be unified on this issue. A a predominantly Jewish church is going to appoint a predominantly Hellenistic group of vegans who are going to take the care. So it's a really neat story when you start looking at those details. Verse number four, we will give ourselves continually to prayer and the ministry of the word And the saying, please the whole multitude, and then it tells us who they they picked out. Verse 6, whom before they set the apostles, when they had prayed, they laid hands on them. And so the congregation followed their encouragement or their their responsibility. They picked out those individuals and they brought them to the apostles, and then the apostles formally appointed those people to the work. So this is the first time that we see the church appointing leadership. The very first time. And notice how it works. The congregation is analyzing who should be in the leadership. Not that the leadership, this group of men, just decide we're going to appoint these people and what you guys think doesn't matter It wasn't like they said, we'd like to get your opinion, but really we're going to make the decision. They are giving that role to the congregation. The congregation is making the decision to bring those people forward and then the the the leadership is making the formal appointment. So it it's it's a wonderful situation and this is how the church is supposed to do its business. when it comes to appointing leadership and when it comes to church business. So the question I want to begin with here is this Who ordains a pastor, elder, bishop? And can anybody tell me why I'm using those three words? Of those three scriptural words. Yeah, absolutely. And by the way, of those three words, which one is used the most and which one is used the least? Uh Viction is used the most. Elders use the most, pastors use the least. Okay? And a lot of that has to do too with their culture because and I and I experienced this when I was in Ghana We don't really have like family elders where like our huge extended family gets together and then we sit down and those heads of the families get together and they are kind of leading the the the family. We we don't really have that kind of a setup in our culture, but in a lot of ancient cultures and a lot of eastern cultures, African cultures, Jewish cultures Very, very common. So really what you're seeing is something very similar to the way that it was set up in in the synagogue. And so elder was used the most in the New Testament Then bishop or overseer, and then pastor. And really pastor is more of a description of the nature of the work. They are shepherding, they are teaching, they are feeding. That is really uh what we have. But we use the term pastor most regularly in our church, but all three of those terms are used in the New Testament and they're referring to the same office They're just emphasizing a different aspect of the office. And elder was the term most used during that time period. I think a lot of it was because of their cultural understanding. Okay? So in the apostolic time, the apostles received specific instruction from God on the qualification of pastors. He delegated them to tr they delegated it to trusted co-workers. Who had the responsibility to see that each church followed these instructions soberly and faithfully. That is what we had going on at that time period. You had apostles They had co-workers and they were giving those co-workers the responsibility and then they were going to those individual church congregations And the church was essentially doing what we just saw in Acts chapter 6. Let me give you an example of that. Take your Bible and turn to Titus chapter 1. Titus chapter 1. I want you to see that there was a difference between what was going on in Titus versus what was going on in 1 Timothy. Before we even look in the text, is there anyone that can give us like the difference between the two? Okay, let me ask this question. Where was Timothy being sent or left? At Ephesus. Was Ephesus an established church or a brand new church plant when he was there? Well, we'll have to go and look at that in just a second. When uh when Paul sent uh Titus to Crete Was Titus going to a church or a group of churches? A group of churches. Were these churches established churches? Or were these very uh unestablished, immature, brand new kind of churches? Brand new. Brand new, okay. So you need to realize that the kind of instruction given to Timothy And the kind of instruction given to Titus is going to be a little different, and it's going to kind of reflect the situation that they're finding themselves in. Okay, first of all, let's go to Titus chapter 1. Verse number 5. He said this, for this cause, well can anybody read this for me? I don't want to do all the scripture reading. I mean I don't mind doing it, but why not? Yeah, go ahead, Bruce. Just read verse 5, please. For this cause left I be increased. That thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting in or being elders in every city that I had appointed thee. Okay, let's catch the details here. Okay, first of all, why did Paul leave Titus in Crete? Do we set the board those things that are for want. Or lacking, right? So he's gonna he's gonna establish immature churches. That's what's going on. And he says that he wants him to ordain, and that word ordain basically means to appoint, and it's an official appointment Okay, so it doesn't necessarily have to have like a lot of fanfare with it. It is an official appointment, and um the church is recognizing that this person or these people are in this office now Okay, that's that's the idea. So ordain elders in every city as I had appointed thee. So basically what Paul is doing is he's telling Titus , this island of Crete has several cities. In those cities, we have churches that are very immature. They do not yet have leadership established. They don't have pastoral authority in those churches. So I want you to go and I want you to make sure that those churches have pastoral leadership established. So this is what he says. If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children. not accused of riot or unruly, a bishop must be blameless as the steward of God, not self willed, not so angry, not given to wine, no striker, not uh given to filthy lucre, but a lover of hospitality. A lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate. And we can continue. Question Do you think that Titus is going to personally know all the people that he Essentially is helping to a point in those churches. I really doubt it. I really doubt it. Okay So what is Titus basically doing? Can somebody kind of like put it in real practical terms? Like kind of the sequence, yeah. It seems like this is like a little bit out of the norm what Paul's telling him to do. But I mean probably there's been sort of a little bit of a at least the people there wanna have to recommend or nominate people to each at point. Not really like a formal vote like we do or like everybody else did, but would kinda have to come from the people there and then he's making them the official pastor of the east of the East City. He's interviewing, okay. Yeah. qualifications that they should look to to kind of give them a guideline to be like, okay, this is what you need to be looking for in your congregation. Yeah. You were gonna say something? I was just gonna say he's he's taking these fledgling churches and organizing Yeah. So so when when when Paul gives this instruction, let's remember that he's he's he's writing this in a letter to Titus, but this is scripture. Okay? So basically what Titus is doing is he's taking scripture this letter and he's using this as the basis for evaluation. He's going to the churches and saying you need to choose out from your congregation people that meet these criteria, and then I am going to formally lead you through the process of establishing them as pastors in churches. That's basically what what Titus is doing. So what you see is not that Titus has authority over those churches. But that he has a responsibility from from Paul to basically go to those churches and instruct them on how they are supposed to call out and appoint leadership in those churches It's basically what he's doing. So don't look at Paul as the archbishop and Titus as kind of like a secondary bishop over a diocese in this particular community and he is going to appoint all of those people. And they're essentially choosing out of their seminary those who they're going to send. No. He's basically saying, go into your congregation Here are the rules. Here is God's word on this matter. And choose out from there these people, and then we're going to help you get established. Yeah. Well it's kind of like almost on the contrary to what you just said, not something quick. But he's actually making it he said it opposite that there is no word. They don't need Paul. And see that the end of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of Oh yeah, I'm not theory. Well, things and there's a sense that that's exactly what a missionary is supposed to do. Okay, so a missionary takes God's word and he says, here's what the scripture teaches about pastors, deacons. And he teaches that congregation and basically says you're responsible to choose out from your congregation who is going to be your leadership and you need to follow the word of God. And he simply helps them through that process, but he respects that they have to make that decision. And ultimately they're going to have to submit to that leadership. And ultimately they're going to have to answer from God for how they do that that process. And so really the closest thing we have to what he's doing is what what a missionary does today. Yeah. A lot of us think we're the denominational tracking and stuff. They forget this part of scripture of saying, you never did this before. Here's how to do it. Yeah. And they twist it over into The the bishop is the uh cardinal so-and-so normal is going to appoint everybody around. Well here's how you do it. You know, it's sad, but it's true that a lot of times church polity kind of reflects a cultural understanding of how to run a business. or how to run uh an elaborate organization instead of I mean the Bible really has the church set up in a sort of grassroots way to just use that kind of analogy Yeah. So let's kind of transition now to First Timothy chapter three. Because in First Timothy chapter three we're seeing a little bit different situation. Now, what you will notice is that the qualifications that Paul gives Timothy and the qualifications he gives Titus are the same. Okay? There's a little bit of overlap. Maybe one is mentioned that is not mentioned in another. Not that it's in conflict at all. It's just The Timothy passage is a little bit more elaborate, and perhaps the reason is because of the nature of the church he's going into. But first Timothy chapter one, verse three, can somebody read that No no no no. First Timothy one three, not three one. Sorry. I may have said three one without the two of I still I have When I went into Macedonia, that Dalamoy has charged them that they teach no other doctrine. Okay, good. Verse 19 he says, holding faith in a good conscience, which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwrecked, of whom is Himenaeus and Alexander, whom I've delivered to Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme. So when Paul sends Timothy to Ephesus, it's a little bit different. Actually, it's a lot. Because he's basically sending him to a congregation that's established And a congregation that has an establishment. Did you catch that? Established and it has an establishment. That means there are people in the congregation who are leading who should not be leading. And Timothy's responsibility as a young man is to go into that congregation and remove those from leadership who are there as establishment people. I there's a reason to say take a little wine for your stomach's sake and your infirmities because he's dealing with a lot of pressure. There is a reason that he says, let no man despise your youth, but be an example of the believer in word, conversation, charity of spirit. Because there are going to be establishment people in that church that are going to say, what right do you have as a young man to come into our congregation and tell us we can't do what we're doing? And Paul's basically saying, Timothy, don't let them despise your youth. Timothy, I know who is there and what they are doing and all that kind of thing. And so it's a different situation. And we need to keep that in mind because the way that he gives these qualifications is slightly different. Notice in chapter 3, verse 1 This is a true saying: if a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work. So he's basically telling Timothy: look, there are people in the congregation that want to be in leadership, and that's okay, that's good, that's right. Right. But a bishop then must be, and he goes through the list. And so he's basically saying, look, there are people who love the position But they shouldn't be there because they don't meet these qualifications. And so Timothy's actually not appointing new leadership as much as he's instructing a congregation. As awkward as this would be, that some of your leaders should not be. Do you get that? Maybe you never even thought of it in that light, but that is basically what he's doing. And so he there's a whole list of these. I'm not going to go through them, but if you read that passage, what you'll realize is that when he mentions those things There might be people in the congregation that start going, Oh, this guy doesn't meet that one and he start going through the list and all of a sudden They they're gonna have to deal with um with that. And and so Timothy was was gonna deal with a lot of pressure and he was gonna have to do something very difficult and Paul was gonna have to really challenge and exhort him. And you know, people sometimes say, you know, Timothy was a timid guy, he wasn't very strong. I don't think that's true at all. I think Timothy was an extremely strong young man But he was facing incredible pressure. And Paul really needed to come alongside and encourage him. As an older, godly man, he'd gone through a lot of pressure. And uh it's kind of similar to what Paul dealt with at in the church at Corinth. So yeah, go ahead. And if you look at the at The strength of time that Paul mentored Timothy was almost 13 years, or thereof. So We we Timothy knew Paul. Paul knew Timothy. And for Paul to put him in charge of an established church, I think the church was established In in Like 52 AD and this letter is like 65 AD to Timothy. So, like you said, it's an established church Yeah. And bring out the the hierarchy there that was already there, you don't want and and how you deal with that. That's that's the Oh ridiculous. Timothy Timothy might have felt like Moses back the burning bush. Like I don't think you want to do this. Paul says, Well You're the best man I have, so go do it. That's that's kind of the the sense. So so anyway, in in apostolic time, what you have is the apostles giving the instruction uh to to trusted individuals and then they were they are fulfilling that role. And if we translate it into our time period now, the apostles are gone in a sense and in a sense they're not. Because what they told these men It's still there for us. And so this is our instruction. And so our our responsibility as a church is to take the instruction of the apostles. the Word of God, the Scriptures. It's to take it very soberly and humbly. As a congregation, we take those decisions about pastors and deacons. Just like those churches essentially were going to be doing that. And we know that when we follow the word of God and we do things in a in a scriptural manner, we are doing what we have authority from Christ to do And that is extremely important. So let me ask these questions very quickly. Who is responsible? And I want to mention the church's responsibility. Well, I'll make I'll make the candidates responsible. And when I say candidate, notice that we're talking about both pastoral candidates and deacon candidates, because he talks both about pastors and about deacons. So the candidate is responsible to honestly evaluate his own life before the Lord and to admit that he's unqualified if that's the case or willing to delay the process if it's too hasty. So you know the way that we've done this at our church when we have deacons nominations is you don't go to the person and say, hey, I want to nominate you, um, is there anything in your life that keeps you from being nominated? Can you just tell me that right now? We don't do it that way. We basically go to a person and say, Hey, I I consider nominating you. Do you do you feel that uh you can in good conscience take this this role at this time. And if they say no, I mean could be a lot of reasons. It could be, you know, I'm taking care of a family member. It could be I have some issues that I'm working through right now. It could be there's something in my past that has bearing on my ability to do this now. But the candidate is responsible in those situations to be honest about whether or not they really should be in that in that position. And then the church is responsible. The church is responsible to refuse to ordain or appoint any candidate who's unqualified for office office and to willfully and joyfully ordain Any willing candidate who clearly meets the qualification. So you have a person who is very clearly qualified and somebody in the church has a grudge against them or something like that. I mean that shouldn't hold the church back from putting that person into the office. So the church has a responsibility, and so do the individuals who are being evaluated for church office. So let's stop there and ask, are there any questions? Because this is, out of all the areas that we're going to talk about, this is one of the biggest ones for the church because it basically is saying the church chooses its leadership. It doesn't rely on some other organization or some other church or some other body to send them leadership They actually appoint leadership internally and they have the authority from the scriptures to make that kind of a decision. So any questions? Okay, let's move to the next one. And that's missions. Missions. Let's go to Acts chapter 13. And by the way, this is um It's a wonderful passage because as our as a church we've done this uh with several individuals over the years I was one of them. So um it's a wonderful thing when we as a church are involved in missions. Not just we s we have individuals who we are supporting, but we have individuals who have sent out They were with us. They have been moved by God to go to a foreign field. And we get behind them, we partner with them, we send them out, we pray for them. We have this personal relationship because they are from within our midst. So in Acts 13, verse 1, can somebody read uh verses 1 to 3? And our students have a call guide here with students. And we can brought off of Eric and Mark and Saul. And in the spirit of the Lord, we battered upon those dead, have great meeting markers of Saul, and work to have all them Well they fast and pray and lay their hand on them. They fast and watch them. Okay, very good. So so God is working in the congregation. You have people who are They're a part of the church, and God through the Holy Spirit says, separate these individuals And then they do that. They separate them out and then they formally send them out and it says they laid their hands on them. Can anyone give us uh maybe an explanation of what he means they laid their hands on them Or what's what's important about that, what's symbolic about that? I mean when you say you lay your hands on somebody, like maybe I could throw them on the ground or something, like what exactly are they talking about here? They have to push him out the doors, they go, you know. Bad they kick them out. No, go ahead. Well, previous to the conversion of Cornelius The apostles laid hands on the other birds to receive the Holy Ghost. So now, post -Cornelius, when we see the laying on of hand, it's symbolic of a blessing. Okay. And that's an enjoyment. Okay. Any other ideas? When Paul talks about ordination of of Timothy or other individuals, he talks about he says, lay hands suddenly on no man. I you know, being tongue-in-cheek here, I remember uh hearing people tell their young ladies in the youth group lay hands suddenly on no man. Like, no that's not what I'm talking about. Okay. It's got nothing to do with that. Um what what is what is the idea I I guess you could put it like this. It's very similar to when someone was anointed with oil in the Old Testament, saying this person has been set apart. for a very specific task. And in the Old Testament you have a prophet who God sends to that person and says, I've called them out and separated them to this work. They pour oil on them, and it's basically representing that this person set apart to that ministry. God's hand is upon them, he's empowering them, and they need to go and do that work. So it's kind of the same idea actually Yeah. Is the doesn't the idea also include the transference the transference of power and authority is part of it. When these men lay hands on it, they're saying that we believe that this guy isn't able to do this, or I'd do this. It's their that fruit, that whatever they're gathering is, you know, we see in the old testament. that you know the prophet would put before. He was saying God is golden, this guy is okay. Okay, so let's just throw out the situation here. Not that this would ever happen. So you have a person in a church who wants to be a preacher They want to be a missionary. And the people in the church can tell that this person really doesn't have a soundness in their theology doesn't mean that they're a false teacher, but they they they're not have to teach or there's some area in their character that is questionable. And so this person is very motivated. They want to go out and they want to be a pastor. They want to be a missionary. They want to start a church or something like that. The fact that the congregation is unwilling to send them out is is something that should speak volumes. It's a really big difference between a congregation going, wow, this guy very obviously God's hand is on his ministry and his life, and we can joyfully and wholeheartedly send him out as an extension of our church. Versus If he goes out, he's doing it on his own. And it's not we're not sending him out. We're not validating that ministry. It's not that we're antagonistic towards this person, but They're kind of calling themselves out as opposed to the church recognizing. If God is calling somebody to a work, it shouldn't be like questionable it should be really obvious to everybody that yeah this is very clearly the Lord's hand is on this person. So yeah you're gonna say here in this situation God called them I called them on this. Yeah absolutely It's almost like you're you're saying, Yeah, we believe this person has been called by God to do this. Yeah So I I I remember I have a a good a good pastor friend who had grown up in Papua New Guinea for a period of time And um he saw how difficult it was to live on a foreign field to be a missionary and all the different deep di difficulties that you can encounter. And so as a pastor in the States he said if somebody came into my office and said, I think God's calling me the min the ministry and the mission field, he said I did everything I could to talk about that. And if at the end of that conversation they were resolute, and I could see that the Lord had really put that conviction in their heart, I said Well praise the Lord for that and we're gonna get behind you. But if that person could back down very quickly because they were just stirred up emotionally in some meeting or something like that um then I I could tell that that really wasn't something God had put in their heart. And if God's put that conviction in their heart, they're going to be qualified, they're going to be gifted in that in that capacity, and that conviction's going to stick with them. And uh when they're discouraged that it's gonna continue to press them. Yeah. Because they they make their hands on them and send them away. And then the next first so they being sent forth by the So it's being sent away by the church, like the church is saying we give you up or relinquish, but it doesn't Yes. So I'm gonna think it's interesting how to do that. Yeah. So what it what it's telling you is that When they send this guy out, or these these these men out, a team basically, that they made a decision, but in the eyes of God, he was the one who really sent them out. And the reason that the church was resolute about this is because he was providentially working in circumstances to put that together. And that's really what's what's going on there. Yeah. Well that's circled around back to verse two, where it says the Holy Ghost said to separate them. Sure. And so then the church laid hands on Gave them their blessing, said yes, you're you're qualified, you're the message we got, and sent it out and then yeah, they circled back around them and uh agrees with not just the church, but they have a special meaning from the Holy Ghost. Sure. Good. Now turn to chapter 14 and uh we're gonna see kind of the second half of their ministry as being sent out. Acts 14 and verse 26. They sailed to Antioch. They is talking about Paul and Barnabas here. From whence they had been recommended to the grace of God, to the work which they fulfilled. So another way to put that is they came back to the church that sent them out. And when they were come, they gathered the church together and rehearsed all that God had done with them, how he had opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles, and they abode there a long time with the disciples. And so what you're seeing is the church had a responsibility to send out people and then to continue to maintain that relationship with them because they were an extension of that church. So though Paul and Barnabas were in other churches establishing work, they didn't cease to have that connection and that relationship with the church at Antioch. And so that's what we're seeing. So basically the church had a responsibility to know these men, to partner with them, to support them, and to provide accountability. And I could dig into that a little bit more, but For sake of time, I won't do that. Okay. So missions, another area. Any question? Quickly to our last one here. Situation five. Seems like it's not on the slide. So we will look at our situation for discipline. Discipline. And discipline is a little bit different than what we talked about earlier where somebody is basically arbitrating the situation. Now arbitration can get to a point of discipline, but it's not necessarily going to get to that level But church discipline is dealing specifically with a with a member of the church who he's a professing Christian. And he is publicly involved in things that undermine the integrity of his testimony and ultimately the gospel witness of that church. And we go to 1 Corinthians chapter 5 and we see an example of this. 1 Corinthians 5, verse 1, it says this: It's reported commonly that there is fornication among you And such fornication as is not so much is named among the Gentiles, that one should have his father's wife. And you are puffed up, and have not rather mourned, that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from you. Now when we talk about church discipline, understand that church discipline is not sort of like this sword that you wave in the church to cut off everybody who kind of goes against what you want. Okay, there's some really specific things that are mentioned in 1 Corinthians that are serious, that are public, that undermine the testimony of that individual in the church. in the community and ultimately the cause of Christ through that church. And this is an example. This man was living in a not just in a moral relationship that was publicly known, but it was like a scandalous public relationship. Okay? So even in the Corinthian culture, this was considered a scandal Okay? It wasn't just that, you know, he was doing something on the side and somebody figured it out or something. No, this is a real big deal. And the church was just turning a blind eye to it. And they were being proud They were unwilling to address the issue. And what does Paul say? He says, you need to take this person and remove them from the congregation. Now He doesn't explain the process here, but really that process goes back to Matthew chapter 18, where what should have happened is they should have gone to him And there would be a series of meetings and conversations trying to help this person to to to make things right, to restore their relationship and to move forward. That wasn't done. Then we go to verse five. He says, This deliver such a one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. And I don't think that what Paul is suggesting is that he's gonna Well, he's obviously not suggesting again in a car accident, because they didn't have cars in the city. He's not suggesting this person's gonna have some terrible physical calamity, but he's basically suggesting that when you remove this person from the church That person is going to be the target of Satan. And Satan is going to go after that person. He's going to exploit his flesh in those areas where he is compromising. And those things are essentially going to bring him down. If he's a believer, when he gets to the bottom, God's going to deal with his heart. He's going to come back. And if he's not, he's going to walk away and never come back. I mean, that is really the sense of what is going on in this passage. So by removing him from the church And viewing him as an unbeliever, he is going to be the target of Satan. And and I and I can tell you this, I've seen this kind of a thing happen where someone has serious sin They will not address this. They're removed from a church. And that area is something that becomes devastating in their life And sometimes those people hit rock bottom and they they come back and God gloriously restores them. In fact, that's what happened here. If you turn to chapter 2 of 2 Corinthians, he says this. The guy that you guys sent out, the one that was disciplined, he's been humbled. And by the way, isn't this amazing? This is a person who was involved in a very open scandal in Corinthian society. And he ended up getting restored back to the church Okay? So when we talk about church discipline and removing somebody, realize that God can do amazing things in people's lives. And this person is humbled. And he says this in verse 5: If any have caused grief, he hath not grieved me, but in part. That I may not overcharge you all. Sufficient to such a man is the punishment which was inflicted of many. So that contrary, you ought rather to forgive him, comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. I beseech you that ye would come confirm your love for him. You know, a lot of times when we talk about church discipline, we think of it as a weapon to punish. That's not the point. The point is to see someone who has moved away from the Lord be humbled broken and restored. I've seen people who have gone down that road, hit rock bottom, and had a vibrant Christian walk years later. I have I know people, I can think of them right now. So God can use this in people's lives And so the whole purpose of what we call church discipline is to see someone who is in rebellion be humbled Be restored back to fellowship with God and with God's people and to see them walking as a godly Christian and God can do that He absolutely can do that. And so who has the the authority uh to deal with this issue of church discipline? It's the church. It's not pastoral leadership or deacons, it's the church actually who's gonna make this decision about removing a member so that he's outside the congregation and Satan can go after him It's sobering, it's scary to think about, but it is something that uh so it's not the church punishing the person. It's them leaving the congregation where Satan goes after them, and through that they're humbled, they come back, they're restored, and they have sweet fellowship with God. So any question about that one? It's an extremely sobering thing for us to discuss and think about