The idea is self-government under the authority of Christ and not under some higher hierarchical structure, if you will. uh that we answer to. So when we say that we are an autonomous church, then we are saying that we are a church that is governed under the authority of Christ not governed under some human structure, hierarchical structure. And I'll give you the example of of what we did when we left Ghana is we left that as an independent, autonomous church. So it would be wrong for me if the church started having a struggle or if they Let's say they wanted to appoint some deacons that I kind of thought personally I wouldn't have done that. It would be wrong for me to kind of step in and say, hey guys, I think that's wrong. Here's what you need to do If I was doing that, I would be violating their independence as an independent, self-governing congregation. Or if I were to come in and say, I think this is who should be your pastor, and I basically install him based on my own authority. then I have violated their independence as a congregation. And I hate to put it this frankly, but a lot of times missionaries do that. They'll turn a church over so that they'll call it an independent church. They'll kind of go and focus in another place, and as they go back and check on what's going on there Things start going in a direction that maybe they don't want it to go. And the truth is maybe they're right. It is going in a wrong direction. It can definitely be the case that that's what's going on. But if it's an independent Congregation, they should not step in and violate the self-government of that church and essentially try to rewrite it. Or maybe there's a problem in that church And he believes that they should church discipline somebody. And maybe they should, and maybe they're not doing the right thing in that area. It's not his place to go step into that congregation And then make them do it the way that that individual biblically believes that that should be the case. And so what we're saying is that as a church, we are autonomous. And other independent Baptist churches are also autonomous. They're self-governing. We don't go to the other independent Baptist churches in our community and say, this is how you need to run your church. This is what you need to do. This is the decision that you should make. It's not really our business. We let them self-govern. They should let us self-govern. And so we have this statement. We believe in the autonomy of the local church. The local church is completely self-governing. and not subject to any external control, even choosing the level of external influence to which it will expose itself. And there are three words that I want to mention this morning and ask you to tell me what are the differences between these three words. One word is autonomy. Obviously we mentioned what autonomy is self-government. The other word is fellowship, and the third word is isolation. What is the relationship between those three words? Because really, this is very practical in this discussion. A lot of times when a church says that they're self-governing, they become isolated, and that's wrong. What's the difference between those three words? Can you flush that out at all? Yes. My children, when they become married, they're oh, say you're an autonomous banana. But I don't I certainly don't think that they should or do I want them to totally disregard any influence. They certainly have one. Yeah. Uh should have an influence. So that's how Okay, so your illustration is an excellent one. When your kids get married, do you continue to run their family? If you try that, they're gonna move really far away. No, no, no, I'm just connecting that with you. Oh man, that was like a total shut-up. No no no no no no no not suggesting that at all. It can happen, but I'm not saying that's what happened there at all Wow. Oh, we have digressed quickly. Fellowship. But when your children become an independent home If you have a good relationship, you have sweet communion with your family. It's like, you know, when uh when uh when you raise your kids and and you have a loving relationship while they have an independent home They may talk to you about a lot of things that are going on in their lives. And they'll come to you and say, hey, mom, dad, we've got this situation going on. What would you suggest? That to some people are laughing at us, our kid and don't do that. Or your kids do it a lot, you know And the truth is that sometimes a parent actually may look at their child and say, I know you want an answer here. I think you're gonna have to as your own home, you're gonna actually have to work that one out yourself. And so sometimes even being in a point of maturity above your children they might come to you too much and you kinda have to get them to be more independent. And uh you have that, but you still have fellowship, you still have communion, you love one another You can get together as a family, but you're not financially underwriting their their household. You're not paying their bills and telling them what they can and can't do and all those things They're an independent household. And so we understand in this issue of of marriage and our kids the the issue of independence and fellowship and hopefully not isolation. But sometimes when it comes to churches we don't see that. You were gonna say something frankly. difference between influence and control and there's nothing wrong but whatever the source is in it's right I mean for somebody to you know I guess it's really like a matter of teaching almost to say, hey, you know, the Bible says this is not that or whatever, or you're like with Paul, um, wrote to the Corinthians and said you need the discipline He couldn't make 'em do it, but he could just admit them where you have this problem and he should should be doing it. This is that to decide exactly they would want to do on their own. Yeah. Well, and and I can add this, what's unique about what Paul's doing is Paul's an apostle. So Paul has the authority He has authority unlike any pastor today. I mean, when we get up and preach and teach the Bible, we're teaching God's word, Paul was writing God's word, okay, and so he had tremendous authority, yet he still limited how he exercised that authority in situations. So It's it's kinda interesting to to to notice. And um you know, I I like to revert back to to the missions illustration a little bit because that's something that very dear to my heart. And one of the things that we really worked hard in when we were working with those men and knowing that they're going to be an independent church down the road, we would sometimes have a meeting and rather than saying, putting on the table, this is what I want us to do. I would pose the question and let them hash it out. And um and so it was sort of like preparing them a little bit to be independent. And you know, a lot of times uh parents do that with their kids as their kids get into their teen years. Instead of just making decisions for them, which is so easy to do, you say, well, this is your decision. What are you going to do? There's consequences. And you you become a little bit more of a of a guide and a mentor on the side as opposed to the authority making that decision. So you're kind of working through that at the end of their time under your authority. Yeah. Well one of the things like I remember when you were doing the uh series that person way back when Yes. And it it it really struck me how it like If there were people in the church that were doing it or teaching or trying to propagate wrong stuff, okay, the church had to to deal with them and you know excommunicate them or discipline them or whatever it you know means that we called the church to to deal with it. But then if the pastor who was the official you know, um chain of command , spiritual authority when Christ went down. If they went south, then he says, I'll constantly remove your candles and Yeah. Yes. See the question up here says what of the relationship of this church other churches and just speaking of fellowship and for isolation. And having worked within independent Baptist churches and Christian schools for a while. over twenty years. It it's a tangled lift because I think a lot of churches choose that isolation because of the threat of the member displaying elsewhere, which is reality. And unfortunately because of that threat, we don't feel comfortable socializing, fellowshipping with other churches in the area. And that 's Not a good thing. Yeah, so when we talk about self-government, we're not talking about isolation. And um I want to get into some very specific issues and I want to talk about something practically. I want to pull in scripture. I want to look at those scriptures and talk about our responsibility as a church. And then I want to talk a little bit about how some of these issues are affected by the presence of other churches that are supposed to be autonomous. as well. Okay? But what what you brought up is a is a great point. Okay? I do not influence first makeup tech comments. Well, you know What what is what is the the sad reality of the world we live in is that every church is messy, every pastor is a sinner, every congregation is full of sinners. So sometimes we don't draw the line in the right places. And sometimes we let our emotions get in the way. And there's a practical on paper how it should work out, but then how it flushes out sometimes in the practical world doesn't work out the way it should And um but it is true that a lot of times churches in their desire to be independent become isolated. And you know, think about what happens with with your kids So if you have a a kid that is kind of a people pleaser, then you can kind of dominate them and decide what they can and can't do. But then you have another kid who is a little bit more independently streaked as a person. And so what happens? The one kind of rebels and gets like they want to get out of the house as soon as they can and the other just never takes any kind of leadership and they don't take responsibility. You have those challenges and that happens in churches where when you have that isolated mentality, people are going to rebel against that Or they're gonna kinda chuck their brain out. They won't think and they won't reason through issues and they they lose their ability to to think clearly about issues because they sort of just let somebody else govern for them. If you will. Yeah. I frequently interact with a lot of religious bodies. And I go to political fundraisers. I can easily identify people that don't that abstain from alcohol, but 90% of the time they're Muslims. You know, and I'm I'm consistently invited to multi-faith coalitions and other churches that that are that are sponsoring community activities. But I have to stop and come away with that because most of them they're not reaching enough. possible. Um and there's this effort to like cooperate, build this this cooperation and this co-mangling and I I was thinking to myself, I'm like, man um I find myself in situations where I may accidentally be um in in in one specific case the bottle still. I had, you know. So it's really got me thinking about how important it is for for bodies to maintain their integrity. and to maintain their identity. And especially in this ecumenical ecumenism is a really interesting thing. People have been paying attention in the past in the in the uh paper, a local pastor, a Baptist pastor, published this thing about you know multi-faiths coming together and Muslims uh not not one of the churches we would associate with. Well let me let me tap into something here One of the Baptist distinctives actually is separation of church and state. Interesting. Baptist churches, not that we believe that we shouldn't be influencing our culture But we believe that the church should not dictate the government. And um, you know, there was a time in in colonial America where Each colony was a church state and that was following the the precedent that we had in Europe. So yes. Oh yeah, I I'm not trying to suggest that we shouldn't vote or we shouldn't have a say in what goes on. Or that we shouldn't even try to be involved in in public service. No, not suggesting that at all. But there's a difference between the church trying to take the authority and essentially write the laws and those kinds of things. things. So it's a it's a it's a dicey issue and I think not everybody's gonna draw the line the same place and it's You know, that's a tough issue. But that is one of the Baptist distinctives. And one of the reasons that we have that freedom of religion in the United States the way that we do is actually a lot of Baptist brethren during the early days when we were just getting established as a country, really pushed for the fact that there should be a separation of church and state. Not saying that we should withdraw from the government, but we should not become a church State government. And that was the point. Okay, so let's get into a couple of practical areas where we we have practical expressions of autonomy or self-government And you know, one of the reasons there's a lot of debate and discussion about this issue of self-government is because we can't go to a chapter and verse that says, you have to be a self-governing church Instead, we go to these situations and when you study them out and you think about what the scriptures are teaching and those passages, you go, there's no way That a church can do this biblically unless they are a self-governing congregation. Let me mention these areas. The first area is arbitration. Arbitration We could say settling a dispute between people that are part of a congregation. The second is appointment of church leadership. The third is missions The fourth is church discipline, and the fifth is accountability. And when I have Revelation 2 and 3, Frank, that's exactly what you're talking about. The idea is that Christ is going to hold each individual congregation responsible for how they govern themselves. And so if a church begins to To drift away from a biblical position and they begin to compromise. God is going to deal with that congregation very similar to how he deals with an individual who is a believer but is not living consistently with his position. And so what does God do? He disciplines that believer. He wakes them up. He shakes them. He brings things into their life. He allows them to go through a lean and difficult time to humble that person if he's becoming proud. God does the same thing with the church. He actually deals with the church in a similar way. And in Revelation 2 and 3 he says, if you don't repent, I'm going to remove your candlestick from its place. Basically saying your congregation is going to be gone. if you don't listen to what I am saying here. And so that's the issue of accountability. And what I want to do is I want to go through each of those passages or those sections those expressions of autonomy, and I want us to kind of catch the details and I want us to see how we as a congregation are responsible to govern ourselves in those matters We really as a congregation shouldn't, let's say you know we got two people in this room that have a personal issue that gets to this to the level of needing to be legally resolved. Whether you realize it or not, our Constitution actually says that we should not take that matter to the law courts. We shouldn't sue each other. You know, why is it that that's in our constitution? Because it's in the Bible It was a problem at Corinth. People were taking other members of the church, dragging them into the legal system, and they were going through all kinds of chaos. And so he basically says what you should do instead of taking them to the law court is you should settle that dispute here in the church. And practically it can get to a place where if someone is unwilling to help resolve that issue, they can essentially be removed from the church membership and then it ends up getting dealt with in the legal system. Okay, so it's not like we'll talk about that if if we can, but you should try to resolve it within the congregation. He gives us reasons for that. So those are the areas, arbitration, arbitration, not arbitration, arbitration, appointing of church leadership, missions, church discipline, and then accountability as a congregation. So I want to talk about the three different forms of church government just in a general sense so that you understand them before we get into these specific issues. We have three basic kinds of church government. We have the Anglican, or we can say the Episcopalian, the Presbyterian and the Congregational. Now it doesn't say the Baptist. It says congregational Baptists are congregationally run assemblies. But there are other church groups that wouldn't call themselves Baptists necessarily, but they run themselves in a congregational manner. So when you hear the term Anglican or Episcopalian, you hear the term Presbyterian and you hear the term congregational, you probably have something that pops in your head You probably don't think church government. You probably think theological debates. So when you think of Episcopalian, what pops in your head? Episcopalian. What do you think of as identifying Episcopalian church government That bishop a bishop, yes. The bishop of Canterbury. Okay. Sure Anything else? By the way, when we think of uh Episcopalian or Anglican church, we think of a very theologically liberal uh group of individuals, and that is generally speaking the case. But I can give you a name like Bishop J. C. Ryle. If you read J. C. Ryle, he was an Anglican bishop from a long time ago, you would say, wow, this guy thinks a lot like we do a lot of things Because the Anglican Church wasn't always where it is. And even when we talk about Anglican and Episcopalian, they're actually different. a lot of debate. But the difference between Anglican and Baptist is not just theological differences. But specifically in our context, we're talking about how they govern themselves as a church. You were going to make a comment Well, I was gonna say what I think of Angleton can handle our physical. I think of course Harry A, but I think of the monarch, the ruling monarch of England is the head of the church. Okay. It's true. Alright. When you think of Presbyterian, what comes to mind? John Knox. Okay, what? Okay, yeah. Calvinism, sure. Yeah. You think of reform theology And generally speaking that's the case. But when we talk about Presbyterian church government, we're not talking about the Reformed Arminian discussion. We're talking about how they govern themselves as a church and then congregational. So let me kind of give you a very general statement, and if you have some questions about it, I'll do my best to answer them. These are generalizations. And generalizations are just that. Generalizations. Okay? The first word that I want to mention is the word establishment. And when we say establishment, think of a hierarchy of leadership that ultimately points to one individual And if we're talking about the Church of England, we're thinking about the Archbishop of Canterbury, if we're talking about Roman Catholicism, we're thinking about the Pope, if we're talking about Eastern Orthodoxy, they have their own version of the Pope. So in those groups, you have this hierarchy of leadership, and those people who are ultimately determining the direction of that body are not at the grassroots level. They are in that hierarchy structure. We as Baptists don't believe in that. So we don't have a Baptist Pope. We don't have Baptist bishops to oversee regions or sections. If something goes bad in another Baptist church in our community, we might pray for them, we might feel bad about the situation, but it really affects us in no way at all. It really doesn't. Okay, apart from maybe some people wanting to come here, and then we gotta work through all those kinds of uh complications there Or maybe you have a person who gets disciplined out of another independent Baptist church and now they want to come and be a part of this church where we have to actually work through that with that other church so that he addresses that particular issue. But when we talk about the Anglican Episcopalian format, basically you have this structure that determines church doctrine and church precedent. And in the Episcopal Church in the United States, believe it or not, all of their church buildings and their lands were owned by the American diocese. So when there was a huge controversy about gay marriage in the Episcopal Church, and there were churches within that system that said we do not support the American Episcopal churches position. We want to become independent. You know what happened to those folks? They got sued They lost their land, they lost their buildings. There's a lot of them actually suffered, believe it or not, and some of them went and joined themselves to the Anglican church, believe it or not, in Africa the African Anglican Church because it was much more conservative than the British Anglican and obviously much more conservative Then the American Episcopalian. But the idea is that there is an establishment, there's a hierarchy of bishops who oversee a group of people Within a highly structured denomination. And we can use the term Anglican, Episcopalian, Catholic, Eastern Orthodox when we talk about this I didn't realize this until I got to friends with some uh Mennonites in Ghana, but uh actually the Mennonite churches in the United States also form a uh we could say they follow an Anglican type of a structure, believe it or not. So they have bishops who oversee a region of churches, and it's not going to be as structured or as large as those denominations. Like the Episcopal Church, the Anglican Church, uh, and the Catholic Church, but they do have that structure of church government. Any question about that The second is Presbyterian. And when we use the term Presbyterian, think denomination, a synod of elders, pastors form a body that provides policies that govern a group of On paper, like -minded churches in a denomination. These churches tend to be run by a group of elders who rule by consent. of a for uh consent or affirmation of the congregation. So what'll happen a lot of times in a church like that is you have the structure of the denomination And the structure of the denomination becomes a local structure as well. So the pastor of the church, the guy who preaches the word on a regular basis Wilt really he the authority of the church? He will be maybe one member of a board of elders They'll call them a presbytery or something like that. And basically those men are going to make the decisions for the church. They will inform the church and then the church kind of consents to their decision making, or the church kind of affirms their decision making. And I will say that in some Baptist churches we have kind of a form of that. It's Not exactly Presbyterian church government, but it's it's kind of similar. And in a Bible church, you have a lot of times the exact same kind of situation. Just because you have multiple pastors working together does not necessarily mean that they're Presbyterian in church government, but a lot of times it does. Okay? So it really depends on the church. And you have to kind of know how they make decisions as a church. You have to know how much authority the pastor has how those individuals who call themselves pastors or elders function in that church. And then that's when you start finding out if it's really more of a Presbyterian style of church government or not. But there are a lot of hybrid Situations. Okay. Do you have a question over here? Do they not have an obligation code? Or do they just like depends on the congregation So a lot it depends on the congregation. So a lot of times what will happen is that that board, and by the way, in a Baptist church sometimes they call them a deacon board. And the deacon boards almost do the exact same thing. Okay? Or they'll call it an elder board. Or they'll call it a board of trustees. There's different ways that it can be described, but even in Baptist churches, sometimes it ultimately becomes a Presbyterian form of government. But in some situations the congregation pretty much doesn't make almost any decision. And in some the the congregation kind of consents or affirms what is going on. And um it can get to a place where a congregation doesn't care. They just, you know, those guys make the decisions. As long as nothing outrageous, we don't really care. And we just kind of, okay, fine, we're good with that. And that's what happens sometimes. So if there's a church discipline, it'll be those individuals, the the elders the the presbytery, the the deacon board, they will be the ones who ultimately handle the church discipline matter as opposed to the congregation being involved. And it's a much cleaner form of church government, not necessarily biblical, but it's cleaner in the sense that you're not going to get as large a group of people discussing a matter, those guys can do it. It also has a real potential to be um very corrupt as well Okay? And when you have when you have a group like a Presbyterian denomination or any other denomination, if the denomination goes bad, theologically, it affects all the congregations in that denomination. If an independent, self-governing church goes theologically south, guess what? It affects them And it doesn't it doesn't end up affecting those other churches. So you can see how the problems get isolated when you have independent churches. Yes. How does that fit acknowledged that the other thing is? Well, sometimes sometimes those are not denominations. You know, Southern Baptist is not a denomination. But there's a it's a cooperative on an issue like missions. So Southern Baptist churches that are in cooperation on missions will give to the, I think it's International Baptist Mission IMB or IBM. I don't remember the exact way it's worded. And so they will make decisions about who they support, how they bring in missionaries. And so there's not really accountability through a local church, it's accountability through that institution. But generally those churches are independent much more than a denomination. So sometimes you have hybrid situations. If you ask Southern Baptists, are you a part of a denomination? Some would say yes and some would say no, and it would depend on how they look at their relationship to other Southern Baptist churches. And they could get kicked out if they become theologically too extreme for that that group, but they they are much more closely connected than independent Baptists who fellowship with with each other on a casual basis, much more connected and it has a lot more influence on the congregation. But they don't own the land, they don't have a hierarchy of bishops and that kind of a thing. Theological definition or well there yeah, there are definitely gonna be debates, theological debates that uh pastors of those individual congregations will go and they'll put in their opinion And it could it could influence how congregations uh move directionally, sure. But fellowships can do that too. They won't necessarily rule, but by pressure. Because of those close associations, it can begin to affect a fellowship um theologically. Yeah. I I have a question. find out where the greater it's yeah. Because we're talking about an interesting area of method modism governance. Yeah. And my my belief is that the most efficient Yeah. Absolutely that's true. And that's the way it was throughout most of human history. At one point we have apostles and and that was 5151. I mean they were Episcopalian, that's where I'm trying to go. Is that the best one with Episcopalian? Yeah, is that the best one with have a bodily possible that's your head, isn't that the most efficient? Or are you saying that competition is the most efficient with the head I don't believe that congregational rule is the most efficient. That doesn't mean that it's wrong. Okay. Really the reason that we have congregationally run churches It's because when we look at these particular situations where we as a church have a responsibility to make a judgment, that judgment is not just put on the authority of a pastor or deacons or pastors and deacons. It's given to the congregation. And the reason that God did that is because of this issue of the priesthood of the believer And and so when we have this Episcopalian form of government, or even when we have the Presbyterian form of government There is a tendency for it to stay a lot there to be a lot more continuity theologically over a period of time. I mean, Presbyterian churches, a lot of them have maintained their doctrinal Position for hundreds of years. Okay. There are Baptist churches that 20 or 30 years after their founding essentially disappear, or they become so different than what they were initially. So you have, you know, a church, a Baptist church can change a lot over the course of a few generations. Whereas when you have that other form of government, it can maybe keep that continuity. And that'll be the argument that folks will make for Presbyterian or Episcopalian form of government is they'll say, well, you know, we have an authority structure. So if a church is going back We can get rid of that guy who's leading that church astray. We can get the right guy in there and we can keep the soundness there. Okay, pragmatically maybe that works. But on the other side, what happens when the denomination goes theological? Now all those congregations, boom, just like that, they're affected. Either they're trying to buy their land from an apostate denomination who is doing something evil or or they just they they they pull those kinds of things happen. So you know the question we have to ask is not is it pragmatically most effective, but is it is it biblical? And and that's really when we come to congregational church business, I mean it is potentially much more volatile and much more difficult to work through. And that's why we are so cautious about having a saved membership. That's why we have to practice church discipline So on the grassroots, we have to be much more cautious about how we function as a church as opposed to a denominational church where Church membership's a really loose thing. They don't practice church discipline in many, many of these churches because the congregation essentially comes, they hear the preaching, the teaching, they sing their song. And they go home and they let those other guys who are the theological gurus handle all the debates and they don't worry about it. Again, generalization, but yes. The vicious thing may not be broader , but the word patriots. And viciously cost Well, you know, you use the term benevolent dictatorship. What about when you have a non-blood benevolent dictator? A strong arm. He gets the job done. And The job's not good. It's you know, at the expense of every well, even when we had our uh our brother who's in China in Sunday school talking about The the dictatorship and stuff and heat. He mentioned you can get things done, but property rights are completely ignored and people's well-being for the sake of the of everybody, we're willing to crush some people to get the job done. And that's, you know, efficiency, yeah, but at at an expense. Okay, then when we talk about congregational, the word fellowship I think is the word that we want to use. And Well let's just be honest. We we can fellowship with people in varying degrees. I mean, there are some people that you're very close to. And if you have a problem, you will go to them and you'll pour out your heart to them. And they can be very respectful of that and they can help you and encourage you. There are other people that you you say hi to them. You might have them to your house for a meal, but you'd never do that. So, you know, there are degrees of fellowship. And the whole point is that as a self-governing body we as a congregation determine how close we align ourselves with other churches based on how much in agreement we are. And so we can be in in casual fellowship with the congregation. That is essentially like faith and practice, but there's a limit to that. And then we have another congregation that we are closer on paper, practically speaking, and so the amount of cooperation we have is is is a bit more. So there's no authority structure higher than the local church, meaning that the congregation governs itself under the leadership of pastors or a team of men who are, obviously there's a chain of command there, who are providing the leadership for the church And what I want us to do is knowing that there are these three basic forms of church government, I want us to look at the practical situations that we as the church are responsible to address And I want you to ask the question, does this lend itself towards Anglican, Presbyterian, or Congregational? Okay, that's kind of what's on the table. So let's begin with the issue of arbitration. This may be as far as we get to, I don't know. But um but let's look at arbitration. When I use the term arbitration, what comes to mind? And turn with me to Matthew eighteen and we'll look at verses fifteen to seventeen. I hope you're very much aware of Matthew 18. Yes. What is what is arbitration? That's what I'm asking. I'm asking everybody here, what is the word arbitration? Settling a dispute. Settling a dispute. Very good. So there's a conflict between people groups, whatever, and we gotta settle that dispute. You it's well having a separate person you trust is the main Yeah. Somebody's got to come in and help you and settle your dispute because you can't do it yourselves. Okay? Yes. Huh? It usually refers to an apartment in all the time. Ooh, very good, really. Our our resident legal mind here. Kind of. Yes. uh car accident and two insurance companies didn't agree so there was a compreciate work came in and switched. Yeah. Oh Billy said that he don't have the binding legal authority consent to submit to the or when you're when you're dealing with a legal issue a judge says this is pop, this is what happens and you gotta do it. But when you're arbitrating a matter, you have people who are they're gonna come down humbly And they're going to resolve that matter uh if if you want to use this illustration with shaking the hand and saying, this is our this is our word binds us on this particular matter So Matthew chapter 18. And uh can somebody pick up in verse fifteen to seventeen? Um obviously we we're very much aware of this passage, but let's let's hear it read and then let's talk about some of the details. Matthew 18, verse 15. Moreover, the rubber shall turn up against thee, though it's an angle as well, be thee and in the lung. If he shall hear thee, shall have So she will not fear thee, and eight with thee one or two more, and in the mouth of the two or three, which is every word will be established. And he shall be glad to hear them, tell them to the church, but be glad to hear the church, and it be unto thee as even in an uncle. Okay, let's let's kind of walk through this passage. This is arbitration and we like to use the term church discipline. I I want to just kind of put this out there. When we use the term church discipline, don't think that church discipline is meant to be a weapon The purpose of it is not to get even with a person who's out of line. The purpose is restoring people to a right position with one another. and with the local church. And God's plan is that when we have conflicts, we deal with them one-on-one. God's desire is that we never have to bring in other people. It's that we resolve that issue one-on-one. But there comes a point where you gotta go beyond the one-on-one because Well, sometimes we're the one who's stubborn. Sometimes they're the one who's stubborn. But we have to get that. So let's look at some of the details. Verse 15. If thy brother shall trespass against thee, first of all, when he uses the term brother He's talking about somebody who is a believer. They're part of the congregation. This is not talking about how to resolve a dispute with somebody who's not a part of the church. It's not how to resolve a dispute with somebody who's not a part of this church. Okay. This is meant to address if I have a problem with you or you have a problem with me or two people in our church have a problem, they go to each other. Not saying that we couldn't practically apply this in the world outside, but there is a limit. To what you can do here if this person is not a part of your local church. And so that's something that we have to keep in mind. Secondly, we have this: if your brother trespasses against you. So who is responsible in this situation to initiate that conversation? The offended person. The offended person Now this is what we do. They did me wrong, they come to me. I will not, under any circumstance, go to them. That's exactly what it says not to do. Okay? Sometimes people don't even know they've offended you. It's very common that we do something that really bothers a person, we're not even aware of it. Now, if I've offended somebody and I know it, I should go to them to resolve that matter. But I guess you could make an argument that really both people have a responsibility, but in this passage The emphasis is on the person who's benefended, not the one who offended. Yes. What if your wife calls the one who offended some God? Ask your wife what she wants you to do. Oh boy. That can never happen, I'm sure. Yes. And if you don't know or they don't know that they offended you, how would you go about that? Okay, so if you've offended somebody, you don't know it. They're responsible to come to you and they don't. Then it's on them. It's totally on them. But you know what's gonna happen. If they're offended and they don't want to tell you, they'll tell somebody else. And then the person that they tell to tell them, you need to go to them. Do you get what's going on here? So there's always this situation initially may not really work themselves out, but there will be a point where nobody who's offended completely keeps a cap on them. It just doesn't happen. They will eventually say to somebody, can you believe they did such and such? And that person should say, well, you know what? You need to do one of two things. Either one it's very insignificant, you need to let it go and not think about it again. Or it's significant enough that you need to go to them and you need to let them know what happened. And by the way, that's not easy at all. But that's the biblical thing to do, and that's how we resolve conflicts. And if we would do this , we'd have a lot less conflict. We wouldn't eliminate conflict because we're all sinners, but we would resolve conflicts before they became arbitration issues. So continuing on. Go and tell him it's fault between thee and him alone. Now, I I experienced this when we were in Ghana. Somebody would have been offended, and so they would come to me and say, I wanted to have a church meeting to discuss a matter. The genius that I am didn't realize the first time this happened didn't realize what they were doing. So they called a church meeting, okay? Now of course like at the time it's like 10 P They didn't like it's a hundred people, but still. So you wanted to discuss something. Yeah, then they stand up and they basically blast somebody that's sitting right here in front of everybody Or they tell this like parable, and everybody in the place knows who the person is in the parable. And I was like, whoa, stop here guys, we can't do this. This is an important detail. Go to them alone. When there's a conflict, God's word tells us keep it isolated. And we do the opposite. We go to everybody but the person that actually can resolve the issue. Because we, you know, we don't want the conflict, but we want to kind of like Put a balm on our wounds. We want people to oh that's right, they were so mean to you. How could they do that to you? You know, we want that because this you know that's that's human nature So he says, go to them alone, and if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother. So that issue that had the potential to disrupt lots of people is totally isolated. It's between two people. I mean that's what God wants. He wants us to resolve those things in that kind of a way But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. So you don't go and get some people, tell them your you know complaint, and then bring them to sort of like go after this guy. And so the three of you kind of like boom, boom, boom, you know, hit them hard by now. That's not the point. The point is that you went to them in a godly way to try to resolve the dispute, an issue. They will not hear you. They will not listen. And so you bring other people to do what? To pressure them? No, it's to establish what's said. Those people are not going to be as biased as you are and as they are. They can establish what actually is taking place in this discussion, and they can actually act as mediators. And so, again, this is pretty isolated. You know, if you got 100 or 200 people, this is involving two, three, four, no, four people. It's pretty isolated. It should stay that way and it should resolve. But what does Christ say? Sometimes that doesn't work. Sometimes you have to go to the next step. He then goes on to say this. Verse 17: if he shall neglect to hear them Tell it unto the church. Now notice he doesn't say you all. He says them. When you take somebody to another person to resolve a dispute They are the ones who are supposed to be handling it at that point. In other words, they're not like your boys come in to fight for you. They're handling the issue. You get what I'm saying? Because they're unbiased, hopefully. They're godly, hopefully. They're handling it responsibly, hopefully. If that person refuses to listen to those individuals , Then what is the course of action? He says, tell it unto the church. Now this is important. He doesn't say tell it to the pastor, or tell it to the deacons. He said tell it to the church. When we talk about church discipline, it actually involves the entire congregation. And I remember the first time we addressed an issue we were in Ghana like that, we went through that thing, and I r I just kind of remember when we took this to our church congregation, I was like, how are the people gonna respond to what we have on the table. And I was amazed at the love they had for this individual, the desire that they had to see this person who was very clearly wrong on so many levels They wanted to see this person restored and be right. And they handled it really well. And you know if if a congregation is godly and healthy, when you come to that issue that the congregation is informed of what's going on They're going to respond well. And then he says this, let him be, if he neglects to hear the church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man in a public man. He's talking about the entire congregation at that point. Now notice something. He doesn't say take it to the pastor, he doesn't say take it to the deacons. He doesn't say take it to the uh the presbytery that's over your congregation. He says take him to the church. Let him be to the church. And essentially saying view him as an unbeliever. It doesn't mean that he is. He may or may not be, but you have to view him that way. Great example of self-government here. It's kept extremely contained. One-on-one, four or five people, a congregation. It doesn't go beyond that. So arbitration, we'll stop