Okay, well good morning. I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 Samuel chapter 16. 1 Samuel chapter 16. And we'll begin with a word of prayer. And then we'll get started with our lesson. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to study the Bible this morning. Help us to have clarity in our minds. Help us to be able to focus our attention on this text of Scripture and the various other passages that we'll look at. Father, help us to be very cautious with how we judge people and circumstances. And help us to be reminded by this passage. that the way that you judge is according to complete knowledge and according to your perfect wisdom. And we need to be cautious recognizing we haven't either And I pray that it would be a very insightful time, encouraging and helpful to each of us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. 1 Samuel chapter 16, and we're going to look at verses 1 to 13 today, but what I would like to do is first of all start in 1 Timothy 5, verse 21. 1 Timothy 5, 21. And I will say this is a new quarter, and a lot of this quarter is going to have missionaries. So I'm going to be teaching about, I don't know, six, seven weeks And the rest of the time we're going to have missionaries in here doing question-answer time. And so really looking forward to that. I want to encourage you, please do come. uh to Sunday school every time, but especially when we have missionaries in, because it's a great way for you to learn about their individual works that they're involved in. learn a little bit about their story, some of the insights that they've gleaned. It is an excellent, excellent time. And so I really, really encourage you to come and to be a part of that And then after October, we don't have any missionary scheduled the rest of the year, but during that time period it will be just about every week. So just giving you that little forewarning and encouragement to be out 1 Timothy 5, verse 21. I want to read this and comment on it because I think it's a great introduction to the discussion and study we'll have this morning. First Timothy five twenty-one. I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ and the elect angels that thou observe these things without preferring one another. Doing nothing by partiality. Let me pause and ask, does anybody know what he's telling him to do without partiality? Whether it be intellect, whether it be looks, he's saying, you know, um don't show favor just because it could have been money as well. So don't put a position put a person in position just Okay. In the context though, what is Timothy doing that he needs to do impartially? Does anybody know? Okay, he's appointing deacons and elders in in uh in Ephesus. So Ephesus was an established church, been around beyond ten years, and at the time that Paul sends Timothy back to Ephesus, it's a very troubled church. There are people in leadership who should not be in leadership, and there are people that were not in leadership that should have been in leadership. And Timothy had the unfortunate task. of going and setting that straight. I don't think anybody in this room would have wanted that job, but that is The job that he was given. And so he says, I'm charging you before God and before the angels. To not show preference and partiality at all. In other words, if there's a person that needs to step down from leadership And they've got a lot of money, doesn't matter. You need to remove them from leadership. If there's a person that has got a you know very notable personality or maybe there's uh some issue going on and you don't really want to touch that. You have to address it and So he's telling him, Don't show partiality at all. Continuing, lay hands suddenly on no man Neither be partakers of other men's sins, keep thyself pure. When he says lay hands suddenly on no man, he's not suggesting uh Be be restrained before you punch somebody. That's not what he's saying, okay? He's talking about uh a practice of laying hands on somebody where there's an appointment officially to an office. He's talking about ordination He also says, drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sake and thine off infirmities. It could be a very interesting discussion there. Especially the Baptist church, right? Um, but bottom line is that he was under incredible pressure and he was actually gonna need uh some medicinal use of alcohol to be very blunt. Okay the way you'd use uh something like NyQuil Um some similarities there. Not exactly, but some s he's not he's not saying drown your sorrows and your pressures with a bottle, okay? It's not he's saying a little okay. And it's uh it's a medicinal situation, but Anyway, that's a side note. I think it's to kind of give you a little bit of an understanding of how much pressure this uh young man was under. Then he goes on. Some men's sins are open beforehand Going before the judgment. Some men they follow after. Likewise also the good works of some are manifested beforehand. And they that are otherwise cannot be hit. Basically, what he's telling Timothy in this situation is that before you appoint somebody to the office of pastor, elder, bishop or to the elb uh the office of deacon. You need to be very slow in your observation of that person There's some people that have big time problems and you don't notice it right away. And so rather than appointing them quickly to office You gotta wait a little bit so that you can make sure that this is a person who really does meet the kind of spiritual qualities that are in the people that you put in these offices. And then he also goes on the other hand and he says, There are some people who you would actually overlook Who you shouldn't overlook. And the fact is these are very godly, stable people. They're servants. They should be in that position, that office. But because they don't have a prominent personality or anything like that, you pass over them. And so he really is looking at it both on the negative and on the positive side. Some people we rush to put them in leadership and they should not be there. Others we pass over them over and over and over again. They should be in that position And so the reason that I start here is because he's illustrating this point. Be slow to make a judgment about someone who you're seeking to put in a position of leadership. Why should we be slow? And when I mean slow, I don't mean like so slow that we don't do anything, okay? But we don't just do this quickly. Oh we have a need. Let's put somebody there. We don't know them at all. We haven't seen their character tested on any level. Why slow? Yes, that's very true. No leadership's a bad thing, bad leadership works. Okay. Yeah, bad leadership is very, very destructive to a group of people I think this is his point. His point is this: what you can know is limited. And the longer you observe, the more you begin to recognize how things actually are. I can tell you personally, it's been very difficult to establish discipline in this area where I don't rush to make a judgment about a situation. That's me. Maybe you guys are better than that. I don't know. But today we're going to look at this concept of being cautious how we judge people in circumstances You've got some tongue coming out of Stuart. Could you turn something back? Uh I could try that. Turn your ear. My ears are half full anyway. It's well it's it's probably got uh you can still hear it a little bit. It probably needs to be grounded actually. But that's yeah. We all need to get grounded. That's that's true. What can I say? Alright, 1 Samuel 16. I'm not gonna read the entire section right now. I'm just gonna look at verses six to 13 because this is really the heart of the passage. But let me kind of get you up to speed on what's going on. We've been talking about 1 Samuel 15. Saul being rejected by God as the king. And the reason he's rejected is because of his disobedience, his rebellion, his stubbornness. At the end of that section, Samuel basically tells Saul, God is going to replace you. And your replacement is somebody who's going to be different than you. He's going to have a heart after God, you don't. Pretty tough right there. Bottom line, he has a heart for God, you don't. He's not saying this man is perfect. He's not saying that this man won't stumble and make bad choices. He's not saying this man will never abuse his power. He's simply saying his heart is focused toward God. Yours is not. And so I'm going to replace you So in chapter 16, basically what we're seeing is God following through with what he said he was going to do. And so I'm going to pick up in verse 1. It says this. The Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? And Saul, Samuel genuinely loved Saul. He was not happy that Saul was being removed from his office. Yes, he understood what God had said. He understood that it was necessary. But it it hurt. It was hard for him to see them. He says, Fill thine horn with oil and go, and I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided me a king among his sons. And Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul hear it, he will kill me. He's like, I can't do this. He knows that that you're going to replace him. And when I announce that I'm going to this particular town, then people are going to assume he's going to set up the next king, because that's what he's doing. So the Lord says, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I'm come to sacrifice to the Lord. Call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do, and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom the name uh whom I name unto thee. So it's very interesting. Uh obviously the the primary purpose for going to this town was not to sacrifice. That was a secondary purpose, and it was a purpose that God provided so that Samuel could go without being exposed by Saul. He didn't give him all of the story, and it wasn't necessary for him to know it. Interesting enough there. And Saul did that which the Lord spake and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the town trembled at his coming. They're like, whoa, we're a small town. What are you doing here? We're in trouble. And he's like, don't worry. I have come peaceably. He said peaceably, I'm come to sacrifice unto the Lord. Sanctify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons and called them to the sacrifice Now this is really where I'd like to focus our attention. Verse number six. And it came to pass that when they were come, he looked unto Eliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. Why did he think that? He's the firstborn? The firstborn was going to get a double portion of his father's inheritance. He was going to be the responsible one. You had to take care of, manage all the properties. He was a sharp-looking man. He seemed like he had things together. His initial reaction was, this is the guy. This is going to be a short visit. Wrong. The Lord said unto Samuel, look not on his countenance. Or on the height of his stature, because I have refused him. The Lord seeth, not as man seeth, for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. Now this is a verse that's used in a lot of different ways. I totally understand that. In this context, it's very simple. This is a guy who looks like he has it all together, but God knows what's inside of his heart. And God basically telling Samuel, don't judge based on what you see. I judge by what I know. That's the complete knowledge of this person's character And he's not necessarily saying that this is an evil guy. He's not the kind of person I want to put in that position. I've refused him. I've rejected him. Yes. The confusing thing about that verse though is That's all we can do is remote out of hands. So that's the only tool we have on the asking with prayer and refined Yeah. And as we get into our lesson, what we will see is there are certain things that we can look at that help us to make a good judgment. But those are things that have to be looked at kind of over a period of time. So the way somebody looks outwardly the moment I see them, there's really no way to know that person's character. A person can look, you know, very imposing and they seem like they have everything together and they're a a complete wreck and you don't know that. You can have another person that doesn't seem to carry themselves very well. They seem very timid and shy, yet they have tremendous character and when they're put in certain situations, the way they rise up and handle that situation, it would it would shock you. That would shock you. And so that's really his point is, you know, your initial judgment wasn't really Correct. And Saul or Samuel was a very godly person. It's not like we're not looking at some like shallow guy who just, you know, lives life Very careless. He's not like that. This is an older man, so he's got a lot of experience. He's walked with the Lord. He's an insightful person. Yet he makes a very quick judgment. Anybody can do this. Doesn't matter how long you've been around, how much you've learned in life, you can make a quick judgment. And I'd even say that sometimes we put ourselves in a position over time where we are more likely to make a quick judgment because we rely on that experience too much. And just uh my own thought there. And Jesse called Abinadab and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this. And Jesse made Shaman to pass by, and he said, Neither hath the Lord chosen this. Again, Jesse made seven of his sons fast before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, The Lord hath not chosen these. Well, seems like it's not working out for Samuel, doesn't it? Well, what we see is that the father of David didn't even think to call David. So it kind of tells you how he perceived his son I mean, he knows he's got a good son. He knows that his son is very trustworthy and dependable. He's watching the sheep. But he doesn't even think to call him. And that says a lot. Samuel says unto Jesse , Are here all thy children? He said, There remaineth yet the youngest. Behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, send and fetch him. We will not sit down till he come hither. And he said he brought him in, and he was ruddy, and with all of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look at. And the Lord said, Arise and anoint him, for this is he. Now, David wasn't some sloppy-looking teenager. He was a sharp kid, but He was a kid, alright? He's probably fifteen years old. He's a young man, and uh that's the one. So Samuel takes the horn of wool and anointed him in the midst of his brethren, and the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up and went to Ramah. So I'm going to ask two questions as we get into this lesson. Question one: What was the main purpose for including these details? Alright? Let me ask anybody who wanna throw out a venture. I mean when we're studying the Old Testament, one of the things we need to realize is that every single example that is recorded for us is there for a purpose And the purpose is not like a character lesson, so now we know, you know, David is a hero of the faith, I gotta be like David. You should be like David some days and you should not be like David on other days, okay? He was a flawed man on many, many levels. Why this story? Why these details? What is God trying to communicate in 1 Samuel? Anybody want to throw something out there? Yes. David was kind of a blind strike. Not that much experience getting the following, but it was being The Lord wanted to show what he could do as his spirit came upon the young man. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. So, you know, God is God is giving the story of Israel's history And he's really contrasting the way that the two kings, the first two kings, were were established. One was the choice of the people, and the other one was the one that the people overlooked. Yes. I was just gonna say this is ironic with the link that was full of items that you s could look at is good looking. It's good looking. Well we're gonna find out more about it. The scriptures say that this is what he looks like. Yeah. It is interesting. That's the only that's the only T we're given. Yeah, that's that's a good point. Yes. Uh I think we have a question to you though, is that So in the way that happened was not just suddenly Yeah. So then it is a tune to knowing everyone So I was thinking maybe that's an example for that wasn't agreeable. Well, and God is establishing his ultimate sovereignty over a nation. And so, you know , Samuel is is acting on God's behalf. He's sort of the go-between between God and the people. And it's very clear that God is the one choosing this man out. And very important detail. Yes, Rachel. throwing out something might get an idea, but you know how most it and see down from that I think so shiny. But then it has to be something that's the whole side would have um Yeah, it's not like oh David was like a beautiful trap, but something about like the glory of God or just throw it out. Well, when it says he was ready I mean he he had a reddish complexion. Um that uh that would be part of it. Um but I will say this, we know that David was a man whose countenance, especially in his youth before he became a hardened, seasoned soldier. But even after, he still uh had a joy and a love for the Lord. And one of the things about David, David was a a high energy, very passionate person When he was high, he was high. When he was low, he was low. I mean, that was his personality And when he was glorying in the Lord, you couldn't pull him down from the mountain. I mean, that's how he was. And I'm sure he radiated that very much so. Uh but when he was down, he You know, to say he was depressed, he was um severely depressed at times in his life And sometimes it was circumstantial, sometimes it was I think his personality, sometimes it was his sin. But Uh yeah David David's an an amazing person and the truth is that sometimes we can relate very very well to David. That's why people love studying his life. I'm kind of struck by the fact Samuel was very in tune with God. It was very well studied, was very wise, and yet had he relied on his own understanding and his own wisdom which we would think was probably pretty good, he would make the wrong choice. And he would stop to listen and actually listen to what God had for him and then you know kind of seek God's will in that decision, he would make completely the wrong choice. Yeah. That's a great great observation right there. I think once we know the Bible, we know We're supposed to do and stuff like that, but still we don't talk on anything for God's voice and what He's telling us to do and if we're gonna make the wrong decision, even if it is that it's not what we A person can have a lot of maturity and uh can still make snap decisions that are very, very unwise And you know it's we never reach a point where we are past meaning God's direction, never. So yeah. Um just as you want the main purpose including details, I would also think that It's not a quick crypt. It's not that he wasn't the first choice or the second choice or the third choice. He had to go through something eight, you know, before it was And could it be that God was making a point to him? And not just to him, but to everybody who reads this afterwards. You know, God's God's way of doing things is not often the quickest, right? That's why we get frustrated with being telling me well this is this is on me, so this is on you. Yeah, he didn't he didn't didn't move quickly there. Did you have one? Yeah. Well well uh another thing is that he has gone through a selection of salt. And so Samuel had seen God's work and how he selected Saul. Now he's coming to to take another king. He can be going by that experience. You know, that's how we make judgments ourselves based upon our past experience of what we know and our limited knowledge. And here's Samuel yes, like you said, maybe snapped catching, well, no, it's reasonable. This is what God did right now. This guy pitched the hole too Yeah, I'm I'm certainly not I'm not suggesting that Samuel's like really out in left field here, you know. Um but yeah you could say that his intuition was this guy looks like a good choice right here. You know, his his his intuition. And our intuition can be right or wrong, but you know, it just it can be. Time will tell. Several problems fall into line here. Lean not of your own understanding. Wisdom, knowledge, and uh Yeah. Samuel may uh overlook because well I mean he he's under death right now. Now let's let's keep in mind there were no proverbs at the time that Samuel's doing this, but yeah, we'll get it. But also Samuel wants this to happen quick because he doesn't want Saul to know what the real reason is he is here. Warriors. That's a good point. He wanted to get in and out of town. The one in the radar there. Okay, well let's these are great thoughts. Let's um let's move into this section. Question two, uh what do we need to do in light of the purpose of this text? And We'll answer that as we get into this. And this will this will be a two-parter, I think, today, uh, because of some of our discussion. And that's good. I like that Alright, part one. Let's look at this concept of a godly perspective or how a godly person makes judgment. This is really important and it's super practical. So the first point is this. Man's judgment is limited. And often wrong. We've got to be willing to admit when I make a choice, I don't have all the details. Now I have the details that God and His wisdom allowed me to have. In fact, I'll even I'll I'll put it like this way. Their decisions that I've made in my past that all the facts that I had at the time led me to make that decision. And later on I learned there were facts that had I known them, I would not have made that decision However, God in his wisdom allowed me to do that and he used it. That's a really interesting point right there In other words, God used it to maybe put me in a place or give me an opportunity that if I'd have known some other things, I wouldn't have taken that. But that's what we that's what he had for me. And I learned lessons Through that decision-making process that, you know, as a little bit older person, I look back at another decision, I go, okay, here's a question I wouldn't ask when I was 22 And I'm gonna ask it today. You know? So it's not negating that God used that past thing, but I learned something from it. But this point is important. Man's judgment, my judgment, it's limited and it's often wrong. And that keeps us in a humble position. We need to be very humble when it comes to making judgments. 1 Samuel 9, he says this. It's just a rehearsal of what took place under Saul's being established. There was a man of Benjamin, his name was Kish. The son of Abel, the son of Zor, the son of Bekorath, the son of Iphiah of Benjamite, a mighty man of power. He had a son whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and goodly. There was none among the children of Israel a goodlier person than him. From his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people. You know, when they chose Saul to be the king, the people were like, this is the greatest guy. I mean, if If we could have a poster and say this guy's our representative, we feel really good about him being the representative of the people. He's got it all together. But what do we find out? He didn't. He didn't. He had severe character flaws. Or there were severe character flaws that developed over the course of his time as a king. Two, 1 Samuel 12, 13 Behold, the king whom you've chosen, whom you have desired, behold, the Lord hath set a king over you. Samuel was emphasizing that Saul was the people's choice. And God gave them what he knew they wanted. Then we come back to this passage, 1 Samuel 16, and what do we see? Saul or Samuel's in a similar place to where he was many years before. And he's ready to make a choice based on human intuition and based upon what he sees. And God says, there's more here than what you can see You judge on the outward appearance, but I know the heart of this person. So I'm rejecting him, and I'm gonna let you go through seven people until you get the one that I'm gonna say that's the guy. And he still looks like a Fine young man, but well he's a kid. But that's who I've chosen. The point is that our wisdom has limits. Truth number two. The scriptures warn us To be very careful. Let me get this here. The scriptures warn us to be very careful about the way that we make judgments. And some of these things were kind of alluded to, but I want us to look at some of these passages one at a time. First passage that I want you to turn to is Proverbs 18, verse 13. Now Let's just remember that it was David's son who wrote this, so these verses were not in the scriptures when Samuel was making that judgment. However, the sense most certainly was a part of part of their culture. And so when Solomon's writing these proverbs down, uh he's not inventing these proverbs. These are proverbs that uh were being spread throughout The people, uh, with a godly worldview, and then the spirit of God through. Solomon writes these things down Proverbs 18, 13. He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is a folly and a shame unto him Don't judge a matter till you've heard it. And when I say you've heard it, till you've heard enough to be able to really make a decision about it. So how many times? I deal with these things all the time with with small children. So one kid slugs the other kid. Daddy, Caleb hit me. That's bad. It's very bad. You hit her. Alright? So, pull in Caleb. Did you hit your sister? Yes. I go off on Caleb and what I don't find didn't didn't realize until later on is that Caleb put a blanket over him and she's like Pounding on him and he's fighting back to defend himself. Now that's not an actual situation. Just uh you know hypothetical right there. But but how many times, how many times Is that the way it is in life? The first person you talk to, their presentation of the situation is simply their perspective. It's only part of the story. They leave out very important details that would implicate them. And if you knew those details, you would not have the same degree of compassion on them that you have when you initially hear the story. And so when you're looking at a situation and you have to make a judgment, you've got to get all the facts so that you make that judgment well. We we have so many sadly opportunities to do these kinds of things. Yes. Another place that this void this verse pans out in our world today, when you hear a politician speak That's one thing, but you really have to understand what he means. You know, hearing a pull matter, but when they say that, what do they mean? Yeah. And that that that flowed over into the news and everything else. So it's not just what they said, but what what's the rest of the story? What who was under time to get in So, you know, it's it's it's a it's a common thing that happens. You you read a headline in a newspaper And on page three of the article, which nobody's reading to, you find out that that headline is a little bit, you know, not exactly the way it really is And buried in the story is the truth. And the the fact is that when we make a judgment without knowing the facts, he he makes this point. It's folly, it's shame. And I boy I've had situations where I called a shot and once I got the rest of the details, I had to go back and eat crow. It's true, and probably a lot of us in here have done the same. Yes. I've heard it said that you can say yes, no, or choose to do nothing. I think it's one of those But I think it's just time is just you can't wait for everyone to make the decision. Eventually it has to be yes or no. Yeah, and that's true. That's true. And and there's there's a reasonable body of detail that we need to make a good judgment about a matter We don't have to know every single nuance of of all details, but we gotta get the general storyline so we know what's going on there Uh here and here. Yeah, go ahead. Don't lift that hand now. And how how it's applied specifically to the World Old Renee as you talked about um is that the s the principle seems to be do do do your due diligence. Yes obviously you can't get all the facts and there are times where you know I've been in a situation where I've had to make a decision or talk about an issue that I didn't have all of the facts, but it's my responsibility to do what I did and then if I need to revise what was presented based on new information, it's okay to Yeah. So the other day I was I was looking up a quote that I thought would be very appropriate for a specific context I was dealing with. And it was uh a quote that's been um Supposedly Dietrich Bonhoeffer made the quote, and it was about silence and action, and if somebody chooses to be silent, then they've actually They've taken an action. So I wanted to see what book that was in, and as I did my research I found out that He didn't say it. I'm just saying I I read several articles uh dealing with the fact that he did not actually make that statement. It's been attributed to him. And maybe I'm wrong. I don't know. Okay But it made me pause and say, if I use this quote in this context, I better not say Dietrich von Hoffer stated Because there is no evidence that he did. And there are a lot of people that have used that particular quote and attributed it to him. People have studied his life and can't find the evidence they ever said it. Maybe he did. Private conversation. Who knows? It's possible. But I'm just simply stating that there are times that we say things and we don't really get the facts. Did did you have a one little thing that is you know, in my experience God never speaks right then and there when I'm trying when I'm hearing So you know you also have to draw back a little bit and give God time to talk, you know, and kind of guide you through some of these things. If you make a snap decision, you're not giving him the time to act. And and and you know, give you the wisdom the knowledge that you need to make direct this knowledge. Yeah, what I what I'll I'll say is that A lot of the decisions we make are uh they're they're they're fairly instinctive decisions, and what really shapes instinctive decisions is what is most readily in our minds. So you know when you're when you're playing sports you you you drill constantly, you know, you you drill that play over and over and over again. You drill that move over and over and over again you develop muscle memory and basically what happens is you go into the competition and you actually don't think through the process, you do it because it's been so instinctively Ingrained in you. And um if you're thinking through it in the competition, it's too late. It's how it goes. And and the the fact is that when God's word is something that we really do dig into and meditate on a regular basis, our judgments are are going to, we could say, instinctively be the kinds of things that they should be. It's also true that there are times that we get in positions where you really can't make that inst instinctive decision. It's a much more complex situation. And so what do you do? You have to step back. And you have to think about what does the scripture say about this issue? And what are the primary principles and concepts that really undergird this particular decision. And the Lord will help you. He will guide you. He will bring to your thoughts things to help you and that's that's why conversations with people that aren't emotionally attached it's very helpful. God uses them. So yeah we do have to take a step back sometimes and Because it's complex, because of our emotions, all those things, we need a little more time. Yes. Yeah and things Absolutely. It's just exercise and I don't think personally that's it's the hardest thing is medicine is the hardest thing. I've been crazy. I heard Axis strong. Yeah. Um we we do develop patterns. You know, it's unfortunate I've broken the habit of running by those fifteen days of nuts. No. They say if you do something a certain number of days in a row, you will actually begin to develop it as a as a habitual thing. And I'm sure that's true. No, a actually it is true. And the things that we habitually do, um And we and they are habitual because we don't even think about them anymore. They're repeated responses. They're repeated responses. And we want We want godly responses to be our reactionary response. That's what we want. It's very important. Okay, number two And this is a really important one. Question yourself before you make a judgment. Question yourself before you make a judgment. Matthew 7, 1 to 5. Let's read that together. This is one of the most well-known verses in the Bible. Judge not, lest ye be not judged. Okay? And um I want us to see that statement in context. Because actually what it does is it tells us how to judge, not not to judge. It's really interesting then. Matthew 7. 1. Judge not that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged Basically, what he's saying is, God holds you to the same standard you hold others to. Other people hold you to the same standard that you hold others to. So if you're uh a real aggressive, vindictive kind of a person and somebody's you know, and that's you people know that's your character, that's the way you handle things. And then somebody's coming after you, they're like, Good rubbish Let him let him go after you. You know? You can you can say what you want to say now you need to take it. I mean that's the way that people view that. And basically when he says that God holds us to the same standard that we hold others to, what he's really saying is that God judges our conscience. So if I'm holding you to a certain standard, that means I believe But I should do the same. That is what ultimately we are saying. My judgment is, you shouldn't do that. Therefore, I know I shouldn't do that So God is really holding us accountable to our own conscience. That's really what it's saying. Then he goes on with this: with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. So the extent or the degree to which you demand justice is the extent to which others will demand it of you. You know, the picture of a measuring and You put this much in there, that's what you're going to get back. Very simple. Then he goes, This: why beholdest thou the beam Excuse me, why beholdest thou the moat that is in your brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that's in thine own eye? Basically what he's saying is there is something that you see in another person. It's there, it's truly there, but it's a lot smaller than what you have yourself. Now, if you have a beam in your eye, how clearly can you see? Not very clearly. So that's something we need to consider. He goes, he says, Consider not the beam in thine own eye, or how wilt thou say to thy brother, let me pull out the moat that's in thine eye, and behold, the beam is in thine own eye, thou hypocrite first. Cast out the beam that's in thine own eye, and this is very important, then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote that's in thy brother's eye. Basically, what Jesus is saying is, your ability to help people begins with taking care of your own issues. Okay, so if I'm a bitter person and I will not deal with bitterness and you're a bitter person And it's very obvious that you're a bitter person, and I believe that I'm the one who's supposed to help you correct your bitterness. Because I won't deal with bitterness in my own heart, I will not be in a position to help you. It's that simple And actu it actually means that sin in our own lives that we harbor that we won't deal with, it clouds our judgment, it clouds our ability to be able to see clearly help people. And God wants us to be people who help one another He wants us. He wants us to grow together. He wants us to exhort one another. He wants us to be mutually accountable to one another So it's not that he doesn't want us to help each other. It's that he wants us to be positioned correctly to be able to help each other And and I I've seen this when I deal with interpersonal conflicts and I'm trying to help people resolve conflicts. I've seen this, I can't tell you how many times How many different cultures? I've seen this over and over and over again. You have a person that's in conflict with another person, and what they see in them is there. It's true. It's really there. It's legit But they are so harsh and they're wanting to be dealing with that person, and the reason is because they have the same problem. And many times, many times. It's even to a greater degree in them than the person they're so focused on. I have seen it. I've seen it repeatedly And I'm amazed how when a person who has tremendous conflict with somebody else is finally willing to address their own issue How they begin to have much more mercy and compassion on the other person. I have seen it repeatedly. Why is that? Because by removing The mode in your eye, the beam in your own eye, you now have a perspective that is different. And you're able to look at them uh in a much more balanced manner. Whenever you see imbalance and people are dealing with conflict and there's imbalance I'm not going to say 100% of the time, but it's very common that that imbalance is really rooted in the fact that that person who's imbalanced has the same problem and they won't address it. You see it in marriages, you see it friends who don't talk to each other anymore, family members who they will not, you know, they won't communicate anymore. It's like Christmas and Easter, I won't even talk to you. You're dead to me, I don't know you. I mean, that's the attitude that I I've seen many, many times. What is it that causes that? What causes it is you have the problem that they have, it's because you won't deal with yours, you can't deal with theirs And it's amazing. The first person to take the step to look inside is able to diffuse that situation in an unbelievable manner. I've seen it many times. Many, many times. Galatians 6:1, he says, brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, Restore such a one in the spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted He's basically saying you cannot help people resolve their issues if you're not in the right position yourself And so look inside, look internally, address your own issues. And and a lot of times, and this happens too. You see that issue, you look inside, you deal with it, and you go, you know what, I know they have a problem, but I'm really not the person to help them work through that. And you back off and you let somebody else address it. And that that's a great indication that that person really dealt with that issue personally themselves. Any questions or comments there? That's a real practice. Yeah. Oh make sure you get the right hand. Yeah. Um this really steps in and how we make ourselves available to support others and consider it in a certain Yeah. That's true. It's very, very true. Okay. I'm gonna hit two more under this and then I 'll stop here because of our time. Okay. Uh no next uh Consider your witnesses before you make a judgment. What do you think that means? Reliance. Exactly. Somebody brings this like terrible accusation against somebody and you're like, Huh, it's horrible. Then you stop and you go, I wonder if that person has a motive that could be a little bit shady here. Well you see in the modern media too, like some of the eyewitnesses they get, you're like, really? Like did you find the youngest person you could find? Well people who are willing to be false witnesses are usually it's about getting a little money, getting an opportunity, getting the limelight, you know. But here's what's interesting There's a reason for cross-examination. If somebody is a witness, uh you don't just like take everything they say. You ask them questions. That actually might make them a little uncomfortable. And it's not that you don't believe them. It's that you want to verify that that there's a reliability there. In in Deuteronomy 19, 15 He says, one witness shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity or for any sin. If any sin that he hath sinned at the mouth of two witnesses or at the mouth of three witnesses shall be a matter established Basically, in in the Mosaic Law, and I mean capital capital punishment was a very common practice in the Old Testament. If you're going to, if the the legal system is going to take the life of a person who has violated a very serious offense, they better make sure that that really happens And so one person coming out and saying, I saw this person do such and such, doesn't cut it. There was a standard so that people who were innocent were protected. Because anybody can say anything. And anybody can get together with anybody and say something together. And so there are reasons that cross-examination and those things are there Before we make a judgment we need to make sure that the people we're dealing with are reliable. They're speaking the truth. Yes. So in the law, that's why our law says uh final. Yes. Yeah, we presume innocence in our justice system, at least that's the way it used to be. Uh we presume innocence in our justice system because you have to prove someone's guilty in order to actually uh have the justice system deal with them according to the law. And that's to that's to protect the innocent. Is it true that some people get away with crimes Yet, at least for a while. There is a judge that knows all the details, but they'll stand before someday And I will just comment on this one. Have no mercy on a false witness. Um Deuteronomy nineteen pretty much lays out this principle that if somebody has brought a false accusation Whatever the accused would receive under the law, the dishonest witness will receive because of their false accusation. That would take care of some problems. I'm just saying, you know. You're gonna stand up and you're gonna say, This is what I saw, and this is what they said. And all of a sudden, after a little bit of cross-examination, you find out it's a lie, you hold them to the same standard that they were about to hold that person to, and it would cut a lot of nonsense out So a lot of times people say things that they shouldn't, and people are very much harmed. Well, it's remembered part of the Ten Commandments is thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor. That's exactly what it's talking about there We will stop there. Very, very interesting and I think practical discussion. Alright, let's bow together for a word of prayer, please.