Okay, Acts chapter twenty, verses twenty-eight to thirty-two. And here's the question. How many biblical offices do we find in the New Testament? And how should we appoint individuals to those offices? How should they function in the life of the church? So there are several questions that we have at the beginning of our lesson. How many offices? How do we appoint these officials or officers? And how do they function in the local church? So those are the three questions. Let's get some feedback, hopefully not through the microphone. Let's get some feedback from our class. So how many offices? Baptist distinctives. Two. Is that the peace sign or is that raising your hand? Eric 's peace. Two. There are two opposites. Okay. Good, we're going to talk about that. Secondly, how do we appoint those officers? Anyone have some ideas? Church votes? Okay. Um what should kind of precede the church vote? What do you think? Qualification. Qualification? Okay. Very good. You know, how do we know who really should be in those positions or not? Should we appoint anybody who wants to be a pastor or a deacon to that position? No. Should we appoint someone to those offices who have no desire to be there? No, we shouldn't. So there's a balance between those two things. Just because somebody desires to be in that capacity Does not mean that we should put them there. And just because somebody uh we want them to be there doesn't mean necessarily that we should put them there, because if their heart's not in this they will not function in a in a in a capacity that's going to be helpful to the church. Is it possible for someone to be in that position and then we have to remove that? Yes , that is possible too. And so we need to actually talk about several of these areas. How do they function in the church? Okay, we mentioned that there are two offices. What are those two offices? Pastor and elder. Pastor and what? Elder. Pastor and Elder. Okay We'll talk about that. Pastor and Elder, all right, any other ideas? Bishop. Elder and Bishop. What elder and bishop? Yes. Huh? Deacons. Deacons? Okay, deacons? We we have deacons at anchor, nobody mentioned deacons. What in the world? We You did you mention Deacon? I said no on it. Oh I didn't hear you sorry. Yeah when you don't raise your hand somehow it just doesn't register. You don't hear it right now. Um so we have we've we've had the the the term pastor mentioned, deacon mentioned, did somebody mention bishop or overseer? Yes, bishop and uh elder. Okay, do we have the elders at at at anchor? Well depends on how you define elder to be very honest with you, okay? Actually, technically we have an elder, okay? We also have a bishop and a pastor. We're going to talk about why we uh don't see three different positions, but we have different ways that we refer to them. So with that in mind, let's look at this question, why do we not recognize five offices. And here are the offices that are sometimes mentioned in churches. One is pastor, obviously, elder, bishop, deacon, deaconess Okay? A lot of churches have deaconesses. And that is sometimes a hotly debated one. But why is it that we only see two offices, not five? Well, let's go to Acts chapter 20, and I want us to look carefully at this passage. This is a really important passage as it relates to the question that's in front of us. Because obviously, pastor, elder, and bishop are all mentioned in the Bible. By the way, let me ask you, of those three terms, which one is used the most? Elvar is which one is used the least? Pastor. In fact, just gonna make a statement here. The word pastor is never used as a title for the office. It's used to describe the function, but generally speaking, the term elder is used. And occasionally the term bishop or overseer is used. Episcopas is the word But it's primarily elder, and I I kind of am going to talk a little bit about their culture and why the term elder was used so much. But we'll we'll get to that in just a second. So Acts chapter 20, let's begin in verse 17 to kind of get our context, and then we'll transition down to verse 27. Acts 20, verse 17 says this: From Militas he sent to Ephesus, that's Paul, and he called the elders of the churches. Now when call when Paul calls the or not actually the elders of the church, sorry, it doesn't say churches, the elders of the church, what church is being uh viewed here? The church at what? Ephesus. This is a very established church, fairly large church by this time. Obviously, they have multiple individuals who are functioning in the pastoral elder capacity. So that means that they had several people in their congregation who were biblically qualified. They had recognized that and they were established. And they needed that many individuals in that capacity. Just a side comment, but in most cases, we see the term elder used in the plural. So generally speaking, there is a team of pastors working together. Now that doesn't I'm not giving you that information because I'm a Presbyterian in my polity, okay? I'm just being honest with the tax. The text uses the term elders almost every time. that it that it refers to to them in in a passage. So Ephesus has multiple pastors. They're working together, if you will, as a team. That doesn't mean that there wasn't a chain of command. Some had more of a teaching role than others, some had more of a responsibility because they were they were senior, not suggesting that there was just An absolute equality or that there was a pastor and then a side group of elders not making that suggestion at all. He's talking to the leadership. If you will, the pastors of the church. And now look at verse 27. Because this is what Paul says to those men. Verse 27, I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God. 28. Take heed therefore unto yourselves and to all of the flock. Now can anybody tell me why that phrase, take heed to yourselves? Is important. Yeah, great illustration. So you're on you know the whole reason why you do that is is not because you don't care about the people around you. If you want to help the people around you, then you have to make sure that you're not dead. So you put the mask on your face so that you don't die and then you're now in a position to help other people. So you have to make sure that you are staying sharp and focused and accountable on those things. But who is it that's helping with that accountability here? He says to the elders, take heed to yourselves. What's what's the point there? Yeah, look out for each other. So you're a group of men that are that are overseeing this church You're leading, you're preaching, you're teaching, you're running the business of the church. You are primarily accountable to one another because Each other is going to look out for one another. And then also they're accountable to the congregation as well. But they're accountable to one another. And then he says this. And to the flock, all the flock, over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. Now that word flock is used in a what kind of context? Pastoral shepherding kind of context, okay? So when he mentions the word flock You know that in his mind, these people have a shepherding role, a pastoral role, a role of overseeing, taking care of spiritually, leading these people. They are pastoring. the church, the flock of God. And then he says, over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. And there's that word, bishop. Same words translated bishop in 1 Timothy, where it says, if a man desires the office of a bishop, he desires a good work. A bishop then must be, and he goes on to this list. So clearly, he's talking to the elders. He's telling them they need to pastor the church of God, and God has made them overseers. Can anyone tell me why that's significant to our discussion about whether or not we have one office or three offices when we talk about those circumstances? Why is that significant? Yes. The same office, but there's over three different elements. Yes. The same office. And all three of those words are used. Elder. Pastors and bishop are all used in that context. And what that tells us is it's the same office You can be talking about it from the eldering standpoint, you can be talking about it from the pastoring standpoint, or from the bishop-overseeing standpoint, but it's the same office, not three different offices. Because if it was three different offices, in verse 17 he would have said, he sent to Ephesus and called the elders, the bishops, and the pastors. It just says the elders They're the same office. We continue on. Verse 29. Know this after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock. Now he's using an illustration. He's telling them they have a responsibility. What is that responsibility that he is alluding to? To do what? So watch out for the sheep. So a pastor's job is to make sure that the congregation is safe from those who will cause them spiritual harm. This is why he teaches the word. This is why he calls people aside and says, hey, I need to talk to you about this. I'm concerned about this issue. This is why he prays with people, he counsels with people, this is why he's trying to stay aware of what's going on in the culture, in the church culture, in our national culture. A pastor needs to keep an eye on these things because his job is to warn people, it's to protect them, it's to help them. By the way, that's something that we should embrace as a church. Thank God that somebody has that God has put someone in your life who's looking out for your spiritual well-being, who really cares about what's going on in your life. So he talks about their role. Verse 29 , verse 30. Also for your own selves, from your own selves shall men arise speaking perverse things To draw away the disciples after them. Now when he says from among yourselves, is he talking about from the church or from those men in leadership? The leadership. Okay? So he's warning them that, hey, I'm concerned. In fact, I'm predicting. That's what's going to happen is from your group of men, the leaders of this church, the pastoral People preaching and overseeing and all those individuals, there will be some who will actually draw people away. And we really have to be cautious of that, he's saying. He then goes on in verse 32. He says, This brethren, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you an inheritance among them which are sanctified. Very, very important text. The reason I draw it to your attention your attention to this text is that all three words, pastoring, elder, and bishop, they're all used in this context. And what that tells us is that they are talking about the same office. We then come to the term elder. Elder is the most commonly used term in the New Testament for the pastoral office. And we do not have elders in our culture. Does anybody have elders in your family? Family elders? Do you have elders in your family? Yeah. Yeah. Have you ever small password But have you ever heard anybody you know, does your family gather together, like the extended family gather together like on a yearly basis and all the family heads get together and deliberate and discuss matters? No. We don't have this in our culture. You know, when I was in Ghana, that was a very common thing. Very common. People would go back to their communities, their villages on a regular basis, and they would meet with the family elders. Okay? And those individuals would conduct family business. It was a very interesting dynamic. I never had seen that or y you know, been I've never seen that in our culture at all. But it's a very common part of their culture In Jewish culture, we see that. In fact, it's interesting. Read the Old Testament carefully and see how many times it talks about Moses calling the elders of the people. Okay? So when we talk about church polity, one of the things that we need to recognize is that church polity in many ways flows out of the way that the synagogue was set up in those days. And so there were heads in the community, very respected men, who would get up and they would preach and they would teach and they would read from the Torah in that community and they would lead in the worship. And in fact, if there weren't a certain number of men in a community, they couldn't even have a synagogue. And if they had a certain number of men in the community that were Jewish, then they were required to have a synagogue. And so when we talk about the term elder, what we're understanding is that they recognized that in the synagogue there were some men who were in a position of leadership And they would be the ones communicating the word of God in that synagogue. And that kind of flows into the church. We call it the pastor. And there are a lot of small churches, they have one pastor. As churches get bigger, they have more than one pastor. Some churches have ten or twelve pastors, depending on how large the church is. There's no way that one man can manage three hundred people. It's impossible. It's it would be chaotic. Okay? And so that's the situation. Elder is the most common term used in the New Testament, and it really flows right out of their Jewish culture. Then we have the term bishop, essentially identical qualifications to the elders in Titus. So if we go to 1 Timothy chapter 3, it says if a man desires the office of a bishop, He desires a good work, a bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife. And he goes through this whole list. When we go to Titus chapter one, Paul tells Titus , For this reason I left you in Crete, that you would appoint elders. in every city. And then when we look at the qualifications of the elders, they're for all practical purposes the exact same. It's the same office A different term being used. We then come to Deacon. In 1 Timothy 3, verses 8 to 14, we have the qualifications mentioned for a deacon. Now, what is the authority of a deacon? Well what does the word deacon mean? Huh? Dustin word. That's great Ralph. I like that. Did you use did you find that in Strong's Concordance? That was like the new amplified strong It has the idea of waiting tables, okay? It means a servant, okay? So a deacon's role is to free up those who are ministering in the word. and in prayer so that they can focus on that role. So a deacon's authority really goes only as far as it's delegated to allow those who are involved in pastoral leadership to do what they're doing. And so when we see the first example of deacons, we see that in Acts chapter 6. There was a problem. And the problem was that some of the widows were being neglected. And basically those widows came and they complained and said, We are being neglected, and it was because of really a racial and cultural prejudice that was going on in the church. And so rather than the apostles saying, okay, we're going to go ahead and we're going to start caring for the widows, they said, we need to call a group of men who will be established as deacons. And we will appoint them to the work that is needed here. And so what deacons do is they take care of those issues. They could be distributing funds to people who are who are poor and have need. Or people who have come through a very hard time, not necessarily that they're always in need, but because of a health issue or some crisis they're in a position that they ri they need financial help. It's what our deacon's fund is, okay? Basically. Um in those days a widow was completely helpless in some situations. And so The church would actually take that widow and they would fully care for this woman because she had no living family members who could take care of her. You know, in our culture, we don't see those situations as much as they saw them there. But a person could become completely destitute because of the death of a spouse. Because their children have died or because they don't have any children. And so deacons are involved in those things. They're not given authority in a teaching capacity. or in a spiritual oversight, it's to it's to handle physical matters. And that's one of the reasons that there's no uh statement about deacons being apt to teach. Now, I'm not suggesting that a person you know, can't be a deacon because they have the ability to teach and they need to be a pastor. That's not necessarily what we're saying. But what we're saying is that somebody can be a very godly individual, meet the biblical qualifications to be a deacon. and not necessarily have an aptitude to teach or a a passion and a love for teaching like a pastor would. And sometimes that is what separates a pastor from a deacon. When it comes to the practical qualifications. One has this passion to preach and teach the word, and the other does not have that passion. And God hasn't given him that. That's not the role that that individual plays in the church We then come to a fifth word and that's deaconess. And the word deaconess is not actually, we don't actually have it in our authorized version. But basically, deaconess is a way to translate deacon in the feminine. And there was an individual named Phoebe. It said that she was a servant in the church and that word servant is in the feminine and so some have said well Phoebe was a deacon in the feminine sense she was a deaconess The only challenge with that is that there is no example of qualification for a female deacon. We don't see that. We see that for pastor, elder. Bishop, we see that for deacon, but we do not see that for uh deaconess. Now, some have argued that it's talking about a man who's married his wife is in a deacon-like role. Some have argued that it's a single lady who maybe is a widow, but she's young enough to help in the care, and so they take care of her. But she's also serving in the church. There's some that have argued for that. Some have argued that this was a lady who was unmarried who would assist the deacon and his wife when it came to caring for ladies So these are all suggestions, but the reason that I don't hold that there is a deaconess office in the church is because we don't have any any qualifications mentioned for that one. But we do know That ladies, it could be single ladies, it could be ladies who are widows, it could be ladies whose children are no longer in the home, can have a valuable ministry In the same kind of way that a deacon would in preparing meals, in helping with household duties when a person is sick, there are a lot of things that that ladies are able to do. And so that's kinda where that comes from. But is there any question about that? Yeah. Yeah, I was going to say in the biblical context, yeah. What is what would be the difference between or between the deacon and the deepness? The deacons existed primarily to do exactly the same thing Well didn't have a I I'm arguing that we don't have the Deacon S as an office But we do have we do have ladies in the church who function in a very similar capacity to a in fact you know let's just give a real practical situation. Let's say that there is an older lady who Um she is being cared for by the church. Okay, maybe not totally financially, but but maybe in part financially, or you know, we've worked out an agreement as to how to help this woman um to basically was taken care of her. We could have some some some young ladies, maybe they graduate from high school, they're you know when they're in college, when they're home for the summer, that they say, I want to serve in the church, in what capacity can I serve in the church? And we say, well This lady really needs someone to help be with her. And so that person says, I'm going to go on a regular basis to their house, I'm going to help with meals, I'm going to help with cleaning, I'm just going to be a friend to this person Um, I'm gonna help in those various capacities. It doesn't have to be a young lady. It could be someone who is a little bit older, who's not caring for small children. I mean, the dynamics for a young mother She just can't practically do those kinds of things. But once her kids are old enough to not need that kind of care, all of a sudden a lady can do those things. and um may really have a desire to do those kinds of things. So um you know, you look at how God has gifted people in the church and where They have desires and while it's not an office, they they can have a very valuable role in some of those areas. Okay. Any other question there? Let me make a couple of clarifications here. And I'm reading this out because this is something that I dealt with in the the uh Ghanaian culture context And I think to some extent some of these things are appropriate in our American context. What about a pastor's wife Is she an officer of the church? Or a deacon's wife? Is she an officer of the church? Or an assistant pastor? Should we view him as a pastor? Or should we view him as simply somebody who is serving alongside of the pastor? Maybe he's uh he's being mentored, he's learning He's a young man who's not yet yet a pastor in the full sense. How do we deal with those kinds of things? Well, first of all, let me say this. In the New Testament, there's never a talk about an assistant pastor. There's never a talk about a deacon wife's role in the church Nor is there ever a discussion about a pastor's wife's role in the church. There's not So we have to assume that there is no official capacity role for any of those three situations Now in some sense we know that there were people who were assisting Paul in ministry. He was mentoring them, and Timothy is a great example. So when did Timothy go from being an associate to Paul to becoming his right-hand man who is now going to Ephesus and trying to set straight? A huge problem I have no idea, but at some point it happened. And so we we have people we can have young men come here into the church for a summer or maybe during Christmas break or early on after they've graduated from college or from seminary and they serve in an assisting kind of a role. They get mentoring, they preach and they teach My question is should we call them pastors if they're not formally recognized or ordained as pastors? Should we do that? I'd say no. I would say no. In fact, this is something that I really dealt with as a missionary. We'd have a young man who was 18, 19, 20 years old. Who would come and help a church planting missionary start a church? And when the guy's 18, he's being called pastor. Not married. He uh hasn't even finished his college yet. Um he he cannot be viewed as a man in his society until he's married and has his first kid. Which may not happen for eight to ten years for that young man. And we're calling him pastor. Let me tell you, I saw that to be an extremely confusing situation. in their culture. I thought it to be very detrimental. And so I just make this general observation that we need to keep distinct if someone is being mentored And they're serving in an assisting capacity if they want to go into the ministry. Let's not call them a pastor. Let's let them get through that role like Timothy did with Paul. But then at a point in time when they are officially recognized as a pastor, then we need to make that transition. Just to keep that distinct in our minds. Or we look at a pastor's wife or a deacon's wife. So a pastor has spiritual oversight. Should a pastor be dealing one-on-one with all the ladies in the church? No, he shouldn't. Alone? No. That's a very, very dangerous, dangerous situation. So a pastor has to, if he's dealing with ladies, he has to work with his wife on these things. He may have his wife completely handle that situation. Or maybe he and his wife will work together on that situation So while a pastor's wife does not have an official role as a pastor's wife office, She basically is a major part of his ability to function in his capacity. Yeah. But part of what you're talking about is not thus saith the Lord. It's a practical thing. Yes. Best day at the Lord would be there's no office called Pastor's Life. There's no office called Deacon's Life. There's no office called assistant pastor. They're not in the Bible. We shouldn't create them, invent them, fung act as if they're there. On the practical side, if a man's married and he's doing ministry, his wife is an integral part of that. And she could ultimately disqualify him, or his relationship to her can cause him to be disqualified. So, yes. I guess you're probably gonna get so it cut that's fine. Yeah. Um there's also there's an aspect of calling and coordination of Yeah, I'll flush that out. Yeah. Calling, ordination, appointment, what are all these things? Okay. That's a that's a great a great discussion. I I think we have to make we need to identify those terms so that we're speaking the same language. Because ordination and appointment It's the same thing. It's the other it's the exact same thing. And uh but we'll get into that. Another thing that we really dealt with on the mission field when we were dealing with The concept of ordination and appointment, we had a lot of a lot of discussion about that in our church. And so we had to kind of clarify and be speaking the same language on that. Yeah So my point is that the work that a pastor does, his wife is a valuable assistant to him in that. And the the work that a deacon does, his wife is a valuable assistant in that. And it may be that some of the things that a pastor does, he will actually do them through his wife in the you know, dealing with some ladies or when a deacon is dealing with some of his uh service, he may at times work through his wife. But we gotta make sure that we don't create an office. And you know, in in in Ghana, people used to joke about this, but I think they really believed it. That the pastor's wife, she was really the one who She guided that church. And you know, some pastors, their wives do do that. And and that's not biblical, it's not healthy, it's it's a very bad thing. It's not good for his marriage, it's not good for the church. But oh it definitely happens. Where the wife kind of completely controls where things huh? Yeah. There's a yeah, there's a tremendous need for for balance when we talk about about those those things, but Um it it used to be I I remember when somebody in our church really wanted to get something done, they would go to my wife and they would like present the case to her. And she would basically say something like I'm not your pastor. If you want to talk to my husband about that, feel free to do that. But that's who you need to talk to about this. And and actually sometimes a pastor or deacon has to protect his wife. There are certain things that a pastor doesn't need to share with his wife. There's certain things that a deacon doesn't need to share with his wife. And when when they do, it actually puts a burden on their wife that she doesn't need to carry. So yeah. Oh, so mobile is like always top Um you asked earlier about elders. Our family, I don't know if it's like Saddam or but I know it's like Splats or the community Um my aunties the the women are pretty much the counseling. to kinda keep the family together in that matriarchal thing. If actually supporting here in the United States, you know, communities in the patriarchal program on and so uh this really has led to the search and it's interesting that you mentioned uh that and five ones because at least in our family, if you want to get anything done for you to buy my office. Yeah. Yeah. Well , yeah, actually it's it's interesting you bring that up because in in some even within Ghana, some of the Communities are matriarchal and some are patriarchal. And that structure is there. If it's a matriarchal family system, then then the aunties are They're the family head. And um if it's patriarchal it's the men. Yeah, and that that happens. And they have something called a queen mother in in villages and the queen mother is She's the top dog, man. She can be in this movie. An adaptation from um African cultures. Very much so. Or they're not present, or what would the reasoning be behind that? That that goes back many generations. It was essential in the United States our slave system was to escalate women. Like the entire question was to keep the men in slaves. Right, and that's not like that. But how is that in Ghana? There there are places like that too. I mean How assertive men are in a culture really determines a lot about the family structure. And um in our in American culture today, um the feminist movement is is destroying masculinity. systematically. Um it's it's hard to find men functioning like men in our society because there is there's an incredible animosity towards Masculinity to be as toxic. Yeah. Some you know, some sometimes men are toxic and now they leave. Okay. Fair enough. But Um, but God God does want men to be leaders and He wants them to be humble and and loving leaders, but bearing the load of responsibility and shouldering that. But You know, shifts in cultures don't happen in a generation. They they they happen gradually over a period of time. Yeah. Yes. And men are identifying authority. I don't know if it's just because of the men, I think it's just because authority is taught the question Well that that's that's definitely a factor. It's definitely a factor. But um There you know, the the term toxic masculinity, it's real. And You know, there's there's uh there's hatred, intense hatred for what is viewed as a dominating patriarchal system. And um and there are some people that truly they lead in an evil way, and they have throughout history. There are people like that. But it's also kind of thrown out the baby with the bathwater And it's gone after we could say biblical leadership as well. Yes. of the women were the prayer leaders, the this committee and that and the men were basically hi if an end doesn't step up and you have things that needs to be done, the women will we will still live since that be like that Yeah, it's it's um it's it's it there's a cycle there. So when men don't take leadership there's a vacuum and then women will fill that vacuum and then once women fill that vacuum, then men are even less likely to step up and fill that vacuum. It's a vicious cycle. And um the once the balance once the balance tips and a vacuum begins to be established, um, it's gonna get filled immediately. And um yeah, i it it's sad but in many societies, um, it's hard to find men who are leaders in their society. Yeah. I would say the the important takeaway from this is as we're praying specifically for our communities, pray for the men that they step up. You look at things like mass incarceration and some of these other topics that people pray for the men to have the curve, because as Mana just mentioned, once that vacuum is built, it's really tough to re establish the right work of things. Yeah. And this in tasty isn't compromised with it. We really need to pray um that we're raising our government Well what that that we see is that once you get um kind of a transition from one generation to the next, but once there's not a dad in the picture then the next generation will be a lot less assertive and it just it kind of goes in that direction to to the point where sometimes the men didn't even realize this but I need to do I I need to be assertive, I need to be a provider, I need to do those things. So it's it's a it's a vicious cycle. And I think A lot of our a lot of our cultural breakdowns are coming to the fact that a lot of fathers are not they're not taking their roles r really seriously. It's a vicious cycle. We could talk a lot about it. Okay. I will just uh mention this briefly If you the work of a pastor-elder-bishop, and I rather than saying pastor-elder bishop every time, I'm going to use the term pastor, but realize that those three terms are all there they can be used interchangeably. Okay. What is the work? The word bishop means overseer, and what that tells you is that a pastor has authority in the church. He has spiritual oversight. Now that doesn't mean that the pastor has authority in your home to dictate everything about how your your home functions, okay? And some gallists do that, I mean they they hear just like control everything. Like, here's how you have to dress if you go to the grocery store. And it's like It's not your place, buddy. It's not your place at all. And um and there are a lot of American Baptist fundamentalists who um really step outside their bounds. When we talk about overseer, it's spiritual oversight in the church. And occasionally what's going on in the home, uh believes into the church, and then you have to d deal with how it is affecting the church, but you do not have the responsibility to step in and run people's houses. Some pastors feel like they have the right to pick people's spouses or to get into all those things and they don't. It's just it's not their rule. So when we say oversight, realize that spiritual oversight in the context of church Secondly, elder, the idea is somebody who is spiritually mature. So when you look at someone who's a pastor, you should say, this person knows the word of God. I respect their judgment. And one of the reasons that uh sometimes people don't become pastors for a long time is because people cannot say, I respect your judgment, your spiritual counsel Because they have not matured to the extent that they can do that. Again, I remember talking to folks in Ghana saying, could somebody be twenty-five and an elder? They said, yeah, they could I said, so what's the distinction? Are they mature? Are they mature? And so it's not so much about age. Uh it's not saying you're elderly. Um it means that you're a matured individual. That's what it's saying. And then lastly, pastor. And this is the idea of spiritual care. And 1 Peter 5, 1 to 4 is the primary passage. Because of our time, I'm going to stop right there. But I want to start there next time. I want us to look at 1 Peter 5. It's a rich passage. It talks about the oversight. It talks about the balance of how a pastor oversees. It talks about the fact that he's going to answer to God. It talks about the fact that though he's in a position of authority, He's also one amongst the congregation. And so one of the things that you really have to appreciate about the Bible is that God's word gives balances. It gives balances. So when we hear the term authority, we're not talking about someone who is an authoritarian dictator. We're talking about somebody who has the responsibility to make decisions. He bears the consequences of those decisions, but he's also someone who is to care with care. And that's very, very important. So we'll stop there. There's a lot of rich stuff that we can discuss when we talk about these two offices. But let's go ahead and close with a word of prayer