Okay, good morning. How's everybody doing? Doing good? It's gonna be really hot today, so it's like going back to Florida. Back when I was actually this time of the year in Florida could be really hot. Like this is like a normal day uh in the summer until we start getting thunderstorms. So If you think about moving to Florida, just think about how you like today and just have that for seven, eight months. So Some people like that, some don't. Alright, well let's go ahead and take our Bibles and let's turn to Proverbs chapter 16. And uh we're gonna look at one verse to open up our discussion this morning. But we're going to be looking at lots and lots of scriptures dealing with an important topic. So let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will get started with our Sunday school study this morning. Let's pray. Father, thank you for this opportunity to gather together again. Thank you for the Lord's Day. I pray that today would be a day of rest, refreshment, that we would be spiritually encouraged. I pray that the things that are presented today in Sunday school in the morning and evening worship services, all these things would link together very well to really strengthen us with a very common theme, and that theme Really is focused on teamwork. And so I pray that you'd help me as I communicate these truths to do that effectively. And I pray that you'd bless especially our Sunday school hour this morning. We ask it In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay. Proverbs chapter 16, and we're looking at verse 6. Here's what the scripture says. By mercy and truth, iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the Lord, men depart from I'm going to read that again. It says, by mercy and truth iniquity is purged, and by the fear of the Lord men depart from evil. Now, we've been talking quite a bit about the concept of forgiveness and the importance of forgiveness when it comes to our interpersonal relationships. We spent a lot of time there. In fact, I think it was like five weeks total that we spent on that topic because there is so much that has to be addressed under that topic We're going to move into another very important topic, and this is going to kind of transition us into how we deal with sin when we've sinned against God, and into also how we deal with making things right with other people. And so getting into that discussion, I want us to begin, first of all, today with talking about the importance of the fear of the Lord. They're really two great motivators for us when it comes to walking in holiness. One is affection. We love God, and because we love God, we want to do what pleases him. On the other side of that is what we could call fear or respect, reverence, a sense of awe. What we're going to see by the end of this discussion is that A healthy view of God, which will lead us to reverence and respect and awe, and might I even say fear, is actually going to also lead us to having an appropriate affection for Him Because what we're going to see is that God has dealt with us tremendously well. God has bestowed his grace on us. Yes, God is a God of wrath and a God of righteousness. And a God of justice, but he's also a God who extends incredible grace to us because of the cross. And so we're going to try to take all these concepts, we're going to try to put them together. under this category of fearing the Lord. But I want to ask this question on the front side. When he talks about iniquity being purged by mercy and truth, And men departing from evil because of the fear of the Lord, I want you to tell me what is Solomon communicating in these two statements. First, By mercy and truth, iniquity is purged. What do you think Solomon is telling his children when he makes that statement? By mercy and truth, iniquity is purged. I'm gonna give you an opportunity to share your thoughts. Mercy and truth, iniquity. is purged. Now when he talks about iniquity being purged, what what do you think is kind of the context? Okay, if we're going to talk about iniquity in the sense of our sin against God, it's true that mercy and truth are connected together in the cross, and that's how we're able to see our sins removed, but I want you to think interpersonal interaction here. Interpersonal interaction. By mercy and truth, iniquity is purged. What do you think? That's saying It's the phone of the determinants whether or not we'll have mercy on the sound. Okay. That is true. That is true. Let me give you a little bit of help. When there are conflicts between people, there are two things that you need to resolve the conflict and to eliminate the problem. Two things. And I say a positive resolve. Let me put it that way. There's more than one way to resolve an issue. A positive resolve, the first thing is mercy. Mercy means I'm going to show compassion. The second is truth. It's not all mercy, it's not only truth without mercy. It's the blend of the two. So in order for sin to be dealt with, there has to be truth. That means we have to address the problem. We have to speak plainly about what's going on. We have to actually deal with the matter. But on the other side, there has to be a merciful response. In other words, it's not just about blasting people people, it's about working to a positive resolve because of the compassionate side of this. So if we want to see sin removed from a context, we've got to have mercy and we've got to have truth. Now, he talks about a second concept. He says that people depart from evil because of the fear of the Lord. So basically what he's saying is when there is sin, the way you deal with it is there's got to be this blend of mercy and this blend of truth. You've got to speak plainly about what's there. You've got to deal with what's there. But you have to be compassionate and loving toward this individual in order to resolve the issue. But the way that you keep from getting there is by fearing God. It's because of how you view God and how you relate to God that you don't get into the situations where you have to. Remove sin because you're staying away from it. And so we're going to talk about this concept of the fear of the Lord. The mercy and the truth is talking about forgiveness, and the fear of the Lord is talking about a clean and wholly distinct walk. Let me ask you a question, then we're going to kind of get into this topic. How would you describe Or how would you define the fear of the Lord? How would you define that? Or how would you describe it? We had to quote the scripture. Good job. It's kinda like asking somebody what is faith. It's the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen. Okay, explain what that means please. Okay. It's an understanding of the holiness of God and that if it wasn't for His love he could strike every one of us too. Okay That's a great uh explanation. In fact, you you kind of tapped into a little bit of what I'm gonna say. So it's starting with a knowledge of God. And then there's a response, how we respond to God knowing what he's like. Okay? What were you going to say, Lisa? One word, reverence. Reverence. Ooh, good word. That's a good word. Reverence. Anybody else? Alright. So let me give you a little definition. This is not something that I read in the dictionary. This is just me kind of processing these passages and trying to put my thoughts First of all, it is multifaceted. What I mean by that is there's several different dimensions to this concept of the fear of the Lord. If all you see it is as terror, then you're looking at a part of the fear of the Lord. Or if you're looking at it at uh on the side of reverence, you're looking at an aspect of it, but maybe not necessarily the entirety of it. So it's multifaceted and it begins with understanding understanding clearly who God is. If I understand who God is, if I understand his character, his disposition, his ways, how he deals with people in general, how he's dealt with me specifically. There's going to be a response to that within my own heart. There are going to be certain things about the way that I think toward God and toward other people, that's going to be shaped by a correct understanding of Him. There are going to be certain emotional responses. That are going to flow in the direction of God and in the direction of others and even toward myself when it comes to a right view of God. It's going to motivate me to be humble. Very important word. It's going to motivate me to be reverent. Good word, Lisa. And I like this next statement, a worship-filled response. So what worship basically is, is it's this overflowing from my heart of expressing to God his superiority, my inferiority to him, and my love and my admiration for him I mean when we come together to worship on a Sunday, what we should be doing, I'm not saying that's what we're all doing perfectly, for sure we're not doing it perfectly, but we should be focusing our attention on truth. Who is God? What is he like? How does he work? And from focusing on who God is, all of a sudden, there is a buildup of response in my heart. And so I want to express that. And I want to express it in worship, in singing, in talking about God, in submitting my will to Him, lots of different potential, appropriate responses to God, but it starts with knowing God. So the fear of the Lord begins with a knowledge of God. And by the way, we're going to find out in another passage that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. In other words, if I'm going to process everything in life the way I'm supposed to, I'm not going to be able to do that unless I know God first and I understand who He is and I respond correctly to Him. From that response to God comes the ability to process the information. that I see in my in my life. So you could say that the ability to get wisdom begins with the presupposition of a right view of God. Does that make sense? Lots of people don't have godly wisdom because they begin with a presuppositional bias against God A rebellion against God. And I could say even we are born that way, and we become hardened more as life goes on, unless we come face to face with the gospel. So let me give you a taste of some passages that talk about the fear of the Lord. I'm going to ask you to turn to these passages so that we can kind of see them together. And if you do a word search on a digital reference, of the fear of the Lord, you're going to find volumes and volumes of passages that deal with this concept. So the first passage I want you to turn to is Psalm 22. And we're going to look at verse 23 together. Psalm 22, verse 23. I'm going to read it, and then I want to ask you to tell me what is this passage telling us about the fear of the Lord? Hopefully it's not in a sub- is it on the sub thing? We'll see if Okay. Psalm twenty-two twenty-three says the following Ye that fear the Lord, praise him. All ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel. Okay, question What is this passage expressing about a person who fears God? What does this person do? Yes. Notice the word praise him. Well, that's two words. Notice the phrase glorify him. He's telling us that if we fear him, if we have a right view of him, the response is going to be praise. Worship. Admiration. The fear of the Lord leads to worship. That means that if I fear God, I'm going to worship Him appropriately. The second passage I want us to look at is turn a couple of Psalms ahead to Psalm 25. Psalm 25, we're going to look at verse 14. This is a really interesting verse, and I want to ask you what it's teaching. Psalm 25, 14 says this: the secret of the Lord is with them that fear him He will show them his covenant. Again, I'll read it. The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him. He will show them his covenant. Can somebody tell me what the passage is teaching here? I'll read it again. The secret of the Lord is with them that fear him. He will show them his covenant. Yes. Enjoying the Lord having a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a Oh, you're supposed to be telling me what it's saying. Sorry. Ah, good word. Fellowship. I like that word. Yes. He talks about the secret of the Lord is with those who fear him. The idea is that there is a communion In fact, it's interesting. He used to uses the word covenant be a very good thing. and we don't tend to use the word covenant in our culture as much today, but the concept of a covenant was a really important part of ancient culture. A covenant was a legally binding agreement Between two parties. And when people entered into covenant, many times when people thought of this word covenant, they thought of the concept of you have a very powerful king who has a very powerful army, and this king enters into an agreement with the citizens of a certain region, and he says, if you will enter into covenant with me, I will protect you, I will defend you. And so there is a relationship there. By the way, if you broke that covenant, it was not in your best interest, you'd be in big time trouble in those situations. But the idea of the covenant means that you've entered into this this arrangement Where there is relationship. But it's deeper than just the protective side. He's emphasizing that there is an intimacy side. In other words, if you want to know God personally. You want to enjoy him, delight in him. It begins with fearing him. Now you might say, well, I I don't generally uh get close to people I'm afraid of. Anybody feel that way? Like I kind of withdraw from people like that. Well, if that's the way that we look at the fear of the Lord, then we have to understand our view of this concept is deficient. Because this concept is going to lead us to intimacy, a personal, closer relationship, us understand understanding God on a more personal level. By the way, when he talks about showing them his covenant, I think he's basically saying, I'm going to demonstrate my faithfulness and my commitment to the agreement that I have made with my people. And so when God allowed the nation of Israel to enter into hard times, he would come to a place where he would demonstrate his faithfulness. And he did it over and over and over again. So another very interesting passage. The next passage I want us to turn to is Psalm 33, verse 8. You can see we're in the Psalms. I could have gone to lots and lots of places, but I wanted to spend a little bit of time in some of the Psalms and in some of the Proverbs. Psalm 33, verse 8. It says, let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the earth stand in awe of him. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. What is this verse teaching about the fear of the Lord? Yes. Yes. Yes. An amazement of what he can do in his majesty. Yes. We use the term awesome a little bit too flippantly in our society, I think. I say, I know, I guess we know that we do. We talk about something being awesome. There is a sense in which we cheapen that term. Because this is a term that should be used to describe the incredible majesty of God. And so when we talk about the inhabitants of the earth fearing the Lord and standing in awe of him, it's interesting. We look at the rest of this psalm, he draws their attention to God's power that is demonstrating creation Talks about how he created the world out of nothing, how he literally spoke the world into existence, how he sustains and how he orders the world. And so he's basically saying all of the earth should stand in awe of God. Reverence, worship, major, major dimension to this concept of the fear of the Lord. The next verse, Psalm 33, verse 18. I'll go ahead and read this. It says, Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. Let me read that again. Very interesting statement. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. What is this verse teaching, communicating? He's got your back. So think about this. The God that we have incredible reverence and incredible respect for And it's because we understand his power, his majesty, his goodness, his justice, all these different aspects of God's nature. We understand this, and so we reverence him, we fear him. The Bible says that when a person is in that position , They hope in God's mercy because they understand that God is going to take care of them. They have relationship to God, and so they can trust God, this awesome God who can destroy and who can create, who can build up, who can break down this God who's going to judge the wicked someday, he is looking out for the defenseless. Very, very interesting statement. In other words, the fear of the Lord leads to God's fatherly care. Interesting statement. The next one, Proverbs chapter 1, verse 7. I'm going to read this one. Says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom. And instruction. Can someone comment on the connection between the phrase the fear of the Lord and the statement fools? Can someone make a connection here Because we need to realize that a lot of times when Proverbs were given, they were given with parallel, contrasting concepts. How is there a connection between the fear of the Lord and the fool? Anyone want to make a comment? Yes. Okay. Or let me let me let me tweak just a little bit what you said. Those who fear the Lord are not fools. Those who don't fear the Lord are fools. And so he says, the person who fears the Lord, that's the person that gets knowledge. That's the person that gets wisdom. That's the person that's teachable. The person that does not have the fear of the Lord Who rages and is confident, that person does not get wisdom and instruction because they despise it. The question is, why do they despise it? Because they don't fear God. And so he makes this connection to be between the fear of the Lord being the beginning of wisdom and knowledge and understanding, and the rejection of the fear of the Lord being the rejection and the despising of wisdom, knowledge, and instruction. The next verse, Proverbs 14, 26. Proverbs 14, 26 It says, In the fear of the Lord is strong confidence. His children shall have a place of refuge. This is a really comforting verse, is it not? In the fear of the Lord is strong confidence, and his children shall have a place of refuge. What is this passage teaching? I think we already talked about this concept in another place. Somebody said, God's got your back. Okay? You belong to him. You're his child. The next one, Proverbs 14, 27. And I absolutely love this one, and I want us to really think about this one for a moment. It says, the fear of the Lord is a fountain of life to depart from the snares of death. Let me read that again. The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life. to depart from the snares of death. Somebody tell me, what does that passage say? If you're fearing the Lord, there you've got life on one side. And you're going to be a removal does a different thing that could bring it to death. Yeah, yeah. So he talks about a fountain of life and he talks about snares of death. Okay, so one thing is something that gives vitality. It energizes, it strengthens, it nourishes, it's a fountain of life. The other thing is a snare that entraps you and ultimately will kill you. Oh, I I think about yesterday it was it was getting you know kind of hot and in the afternoon And the neighbors, uh kids and our kids were out playing in the cul-de-sac. It's great living on a cul-de-sac. And uh and the sprinkler was going in the middle of the cul-de-sac. And uh and Caleb's got this uh this big wheel that we got him and he's like screaming down the driveway and he's going right through the sprinkler. Now why is he going for the sprinkler and through the sprinkler? He wants to cool off. It's hot. He wants refreshment. So these kids are running around and they're playing in the water. They're getting refreshment. I want you to realize that that's just scratching the surface of the picture that's here. I want you to think of the person who's in the desert and they're literally dying because of the heat. and the dryness, and all of a sudden they find this place where there is cool, refreshing water bubbling up out of these rocks and flowing into a place that nobody could And what is that? It's not just refreshment, it's the preserver of life. If they don't drink that water They're gonna die. And so they are refreshed and they are strengthened, they are nourished, their life is sustained. What he's basically saying is the fear of the Lord enables people to have rich meaningful, prosperous lives. Not just from the material standpoint, but if we want to look at the entirety of life, what gives life richness and depth and value and meaning That begins with the fear of the Lord. On the other side, it's going to keep people from going to the things that trap them. And snare them and destroy them. You know, one of the things that we try to emphasize is that this prosperity theology, the prosperity gospel, is something that is a false teaching. That's really prominent in our day. I think sometimes though, because we are trying to focus on how dangerous prosperity theology is. We kind of react against prosperity theology, and what do we do? We swing to the other dimension and we don't emphasize the fact that godly living does bring, under most situations, prosperity. If you want to look at a society, a culture, a group of people that are not walking in the ways of the Lord, that are following in rebellion, that are living to their own devices, guess what those people are going to have? Snares of death everywhere they walk. It's going to destroy their quality of life. Why? Because sin is destructive. Sin hurts people physically. Sin hurts people emotionally. Sin weighs down our souls. When people embrace the gospel and their lives begin to be transformed by the renewing of the mind and they begin to walk in a distinctly different way. And they begin to love God and grow in faithfulness and walk with God, guess what it does? It lifts up their quality of life. It improves things for them. It's far better to walk with God than to walk in the ways of the snares of death. And so while we don't teach a prosperity theology, because clearly that's a dangerous system of thought, we also need to recognize that the Bible does teach There are many, many blessings that flow out of walking with God, walking in fellowship. There are aspects to my spirit and my health and my strength and my vitality. and how my relationships work and how I do my work and the way that I manage resources, those things change when there is a reorientation towards God properly because I fear him. And so that's what this verse is communicating. The fear of the Lord is a fountain of life. And it causes people to depart from the snares of death. Now I'm going to stop with those passages on the Old Testament side because I think a lot of people would say, well, you know, the fear of the Lord's an Old Testament concept. We don't find this in the New Testament. Because we're all under grace. And because we're under grace, we don't have to worry about fearing God anymore. We can just love him. Well, you cannot love God unless you understand who he is. And if you understand who he is, guess what? There is going to be this balance of view toward him. There's going to be a soberness. There's going to be a sense of respect and a sense of awe, a sense of love and passion. They're all going to be intertwined when we understand who God is properly. And so let me give you a couple of examples of some New Testament passages. That are going to emphasize this concept of the fear of the Lord. The first passage I want to ask you to turn to is Philippians chapter 2. Philippians chapter 2. And read verse twelve. Here's what it says. Wherefore, my beloved As ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Listen carefully to what it says. Work out your own salvation. With fear and trembling. Let me say that again. It says, work out your own salvation. with fear and trembling. What is this passage teaching? Now before you answer, let me draw your attention to something. It does not say work for your own salvation. Okay? It says work out. There's a big difference between those two things. If I'm working for something, I don't have it, I hope to get it, and the work that I'm doing is contributing toward getting what I'm trying to get, right? If I'm working out something, I possess it. That means the way that I possess it is not connected to the working out. I'm working out something that I have. It's like exercising. It's like developing something. It's like a training process. What's he saying when he says, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling? Yes. It gives me the uh picture of excuse me picture of a teacher who um teaches you something but then wants you to go out and use It's like in chemistry class, you know, they're talking about all these things and they're like, hold on a second, let's let's see how this works And I remember my chemistry teacher one time like blowing something up and it shooting across the across the room and thankfully no one was sitting where that thing shot across the room. True. So it's the practical side. It's taking what's in my head and it's making it practical. That's definitely an aspect of it. Anything else? Okay, good. So what aspect of our salvation are we talking about then there? Yes, very good. Our sanctification. So he's not talking about working to be justified. We are. He's talking about working out the salvation we possess in practical daily sanctification. Now, what's interesting about the way he puts it is he says that we are to do it with fear and with trembling. He's communicating that we should view our sanctification as something that is very, very sobering. It's not something we should should be casual about, something that we should be haphazard about. When we talk about our fight against sinful passions, we need to recognize that we need to Wrestle and we need to fight and we need to put to death, mortifies the word that's used, our fleshly passions. That involves a soberness, a seriousness. So the Christian life, though we are under grace, though we are related properly , though we are in relation to God because of the cross. We still have this incredible need to be sober-minded about how we approach the Christian life. And there are lots and lots of scriptures that talk about being Sober, like Peter says, gird up the loins of your mind. He uses the picture of someone who's getting ready to go into the battle, and so they roll up their Skirt, I don't know what you call it. Their robe. And why are they rolling up that robe? It's because they're gonna go into battle. They don't want to trip up on their robe. And so he says you're in a battle, a spiritual war. So there's a soberness involved with our Christian experience, our Christian walk. A second passage, 2 Corinthians 5. Let's go there. Second Corinthians five, verse nine. Paul writes, Wherefore we labor If you don't like to work, you have a problem. As Christians, we are to work. We're to work out what we have. We're to labor. He says we labor. That whether present or absent, we may be accepted of him. Now, what's interesting about what Paul is saying is when he talks about acceptance before God, he can kind of talk about it in two senses. He talks about our positional acceptance, which is based entirely on the work of Christ and his righteousness. In this particular passage, he's not talking about our positional acceptance. He's clear that we are accepted in the beloved on the basis of the righteousness of Jesus. But in this sense, he is focusing on the acceptance of the work that we're doing for God. He's talking about whether or not God is pleased with the stewardship, the use of the gifts that He's entrusted to us. And these things are going to be evaluated at the judgment seat of Christ. He says, for we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the judgment Things done in his body according to that he hath done, whether it be good or bad. Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. Now, please understand, Paul is emphasizing that standing before Jesus at the judgment seat of Christ is going to be a sobering reality. Yes, there is no condemnation of those who are in Christ Jesus. The Bible could not be clearer about that. Yes, we are accepted in the beloved, yet at the same time the scripture teaches that God is going to Evaluate the use of the gifts that He has given to us. We see this in the parable of the talents. The parable of the talents is basically saying God gives to each person according to his purposes. In his will. By the way, God doesn't give us all the same talents. He doesn't give us all the same amount of talent. He gives us what he sovereignly believes we need. And he gives it to us and he says, use it for my glory and for eternal value. And so at the end of our lives, what are we going to do? We're going to stand before him and we're going to give And what does Paul say? That is a sobering reality. That is a terrifying reality. I, as a man who is very passionate about what I do, I, the Apostle Paul, am sobered by the reality of standing before Jesus at the judgment seat of Christ. Christ. Now this does not mean that Paul didn't love Christ. He clearly loves Christ. It didn't mean that there wasn't this intimate relationship between the Apostle Paul and his Savior. Paul loved the Lord. He had deep-rooted compassion. He had deep-rooted passions and love for God. But he still understood the weight and the soberness. Of the judgment seat of Christ. You see, the fear of the Lord is something that even the believer needs to continue to have. Then we're going to move on to another interesting series of statements. And there are two more I want to mention. These are connected, and I want you to see how this kind of capstones this discussion. 1 John chapter 4 verse 17. I want us to read this and think about what it's saying. He writes, Herein is our love made perfect, that we have may have boldness in the day of judgment. Because as he is, so are we in this world. Let me read that again. Herein is love made perfect, is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment. Because as he is, so are we in this world. Can someone comment on what John is teaching in these verses? This verse, sorry, it's not versus. Let me read the next verse. Oh go ahead, yeah. So if we reflect Christ in this world We 've already here on Earth, then you all have very common here for one. Yes. Absolutely. And the way he puts it is our love is made perfect. He's talking about maturity. So the idea is that as we grow as Christians And as we begin to express the love of God through us more and more as we grow into the image of the Lord Jesus Christ, guess what happens? We have confidence Boldness for that particular day. In other words, there's not a terror of condemnation, but there is a comfort and there is a confidence that that day will go well for us. 1 John 4. 18, the next verse says, There is no fear in love. Perfect love casteth out fear, because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love. So this is kind of interesting. What he's basically communicating here is this. The more we know God , And the more that we grow into maturity, and the more that we grow to that point where our love is maturing, guess what? We will have less of a terror-oriented view of God. And we will have more of an affection-oriented view of God. I think that's a really important thing for us to understand. In other words, the fear of the Lord is not only a terror, but it is to go from terror to affection. As we mature in depth, as we grow in our knowledge of the Lord, guess what? We're going to grow to love him more. When you worship God, you're doing it because you admire Him. You see the perfection of His glory. And you are exalting Him because He's good. In other words, terror moves. to affection. So I want us to kind of clip well, I'm looking at our time. We will stop there for the sake of our time because this next uh topic is going to be A bit involved. But what I want us to do next, uh, Lord willing, next week is we're going to talk about how clarity in our understanding of who God is and how he works brings us to the point where we Fear him. So we're going to talk about God's holiness, his righteousness, his justice. We're going to talk about the cross. We're going to talk about several different aspects of who God is and what he does. And I want us to kind of see how those those truths, as we understand them properly, are going to press us into worship-filled awe, respect, reverence. So any questions uh about our discussion this morning? Any questions? I'm gonna give you an opportunity to do that. I hope that what we've seen is that when we talk about the fear of the Lord, it's not just simply a terror of God. It actually is an appropriate response to understanding who he is, what he does, and how he has worked in our lives. And the cross of Christ is something that allows us to experience experience kind of the full the full perspective of how we should relate to God. So very, very important. Okay, well let's bow for prayer. And if you have any questions, feel free to Come up and we can chat about them. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the opportunity to look at these truths. I pray that we would have a healthy, reverential awe of you. An awe that leads us to humility in our walk, a soberness in our walk, but also a deep and rich Rich, intimate love for you. Father, help us to be people that know you and enjoy you richly. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.