Why does the church exist? Let's go ahead and bow our hearts in prayer, and we will get started, and then I'm going to ask you the question: why did the church exist? What's the purpose of this institution? Who created the concept? Because understanding that is very important to how we function and how we relate to this body, how we view it. So let's pray, and then we'll get started on that topic Father, it's a great privilege to be called your people, to stand before you as righteous in Christ, and to be forgiven and to be cleansed. And to have the privilege of walking in fellowship with our Creator and Lord. I pray that this morning as we open our Bibles and look at many texts That our hearts would be drawn to understand the significance of these truths, that you would instruct us and you would teach us where that's necessary, and you would remind us where we have forgotten. And I pray that you'll burn within our hearts a deep conviction to be committed to you and committed to this institution that you have ordained, the church. We pray that it would be a profitable time, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. So the question, why did the church exist? What do you think? Why the why do we have this thing called church? Why is it important? Why the church? Don't all three hands up at the same time? We'll go right here. Go ahead. Evangelize. Evangelize. Good. Okay? Yes. Edification of the saint. Good. Anything else? Yes. Okay, to worship the Lord. Good? Anything else? Any other ideas? Okay, the things that you have mentioned are very good. What I'd like to do is I'd like to start out by looking at the statements that we have in our church constitution. So that you understand what is there, kind of the key elements, and then I'd like to break down that statement and I'd like to look at several different important concepts that fall into this question, why does the church exist? So first of all, our Constitution says this. The purpose of this church is the edification of Christians, Doris Basin, good job, and the teaching and preaching of God's Word, the salvation of souls. Good job, Ruth. Uh worldwide proclamation of God-saving grace. What's that one? Missions, very good. The promotion of godly worship. Thank you, Junior Hutchinson. Not to be confused with Hutchinson Park way up in New York. Okay, named after your dad, I'm sure. The administration of the ordinances of the New Testament. That wasn't mentioned, but that's very important. We're going to talk about that And the defense of the faith, once, and I think I would add the words, for all delivered Uh but the faith once delivered. What passage is that statement referring to? Anyone know? You. Very good. You, yes And uh he says we are to earnestly contend for the faith. And that is what that is an allusion to. So when we look at this this statement We see a couple of elements that really our attention is drawn to. The first one is preaching and teaching are being emphasized in that statement because he says it says the purpose is to edify Christians. through or by means of teaching and preaching God's word. We're gonna look at a lot of scriptures and talk about that concept. Two, conversions. Now when I use the term conversion really That word can be describing both when a person comes to faith in Christ and they pass from death unto life, they're saved, they're justified. We can refer to it as conversion, as Peter says. When he's preaching in Acts, he says, repent and be converted, that your sins be blotted out. We can also use the term conversion in the sense of our sanctification Talking about how a person is becoming more and more like Christ. So it really kind of covers both the area of evangelism and discipleship. Third, we have the phrase godly worship. Godly worship. And the topic of worship is a very important topic for us to discuss. There is a sense in which worship involves every element of our lives, and our lives are supposed to be lived as an expression of of worship to God, not just in the local church, but also in our daily lives. We could talk about worship in that sense There is private worship in the sense of I open up my Bible each day, I read it, I study it, I pray, I commune with God. There's the concept of family worship, where our family gathers together and we read the Bible. There's instruction, there's prayer, there's singing, and then we have what we call corporate worship. And that's when we come into this assembly, the local church, and we worship. And eventually in our studies, we're going to get into the concept of worship. We're going to kind of break it down. We're going to talk about some very important principles. Related to worship, and uh I look forward to that that discussion on another day in the future. Then we have observing the ordinances And we need to understand that the ordinances are a major part of our church worship. And unfortunately, in a lot of churches, that's something that is forgotten about. I mean number one, if you don't see people get saved, then you never see baptisms happen. Okay? That's a problem. If you don't observe the Lord's table regularly, you don't have that ordinance And when we talk about the early church, they regularly saw baptisms and they regularly practiced the Lord's table. They understood what those ordinances, what their purpose was What they meant and what they didn't mean. And so we will get into that discussion quite a bit down the road as well. And then the last, defending the faith. We don't adjust the faith, we don't create the faith, we defend it, we teach it, we expound it. In other words, there's a body of truth that God has given through his apostles and through the prophets of the Old Testament. And that body of truth we call the faith. And our job is to teach it. to live it and to defend it. And so those are the primary elements of that statement, which is an excellent statement that is in our constitution, so maybe you never think much about it. So let's break this down and let's look at a couple of these concepts in greater detail. First of all, truth one, the church exists to make and to build disciples. Turn with me in your Bibles to Matthew 28. Matthew 28. I think I asked this question the other week. I asked, was Matthew 28 given to individual Christians or to something else? And the statement that I made was it was not given to every individual, but it was rather given to specifically the apostles. And then by virtue of the apostles establishing, we could say, the doctrines and practices of the church, then it's given to that body. For instance, Doris, I don't think you'll do any baptisms at Anchor Baptist Church. So then how can you fulfill the Great Commission if you aren't baptizing anybody, right? Well, the the reality is you're a part of a body And we observe that ordinance as a local assembly. And so let's talk about the concept of making and building disciples of Christ. Matthew 28. Verses eighteen to twenty, he says this. Go therefore and teach all nations. And another way to word that is make disciples. And by the way, when he says, go ye therefore, in the original language, it's not actually a command, but it's actually the idea of as you are going. This is what you are to do. So he's not saying, okay, you guys need to go out. He's saying you already have this commission. You understand that as you're going out, these are the things that you're supposed to do So go and teach all nations, or we could say make disciples too, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. By the way, at some point we'll get into the distinction of Trinitary Doctrine. And I love this particular statement because he doesn't say the names of the Father and the Son and the Holy Ghost. This is the name, because he's referring to God as one with three distinct persons within the Godhead. Again, another discussion we'll get into. Then he says this, teaching them to observe all things. Whatsoever I have commanded you. Now notice he's saying, teach all nations, and then he says Teach them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you. Who are the people that he is saying to teach we could ask the question, who are the them, if you will? Huh? Oh no, let me read again and think think about what you're saying. Teach them. He's telling the disciples you are to teach them to observe. You misunderstood my question. Teach them to observe all things. Who are the them? The converts, what they mean. The converts, the disciples, if you will. How do we know who those disciples are? By virtue of what? Their what? Their baptism. So their baptism was their profession of faith. You know, a lot of times in our churches with things like BBS this week, And uh maybe we have an evangelistic meeting. We tend to think of the professions of faith of those Christians that, oh, this week so-and-so prayed and asked Christ to stay in him. We tend to think of it in that sense. But that is not how they thought of it in the early church. Their profession of faith was their baptism. In other words, when they had trusted Christ. That was a private matter that they had dealt with. And then they came to the leadership of the church and said, we have trusted Christ. They would ask them questions to understand if they understood the gospel, and then they would come before a group of believers, the recognized body, and they would be baptized. And that was sort of their public statements of faith. I'm not saying they got saved by their baptism. I'm saying that they made a statement about their salvation that took place by means of their baptism And so in this verse we see two things: evangelism and discipleship, making disciples and building disciples. Turn to Hebrews chapter ten, verse twenty-three to twenty-five. Obviously, this is a passage a lot of pastors like to go to regularly. Don't forsake the assembling of yourselves together, right? When the doors open, be here. That's what you'll hear. But sometimes we miss like the main point of the verse. The main point wasn't to say, I missed you on Sunday night. The main point was what I'm going to emphasize here He says in verse 23, let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. Does anyone know the context of this statement? Who is the writer addressing? What was the problem that they were experiencing or what were the circumstances? Can anybody suggest this? Yes. Trying to hold on and do the Saints of the Old Testament. Okay. But still trying to do the Old Testament. Okay. That that's a major part of it, but there's even more to it than that. Anything else? These were professing Christians, a part of the local church, who wanted to go back and kind of embrace the old covenant system. But what was the motivation behind them doing that? Why were they doing that? Anyone have an idea? They were feeling pressure, major pressure, from their Jewish communities. Okay? So we we we talk about peer pressure being good or being bad depending on, you know, is it your youth group or your school situation? Well, one of the things that should really strike us is the kind of pressure that people feel in very close-knit cultural communities Last uh yesterday I was up in Lancaster County uh visiting some friends who live in Amish country, and so we saw lots of Amish buggies, and uh we went to a uh An estate sale, I guess you could say, where they were um trying to sell stuff and there's an auctioneer. I looked really funny, actually, compared to everybody else. I was dressed like a normal American, but I looked weird uh at that place. My my beard was looking different than theirs and my dress was totally different. Wasn't wearing the same kind of shoes and their little hat and all this kind of stuff. I felt kind of weird. As odd as that might sound, I probably felt the way that they felt would feel if they went down to the mall in Annapolis or something like that. Um and it really hit me. Let's say somebody grows up in a community like that and they begin to realize that what their family is teaching is not biblical. What their church is teaching is not biblical. And all of a sudden, they decide I need to embrace the gospel. And there's like a little gospel preaching church in their community. Not a whole lot of them, but there is one. Because there's a couple of Englishers living in that community. What's going to happen to that guy? If he decides to start going to that church , can you imagine the pressure? Like he's totally shunned. His family who really loves him doesn't know how to deal with that. And they have pressure from their community to reject this individual. Well, you need to realize that in the Jewish community it was the same way And so these people were facing great pressure, and they're being tempted to turn away from the New Testament, the New Covenant church community. Which did not practice the Old Testament sacrificial system and the laws and all those things. And they were tempted to go back. They were tempted to go undercover, under the surface, and and the writer of Hebrews is saying, you can't do that You shouldn't do that. And so he says, hold fast the profession of your faith without wavering. And then he goes on to say this: let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works. And so those people who are in that place of pressure, they need other Christians to strengthen them and to provoke them to love and to good works, to encourage them not to abandon the local church, not to abandon the New Testament, not to go back to that old system and to become this undercover believer. Don't do that, he's saying Yet the pressure would be very, very great for them to do that. He says, do not forsake the assembling of yourselves together as the manner of some is. Some people have done this. And then he says, but exhort one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. He's talking about building disciples. These people have professed faith in Christ. But they are struggling in their faith. They are wavering. They are discouraged. They are considering to turn back. They're considering walking away from the truth And they need each other. Doris, I think you posted on Facebook one day. That little call analogy. That's a great analogy though, isn't it? It's a really good illustration. You take one hot coal and you put it in a bunch of cold ones and guess what happens? They all get hot over time. It happens. You take one out of all those hot ones and you set it to the side, it gets cold. And so the local church is very a very important part of our discipleship. And so the writer of Hebrews is saying, Don't forsake the assembly, exhort one another, and provoke one another to love and to good works, and hold fast the profession of your faith without wavering. Now go to Ephesians 4. I really love this passage because this is one of the greatest passages, one of the greatest texts in the New Testament that talks about the nature of the church and what the church does. Ephesians four eleven says, and he gave. Who gave? Right. Christ gave. We learned last time Christ is the Lord of the church. He is the shepherd of the church. He is the builder of the church And really all three of those concepts are kind of, we could say, summed up in that one statement, he gave. And then it mentions the gifts We could say the the the gifts that gave us the word of God, the apostles and the aprophets, the gift that brought the gospel to us, the evangelists, and the gift that shepherds us and teaches us and instructs us, and that's of pastors and teachers. But then he tells us the reason, the word for, for the perfecting of the saints. Now I have this question. If God has given to the church certain gifts for the purpose of perfecting the saints As a corollary to that, if you neglect that particular body, will you grow like you should? No, you won't. Okay? If logically God says for Bruce Hutchinson to grow in maturity, I've given him these gifts and put them in the body of Christ, the local church. Then Bruce, you cannot grow like God intends if you neglect that. I can't grow. You can't grow. None of us can can grow as God intends us. But does it mean that we can't learn Bible knowledge? It doesn't mean that we can't have a sense of closeness to God, but the truth is that we will not grow as God intended if we neglect this local assembly. He gave it to us for the perfecting of the saints. Another interesting statement, for the work of the ministry. Now, that statement has some implications. God did not give the leadership to do the ministry. He gave the leadership to equip the ministers. Did you catch that? Now I'm not suggesting that church leadership doesn't do ministry, okay? That's one of the gifts and that's one of the roles that they have. But that's not all the ministry. In other words, he says, I gave apostles and prophets and evangelists and pastors and teachers to equip you to do the work of the ministry. He then goes on to say this, for the edifying of the body of Christ. So the reason that God gives leaders to teach and to preach and to shepherd So that those within the congregation are edified and then are equipped to do ministry is for the purpose of edifying the body of Christ. This is interesting. When I serve in the capacity that God has called me to, there is an edification that I receive. I love to teach and to preach God's Word. It's my passion. And if I don't do it, there's something inside of me that doesn't feel right. Okay? And if that's if I wasn't that way, then I shouldn't be doing what I'm doing. There are things that God equips you with as well. There are ways that He has gifted you, and when you do that in the local church. Then you actually there's an edifying element to that for you. Maybe God has wired you to really serve and you love doing things behind the scenes You love organizing and working behind the scenes. If you don't doing that kind of a thing, you feel like you're just choking yourself Okay? Some people are very, very discerning, they have administrative gifts, and the reality is that if they don't have some kind of an outlet to those things, then they have problems. On the other side, you may have those gifts, but if you're not growing in Christ, you will not do them effectively. In fact, you will be very carnal in how you try to serve in that capacity. A person who's not growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus and is teaching may feel very fulfilled in that role, but what they're teaching isn't going to help people like it ought. And it's going to have a negative impact. A person that has the gift of serving or the gift of administration or those various gifts but they're not growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, the problem is they are going to actually do a lot of damage. And so those who teach are helping to equip those individuals so that they will minister and they'll do it in the capacity that God has for them, and ultimately the whole body is going to be edified. We call that discipleship. One of the ways that you are a discipled is through the preaching and teaching of the word within the local church. It's not the only way, but it is one of the ways. He goes on and he says this, till we all come into the unity of the faith. And of the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect man, the measure of the stature, the fullness of Christ. I could say a lot about that, but I'll continue in the passage because I'm gonna get bogged down too much. That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro and carried about with every wind of doctrine. One of the reasons that God gives the church is that we develop discernment So that when we hear truth, we understand it as truth. And when we see that something is in error, we can immediately identify that that is not true. And we can reject it. It is part of the holding fast to truth. And then he says at the end, but speaking the truth in love may grow up into him and all things which is the head even Christ. I want to encourage you, go to that passage in your own time, and I want to ask you to meditate on it and think about the implications. of that text because I did not even begin to scratch the surface of what could have been said about that particular scripture. I want to move on to a second truth and as I do that are there any questions or comments? Questions or comments? A major factor in why we exist is to preach Christ so that people who are unsaved come to faith in Christ. And so that those who are saved are edified and discipled and growing in grace so that they can minister in a way that is effective in Christ's honor. Okay, if no question, let's move on to truth number two. The church makes disciples by means of proclaiming the gospel. By means of the proclaiming and the gospel. I'm not sure what it is there. That's funny. I don't know what I did there. Okay, you understand what I'm trying to say. By the means of the preaching and teaching is probably what I meant. By means of the preaching and teaching of the gospel. I probably had that initially there and then I I erased it and put proclaiming and I didn't clean up my sentence. Okay. God makes disciples by preaching and teaching the gospel. Romans 10, 14. How then shall they call on him of whom they've not believed? Can a person trust Christ? If they don't know the gospel, can they? Will they trust Christ if they don't know the gospel? The answer is of course not. How can they call him whom they believe have not believed? How can they believe on him of whom they have not heard? And how shall they hear without a preacher? And when he talks about a preacher, don't think of this crusty old guy in the south who gets up and he's sucking wind and he's just preaching and shouting and he's beaten When he says a preacher, he means a proclaimer of the gospel. Okay? And by the way, everybody in this room can be a proclaimer of the gospel That's the men and that's the women, okay? Don't think that you have to get hot under the collar and your beans have to be popping out and you gotta be shouting and screaming in a camp meeting somewhere Okay? Some people think that's the case. But the proclaiming of the gospel might be in your living room. The proclaiming of the gospel may be in one of these classrooms after one of the sessions in BBS this week. The proclaiming of the gospel may be at your neighbor's house while you're sitting around their pool and watching your kids. The proclaiming of the gospel may very well be in the service to follow this Bible study time. But the proclaiming of the gospel happens in lots of different ways, in lots of different locations, some is with intensity, some is with compassion. It really depends on where that person is and their understanding of the gospel. The proclaiming of the gospel may be very apologetic in its nature. Perhaps you're talking to somebody in a classroom at your university. You know, you get out of class and something was said by the professor and you're walking walking away from that classroom and all of a sudden you get into a conversation. And they say, I don't believe in this God stuff. Not at all. I don't believe in it. I don't believe that God made the world. I think that's a joke. And they start talking to you about that and you're like, whoa, what do I do with that? Well don't get angry and hot under the collar. Think about how to give them good answers. Learn how to defend the faith. Help them to see the foolishness of their statements, the inconsistencies of their statements. So the church makes disciples by preaching the gospel. 1 Corinthians 1:21 says After that, in the wisdom of God, the world by wisdom knew not God, and it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believed. Now, he's not saying by foolish preaching. He's talking about something that to the world seems like nonsense The preaching of Christ on the cross to an unbeliever seems like a total joke. They say this is not intellectual. This is creepy. I don't think that this is something that's palatable to people. The preaching of Christ crucified and risen and coming again, that we are sinners and we cannot be reconciled to God apart from Christ alone to the world is foolishness, it's nonsense. But this is what God has ordained as the means through which He brings people into His kingdom. And we have to be committed to it. Truth 3 The church builds up disciples by taking up the means that God has ordained for our growth into Christ's likeness. I want to go through several different things. That God has given to the church as the means through which He matures and grows and builds people as disciples. So let's go through these one at a time. And if you have questions or comments, I would love to deal with those. First, the regular preaching and teaching of the scriptures. Let me ask you a question Are churches today becoming more focused on preaching and teaching than the generations before them, or less? Less. To what degree do you think? To what degree has that changed? Slightly, moderately, extensively. Extensively. Extensively. Okay. What are some ways that churches are spending less time in preaching and teaching? the music aspect where light and smoke and um a huge band and a draw people in that way but the music isn't really So it's it's uh it's a concert every week with a little devotional at the end. Yeah. Okay. Yeah, true. Not really on Yeah. Your best life now. If your best life is now. The one coming's not going to be good, buddy. All I gotta say. Think about the implications of that Yeah, feel good. You go to Christian bookstores and you will not find heavy, godly, um material you find a lot of a lot of feel-good. Um it's really psychologically encouraging but not biblically rich at all. Yes. Churches that have a lot of activities, the activities themselves aren't necessarily gospel oriented. Sure, yeah, that's true. That's very, very true. Yeah. There is a movement away from the church meeting for preaching and teaching more than once a week. Okay? You know it's interesting. The Bible never tells us how often we are supposed to come together and meet. It doesn't tell us that. Okay? So I cannot stand up and say if you aren't here three times a week, you're not right with God. I can't do that. Or four, whatever it is, I don't know. Sunday school, morning, evening. Yeah, I guess it's like four times. I can't do that. I can't do that. And and really be standing on biblical grounds. But there's a reason that over the course of church history there were more than one opportunities for people to meet. Do you realize how many times Spurgeon preached in a week? It wasn't once or twice. You know the reformers, some of them preach like every single day. They spent unbelievable amounts of time teaching and preaching. And volumes of works were written in past generations. The accumulation of sermons and lectures There's a reason that in church history we had all of those lectures and sermons compiled in huge volumes, but today we have sound bites on YouTube and Vimeo. It's because we have a very different mentality about what builds people. And we are becoming a generation that has a hard time focusing And that's really true. And so what's happening is rather than rather than those who are ministering and preaching and teaching saying, let's build people's ability to focus And let's give them meats and truth and doctrine, there is a tendency to say, well, if they can't handle it, let's not give it to them. And let's just let's dumb it down, let's simplify it, let's do less. And I want to encourage you, regular preaching and teaching is a vital part of your growth as a Christian. Yes. that though um and that we're not pushing against new creative ways to communicate this teaching and preaching because it may not be the same when we you know there's some ministries that dude teaching on YouTube in five minute videos. Oh, I'm not dogging that at all for it. Not dogging it at all. There's a difference between our primary mechanism of building people and we could say things that are uh tidbits that are helpful to people on the side. You know, I I do watch um YouTube clips of panel discussions and and five minute cli I watch those things absolutely. But but I'm convinced that that doesn't build people at all. Because there are concepts in the Bible that you cannot expound in five minutes or three minutes or two minutes. And so um not trying to uh be overly down on that, I'm just making the observation that if that becomes our primary diet, it's sort of like a person that rather than eating a balanced diet, they constantly eat You know, dove chocolates, which I've eaten a few too many of this week because of um the seniors luncheon that we had. But but um I love dove chocolates, but that isn't going to sustain my body You get what I'm saying? And so I kind of feel like um not at all against um some of the ways that we can communicate doing videos and and sometimes those things are very gripping, but what builds people It's the same thing that builds us physically and that's a healthy diet. Sometimes we substitute volume and blame volume So there's kind of this impression that unless you're sitting down listening to an hour and a half sermon, you're not really getting the the meat that you need. Sure. And you know, thinking about it from a biblical historical perspective Contacts. Um I'm really imagining that in this time rank, there probably wasn't a great deal of time just people weren't even literally. So you know there were simply that Christ himself would give lessons that have lasted more than two or three minutes. That's not actually that's not actually true. Um there was tremendous liter literacy during that time period And um it is true that in some cultures literacy was not um very well versed, but I mean the truth is that Koini Greek was Um extensively read and it was used extensively. But look at Paul. Um I have no doubt in my mind that Paul was somebody who was very long-winded. And I'm not saying that we should be here a long, long time. A lot of times if people talk too long, it's because they didn't prepare. You know, and um there are some people that have great content and uh you can listen to them for an hour. You really could. And there are others that you listen to them for 15 minutes and you're like, shut this off, this is a waste of my time And so, you know, it's true. There are some churches uh today that are growing and thriving that they regularly have hour-long sermon. There there are churches like that. Um in our in our in our culture today. So um you know generalizations you gotta be careful with that. Um I do get your point, but I think the balance of both sides I think I'm gonna be clear. Um I'm thinking about like to give an example, I frequently interact with people that don't have And so you know, there's certain in our area, we most of us have a degree, we've been done advanced studies, and so we can sit down and process you know systematic theology, Paul, and I think that the same thing. Paul was an Indian scholar. Some of the people that he was engaging with playing And in this quest to do this, I feel like sometimes we focus on that level of population completely overlooking you know the vast majority people who don't have that degree in education don't have that even that I'm not trying to communicate at all that we shouldn't do that. Yeah, but what I'm trying to say is that when we're creating a teeting description we have to remember that not everybody is coming from the same background understanding and the scholastic discipline is less capacity. Sure, that yes, for ourselves. Yeah, absolutely. Yeah, when you look at when you look at the epistles And then you compare that to Christ's teaching, the gospels, you're going to see a very different style. So God uses a lot of different styles, and there's a sense in which When you're teaching and when you're preaching, you have to kind of know your audience so that you don't leave out the person here Nor bore the person here. You gotta you gotta kinda like hit it all. And um you know in a lot of services uh preaching for a junior high boy might actually be the wisest thing for a pastor to do You know, it really is. So my wife always tells me. And when I was in when we were in Ghana, um there were people in our church that um were PhD kind people And we had some folks that um uh didn't didn't need to know how to write their name. And um you had to kind of consider that both of those individuals are in that congregation and um you have to be able to kind of help both of them. So yeah. Okay. Yeah, that's a discussion that could take a lot of time. Thanks, Tori. Uh proclaiming uh teaching and preaching the scriptures. And um I learned this over and over and over again. A lot of things in the Bible are a lot simpler. then we like to make the maps b. Uh we we tend to think that they're extremely complex and some things are very very simple. And um but there are some things that do have a lot of depth and there are a lot of questions and You've got to think about how to do it. So practicality is important. 2 Timothy 3. 16. All scriptures given by inspiration of God, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished. unto all good works. Obviously God gave us his word to equip us. In everything we believe in the sufficiency of Scripture. We'll get into that Uh at another time in greater detail. First Timothy four eleven, these things command and teach Till I come, give attention to reading. And by the way, that statement, give attention to reading. He's not telling Timothy, you need to go get your library and read in your library. He's actually talking about the public reading of the scriptures. And you know, those people didn't have access to the Bible like we do. When they came to church, it was their one chance to hear the Word of God being read. They didn't have books like we have. In fact, until the printing press, most people didn't have access to literature like we have. And even after the printing press, it took a long time before that happened So there was a lot of scripture reading in those services so that people could hear the Word of God and they may be even copying it down for themselves or they may even be trying to memorize for themselves. Meditate on these things, give thyself wholly unto them, that thy propheting may appear to all. Take heed unto thyself, unto the doctrine, continue in them. For in doing this thou shalt save both thyself and them that hear thee. Let me ask you, what does he mean? You will save yourself and those who hear you. your own wisdom rather than keeping the sight of the water. So when he uses the term salvation, you will save yourself and those who hear you, is he talking about getting justified or something different? Is Timothy an unconverted preacher in Ephesus? We need salvation? What do you say? Dave, you're on the right track. More about like uh You know not your own perverted path, right? So you try to lean on your own whistle that's when you're what do you this other talk about possible Apostasy as well. Yeah. Okay. What's she Okay. So what do you think there too? Potentially. He's got something very definitive in his mind. Yes. And I think if we pile on what Adam would say , remember very good time what some of the chiefest adversaries of Christianity were One was the thinking culture, the Greeks, the idea, the the agnostics, and then the TV ideas. That would follow along and try to to uh get the Christians to say if you follow alone, you accepted salvation by grace Salvated by Word's will. So if you dislike it then, it's not a self-bushic passage But you will save yourself from being lesser. Okay. Yeah, he's he's talking about he's he's actually talking about the judgment seat of Christ. And he's referring to the time period when Timothy is going to stand before Christ and give an account for how he had delivered in that congregation. And he's talking about how the individuals in that congregation are going to stand before Christ. And when they stand before Christ on that day, if Timothy didn't do his job, he's going to be rebuked. It's that simple. The final judgment of how a person's ministry goes is Christ. And Christ is going to say, well done, you served well in these areas, or Christ is going to say, you worked hard at your own thing. And uh there were consequences and here will be your consequences eternally. Here are the losses, here are the uh the things that you lost because of your unfaithfulness Here are uh the rebukes that I have. Uh Timothy was going to stand before Christ and he said, if you want God to commend you on that day and say, Well done, and here is your eternal reward for faithfulness. in my kingdom. Then any I'm not talking about how he gets into the kingdom, but the rewards that he will experience in the kingdom. He said, you have to be faithful. You have to preach and teach sound doctrine. And if you don't do that, the the people that are under your ministry are going to be deficient. And when they come to stand before Christ, while they are saved They will not have been faithful because they weren't built properly because you neglected your duties. So that's what he's saying. A second is this: the practice of the ordinances. I love this little statement in 1 Corinthians 11. He says, as often, verse 26, as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, listen to the statement, you do show the Lord's death until he comes. One of the major purposes. In fact, I believe the greatest reason That Christ gave us that ordinance of the Lord's Supper is because every time we take the Lord's table, we are being reminded A memorial is being presented in front of us of Christ's death and resurrection. And so as a Christian, when I get distracted in my my mind goes into the wrong places. When I'm not living a consistent life, when I'm being contentious, when I'm not being unified with brothers and sisters in Christ, whatever the situation, as my attention is drawn to the gospel And , it's proclaimed in this ordinance. There is a purpose that God has for me to do that, drawing my attention to the gospel. It's interesting, in 1 Peter 3. 21, he talks about baptism. And he says, the like figure, even baptism does now save us. He's not talking about baptismal regeneration here. The kind of salvation he's talking about is mentioned later on. He says the answer of a good conscience before or toward God By the resurrection of Christ. And that that word translated answer has the idea that there was some kind of a discussion going on. In other words, somebody says, I'm saved and want to get baptized. In my conscience, I know I need to be baptized and identified publicly with Christ. And those leaders who would evaluate that individual would ask them questions. Do you believe that Jesus Christ is God in flesh? No, I don't. Well, then there's a problem here. Yes, I do believe that. Do you believe that you can be justified? By means of keeping the law? No, I don't believe that. Okay. There was an evaluation. There was a question and answer. So when he uses the term the answer And then the phrase of a good conscience toward God, he's talking about the purpose of baptism. It was an evaluation of that person's profession of faith. It was a demonstration of what happened when they trusted Christ Old things passed away, all things have become new. They're trusting in a crucified Savior who has arisen and is raising them to walk in newness of life, and their conscience is cleansed The truth is that the ordinance of baptism and the ordinance of the Lord's Supper is an integral part in our growth as Christians. Because when we observe it, we are reminded of the gospel. We are hearing people profess their faith in Christ by means of question and answer. We are seeing a visible memorial reminder of the gospel. Our attention is being drawn to that. Very, very important. Third. Any questionnaire? Okay. Third. The discipline of corporate worship And uh I'll read to you, Acts 2. 41. Those who gladly received the word were baptized, and they were added to them about three thousand souls, and they continued steadfastly. And the apostles' doctrine, fellowship, breaking of bread, and prayer. The discipline of corporate worship, prayer, scripture reading, giving, congregational seeing, preaching, teaching Seeing baptisms. Those things are all a very important part of our growth and being built as disciples. And at some point when we get to the worship section, we will talk about what we call the regulative principle. And how we should be very cautious about doing things in the church that we don't have a clear biblical mandate or that doesn't flow naturally from what God tells us to do. Okay? We don't just do something Because we think it's a great idea and God never told us not to do it. We do it because God tells us this is what you do in the church. And so we'll talk a good bit about that in future lessons. Next. The establishing of mentoring relationships, and I love this. Titus chapter 2 he says this: speak thou the things which become sound doctrine. That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, in charity and in patience. So he says, Titus, you teach doctrine and truth. So that those who are more mature, not necessarily in their walk with God yet, but they're more mature in life, they're more seasoned in life, that they will be able to live in a consistently godly way And then that the aged men will teach the younger men to, and he lists a whole host of things. He mentions this about the ladies. He said, Teach the aged women that they may teach the younger women any week. And he mentions a bunch of things. Do you think that that teaching was in a formal classroom, or do you think it probably had more of an organic look? Just your opinion. What do you think? I think it involved people just interacting in daily life a bit together, you know I mean to put it in our uh our culture, it's like, you know, you go fishing with a with a younger guy in the church. And when you're fishing, you're talking about the things of the Lord and he's sharing with you things on his mind, you're sharing with him things on your mind. Or one of the ladies in the church is just coming and helping out one of the new mothers and just sits down with her and chats with her about some of the problems that she's dealing with as a new mother and questions that she has These are the kinds of things he's talking about. Mentoring relationships. 2 Timothy 2, 1-4, he says, the things that you've heard from me among many witnesses Commit thou to faithful men who be able to teach others also. This is mentoring, and we need that in the local church. I want to mention two very quickly, and that is encouraging personal and family worship and encouraging purposeful evangelism. 1 Peter 1. Sanctify the Lord God in your heart. Be ready always to give an answer to everyone that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. What is it that causes a person to ask you questions about the hope that lies in you? Yes. Absolutely. If you don't interact with people who are unsaved on a somewhat personal basis, do you think they'll ever do that with you? Nope. Absolutely won't. If your life is a total mess and you interact with them on a very personal basis, do you think that they will ask you? Questions about the hope that lies in you? No. You know, a major aspect of evangelism and disciple making is we have to interact with people personally. And we have to be involved in their lives. We have to let them into our lives. We have to be willing to have them into our home. and eat a meal with them. We have to be willing to go to their home when they invite us to do the same. We have to think of opportunities to interact with them in the community. As Christians, we should make purposeful decisions. To put ourselves in places where we can interact with unsaved people because we want to love their souls. We want to open up a door to give the gospel to them Very, very important. So let me give you some yeah. It's first Peter three, fifteen, sixteen. It is same. I'm I'm sure you're right, Bruce. First Peter three. Thank you for that detail. I have a couple of things in there that I need to To fix up. Very good. So let me give you some implications and then we'll go. Number one, we need to emphasize what God emphasizes, making disciples Two, trust in God's power to work through his ordained means, the word and corporate worship. Three, we need to see the local church as an essential aspect of our growth into Christ's likeness. Four. We need our children to see what goes on in the church. I could really camp on that. But one of the things that I'm really concerned about Is that in our culture we isolate our children from the corporate worship too much, far too much And um they need to see the Lord's Supper happen. They need to see baptisms. Because what that does is it gives you opportunities to talk to them about it They need to see what goes on in the church worship. You know, we encourage our kids, and this is more my wife to me, she really gets on this, but my kids take notes And for the little little ones who can't read and write yet, then it's like drawing a picture of what they're learning. Okay? Not a picture of like Santa Claus at Christmas time. Or, you know, a dinosaur, but a picture of what they learn. It might just be a cross or a Bible or whatever. But let's try to get our kids Thinking about what goes on in in in the in the local church. teening her listening guess kids like Karen did and the kids were her little kids were helping her with uh And I'm not saying, you know, it was just really cute. They were so excited about doing that. And like when we do lady fellowships, can we do fellowships in the church, you know? Uh try to team up things like that, these are all things that you can give your kids, your girls, employees or whatever, help with those things. And we we do it here, but You know, it's a lot easier to just send the kids to a little room and let them do their thing. It's a lot easier to be a lot quieter and you know, just And I think we've got to draw a good balance on it. And our church has tried to do that over the years. We really have, and we we try to do that. um where the kids and the and the teens they're exposed to the way the church functions, but they also have individual age appropriate things. But very important That we don't take the children away from what goes on in the church. And lastly, we need to make time for other Christians who are at different levels of maturity. We need to show hospitality in our lives so that we can have purposeful relationships, making disciples, building disciples.