Okay, last week we discussed uh what a healthy church is. And our first lesson was what is a church and how does that affect how I view it and relate to it. Does anyone remember some of the the principles or the observations that we had from Scripture last week about what a church is. Yes, Bruce. It's a body. Very good. Anything else? Yes. A people, not a building. Excellent. Anyone else? Please speak up when you answer questions so that we pick it up on the microphone here. But actually it it it does a pretty decent job. Though there's a huge echo in this room. Any other things that we remember from last week? An assembly of many things. An assembly, okay. What is Christ's relationship to the church, or what is the church's relationship? He is the shepherd. He is the shepherd. Very good. We are the bride. We are the bride. Okay, good. He is the foundation. He is the foundation. Very good. Um, how many of You have your notes from last time Okay, several of you. So there are a few words in there that you should be able to pick up. Heritage. Heritage, okay. Christ is the Lord of the church. We saw that one last week. And so what I want to do today is I want to pick up on a couple of the things that we discussed. The church is an institution. It's a body purchased by Christ's shed blood. It's under his authority. It's God's heritage. It's designed to grow in unity as it grows into Christ's likeness. We saw the term ecclesia, an assembly, a call. out or separated group. And we saw some specific characteristics of the church. Referring to all believers, we can use that term when we're talking about the body of Christ. It can be referring to just a local assembly And that would be the majority of the passages that we see in the New Testament. So these people are believers, they're formally identified with Christ through what? Ordinance. Baptism, excellence. At what point in their life do they get associated with the church with that uh identification? after they receive Christ. Okay. With good. So if somebody is uh a toddler, do you think it's really possible for them to understand the gospel and bear testimony to the fact that they have trusted Christ? No. So the point of our discussion today will not be to get into pedobaptism. Okay, but at some point when we talk about baptism, we will talk about the difference between infant baptism and believers' baptism. And maybe if you don't understand why some Protestant churches practice infant baptism, I will talk a little bit about that. Don't think that all Protestants believe that that their kid gets saved through baptism. A lot of Protestants really believe that it's an identification with a covenant community and at some point down the road they'll come to embrace the gospel and that's why they have confirmation and those kinds of things. But we'll talk about that, why we practice believers' baptism by immersion, and that will be a very interesting discussion, but it'll be down the road. United under the Lordship of Christ, united to follow Christ's commands. And then select biblically qualified leaders, preach and teach sound doctrine, make disciples, observe the ordinances, and attend to the needs of those within the body. Who is the Lord? Christ is. Who is the shepherd and the builder? Christ is. So what I want us to do now is I want us to get into some of the implications because that's where we left off last week. Last week we talked about some of the implications of Christ being the Lord of the church. And when we use the term Lord, It can be referring to the deity of Christ. In many passages, that is what it is. It's referring to Christ's deity. And it's actually referring back to the Old Testament concept of Lord. Whenever we read the Old Testament, we see capital L-O-R-D. That's actually a translation of God's personal name, Yahweh or Jehovah. But during the time that they did the Septuagint work, the people were afraid to actually write God's name, and so they used the term Kurios, and every time the the during the time of Christ, if people were reading a Greek translation of the Old Testament, they would see the term Kurios in the place of Jehovah, Yahweh. And so a lot of the passages in the New Testament So when we talk about Lord, we can be talking about a person's authority, meaning that they are the master and they have servants, or in referring to Christ many times, it's talking about his deity. And And really, the passage in the context will show you that. But we saw some implications. We labor to recognize only the Word of God as our final authority. We endeavor to make expositional preaching and teaching the property Primary diet of the church. We talked about that. Labor to emphasize doctrine in proportion to its clarity and emphasis in Scripture. We labor to diligently preach and teach the whole council of God, not to compromise worship. Partiality for the sake of convenience, and to keep one another, including the leadership, accountable to Christ. So those are some of the implications that we dealt with dealing with the Lordship of Christ over the church. question or comment before we get into the second section here. Or we could say the new material. Okay. The second statement is that Christ is the shepherd of the church. Let's look at some implications of Christ being the shepherd of the church. Let me mention some. And do you know what I mean by implications? Can somebody explain what I mean by implication? Yes. Okay, that's true, but that's not kind of what I was thinking of. Yes. Okay, yeah. So an appropriate application in light of a statement of truth. Does that make sense? So because Christ is the Lord, here's some practical applications of that truth. Because Christ is the shepherd, here's some practical applications to how we should think and what we should do. So, this concept of shepherd, number one, we should trust him to meet the needs and raise up the future leadership. of the church. Trust him to meet the needs and re raise up the future leadership of the church. Can somebody explain what I mean by that? Or what you think that I mean by that? Okay question, who is it that puts people into the body? Christ, the Holy Ghost, Holy Spirit. Yes. Okay. The triune God, if you will. Okay? Because all three persons play a a unique role in placing an individual in a local assembly. Okay? So God. God does it. Who is the one who gifts the individuals that are part of that local assembly? Okay? Yes, you can say it out loud. The Holy Spirit does. Okay? So a pastor doesn't look out over the congregation and say, Oh, I want Scott to have the gift of and he just gives it to him. He doesn't do that or oh I want to give Bruce the gift of and I give it to him. And all of a sudden Bruce now has the gift of prophecy or healing or miracles or whatever. Huh? The gift of submission. Leadership, administration, discernment, teaching, all those kinds of things. God's the one who does it. So we don't really pick out ourselves for a type of giftedness. God does that. So since that is the case, we have to kind of like wait on God sometimes to assemble. certain concepts in the church. We have to trust God to bring those people together. Okay? So all this really falls under God's providence and God's care and God's wisdom. A shepherd is somebody who takes care of a group of animals, sheep. He leads them around. He takes them to the place where they can get water. He takes them to the place where they can get food. protects them from those that want to harm him. Ultimately it's not a man or a group of men who are shepherding the church. It's ultimately God. And they are the under shepherd or under shepherds. Yes. And the application here is that sheep are dumb animals left up to their own ways to lead to their own destruction. So us being sheep of Christ, God left up us up to our own ways, we were pretty much We ourselves too. Yes. Good. I'm this is making me think of uh I'm happening to be reading step step and step aligning yes or something else. And because I'm kind of going through act and then going into wherever call is Yes. I realized maybe for the first time, but that's my father was working in about three or four weeks. Yeah, a very short time. And so then Paul had to leave because of persecution, agonizing over how is this church doing? And it's incredible to see God's word at work in that church. So it's just making me think of how it Yes, it's true. It's very, very true. That's a great that's a great statement. I just made a Ghana statement. It's true, it's very true. Have you ever heard me say that before? But the point you've made is an excellent point. That it's ultimately God who builds. And the point that you made is an excellent point as well, Scott, because if we rest on our own devices and our own wisdom, we're gonna be in trouble. This is why we have to be people whose thinking and values are shaped by the Word of God. We cannot be dependent upon our own wisdom when it comes to these kinds of issues. We really need the Lord to guide us in those things. And so we have the idea of dependence. Here. We trust God to meet the needs and raise up the future leadership of the church. Now that is not suggesting that we have no responsibility. One of the ways that God raises up leadership is we We actually teach sound doctrine and we have mentoring and we have discipleship and we train within the local church. But when we do those things, we're doing them ultimately because God commands it and God wants us to do those things. Okay, secondly. A second. We put more emphasis on Christ than on the men and the women who God uses in our lives. Now I'm not suggesting that we could care less about people that invest in our lives. That is not what I'm suggesting at all. We should appreciate the work that they do. In fact it says in Hebrews, it says, to appreciate and honor those who have labored over you And the Lord. Show them honor and show them respect. The reality is we do have a responsibility to say thank you and appreciate those who invest in our lives, but we can go from appreciation to a form of Man worship. Do you get what I'm saying? And this is very, very dangerous. Because all of a sudden there will be a time when we will we will be very discouraged. We won't know what to do because what happened? People change. People get sick, people sometimes move, all kinds of things can happen. And so it's not that we don't appreciate those who God raises up in our lives, but ultimately we realize that they are tools in the hands of the Lord. It's not about them. Then it's about him. A practical implication because Christ is shepherd of the church. Three, we rejoice in the fact that we will never be let down by God, no matter what men do or do not do. And I can't tell you how many times you hear this kind of a statement. When a Christian becomes very discouraged, what will they say a lot of times to the reason? Well, I was in this situation and this person did, and they make a statement, here's what happened. They handle the situation here and that was devastating to me. I'm not trying to make light of that because it's true it can be very devastating to a person, but ultimately our confidence is going to have to be in the Lord. When a man lets you down, he didn't let you down because God made a mistake. He let you down because ultimately he didn't follow the Lord in a particular area in his life. And so during those kinds of times, we have to keep pointing our eyes up to God. at him and say, he ultimately is my strength, and he ultimately is the one who is my leader and my guide. And so it's very, very important when we think of this concept of Christ being shepherd of the church, that we really that though God uses human instruments and they are important and they will let us down, they will do things that disappoint us, they will not do things that we expect. The reality is it's God ultimately who is the shepherd of the church. Well in the fa oh okay. We rejoice in the fact that God will never let us down, no matter what men do or do not do. God will never let us down. Mm-hmm. And that's what really needs to be driven home because we have certain expectations. of God and if He doesn't live up to our expectations, then we do feel that that point has to be worse. Yes. In practice, sometimes it is difficult. If we if we get our attention too focused on men or women, people who God has used in our lives, at some point they're going to let us down. And that is the best and the most faithful of humans. It doesn't matter who who it is, they can be the most godly and consistent person you know. There'll be a day when you look at them and you say, I'm surprised you did that. I don't get that Why did you handle that that way? Why did you come to that conclusion? Why didn't you do this thing? It's always going to happen. And so the Lord has to be our final confidence, our ultimate confidence Okay, a third implication. Because Christ is the builder of the church, we need to do certain things. Number one, we need to emphasize his methods for evangelism. What are God's methods for evangelism? One-on-one. One-on-one. Sure. Huh? Relational. Relational, yes. I had a conversation this week with a pastor in Baltimore City. He's been there a long time. When I first met him, he was younger than I am right now, and we were having a conversation, and he's like, Yeah, I just sent my youngest kid off to college. And we're all, you know, sitting down and talking and and um and it was it was a it was an interesting conversation and one of the things he said is You know, we used to do mass evangelism in our community, and we were just running and running and running everywhere. And he said, you know, we've done that for fifteen or twenty years. And the reality is that That hasn't worked. And I realized I need to focus on a community. I need to get to know those people. I need to rub shoulders with them. I need to go to their houses. I need to interact with them on a one-on-one basis regularly. And over the course of time, those gospel conversations will get more and more focused, and that person will begin to realize That this is true. And this has truly changed your life. And I need that. He was not saying don't pass out tracts. That wasn't his suggestion at all. But his suggestion was this. Real evangelism is probably going to happen over your dining room table. Real evangelism is going to happen with people that you have known for many, many years sometimes. Your neighbors, the people that you begin to have uh conversations with over time. God's method of evangelism, it's kind of interesting when we look at Christ's ministry. A lot of Christ's ministry was people just coming alongside and sitting beside him, eating meals with them, and he begins to he begins to teach at that meal. Even the feeding of the five thousand, it wasn't like Christ said, look, I have a crusade and a bunch of people came. The truth is that Christ is trying to get away from them. Not I mean he was. He was trying to get away and he was trying to have a time of refreshment and a time of Communion with his father in prayer, and what happens? All the people just come out to him. But the truth is that God's method of evangelism is a lot more relational than we probably practice many times And so this concept of hospitality, Christian hospitality is a really big thing. You know, consider having a barbecue in your community and getting to know some of your neighbors that way And striking up friendships with them and doing things in the community where you begin to actually have real friendships and relationships with people who are not believers Truth is a lot of Christians, they come to church and that's their network of friends, and then after that they go to their house and they never leave the walls of their home. And they don't interact with any unsafe people And that's really not healthy. And so we need to be people who are interacting with lost people. It's very, very important. Secondly, we need to emphasize his method of disciple making. How does God's word show us to make disciples? And when I use the term disciple, do you know what I mean by that? What is a disciple? A follower of somebody. A follower of somebody, yes. You know, the majority of Christ's ministry was spent with twelve guys. And they just moved around and they ate meals together and they talked together and they asked Jesus questions based on things that he taught. The truth is that a lot of discipleship involves just interacting with people on a personal basis. Don't view people as projects. Do you get what I mean? Don't view them as projects. Like, oh, you got saved last week. We're going to get you discipled and so let's get you in this program and then you have no don't view them as a project. View them as somebody that you really love and you want to get to know and you want to interact with. And as you as they come alongside you and as the opportunity to really get to know you as a person, they're able to see how the word of God has shaped and changed your thinking and all of a sudden you begin to inject those things into their lives. The people in Ghana that we had the greatest impact on are the people that lived on our combat class. And so a lot of these guys I mean one of the reasons I I love to garden, but what's funny is before I gave went to Ghana I never put a seed in the ground. Never. And one of the reasons I did that was because I said I need to connect with these guys. are so different than mine. I don't understand so many things about them and they don't understand so many things about me. And so we would just go out there and we would we would weed out an area, we would burn it down, we would prepare the soil and we'd work together and in that we would have all kinds of conversations. And we just became friends. I learned so much about Ghanaian culture, I I learned almost nothing in the classroom. It was with a friend who we just spent a lot of time with. And so we'd sit down and eat meals and just say, hey you guys want to come hang out with me with us and eat a meal together with us. And those are the people that we really got to know and they got to know us. And we were able to really invest in those folks. And we didn't view them as a project like, oh you can come and live at my house because I want to disciple you over the next six months. after that I'm gonna get another person in here. It wasn't like that. It was very, very relational. And so we need that in the church. We really need that in the church. When I talk about relational, some of our we have a lot of young married couples here. Some of our older married couples whose kids are out of college, they're on their own, you've kind of gone through that whole process, you've learned some things the hard way, some things that you learned the good way, whatever, the truth is that you can really invest. in those of those younger younger families and those younger couples. And so Christ's ministry or Christ's God's method of disciple making, it is very relational. 3. We need to emphasize his methods for reproduction of leadership. Yesterday in our men's group, I went to 2 Timothy chapter 2, and he says, Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that's in Christ Jesus. And he says, the things that you have heard from me among many witnesses, the same commits to faithful men who be able to teach others also, endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. How did Timothy become a leader? He spent time with Paul. They interacted with one another. They rubbed shoulders together. The greatest things that I have learned in ministry from uh uh we could say older pastors have been just talking to them about issues. You know, we go fishing together. Uh this week I went up to Pennsylvania with a bunch of um pastors and uh some missionaries actually. And um you know, in some ways it kind of blew my day. But on the positive note, I gleaned so much in conversations from the and we were all from you know different age groups. Like one of the guys, um, you know His kids are getting married and they're you know, he's a good bit older um than us and some of those other guys they they're they're just a little older than me and they're kind of in the same stage of life and and we just had a great time. Well the truth is that leadership group Growing comes in that way. People coming alongside. Lastly, we need to labor to identify where people fit in his church so they can get involved in what God has fitted them to do. Just throw this out as an example. A lot of times in the church we have things that just have to get done. You know what I'm saying? Just have to get done. So sometimes rather than putting people in ministry opportunities that they are well fitted for, we just fill a position with a body because we have to Anybody ever been pressed into a situation where you had to fill a position and you're like, I do not like this? I don't understand how to do it. I don't feel qualified to do it, but we have to do this. You ever felt that way? Yeah. And then we also have situations where we would love to do something, but We never get the opportunity. I remember when my sister was in high school. My sister loved uh she loved music and she loved dramatic production. That was that was her thing. Every single year my sister, and my sister was this very unassuming uh young lady, she seemed very quiet and very meek and mild, she would always audition every single year for the plays that they had at her Christian school. And you know what's funny? She never got picked to be in those plays. And whoever was m making the decisions always like, Oh, this is a very unassuming girl, she doesn't know what she's doing, she can't do this. I remember when she was in the choir, she was singing alto. She was singing alto. And um not that I'm trying to dog on anybody visit also, but but the truth is that she was kind of put in that place because people thought, you know, she really can't like really sing, so we'll just leave her kind of in this side. spot right here. You know what's funny? When my sister went to college her freshman year, it was a different environment and she tried out for Romeo and Juliet, which was the big dramatic production that they did at the college for their fine art. And my mom calls me one day and she's like, You won't believe this at all. Your sister is gonna be Juliet. I was like, uh, I don't know how I feel about that. I felt a little weird about that going to find out and seeing my little sister up there and everything. But something really hit me. My sister was extremely talented musically and in her ability to do those things. But she was never given the opportunity. when she was in high school. I mean she was in a Christian school, obviously it wasn't thousands of kids in the high school, and all of a sudden she goes into college as a freshman and she gets the lead role and there are all these we could say juniors and seniors who are studying this and they want to have a career in this. Well the truth is that in the church there are people that can do very well in certain positions, but because we never think about it, never look out for those things, they never get into those roles. And then we have others that we force into roles who really that is not their giftedness, that is not how they're wired, it is not what they do. Well you say, who is that on? Well it's on the leadership. Okay? But the truth is that you don't see those things until you interact with people. All of a sudden you start recognizing this person really they could teach. You know, this person they are are are very focused. focused on helping. This person has a lot of discernment. The reality is because Christ is the one who builds up the church, we need to labor to fit people into the roles that God has gifted them in for that church. That being said, we are going to have questionnaires from time to time show up in your bulletin so that we see some areas that you're interested in. Because a lot of times we don't even know how people have interests. And we want to begin to try to change that if possible. That's that's good. Yes. Sometimes people are in positions and they want them, but they really shouldn't be there either. Um with somebody who um son in law is looking for a pastor position. He wants to be a pastor and it has God has not worked that out. And in the end, you know, maybe he really shouldn't be a pastor anyway. Um so we have to make sure that we're not putting ourselves in a position to say that's extremely that's extremely confident in the area of mission it's extremely it's extremely common not confident common in the area of mission. A lot of times you'll have a person who really wants to go into missions. And those who really know them well should come alongside them and say, you know, you have you have a big heart and you want to serve the Lord, but it does not seem that that's how God has has has given it. you. And the and the reality is usually when people do that, um, they get out there and then they they they fall really hard and then sometimes people don't come alongside them and help them in that situation. And so it's really it's really tough. But but you you have You have drawn a a a a majorly important point that we have all kinds of situations. We have folks that get forced into roles that they really are not interested in at all and they're not gifted for. We have folks who they are well fitted for a certain thing or they could grow in that particular area but they never get that opportunity and then we have folks that are very much interested in a certain role and they shouldn't. But I would say generally when people are really interested in a role and they shouldn't be in it, it's not so much about gifts, it's about their character, a lot of times. I'm not saying always that's the case, but I think that that's often the case Yeah. And they need to grow spiritually some many times. So. Any other comments And and and I'll tell you, it's it's much more difficult to suggest to somebody I don't think you should do that, than it is to force somebody to do something that they really don't want to do. I think it's a lot harder to do the first one. It's gonna be taken a lot more personally and you have to really make sure that you really believe that that's the case. And you're not the only person that believes that. So Any other uh questions or comments? Okay, I want to get into a final thing, and I I think this one is is quite important, and that is this. The church is an organism. Okay? The church is an organism. What I mean by organism is it has life. Things that have life go through life cycles. Is that not the case? Okay? We're all at different seasons within our life cycle. From a baby here, uh we have teenagers, we have young adults, and we have those who have raised their families. Okay, we have the holes. season. And I want to read this to you. The body is made up of interdependent parts that must work in union or it will not function properly. First Corinthians 12, 13 says this. By one Spirit, we are all baptized into one body. And when we use the term, when he uses the term baptize, he's not talking about water baptism there. He's actually talking about the fact that the Spirit of God has placed you are identified You with a body, a group of people. We're all baptized into one body, whether Jew, Gentile, Bond, or free, and have been made to drink of one spirit. He says later on, now hath God set the members, every one of them in the body, as he hath pleased him, and as if they were all one members, where were the body? We recognize that life goes through cycles and I want to focus on that on that this morning. What is the most exciting point in a person's life, do you think? From the aspect of parents, it kind of is a burden of child, usually. Or maybe the birth of their first grandkid. How's that? Okay, the birth of the child is a really exciting time. Why is that? Because you have no idea what it's really about. That could be true. That could be very true. It's because the future is bright? for that individual. You know? It's bright. When is the most dependent time for a person in their growth? After verb. So I mean this involved. Infancy. Okay. Are there any other times that there's a lot of dependence? Dependence means physically or When when they're elderly as well. You know it's kind of interesting. We start being we start out by being dependent on our parents. And we go out of this world being dependent on our kids. It's kind of an an ironic thing. But it's it's true. When is the time that that that of life when people seem to have the most energy and the most optimistic view of life. When they're five. When they're five. When they're six. When they're young, right? A lot of that actually depends on the kind of home they grow up in. I mean, you know, if you know, not every kid grows up in the best environment, so when they're five or six they may not be the most optimistic. But let's say they grow up in a very loving home where there's a lot of security. You know, five, six years old. Boy, sometimes I my son, Joel, I have to just like send him to relax because he's gotta cool down. keep up with this kid. You say, well why are you why are you mentioning this, Pastor Dole? I'm mentioning this because local churches, just like people, go through life cycles. They go through life cycles. And And the most exciting time in the life cycle of the church, I think, is when the church starts. And by the way, this is when people get the most excited and most focused. When I was in college, I remember a guy came into ministerial seminar and he really pushed because his thing was church planting. And by the time he was done, everybody in you know ministerial seminar wanted to be a church planter. Because he talked about the excitement of it. He's like, you start with nothing and then after a couple of months, you have a little bit more than nothing, but then all of a sudden you start pe seeing people get saved. You start seeing people get baptized, you start seeing people get attracted to this congregation and say, be a part of what God's doing. It's an exciting time. You know, that is a lot like when a child is born, when a child learns how to take their step first steps, when that child's learning how to talk, when they stop teething, when they start sleeping through the night. when they get potty trained, when they start learning very basic skills, that's a really exciting time. You know, that's that happens in churches too. It's kind of interesting. At that point in a child's development, they are really dependent on their parents. Now they want to be independent, but they are really, really dependent upon their parents. So let me give you some observations. The birth of a church is one of the most exciting times. But there's a great danger during that time period. You know what it is? It's the failure to establish death. It's the desire to push people into leadership positions before they're ready. It's the establishing of unscriptural practices that down the road will limit the spiritual maturity of that congregation. You know what's interesting, as a missionary This is something that is really a big conversation for people. Because what happens is when a church starts, you immediately want people in leadership roles But then like two weeks later, after you get them in that position, you start finding out, oh, this guy's got a second wife and I didn't even know about it. We got a problem here, huh? Or you you find out, you know, something really crazy that you didn't know. Or this person is teaching and they have the ability to speak to people but they have no doctrinal soundness and they start saying wild stuff in front of the c the class or in front of the congregation. This is a really dangerous time because those exciting And it's a time that there's a lot of energy and a lot of growth. It's a time where very dangerous practices can be established in the congregation. You know, it's interesting. A child's whole outlook on life, a lot of it is actually shaped in its first couple of years of life. It's really amazing. But a lot of those things, if you if you read um much about those who study ch child's development, they will tell you that a huge part of a child's development that will affect them the rest of their life happens in the first couple years of their life It's really scary. We have a second stage, and that's the stage of youth. This isn't usually the most encouraging season in the church's life. And when I say youth, what I mean is this. just the newborn, but they're starting to develop. In fact, this is kind of the season that I came into in Ghana when I was working with the church there. It was a young church plant We didn't really have people in leadership roles, but we were teaching them, we were grooming them, we were trying to see can they fit into these kinds of roles. And then we got into that stage where we were starting to get them into roles but they weren't totally like turned loose. We're just coming alongside and we're working through things like that. Well that's how chur churches go through that stage as well. But again, the danger is you can fail to establish death. You can fail to push people, or you can push people into leadership before they're ready for that. There's a reason that Paul says to Timothy, lay hands suddenly on new man. There's a reason that he says a pastor should not be a novice, meaning that he is a new Christian. Or maybe he's been saved for a while, but he's not very matured in life. Because if you put that individual in that place, then there's going to be a snare of pride for that person. And so during the the early stages of a church, those are dangers. We then come to a third stage. And that's the stage of maturity. This is probably the most impactful season in a church's life. It has the potential To really impact its community. It has the potential to really impact a large section within, we could say, Christianity. It's not a newborn church. It's not a bunch of baby Christians. It now has some seasoned individuals. It has some people with death. It has some people with maturity. It has people that are not like twenty 25 or 26 or 28 years old, and they all got babies. But it's got people who have children that are now getting to the stage of even, you could say they're going to high school. This is a much more mature group of individuals. And by the way, it's interesting. Generally speaking, my observation, and and those who research this out will probably say the same thing is that church planters tend to be very young, and they tend to attract a very young congregation, and over time that congregation gets a little bit older, a little bit more seasoned, a little bit more mature, and it kind of moves into the stage of maturity. But there's some dangers that are associated with this date. The first one is pride. I remember when we used to meet in the gym at this local high school. You remember what that was like? Yeah, those are really exciting times. But look, we now built this wonderful building that we are in. Yeah, I remember we didn't even even have money to buy hymn books. So, you know, we just put it up on a screen and that's all we could do and we just did what we could and you know, we couldn't find people to play the piano. We actually used a a recording one of those him him recording things that We'd like push the button and then start playing and then we'd sing. We're past that. We have very gifted, we have very talented people. Like we can actually have special music now because formerly we didn't have people that could do that. Now we actually have people that can would be a blessing to the congregation, not like, oh, why don't we do that? Okay? Like we have young people who want to go into the ministry now. And we're actually training them, we're actually working with them. We're actually mentoring them. We see some future leaders potentially coming out of this church. We are attracting individuals who want to come to this church because they want to learn under our leadership. They want to be a part of this dynamic. When a church gets to that stage, they can be very impactful, but they are going to be very prone to pride. Very prone to, could I say, self-reliance. A dependence upon experience. I can tell you that when I first started preaching it, I remember the first message I ever preached. I never got through the whole message one time. And I think every time it was like within ten to fifteen minutes longer or shorter than the last time I'd done it, I never got to the end of that of that message. And I just practiced it and practiced it and practiced it. And when I got up There to deliver my first sermon, I quoted a verse, or should I say, I quoted the reference of a verse that I had quoted like Scores of times in preparation and I blanked. It's totally blanked. I was like, ah, I think I need to find the verse. And I'm fumbling to find it. I was terrified. You know? And that's how a person can be when they start out. But then they can get to a place they only have to study. They can just get up and they can wing it. They know so much of the scriptures from years of study that they can pick up a bulletin, they can scribble a couple of notes on the back of that thing, and they can get up and they can deliver a sermon. And nobody in the congregation knows. That's what they're doing. And they can do that. And you know what happens all of a sudden, rather than depending on the Lord like we did in the earlier stages, we we depend on our experience. We become proud. We become self-reliant. The truth is that when a church comes to that point of maturity, it can do more than it could have ever done, but it is in a very dangerous position. It's a different danger Than what it was in the early days. In the early days, it was establishing dangerous patterns. It was not growing depth in the congregation. It was getting people into leadership positions when they weren't ready. Now we have plenty of people who can get into leadership positions. Plenty of people who can teach, but they will be dependent on the Lord. It's a very dangerous, though potentially impactful, season in a church's life. So you ask the question, why do you mention that? Because since there's a danger, there's a remedy as well. And here's the remedy. If this aspect of church life is neglected, then the church is not going to endure in the future. The church has to get new life in its membership. The church has to get back on its knees. The church has to think of reproducing itself. And sometimes the most healthy thing that a church can do at that stage is get involved in reproducing itself. Sending some people out to plant a new congregation. That's the kind of stuff. Why is that? Because all of a sudden there are new people and who are in that baby stage again. And all of a sudden you're rubbing shoulders with those individuals. Not that everyone, oh We've arrived. We have maturity. We have experience. We have talents. We have gifts. But all of a sudden, we have people now in our congregation who are babes in Christ again. All of a sudden our congregation size has gotten smaller because we've involved ourselves into some kind of reproduction. The remedy to those problems is bringing new life into the church. Evangelizing. Disciple making. Being involved in church planting, those kinds of things. There's a third season that or a fourth season that I'll mention, and that is this the decline Of a church. The decline of a church. This is the result of failing to reproduce. The dangers are that churches many times become very pragmatic. Okay, we obviously are not growing at the same rate that we did ten years ago. So what do we need to change to get some people back in here? And rather than going to the Bible and saying, let's get refocused on the Word of God again. Let's get back to the main things of evangelism and discipleship. Let's get involved in the reproduction of this congregation. Let's get back on our knees again. Let's start seeing some new and young believers, people who haven't gone to that level. The church becomes complacent. The church becomes, could I say, pragmatic. And it says, let's change this so that we can get more people in. By the way, when you make changes, a lot of times you do get more people in. You know? But that change is purely pragmatic. It's not biblical. In the long run, God will not bless it. And there will be significant consequences. There's another possibility. People will become very complacent. Oh, God doesn't work in our generation anymore. We don't see people get saved anymore. People don't get discipled anymore. And so we just gotta accept that's the way it is. in the last days. And so we'll just accept that that's how it is. Let's hang on and let's just do what we gotta do. A lot of times people will become very uh self-centered They don't think about others at all. A very self-focused, and then ultimately the church becomes divided over time. You know what's interesting? This is where a lot of our fundamental Baptist churches are right now in our country. A very large percentage of them. You know, as a missionary on deputation, I traveled to lots of churches. And what I would see is that the congregations were all generally older people, people whose kids were now out of the home, their empty nest. There are folks who are of retirement age, and these are people that if you'd have seen them twenty five or thirty years before, they had a totally different outlook on the church life. There was an excitement, there was a zeal, and there was an enthusiasm. gone to a place where the things of the word had just gotten kind of into like this very settled mode. Well guess what happens when the church gets like that? It dies. It dies. In the UK, where um where now there are many, many empty church buildings that are And they're being used as community centers and all those things. There were once thriving congregations. Huge congregations. Yeah, very true. When Spurgeon preached, they had to like get tickets to let 's go. people been. And it wasn't just Spurgeon. Spurgeon was one among many pastors in London at that time who were having that kind of experience. But the truth is that those folks became very pragmatic, very complacent, very self-centered, and eventually those churches they declined. In fact, sometimes the most gracious thing that God does to a church in that situation is allows them to decline so that they're humbled. And so that they can refocus and reorient. Sometimes the church splits. I mean like most Baptist church plants are splits. But you know what, as as weird as that one might sound, that sometimes is actually ends up being healthy for those people because they're in a new situation and they have to kind of go back to that initial stage again. What is the remedy? The church has to refocus on the main things. Or God will chasten them and force them. To do that. We really need to pray that our generation of churches that has gotten to this stage will not be pragmatic, complacent, self centered and see nasty divisions, but actually will refocus and get back into their healthy positions. The ultimate outcome without a significant refocus is death. Congregations do die and um Uh Michael, one of the guys who's pastoring Ghana , spent a lot of time in in uh by the way he spent time in London because he was working on a master's there and he went to the Metropolitan Tabernacle You know what's amazing about the Metropolitan Tabernacle? That church is still going. And believe it or not, it's still very much along the same lines of what it was during the time of Spurgeon. But you know what's different about it? It doesn't look like it did demographically when Spurs was there. A lot of African immigrants there. There are a lot of uh Indian uh folks from India and Pakistan and all over the place. Because when they moved to London, that church reached out to them. And that church had to refocus. He was in a second church when he was up in Northern Ireland. That's a church that didn't have a pastor for years and years and years and still doesn't. And you know what he'll say? The only time we have many people in service is when all the people come to our community in the summer for a holiday. Apart from that, it's a dying church. He said in a few years they'll have to close their doors. And it's true I want to encourage you that when we talk about the church, the church is a body. It's an organism. It has life. It goes through seasons. And the reality is that the only way that a church will not eventually die is when if it begins to decline, it refocuses on the Word of God. It doesn't become pragmatic. It doesn't change things for the sake of convenience. It gets refocused on the things that cause it to grow in those initial exciting stages. And my prayer is that that's what God will do in our congregation And that's what God will do in many, many congregations right now that are getting into that season of their church life. Please, any questions or comments? We didn't get into lessons here, but that's okay. Questions or comments?