Father, thank you again for the opportunity to meet, and I pray that this morning as we open our Bibles and as we look at some very important uh details from this chapter that You'll help us to understand the significance of the details that are here. Help us to understand that what you say will come to pass. And we need to live sober lives as a result of um what you say. And we need to live sober lives in the light of the scriptures. I pray that you'll help us To understand these truths, help me to teach it effectively. I pray that the discussions that we may have will be very beneficial to our walks with you. Be with those who are not with us and know a lot of travels. um away for vacation and various other reasons. I pray that you give them safety and uh keep them uh in your care. And we pray for those who are sick. I pray that you strengthen their bodies that they might be able to be back with us very soon. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, 1 Samuel chapter 9 and I'm not going to read the entire section here, but we will kind of work through this entire section a little bit today. And the title of our lesson is this. First impressions are not always final. First impressions are not always final. A lot of times we get in our heads, we have a gut feeling about something. We don't know very much about it. We just have a couple of little details. And based on those details, we assume lots and lots of things. And then later on we come to find out that what we assumed was Way off. Have anybody ever had a situation like that? Okay? How many of you ever had a situation your snap judgment was exactly how it unfolded too? I think we've had those too. So We're not saying that we shouldn't make an assessment about what we see immediately, but we need to recognize to keep that kind of close to our minds that we don't have all the details yet, and what we think is going to happen may not necessarily happen. And we're going to look at that in the light of this passage. 1 Samuel chapter 9. Could somebody remind us last week what took place? What was the main theme of our lesson last week for Sunday school? Anybody remember? I'm not looking for a specific statement, just a general idea. Yes. If people were looking to have a case, they might have to have their own. Yes. Okay, they wanted to have a key. And who was kind of facing the rap because they wanted their own key? Samuel was. Okay. Now w was it true that Samuel had given them some reasons to kind of face their wrap? Yes. Yeah. What would the what was the kind of the reason of the catalyst there? Okay, his sons. So Samuel's sons were not godly men. They were taking bribes, they were kind of abusing their authority, and the people did not want those boys who are now men, they didn't want them to be their judges. But what was really the main part of the people about who would rule over them? What was their main desire They wanted to be like everybody else, okay? So they wanted to have a king. They wanted to have somebody that they could see, somebody that gave them protection. And, you know, we we kind of as Americans we buck against the the concept of there being a king. You know, that's after all that's why we're a country. We threw off the king, right? Well, if you were living in those days, you wanted a king because the king basically was a sense of security. And he was the one that made sure that somebody else's king didn't come and destroy your land Didn't take away your crops, didn't destroy your city, didn't take your wife or your children. And so having a king to them was a very, very important thing. It was a sense of security In a lot of ways it was also a sense of national pride. I say national ethnic pride. So our king's bigger and better and tougher and richer than your king is. And so they wanted to be like the other nations They wanted a ruler that they could kind of come around and say, This is our national hero. They wanted somebody that would provide them protection. And by the way, one of the things that the nation of Israel experienced during that time of the judges was there was this constant cycle of the other nations and those other cities and those other people groups coming and just decimating their land. You know, I I think about how frustrated I was I get if uh a deer walks in and decides to start eating some of my produce. Like I wouldn't like that very much. Well what if the deer is not a deer and instead it's actually your neighbor? It comes in and like decimates your entire field. takes it all to himself and says, I don't care that you worked on this. I'm going to take it anyway. Well they had experienced this for generations. The nations around them were coming and just destroying their fields and wreaking havoc And they said, we want to be like them. We want somebody to defend us. We want a national hero. We want to worship like they do, because obviously what we have isn't good enough. And so what does God tell Samuel to do in that set of circumstances? Does he say fight them and don't you dare give them what they want? Give them what they want. And that's a lot of times not the way that we would think we should respond. I mean, in a situation where someone's being stubborn, we you know our justice system says We're going to demand that you do the right thing. And there comes a point where that demand is just, I mean, Samuel was going to die eventually, and he couldn't enforce it anyway. So God said give them what they want Well when the people uh find out that they're gonna get what they want, how do you think they feel at the moment? They probably feel a little bit what A little liberated. Like who are finally getting what we want? This is a great thing. But one of the things that God tells Samuel is they said, you give them what they want, but before you do You lay out in no uncertain terms what is going to happen as a result of what they're getting Why did God do that? Is it because he's just like he's a spiteful individual and says, I just want you to know that you're going to suffer. Why did God do that? Remember I mean a lot of us when somebody wants to do something and we say that's a bad idea and then what we suggested would happen happens, we go, ah, don't do so. Well, show listen to me. Maybe next time you'll learn. We kind of take that approach. Is that what God's doing here? Or is there maybe something else there? You can guess. It's either a yes or no. How many say yes? God just wants to tell them how it is so that. I told you so. Is that what he's doing? Or how do you say no, that's not what he's doing? Okay. Billy, you raised your hand and said no. So in the same way that a parent warns a child because they love Yeah. So really what it comes down to is God wants there to be a context for them to understand why the things that are happening are happening. In fact, it's interesting. This morning I was I was reading in Deuteronomy and it was talking about God's covenant with Israel, and he says, if you do what is right, here's how I'll bless you. And if you reject my law and reject my authority, here's what's going to happen. And it's a terrible section of Scripture. I think one of the most terrifying chapters in the entire Bible, Deuteronomy chapter 28. And when I'm reading through that section and he's describing the kinds of things that will happen in Israel if they reject God, I'm sitting there going, I have seen That when people make bad decisions, these are the kinds of things that fall out. And the commentator made this statement. He said, when people have rejected the Lord and they're experiencing the hardship of their decisions Because they'd have rejected God, they don't have the ability to recognize the cause of what's going on in their lives And that's what's so terrible about it. What God is doing is He's helping them to understand here is the cause Because you did this, this is what will happen. And when it happens, they can go back to those passages, they can read them, and they can go, okay, this is exactly what God said would happen. So that's really what's going on there. So with that in mind, There were people who probably didn't believe that what God was saying was true. Would that be a fair assessment? Mm-hmm. Yeah. I mean it's yeah. Well when you stop and think about it. But it's been several years since they've left Egypt. They have not been under a king. You have new generations that have never lived under the thumbprint uh bondage like they did in in Egypt. Sure. And so they're not yeah, they don't get. They don't get it, exactly. So I'm going to start with this verse, Proverbs 1813. He that answereth the matter before he heareth it, it's folly and shame unto him. Very important proverb. I think that there were people that when Samuel said, here's what's going to happen, they said Whatever. I don't believe it at all. It's not going to happen like God's saying. It's just an idle threat. In fact, to emphas to intensify that, I want you to see the kind of person that becomes the first king, and I think when you see the way he's described, you'll see that the people would have even been more convinced That that was an idle threat. 1 Samuel chapter 1 verse 9 says this. There was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abel, the son of Zawar, the son of Bekra. I'm sure I didn't say those right, but I tried well. The son of Aphia, a Benjamite, a mighty man of power, and he had a son whose name was Saul, a choice young man He had a son who uh who was goodly, there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he From his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people. Skip down to verse 15, it says this. Now the Lord had told Samuel in his ear a day before Saul came, saying, Tomorrow, about this time, I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be the captain over my people, Israel that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines. For I've looked upon my people because their cry has come unto me. And when Samuel saw saw Saul, the Lord said unto him, Behold, the man whom I spake of thee This same shall reign over my people. Now, these are very interesting verses, and I'm rather than reading through the entire chapter, I'm just going to kind of tell you How the Lord brought Saul to meet Samuel. Okay? Samuel did not go out to meet Saul to find him. When God sends Samuel to get David, he says, I want you to go to Bethlehem. And when you go to Bethlehem, you're going to meet this family. And when you go to meet this family, I'm going to tell you who's the person that's going to be the next king. So Samuel follows God's instruction. He goes to that place and he sees all the all the brothers of David go through and he says, Well God hasn't Said yes about any of these. Do you have any others? Well yeah, there's one. He's out in the field. We'll bring him over. Okay? This is similar but different in the sense that Samuel doesn't go out looking for the king The king, whether he realizes it or not, is coming to meet Samuel. So can anyone tell us how that arrangement took place? What was it in God's providence that caused that meeting to take place? Yes. Saul's father lost some livestock. Yeah. He went in search of it. Somebody suggested he go to Samuel Wiseman. Yeah. Yep, exactly. So he just he laid it out right there. Saul's dad loses some animals and when those animals run off he's like Saw why don't you go and find them? For three days. For three days he looks for those animals. Now I don't know how many of you sent your kid out to two projects and 15 minutes later it's like So when did you stop working on that again? Oh, that was 13 minutes ago. Saul, he stayed at it for three days. And after three days, he basically said, I think that my dad will be more worried about me being gone for three days. But it will be for the animals that are gone. So I think it's time for us to turn around and go home and just tell him it's a lost cause, Dad. The animals are gone. Well, the servant who's with them said, well, you know, there is a prophet, a seer, a man of God, who lives kind of in the area where we are. Why don't we go and meet this man and see if he can give us some direction as to where the animals might be? After all, he's called a seer. That means that if God reveals things to him, maybe he could tell us And Saul goes, well, we don't have anything to give him. Like, so can I uh can I have your services please, sir? Tell me where to find those animals. Well, the charge will be. That's kind of the way that Saul was thinking of it a little bit. But the truth is that there was sort of a custom there. If you're going to meet somebody and inquire of them, then there's some expectations as to how you should dress them. And the servant goes, Well, we actually do have some money here and let's pull it together and let's go and meet the man. And so that's what they did. And so really what's interesting is God and his providence was working to bring Saul to meet Samuel. And it all started with some stubborn donkeys running off. It's kinda kinda funny, isn't it? Um nobody on the day that those animals disappeared thought Wow, God's about to do something great in our lives. But that's exactly what was going on. And God's hand was in those details Well, I would summarize this section by this statement. God is moving the narrator of 1 Samuel to record the detailed picture of the man God has chosen to fit Israel's selfish wishes To emphasize that their first impression of the king will not be accurate. So obviously this is scripture. The Holy Spirit is moving the narrator to write these details down. Every single detail that's recorded, it's actually really important. So what family he comes from, the town that he lived in and grew up in the way that he relates to his dad, the persistence that he shows in looking for these animals, the way that the conversation goes down between his servant and him, and then him and And Samuel. All those details are important. God wanted them there, and I think as we look at the passage, we'll understand maybe a little bit as to why. God wants us to interpret our events from his perspective. So, how can we do that? Well, let's begin with some questions about the passage. The first question is: why did God give Israel a king? We kind of already answered that, so I'm not going to spend much time there. Basically, the people said we want a king. And they didn't just say we want it once or twice, they were extremely persistent about it, and God finally said, Go ahead, I'm going to give you what you want, but it's going to be exactly what you want. So the kind of king that I'm going to put over you is going to be the kind of king that you would want. If they were going to do a national election and they took all the potential guys that could run for king, they didn't do it in those days that way. They would have picked Saul. And we'll see Wiley would have picked Saul. Because he looked the part of being a king And in some ways he had some pretty noble qualities, though untested at the time. Question two, what kind of king was God going to give Israel? Let's look at a couple of the details. First let's look in 1 Samuel 8 verse 22. It says, the Lord said to Samuel, hearken unto the voice and make them a king. Samuel sent the men of Israel, go every man unto his city. When he says hearken, he's basically not just saying go get him a king, but listen to the kind of king that they're demanding. The kind of individual. In other words, when God is making this come about, He's going to be making it come about as the people would have wanted. When they see Saul and they say that's the new king, they're like, this is really good news. We couldn't have done any better than this. That's the idea. Two, God was going to give them exactly what he predicted. Look in verse 9. Hearken unto their voice, howbeit, yes, solemnly protest unto them. And show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them. Now, can you imagine this? When God is going to send Saul, or send Samuel, or send Saul to Samuel, and then tell Samuel that he's supposed to know. This is a complicated thing to say. When he does that. He's already told the people what the guy's gonna do. Like, so I mean like like let's put it into this kind of a perspective. So you're about to get a new job. And God sends a word to you from somebody and says, just want to let you know that this is the kind of boss you're going to have. And they lay out like all these terrible things. And you're like, I don't care, I'm going to take the job anyway. Oh really? That's what he did. You know This is the kind of person you're about to marry. Lays it all out and says, that's what they're going to do to you. I don't care, I'm going to do it anyway. That's exactly what he did here. In other words As they were looking at Saul, they should have been thinking, so when is he going to start doing all that stuff that Samuel said he's going to do? That's not on their mind though. They're not thinking that way. They're thinking, idle fret, life's gonna be real good. We're gonna move on. He solemnly protests. Three, God would judge them by giving them what they wanted. Now this is not in this text, but we go to Romans chapter one. And I I go to this passage often. Because this passage really indicates how God deals with people when they resist him and when they are stubbornly going against the information that God has given them. In Romans 1 eighteen it says this The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness, because that which may be known of God is manifest in them. Now that little statement is really important. The way that God will deal with people in this passage, in hardening their heart, not so much hardening their heart, but removing his restraint. And pushing them in the direction that they want to go is a direct result to the fact that the information that they have, they will not act upon So if I reject the good information that God has given me and I say, I don't care, I'm just going to do what I want, well, that's a very dangerous thing to do And so these people have a knowledge of God and they hold the truth. It's right there in front of them. But instead of embracing the truth, they push it away and they reject it. They say, I don't want it. Says this, they became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish hearts were darkened The idea is that when you have truth and you suppress truth and God responds by pushing you in the direction that your heart is so inclined and pressing. Then you're going to become more darkened. You're going to have less information. You will be able to process what you see even less than you did at that point where you were initially rebellious. Later on in the text it says God gave them up to uncleanness. through the lust of their own hearts. You know, when people do very evil things, they don't do them because God put them in their heart. They do them because God let what was in their heart come to the surface. He lets what's already going on inside press them to do the things that they do. Listening to the radio this morning. And they were talking about uh what people do when they find a wallet. And it was a really it was interesting. It was actually a study that they did. And this this individual, uh, well individual, they it was a study done by a lot of individuals. They took wallets, they put stuff in it, and they put money in it, and then they would leave the wallet in certain places and then they would they would take it to somebody and say, I found this wallet. And then they would give it to them and then they would see what happened. And the the the they didn't say like They didn't give all the details. They just said we've learned from this study that in general people are very good and they they turn it in. And they said, now not in every culture, not in every place, do people equally handle this the same way and depending on how much money is is in that particular wallet kind of determines how people deal with it. And oddly enough, they said the more money that's in the wallet, the more likely it is that somebody will turn it in. And this is what the guy said. It's because people don't make a decision as to what they're going to do based on whether or not they can get an advantage. They basically make the decision based upon what the threshold of their conscience is. In other words, if I think stealing five bucks makes me a thief I'll steal four, but not five. Okay, that's that's what he was saying. So a hundred bucks seems like a lot of money. I'm not gonna take a hundred bucks because that would make me a thief, but you know, five or ten I mean, eh , what's the big deal, right? So the conclusion was people are generally really good And I thought, well, actually the conclusion should be that everybody's got a conscience, but everybody's also got like a threshold. And so if it's within the threshold, I'm gonna do it, because I don't feel bad about it. If it goes over the threshold, then I feel guilty about it and I won't do it. It's not that people are all good. It's that we're image bearers who have consciences. But we also have this battle between right and wrong. So, question three, what kind of impressions would the people have had of Saul initially? Let's get into this a little bit. I'm going to look at this both on the positive side and on the negative side. The negative side is actually They're actually details that you probably would not have processed if you were living in the story. The positives you would have processed, and you'll see what I mean by that in just a few minutes. So here's some positives about King Saul. First of all, I'll make this statement. Saul's not trying to manipulate his way to become the king, and God's providence, God moves him to that place. You know, there's nothing more irritating to people than watching someone who is a peer who is vying for power and you see them making their moves, you know? So that conversation is not genuine at all. It's about making a move to get power. That gift right there is not about giving a legitimate gift that you know you're being kind and benevolent, but that's a power move. You're trying to move your way to the top. That really irritates people. Am I correct about that? It bothers people. All right? When you see it, you go, that's so sleepy. I don't like that. But when somebody gets promoted and they didn't do that, we go, you know, maybe that person should be in that place. That's how Saul was. He wasn't vying for power. He wasn't knocking on Samuel's door going, hey, I hear that there's going to be a new king in Israel. What do you think about me? He didn't do that. He didn't go to his friends and say, hey, you know what? Why don't you go talk to Samuel and tell him that I'm a really good guy? Like, I'm taller than everybody else, I'm stronger than everybody else, I'm a very persistent person, I have good qualities, I'm respectful. Go and tell him that I'd be a good candidate. He doesn't do that Now, looking at how he lives the rest of his life, you might have thought he'd do that. But he didn't do that. So here's some details. First thing that we find out about him is in verse 1. There was a man of Benjamin whose name was Kish, the son of Abel, the son of Zerwar, the son of Bekaroth, the son of Iphiah, Benjamin, a mighty man of power. What does that verse tell us? I mean it tells us a couple things, but like what's the overarching, like most prominent thing that stands out to you about that that statement? Uh sure. He comes from a family that He comes from a strong family, you know what I mean? Yeah, he's got a lineage. Like, when you think of this guy and you think of his family, you go, These people are tough folks, you know what I mean? Like he had a reputation. People knew that this guy's dad and his granddad and his great granddad, these were tough guys. And the fact is this, whether we like it to admit it or not, we really do bear the resemblance of our family. Okay? A lot of the qualities that we have. They do flow from our parents. And so you got a dad that's a hard-working dad, and you got a granddad that's a hard-working granddad, and great-grandpa that's a hard-working grandf Father, great grandpa, you know what? It's very likely that you're gonna have those kinds of qualities Because you grow up in a house like that. There's an expectation that carries it. And so that's a very positive trait. He comes from a good, solid, strong stock. Two. First two, I'm going to read this. He had a son whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and a goodly And there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he. From his shoulders and upward, he was higher than any of the people. What do you take from that one? He went to the to the high school and he was every girl's crush. Not that high schools in those days. But everybody's like, that guy is the one that I want to be on my side. You know, we're gonna play a game, he's gonna be on my team. If if there's a what? Yeah, well literally, yeah. Like let me stand in a box so I can look at you face to face. He was strong, he was good looking, he was tall, he was powerful. I mean when you think about this guy, it was sort of like he's the one guy in the high school like, well that guy's gonna be like either an NBA basketball player Or he's gonna be some kind of professional athlete, or he's gonna, you know, be a movie star because obviously he's strong, he's talented, he's got everything going for him That's the way the guy looked. He's described as choice, as handsome. There wasn't anybody that you would meet that looked like this guy. And so in an election, he would have like He would have been the guy. You know, I mean, you remember what school elections were like? It was all about popularity If you're like two candidates, that person has good character and that person's popular. Well let you know. This person gave out a lot more candy. He's definitely a good choice. 3. Verse 4, I want you to look at this passage. He says, He passed through the mountains of Ephraim, passed through the land of Shalasha. They found them not. Then he passed through the land of Shalem. And there they were not. He passed through the land of the Benjamites. They found them not. And another portion of this chapter it says, he searched for three days. What does that tell you about this guy? He's diligent, you know. I mean lots and lots of people would have said, okay, when it's dusk I'm done man. I mean like I'm not gonna look for them tomorrow because they're gone. So I'm gonna go and look for them today if I find them and I you know take them home. If I don't find them then You know, find a place to sleep tonight, then I'm going back home. I'm not going to go for three days. I didn't bring any food with me. I didn't prepare for a long journey. I mean three days in those days was probably traveling eighty or ninety miles. That's a lot of walking. That's a lot of persistence. It's asking a lot of people, have you seen these animals? And he didn't find them. But what that tells us is that he was a pretty persistent guy He was honoring to his dad. He obeyed his dad. He felt this sense of duty. And the truth is when we look at Saul's life, we will see that that persistence is something that he demonstrates over and over and over again. Unfortunately, later in his life, it was that persistence to try to kill David. Okay? Like I threw a spear at him once, so I'll just do that again a few times. You know, he's he's willing to ignore what's going on with the Philistines because he wants to kill David. That persistence, that body of persistence, is a really good quality when it's channeled in the right direction. At this point in life, it was channeled in the right direction. Later on we'll see it wasn't. Verse 5 When they were come to the land of Ziff, Saul said to the servants that was with him, Come and let us return, lest my father leave caring for the asses and take that thought of us. He's thinking about his father's concern. Even at this point in the story, he doesn't say, well, you know, it's been three days, we've done enough, let's go home. He's like, you know, dad will be worried about us more than the animals, so let's go home. Even the way that he describes it, it doesn't seem to be about him. It seems to be about his dad. Interesting. And he was careful to follow the appropriate customs of greeting the prophet. I talked about that a little bit in verses seven to ten. It could be that he's trying to pay for the service of the prophet, okay? But it could just be that he's trying to Show appropriate social custom. It's like if I come to your house, say, hey, come on over. And I say, well, can I bring anything? I mean that's kind of the idea of what of what he's doing there Verse 20, he was diligent. He says they were lost for three days. And it appears that he has a pretty humble view of himself. Verse twenty one. Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? And my family the least of all the families of the tribes of Benjamin? Wherefore they spake thou so to me Now, I think it would appear that he wasn't of the smallest family in the tribe of Benjamin. And some people would say, well, he was kind of showing a false sense of humility. Almost like he's trying to get something, and so he's making himself it's it's sort of like, okay, I know I need to apologize I don't really think that I need to apologize, but I know I'm demanded that I need to apologize. So let's see how I can craft this just right so that the person will feel good about it. I didn't necessarily think that's what Saul was doing here I think he really doesn't view himself as this mighty person. He has a fairly uh humble view of himself. And that may have been his natural disposition. When they're looking for him, what's he doing? He's hiding. They're like, where 's this king that you You've anointed. And they can't find them, but he's hiding in the straw, you know, looking for a needle and a haystack. Saul was the needle. All of those qualities are very positive. But I want to ask you a question. Are those positive qualities godly qualities? I want to ask that question. Yes. Well when you talk about the qualities, I saw that you know intelligence versus stuff. They're the same qualities that they manifest themselves Yeah. So I I can't call them godly qualities, I can just call them qualities that can be a lot of people. Yeah, exactly. So, you know, there are certain like character traits that we all have. Like some people are just naturally more compassionate, some people are naturally more persistent. Some people are naturally more, you know, willing to take risks and some people are naturally more, you know, think through things before they take a step. But that's how we are naturally wired. And the thing about that is all those qualities are neither good nor bad until they're motivated for a certain cause. Do you understand what I'm saying by that? In other words, I can be a compassionate person. And that compassion can be used to really encourage a person in desperate need. That compassion could also be used to encourage someone to do a really bad thing. Okay? The fact that I have this persistence and this tenacity about me could be something that pushes through tremendous obstacles to accomplish very good things. And so when I come up against that that press and I'm bumping my head against the wall, instead of backing off and quitting, I just I keep pressing. It's a good cause, it's a good motivation, I break through that barrier, and something very good is accomplished. Another person who is really being stubborn and rebellious involved in a very evil thing when they come against that press, which could be God Stopping them, resisting them. It could be people who love them or godly people or saying, don't do this. And they say, no, I'm going to do it. And they just blow right through it. Well, the same quality being used for evil, it's being used for good in another sense. In other words, Saul's quality, his disposition as a person, those things were untested They had not been shown to be good or bad at this point in the story. And so they have the potential to be used for a lot of good. I mean some people frankly are very they're whimsical They're very gifted. They have the ability to draw a crowd and people are attracted to them. And those qualities, God can use them in a positive way. That same quality can be used for terribly Terrible evil. And we see this all throughout history. So Saul's good qualities, we could say, are his natural displanations. The things about a discipline. Dispositions The things about him that are kind of inborn, they're part of who he is. But we don't know at this point in the story if they're going to be used for good or for bad. But if you're looking at a king, what do you assume about those qualities? Perfect man right here. He's got it all. He's got the look. He's got the diligence, he's got the mentality, he's got it all. He's the perfect king. But he was far from it. He was far from it. For sure. But let's look at the negative qualities. Overall, the children of Israel would have been thrilled with their new king. He looked the perfect king, but his true character was not yet tested. And these tests would later reveal the true character of Saul. First of all, I want you to think about some of these details. Verse 1, it says this There was a man of Benjamin. What do we know about the tribe of Benjamin? Anything come to your attention? Anybody in here left-handed? Wow, we got a lot actually. We've got several lefties. You know, if you're you know if you're playing baseball, you you know, lefties are They're good to have on the team, right? You know, if you're an artist, a lot of left-handers uh tend to be artistic, uh very talented in those ways. Um it just so happened that the lefties in Benjamin were good fighters. A lot of lefties are good fighters too, right? In the boxing world and stuff like that. Well these guys could handle a sword amongst the best in Israel. They were also a very morally corrupt group of people. Not left-handers, okay. Sorry, Dave. Being left-handed has nothing to do with being morally good or bad. But this group of people Sorry, I hope I didn't make somebody angry. I'm gonna get a lot hook after. No, no, no, no, no. These guys, these Benjamites Were they fierce warriors, but they were also a very morally bankrupt group of people. The hometown that he comes from is very interesting. In fact, I would encourage you, not before you go to church, but maybe this afternoon. Well, maybe tonight. Read this story tonight. Don't read it before church. I feel like you need to take a shower. Judges 19 to 21. Okay? I'll kind of give you the gist of it. There was a guy, he was a Levite, and um He had a concubine. You want to call her a wife, I don't know like what the qualification would have been in those days, but an indication that he wasn't a morally good guy, okay? Basically she wasn't a real good gal. She ran off and she was I'm faithful to this guy. And he just kind of left her for a while. She went and lived with her dad. And at some point he decides, I'm gonna go and I'm gonna bring her back. So he goes and he meets with the family and he talks really sweet to her and she decides that she's gonna come come back with him and and she'll be his wife again. And the father lets him stay for a few days and he finally goes, you know, enough's enough, I'm gonna leave because I don't think that my Plan was to stay here for a week. So on his way back he stops in a certain town. The town is Gibeah. And in Gibeah, his plan is to stay in the public square at night. Just sleep under the stars. And an old man came to him and said, I wouldn't do that. It's like, why not? He's like, well, this town's uh got some bad people in it. Really? You can stay with me. So he does. And that night a mob of very evil men come to his house and knock on the door and say, We want you to send your visitor out because we want to rape him That's that's that's the story. And the man goes, Oh don't do that. I have two daughters and this man has his wife, his concubine. You can take that. Does that sound like any other story in the Bible? Where did this kind of a thing happen? Does anybody remember it? Sodom and Gomorrah. It's almost exactly what happened with Lot. This old man is doing the exact same thing that Lot did. Now you want to talk about completely evil. And they ended up sending this guy's wife out there. And those men brutalized this woman the entire night. And she died. And after that event, I'll let you read the story to know, he basically sends word throughout the whole land of Israel and says, we need to We need to get these people who did this terrible thing and we need to execute them. Justice needs to be served. And you know what the city of Gibeah did? They said, you're gonna touch these guys. They're with us. And so the entire city fought against the entire nation. And believe it or not, they held their own for quite a while. But in the end of the story, the the the Israelites who came out against the town of Gibeah pretty much slaughtered all the men of the city You say that's a horrible story. It is. And I I I tell you, if you read the story, it's much more graphic than I'm telling you here. You say, why do you why do you tell us that? I'll tell you why. Because Saul was from Gibeah. That was his hometown. Okay. Just putting that out there, guys. It would be like the king is going to come from Sodom. Okay? In other words, the reason that that story, that that event was recorded for us, was not just so that we could read this unfavory story and go, whoa, things are bad in Israel. It's so that we would realize that things were so bad in Israel that the king that is going to rule them, that's his hometown. That's not a good quality, is it? The highest caliber individuals in that city are going to be people who have a very warped mindset about life, okay? They're willing to put these two girls out on the streets to be abused by the men of the city. Like that's not clear thinking, is it? Okay They know that that city is so corrupt, it's not safe to sleep in the public square And that's the town that Saul comes from. And you know what's very interesting? When you start seeing Saul's life, you're going to see later on that he reverts back to a lot of the mentality of his hometown. A lot of this bar barbaric attitude that Saul will have has a lot to do with the way he grew up and where he was raised. And that is a very serious thing for us to consider. I don't think the children of Israel thought too much about that, though, as Saul was standing there, head and shoulders above everyone. The choicest of his hometown Next, we move on to this quality. But I'll just leave it there. Question four. Was God's prediction going to come true? And the answer is, of course it is. It's impossible for God to lie. Samuel is a true prophet. What he said is going to come to pass. Now, as the children of Israel are watching this this event unfold and as they're going to see Saul come up and And Saul is really going to demonstrate himself to be a strong leader in the early stages of his time as king. And we'll get into some of that stuff on another time. For the people rally around Saul and they're excited. And in their mind, there was something that was going on like, is all this prediction really going to happen? The answer is absolutely would. Don't judge the matter before it plays out. Because if you do, you may be very wrong Question 5. What important truths are illustrated in the passage? I want to lay out a couple of things in our closing. Israel's first impression would not be their lasting impression of Saul. Saul looked like the perfect candidate to be king, but his true character had not been tested and revealed. When people sin, they think that they've gotten away with it, that they'll really they did choose better than God. They've not. Don't allow external circumstances or ex or external circumstances or qualities to deceive you into the way that things really are. I will say this a lot of times when people are faced with a serious moral decision You take this step and you're going to go this way, and you take this step, you're going to go this way. And where those two roads lead is very, very different. God says do this. God says don't do this. And they're in that dilemma. And somebody goes, you know what? I'm going to go ahead and do this one. When they make that step and they make that decision, initially they may think that they have they've gotten one over on God. Things are at rest now, things are better off than they used to be. I like this new life Well folks, the end of the story isn't there yet. And when they choose Saul, they're here and they're glorying in where they're at, but they don't know that there's going to be a day when Saul is a monster. And he is destroying his people. He's ready to kill his own son. His most trusted advisors are terrified of him. He spends years chasing David, a national hero, because he wants to kill him. And it's his son-in-law for crying out loud. And you go, where'd he go? The fact is that when people make that decision and they become so subtle that I have pulled one over on God, they're wrong. So don't allow yourself to be deep by that. Next, evil people can look really good for a time. You know, I think some sometimes folks don't like to use the term evil people, but let's be brutally honest. There are evil people in the world, folks. Bottom line, they are. They're evil people. They're consumed with their own ways. They'll do anything they can to accomplish what they want. And they don't care what it costs. And there are evil people out there. And for a period of time they can look very good. Next, evil people can prosper and appear to be getting around the consequences of their actions. Yeah, one of the reasons that Christians sometimes get very discouraged Is that they say, here I am, I'm doing the right thing. I'm trying to serve the Lord, I'm trying to obey him, I'm trying to be faithful. It seems like all the things that are happening in my life are just crushing me. And look at this person over here. They're living a ridiculous life. As if God doesn't exist. And they're having fun. They're enjoying it. It's not fair. It's just this isn't true. God's ways don't work. Folks, that's not true. That may be the way it is for a time, but that's not the end. Next, it can appear that what God has said is not going to come to pass, but it will. And lastly, remember people like Haman and Joseph. God is always in control, working in the details of our lives, in the lives of those around us. Let's trust him, obey him, wait patiently for him to fulfill. His great purposes in our lives. When Haman was one day away from being hanged on his own gallows that he had created He had made it as high as he could so that everyone could see his enemy die. Like, you want to talk about the nasty guy? He is at the highest moment of his glory. I mean he really is. He's going to be in he's invited by the queen He's going to get to eat with the queen and the king and in his mind I have reached the pinnacle of life. And when he reached the pinnacle, the way down was really hard and really fast because it would be tomorrow. That's really tough. I mean, when he was walking to the palace, in his mind, he had reached the highest point. And he had. But things were going to turn like that on the dumb. And the next day, he'd be hanging on the gallows that he made. The next day, he would be walking his enemy and saying, here's the man that the king desires to honor. And you go, how in the world did that turn so quickly? Because that's how God works. But if you're watching the story, as one living in the story, at the the days leading up to that time, you would not believe that that was what was going to happen. You would not have believed it. But God knew it all along You look at the story of Joseph and you go, his brothers hate him so much that they want to kill him In their mind, it's a better idea to just sell them as a slave, and whatever happens, happens. And if they're living through the story at that point, You're looking at this young man going, Wow, this guy's future is really pitiful. But by the end of the story, it's not that way. And God works that way. That's why we walk by faith. Because we walk by faith trusting that God does things the way that He says. He orders people's steps, for good and for bad. You move down this road, there's an end result there. You move down this road, there's an end result there. And it takes time for the process to unfold. But God doesn't Proverbs 10, or Psalm 10, I want to close with these couple little verses. Psalm 10 and 3 says this: The wicked boasteth of his heart's desire and blesseth the covetous. Whom the Lord abhoreth. The wicked through the pride of his countenance will not seek after God. God is not in all his thoughts. His ways are always grievous, and thy judgments are far above, out of his sight. As for all his enemies, he pocketeth them. He has said in his heart, I shall not be moved. I shall never be in adversity. There are people that live that way, folks. I want to encourage you, don't be one of them Psalm twenty fifty-two says, Why boasteth thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? The goodness of God endureth continually. Thy tongue despiseth mischief like a sharp razor working deceitfully. Thou lovest evil more than good, and lying rather than speaking righteousness. Thou lovest all devouring words, though thou deceitful tongue. God shall likewise destroy thee forever. He shall take thee away and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place and root thee out of the land of the living. The bottom line is as people rage against God's authority, they are setting themselves up for a very hard fall. And so we need to trust God and do what's right. Let's be careful how we view life from the perspective of truth. What God says stands and will come to pass, let's be careful that we don't become like Israel, who are stubborn, choosing their own way. And let's learn to trust God to settle matters in his own tongue. Any questions or comments here?