Okay, this morning we're going to deal with a very important topic. We've been going through Baptist Distinctives, and we're coming to one that I think is very important and practical for us to deal with, and that's issues of conscience. When we talk about Baptist distinctives, the Baptist distinctive is individual soul liberty Can somebody tell me what we mean by individual soul liberty? Or perhaps the way that you understand that statement, individual soul liberty. Frank? I think maybe you like uh whatever is big as in cut. Good. That that that that statement will be made in this passage? Yes? Or individually fashionable values. Not necessarily to each other on issues of conscience? Yes. Very good. Uh any others? Yes? Um we cannot be coerced into following a religious um Um set of rule in order to be set. Okay. Anything else? Yes? I've always seen it as things that are explicitly laid out in the body. Bible are up to each believer to determine based on the Bible whether they're acceptable or not. Or one central authority to say that This is this, this is that. Okay. Yeah, very that's that's very well stated. So we are individually responsible. When we talk about soul liberty, basically what we're saying is We answer directly to God on issues of conscience. And issues of conscience are a very delicate matter, and we're going to get into a very specific situation that Paul is dealing with with the church at Rome. And I think it's important that we look at all of what Paul says, because no matter where you are on a conscience issue, whether you are on the more strict side or whether you are on the more lenient side You have a responsibility before God and to your brother and sister in Christ on that issue. It's also very important that when we come to a discussion like soul liberty, that we are honest about the issue. I think a lot of times Christians will take areas and put them in the category of soul liberty. They don't actually belong there. Okay. There are some things that as we become more lenient as a culture We begin to open the door to certain practices that we really should not. And people will say, well, that's a conscience issue. But you know, we all remember when we were kids watching uh Was it Pinocchio and Jiminy Cricket and he sang the little song, Always Let Your Conscience Be Your Guide. And I remember one time I was sitting down with my my son Joel and I said, Joel, I have a question about that. Should your conscience always be your guide? It's like, well, no, it shouldn't. I said, good, it shouldn't. And we're going to talk about the fact that your conscience can become worked. One of the reasons that we are not to violate our conscience is because once we do that, then we get to a place where our conscience becomes worked. it no longer is able to see things as they actually are. And we're going to talk a little bit about conscience. So with that in mind, let's go to Romans chapter 13. And it's a long passage. And We're going to deal with every single verse in this passage, probably not today, but just for the sake of continuity, I'm going to read through the section. And then we're going to get into it a little bit out of time. Romans chapter 13, we're going to start in verse number 12. The night is far spent. The day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying. But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lust thereof. Now, there's a reason I started there, because that is part of the discussion. I think sometimes we fail to recognize that when we discuss soul liberty, we start with the fact that we're supposed to live holy lives. The whole discussion of soul liberty is not about license. It's about how we relate to one another when we have disagreements. But all of us as Christians have a responsibility to live holy lives We have a responsibility to put to death those fleshly passions that are antagonistic towards God and are detrimental to our our the health of our walk with God We then come to chapter fourteen, verse one. He says this. Let him that is weak in the faith Or him that is weak in the faith, receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations. One believer For one believeth that he may eat all things, another who is weak, who is weak, eateth herbs. Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not. Let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth. For God has received him. Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? To his own master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall hold him up, for God is able to make him stand. One man esteemeth one day above another. Another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind. Now let me pause for a second. I don't want you guys to fail to miss that there is a very specific situation going on in the church. So before I get into teaching it, I want to ask you what's the problem based on those verses? What do you think is going on? He's talking about eating herbs, he's talking about eating meats. He's talking about someone who's weak in faith. What is he talking about? The meat shambles that were offered to the Roman gods and then they were sold cheaply in the meat market. If people would go to the meat and find this kind of meat and take it home. Well , people were thinking. Okay. We have two we have two examples in the Bible where there was a a disagreement about meat. This one's actually different than that one That's the 1 Corinthians one. And that's dealing with meat that has been offered to idols. And that's for another discussion. What it actually meant that it was offering to idols. But this is dealing with a little bit different situation Anybody know what this situation is? He talks about the steaming days. That should give us a clue of what's kind of going on here The synagogue day versus the first day of the week. Okay. So what kind of a controversy are we dealing with? Jew Gentile. Alright, very good. That's what we're dealing with. We're dealing with a Jew Gentile controversy. So we're talking about things like eating meat. That is not allowed there under the Mosaic Covenant. We're talking about the Sabbath day. And when we talk about Sabbath day, please understand there wasn't just a Sabbath day, there were Sabbath days. There were Sabbath years. There were feasts and festivals that we could also view as Sabbath days. So we're talking about the entire mosaic system That is really being analyzed and debated here. And here's my question. Were these Christians obligated to follow those feasts, those festivals, those Sabbaths, were they required to follow those Jewish customs at this time? Yes or no? No, no. They were not. Were they forbidden? This is important. Were they forbidden to observe those things? No, they were not. So please don't miss this. If they're not forbidden, nor are they obligated, that means that they have legitimate freedom in that area. So this is not something that God says you cannot celebrate the Sabbath on Saturday anymore. You cannot eat pork. He's not saying that, nor is he saying you have to eat pork You have to stop observing a Saturday Sabbath. You have to stop going to the festivals. If he had said that, then it would be morally wrong for them to do those things. Okay? We have to keep that in our minds because that's a major part of the discussion. This is an area of complete freedom. It's not commanded, it's not forbidden, it's not obligatory. That's the point that's going on. We then go to verse 6. He that regardeth the day regardeth it unto the Lord. He that regardeth not the day to the Lord he doth not regard it. He that eateth, eateth to the Lord, he that giveth For he giveth God thanks. He that eateth not to the Lord, he eateth not and giveth God thanks. Now I'm gonna stop there in our reading of the entire section. Because I want to get into some details that are really important. And I want us to think through this issue. Because if we're going to understand this issue of soul liberty, then we have to understand what Paul is dealing with. We've got to understand why he's dealing with that. And once we deal with that information, then we gotta go into principles that are applicatory right here. And then we come to how do we deal with the kinds of issues we deal with? Because nobody in this church to my knowledge, feels guilty when they eat shrimp. They might feel guilty because of how much shrimp they ate, but they don't feel guilty because they ate shrimp. But there are other issues that I think we do have, and they're very significant issues. So, section one, we need to understand the background. Let me get into this a little bit. The first thing I want to talk about is the concept of case law. You know, the way that we have our laws here in our justice system is different than the kind of legal system that they had in the Old Testament. If we were going to study law, we would have to walk into a library and we would see volumes of books full of laws. Now, when we come to the Old Testament, do we find buy-ins of books dedicated to laws? We do not There's a reason for that, because under the Jewish system, they had a case law situation. So it's kind of like this. I'll give you an example of it, and you can actually see practically how this works out. Go to Deuteronomy 25, verse 4. Deuteronomy twenty-five verse four. When somebody gets it, can you please read that particular verse for us? Okay, good. Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn. Okay, I have a question. What if you don't have an ox? What if you're using a donkey to do similar work? Do we need a new law for that one? Well, if we're under the American code system, we do. We do. Because in the court of law somebody's gonna say, Well, the law says an ox This is a donkey. They're not the same animal. Case closed. And you know what? The judges say, yeah, you're right. There's no law that says anything about a donkey. So what do they do? They go ahead and they write a law about a donkey. And there's another guy who comes in and he's got another situation. It's not an ox, it's not a donkey, it's a different kind of animal Okay, under the Jewish system, it was not a focus on an ox or on corn, because someone might say, well, we weren't treading corn, we were treading wheats. We were crushing grapes. We were doing something different. That's the way that our legal system works. Theirs was not. The point was this. If something has worked for you, you have an obligation to take care of it. That something doesn't necessarily have to be an animal. It could be a person. And let me give you an example of what I'm talking about. Go with me in your Bibles to First Timothy chapter five. This will be very interesting, will it not? First Timothy five, somebody read verse seventeen. But the owners that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially they who labor in the words Continue verse 18, please. For the scriptures sayeth, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that trayeth out the corn, and the laborer is worthy of the Hold on a second. That law doesn't say anything about a pasture. It talks about an ox. I kind of feel a little bit like personally offended that Paul has just compared me to an animal. Should I feel offended? No, because I am an ox, right? No, it's because of the case law situation. We had a work day yesterday and we could either confirm or deny that truth based on how much work was accomplished. No, the reason The reason that that law applies here is because the law was meant to teach a principle. If you have an ox that does work for you, you feed the ox. If you have sheep that you're taking care of and you're getting wool from those sheep, you feed those sheep. If you have a dog that's watching your house, you feed the dog If you have an employee who's working for you, you pay him. If you have a pastor who's ministering to you in the word, then you need to make sure that he's financially taken care of. That is what we call case law. So we don't need ten different laws for ten different scenarios. We have one law that's teaching one primary principle or or or truth, and from that we can apply it to lots and lots of different situations. This is what we call principle. You know, just because the Bible doesn't explicitly forbid a certain practice Does not mean that it's something we can do. For instance, I think we can all agree that we shouldn't be using illicit drugs, right? But we don't have any statement about marijuana, about heroin, about methamphetamines, about LSD, about marijuana. None of those things are mentioned in the Bible But there are lots and lots of principles that when we take them seriously and we apply them, we say, you know what? This is a forbidden activity biblically. Because these principles directly apply to this kind of a situation. And so this is very important. Just because something's not explicitly stated does not necessarily mean that it's an area of freedom. Because if the Bible was written in that kind of a way, we wouldn't have a Bible we could hold in our hands. We would have A whole library that we would have to call our Bible, and then we would go and we'd have to pick out all these individual little sections So it's important for us to understand the concept of case law. We then come any question or comment on that on that point? But you just come to a second a second concept in that system. There were two covenants that these people had lived under. Okay, they're living at a time period when some of them had grown up under the old covenant, under the Mosaic Law. There were Jews. perhaps at Rome, that had been under obligation not to eat pork in their youth when they were little kids. The fact is, the transition from the Old Covenant in the Old Testament to the New Covenant in the New Testament happened in the AD 30s Well what if somebody was born in AD fifteen or AD ten? They were born under the Mosaic Law and they had a responsibility as Jews to follow the Mosaic Law. So what happens after you've lived as a child or as a young adult under the Mosaic Law, and then you come to a point where now you're free from it? You think that your conscience just automatically accepts now I can eat shrimp and now I can eat pork bacon, you know, those kinds of things? Does your con your conscience automatically accept that The answer is of course not. There are certain things from when we grow up. They're not necessarily issues of moral right and wrong, but because of the kind of household we grew up, the kind of regiment that we grew up in, we would feel guilty if we woke up after five thirty. Anybody like that? No. Okay. Okay, maybe there's nobody that that's that's the idea. But but the whole point is that there are things that become conscience issues to us, not because of the Bible, but because of the kind of house we grew up in. And by the way It's not a bad thing to to have been brought up in a in a in a home that really instilled good, solid work ethic and principles and all those things. But it is possible for an area to be an issue of conscience when it's not necessarily an issue of Bible. You a I I saw yeah. We're not upset. We used to make our lives miserable for good reason. Now we don't know all the reasons, but um that's what I struggle with because each law has its purpose. And does the purpose go away? Or do we need to further realize the principle behind the wall and then further exercise that principle? You know what I'm saying? Yeah, so what you're getting into is is a discussion about how we interpret Old Testament. And um That that is a is a very complicated discussion. Okay. Um what I will say is that when we talk about something you know, some of those laws I don't think we're meant to instill anything other than to to make it distinctly different between the Jews and the Gentiles. Others most certainly were meant for a reason and we actually see them restated in the New Testament or we see them applied in the New Testament. I think that there are a lot of a lot of laws that we look at today as moderns That to us seem very odd, very, very strange. And and I'm thinking particularly in areas of marriage custom. They don't make sense to us. And we we really I hear people be very critical sometimes of some of those laws, and what they don't realize is the purpose. They don't understand that if you walked into a culture where you had a dowry system, some of those laws would make complete sense But because we don't have a dowry system in the United States, they don't make any sense at all. And um some you know, some of them the way that they looked at preserving a family's honor, the way that they looked at providing for a person who um was in a financial difficulty now. If particularly a a woman who was dependent on her husband to take care of her. There are a lot of laws that they don't make sense to us today because our culture is so different. It doesn't mean that those things are are weird. In fact the truth is if we could go back and understand the culture We probably say, you know, that makes really good practical sense. That makes great sense. I mean, here's an example of a laws throughout. There's a law that says if you have a daily a daily wage person, you have to pay him his daily wage at the end of the day. At us it's like pay a person every single day, what's the deal with that? Well they didn't have credit cards back then People live hand to mouth and they were living day by day. If you took their cloak as uh shorty on some kind of a business venture that you'd make, you needed to give it back to them at the end of the day. Why is that? Well because they're gonna be cold. That is their cloak. I mean there are a lot of different laws that When we study them out and understand what's going on in the culture, they they make good sense. And A lot of times people don't do that. It takes a lot of time. You've got to do a lot of reading. You've got to do a lot of cross-referencing. Sometimes living in a culture that's similar to that makes some of those things make sense too There's a whole lot of them I get into, but I won't do that here. Yeah. Just real quickly, we're looking at the clash of two cultures. Something that that Paul has had to address constantly over and over, and we have these Jews who are separate mosaic ways And yet Peter, when he went to Cornelius , God revealed to him that anything and everything was good to eat. And so, but that was that was years before Paul was writing here And so there's that clash. We have a Western mindset. We're a few thousand years removed. What you said about the culture differences, what they were under is this Still we need to keep that in mind as we're as we're studying this scripture. You know, Peter in in what chapter 9, chapter 10 Cape and Cornelius, he'd never eaten with the Jew or a Gentile, he'd never eaten pork or the shrimp. And now God is telling him it's okay, which I'm glad. So uh I liked both those goods. And so you know it's it's uh We should see if those are unhealthy things to eat. Okay. Yeah, and so uh kind of from the two covenants, I wanted to get into the concept of two cultures And so we're not just talking about the fact that people had lived under the Mosaic law, but they also came from a Jewish culture And there were things within their Jewish culture that were not necessarily biblical matters. Remember, they're living during the rabbinical time period, a lot of these people. So when they went to the synagogue, they were not only studying the law of Moses , They were also studying rabbinical writings. And so there were additional laws that had been put into their uh religious system that also shaped their conscience. And then when you have Gentiles, you have people that come from a totally different perspective. And so these two cultures are in tremendous conflict. And they're within a church. And I guess to kind of throw a little more fuel on that fire, d uh the Jews who had lived in Rome were kicked out of Rome. And then they ended up coming back to Rome, and so you can only imagine the kind of distrust that was going on in that church between these people and the kind of power plays You know, there's no question that people within the church at Rome wanted the church to take on either a more Jewish or a more Gentile kind of situation. And so you can only imagine the kind of power struggles that would have gone on in that kind of an environment. Okay, we go on to the next thing is this. I want to talk about the conscience. I was going to ask you how you would define conscience, but I guess I put it up there already. So let me talk a little bit about conscience. The conscience is our sense of justice that causes us to have internal turmoil when we see perceived injustice. Or do something that we perceive to be unjust or morally wrong. Now, what I will say is this your conscience is the part of you that has a sense of right and wrong. It's not so much that God gives you a conscience so that you feel guilty when you do wrong, as much as He made you a moral creature. And as a moral creature, you have a sense of right and wrong. When something is right, when something is just, your heart is settled and it's good with you. When you see injustice When you experience injustice, if somebody lies to you, if somebody steals from you, if somebody does something that violates you as an individual, There is this sense of anger and there's this sense of irritation. There's this internal turmoil. Why is that? It's because we're moral creatures. God made us that way. You know, a person who is Crusading, and I mean crusading for a woman's right to kill her child, believes the conscience issue, believe it or not. You know why that is? Because their moral compass is set on a different calibration than yours is Their moral compass is not saying that that is a human life that needs to be given dignity and respect and preserved and kept. Instead, in their mind, the woman has the right to do whatever she wants with what belongs to her. That's her body So what you have is you have two moral individuals who have a different calibration when it comes to their starting point, their reference point. And so the same kind of passion that someone who is pro-life will feel on an issue like that, the exact same passion is felt by the person. Who is pro choice who wants you to have the ability to terminate a pregnancy to abort a baby It's because we have a conscience. In other words, your conscience is not based upon what is right and wrong as much as what you think is right and wrong. Okay? So you can go into a culture where something that in another culture is considered highly offensive, highly problematic, very sinful. You go into a different culture and the people view it as totally appropriate and fine. No big deal at all. I could give you a lot of examples as he lives in another culture of ways that we would look at something a person does, he says, that is very offensive, that is very sinful, and they say That's very normal. There's nothing wrong with that. On the other side, we can come into our culture, something that we have absolutely no offense when we do it. Somebody from another culture views it as extremely offensive Why is that? Because our conscience is that moral sense within us. We believe this is wrong. If I violate that sense of wrong, I don't feel right. If I do something that I if I don't do something that I believe I'm supposed to do, then I don't feel right. So with that in mind, we have to realize that our conscience has to be shaped by the Bible. We have to have a conscience that is constantly being adjusted by Scripture, not just by our surroundings, the people around us, our culture. Because our culture constantly changes Things that young people today believe are totally normal, their grandparents blushed at when they were the same age. Now, why is that? Because that moral sense within us, it has a starting point. And that starting point is what we believe, what we think between our two ears. has a lot to do with what we believe to be wrong and right and how our conscience is affected. This is go ahead, yes. Does the scripture teach uh How are conscious is initially uh calibrated? Nope. Not to my knowledge. So like with the original scent, for example. When it talks about the natural man cannot perceive the things of God. Is that not related to this? I think that I think that what That's a great a great thought just pops in my I don't know if it's a great thought, but to me it's it could be a great thought. But when we talk about the gospel being an offense to an unsaved person When we talk about the cross, I remember one day I'm singing, we're at the nursing home, and I'm leading the folks there in the nursing home through the old rugged cross. And I'm singing this song, and I just sat down for a minute and I said, you know, as Christians, we glory in the cross. But an unbeliever looks at a song like that and says, What an unbelievable offense. See, that's what Paul's saying. The preaching of the cross is foolishness to those who don't believe. It's actually an offense. To the unbeliever. And so when an unbeliever who is antagonistic towards the gospel looks at the gospel, that message actually to them is horrible. It's child abuse. It's a slaughterhouse religion. That's the kind of stuff that the unbeliever views about the gospel. Yet we look and we say, Our sin is an offense to a holy God. Christ willingly lays down his life. His blood is shed for our sins. And God's wrath is satisfied, and we are redeemed. And we see this as a glorious message. But that issue of conscience, it ha it's it's about the starting point. And so, you know, when when Adam and Eve sinned it it it immediately affected their sense within. I mean, look, they're hiding from God and all those kinds of things. So I don't think that we can find a passage where it lays out explicitly and in kind of like propositional statements. But I think when we start looking at the conscience, we start thinking about the way that a person is made up and those kinds of things, I think that's when we start coming with an application like that. I don't know, does that make sense? It does I think what I was trying to think about is one of the fundamental things I'm worried about dealing with people that don't have a physical worldview is that there compass is set very differently. Setting out on a task to try to persuade people of that. I'm I'm always wondering is that even something that's within our own even influence and should even try. I mean it's not like setting someone with moral consciousness is a divine act. I mean so the question is what's the point of teaching theology to an unbeliever? That theology may very well be extremely offensive to him. So we go at the standpoint of what are the biblical truths that will lead this man to faith in Christ. And that becomes the starting point. And then when you're dealing with a redeemed individual, they now have a different point of reference than they did before their salvation. And so that point of reference changed. All of a sudden, it changes how they interpret everything around them. There's a reason that Paul talks about an unbeliever. He says, there's none righteous, there's none who understands, none who seeks after God. They're together to become unprofitable. I mean To us it's like, wow, how is that possible? Well, he's a moral creature. He has a different starting point, and so what he sees to be right is wrong. And what he sees to be wrong many times is right. And we can look at a lot of the cultural debates going on right now. And um people who are very passionate about stuff and you go, how in the world can that be a conscience issue to you? He has a different starting point than you do, a totally different starting point. Yes? The way I've understood conscience before, it's kind of like it's a a compass when we set our true north, right? And when we're born, it all it's almost like our true north our true north is We are the most important thing so we evaluate the world around us based on how we were treated, how we're how we live, stuff like that. When we get saved, we turn our eyes to Christ, right? And it's almost I think at that point we have to make a choice to have our true north be Christ. Uh-huh. And breathe by them. Yep. And and you know, there's those people get saved but they don't change anything in their personal lives, you know, and we we always question that they actually could say. Yeah. It's because they didn't choose to adjust their compass to what it should be pointing towards. Yeah. And so when you make Christ, when you make the Bible work through North , all of your conscience decisions all the things that you think you have to you have to compare it against that true north and say is this actually leading me in the right direction or kind of like reading the map Yeah. Sorta like if you're sighting in a right, I'll come to you in a second frame. If you're sighting in a rifle at the beginning of the season You know, you're sitting there and you're you're aiming at the target and when when they hold their fire and you go down there and you check out your target you see this nice little section right here Right there. It's supposed to be right here. Right? So what do you do? You adjust your site and that same little little section there is going to be zeroed in on the target. You have to make that adjustment And so, yeah, you are aiming, but your aim is off because the sight is off. And that's how our conscience can be. And and so when we're when Christ becomes the center Then that all of a sudden it aligns properly our conscience. So the Christian's conscience should be healthy. He should feel guilty when he's sinning and he should feel fine when he's not and he should be able to set aside those blinders as much as possible and as he matures he begins to to recognize where his conscience really should be and it ends up there. So yeah. Okay. I was just gonna one thing I was gonna say I think there's a key role we have to play. Yes. Because we could say, but not everything's perfect. We have to choose to start following that true norm , the truth that we have realized through Salvation of Christ. We have to choose to follow that. Yes. And and I don't think it's uh the divine guy gives you a good conscience before you get saved. We have to choose, we're gonna start going It's true. Yeah, Romans 12 he says, be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind. Literally, what's there has to be removed. Has to be replaced. And that's the way we think. And then our passions, our emotions, our the things that drive us and motivate us, those passions have to become controlled by the spirit of God rather than our our flesh. So yes, Frank. Yes I think I think what um Tori was uh thinking I know where where it said he knows um about Not only natural man understanding the things of God, perceiving the things of God. He's specifically there talking about the the flesh and the natural versus the spiritual just like Like just like John chapter three says, you know, less than born again seemingly perceived the kingdom of God it's it it doesn't make any sense. But but like And where it also says um, you know, every man doeth what's right in his own eyes You know, it's a bad thing. But pe people, you know, they they think they're what they're doing is right, and I guess that's sort of something to do with consists and it almost seems pr kind of wrong to even call it a moral commons because it can be so So excuse. So that's not yeah, until it's finally suddenly. It becomes an immoral compass. And that and that's that's that's why that's why when it when in Romans one it says that God gave them up to uncleanness and they exchanged the truth of God for a lie and confessing themselves wise they became fools. The idea is that What they thought was wise was folly. What they thought was straight was crooked. What they thought was good was bad, you know. And what was right was wrong. Sure. Yeah. Every man did what was right in his own eye. That's the most terrifying thing that The basis of democracy right there. She is your interpreter. She's your linguist. I think the question I was having is how can we We have a society which we generally have in the United States where people generally have a pretty decent moral compass overall, and obviously we've seen some of that versions But I mean we we generally perceive injustices, we see things whether it was state or not, people are like, That's not right, that's not fair, we ought to you know get involved there, but I just wanna Reminds me the policies and the laws of some of these things, if they're founded on biblical principles, whether people know it or not, if they're following those principles you know, in in the cause and effect of outline in scripture that is going to produce a more accurate moral compass for a society or community. So that that was kind of what I was wondering for What's if if the the moral compass is all divine and being saved, if you don't have the ability to have moral compass without being saved? What point is there? Oh no no, you have a moral compass. If you're if you're alive, you have a moral compass. But but is there any is it worth it to try to influence that and the answer is yes, because if our policies and if our if the decisions we make as a society follow biblical principles as outlined in the scripture, whether people embrace those as Christians or not, it's not going to produce healthy results for that nation. Well we have we have a term we have a term uh called common grace. And the idea is that as as people made in the image of God, there are certain things that inherently we understand to be right and to be wrong. And um but what happens is that as this and and another thing that we have to keep in in our minds is that Western culture Is still living off of the fumes of the Reformation. We still are. And so a lot of the benefits that we've enjoyed in this country Are the direct result of an incredible change that took place in Europe 500 years ago. And as our society gets further from a biblical ethic, the more we're going to begin to see that decay intensify and snowball. And let's not forget that our legal system in the United States, a lot of it didn't actually come from Greek thought, democracy, it actually came from Roman thought, republic. It's a very significant thing that in Rome there was a lot of equality. Now there was a lot of inequality too, but there was a lot of equality for an ancient civilization. And they did have a legal system and uh they experienced tremendous period of time of peace as as a as a as an empire. And brought a lot of peace to the Mediterranean world. And so let's not forget where Rome ended up. It essentially imploded. It took it a thousand years, but it did happen that way. And in our culture, you know, we're pretty young and uh we're well on our way. Um so It's an interesting question. I think as Christians, being salt and light involves evangelism. It involves living in a God-fearing way, and that has a tremendous impact on the people around us. There are people that may disagree with your policy, but there's something intriguing about the way that you live. There's something very wholesome, something beautiful about it. There's something that's appealing. And that's one of the one of the aspects of being salt and white in our world. So as Christians, we shouldn't withdraw from the public domain, but we should be active. Yes. Just to pile on what Corey's saying, that going back to the Reformation and and If people have a common reference point Then they could rally around that. The Old Testament, they had the potential. For years here in the United States, if you wanted to learn to read You learn to read from the Bible. Sure. That was the purpose of learning to read, was so that you could read the Bible. And so for years The Bible is read in homes and in schools to learn how to read. Even if you're unsaved, you have the same plate of reference. that it uh potentially influenced the the the entire lords and the ethics of entire culture yeah when my when my parents were kids They probably didn't have too many neighbors in their subdivision that didn't go to church. Today, I don't know how many of mine do. You know what I mean? It's really changed things a lot. Very different. In our culture now they did take everybody for itself. Like Fray said, do what's right in your eyes. You know what I mean? uh we have a lot of divergent ideas, applications that you have to approach. And and why Tori has a good question Why in one family do you see a saved uh sibling and you have another sibling who's unsaved who are raised by the same parents? They went to the same church, but yet it wasn't effective or effective for that these ones in the same sin. Yeah. So um so Doug, uh you researched that one out, my friend. I was gonna say real quick, the just the idea of everyone doing what's right in their own eyes in terms of like I think what what Tori 's saying is that's in in terms of the laws of the the society. It's it's in contrast to what God says is right or called. And we substitute that instead of submitting to well and our and our and what is right in our eyes is appealing to our flesh. too. Okay, I I see our time is about to slip away, but I wanted to just make a couple of statements here before we close. um about the Jewish dietary laws. I don't think I have this in the notes, but I wanted to give this to you just so that you can see kind of what was being dealt with here. Under the old covenant, and when I say old covenant, I'm saying the Mosaic Law for the Jews. The Jews were commanded to observe several Sabbaths, festivals, feasts, and Sabbath years. They were also forbidden from eating certain kinds of foods. To violate these laws under the Mosaic Covenant was sin and dealt with severely. So for these individuals from Jewish backgrounds before The law was we could say replaced with a new system. Uh it was sinful for them to eat shrimp. Okay. Let's keep that in our mind. Two, under the New Covenant, they were not commanded to observe these Sabbaths or forbidden to eat foods that were forbidden under the Mosaic Law. If they chose to eat or observe, it was not sin. If they chose not to eat or observe, it was also not sin. They had freedom. And that's a very important concept for us to think in. The last one is this. Under the new covenant, if they ate formally forbidden foods in violation of their conscience, They were sinning, not because the food was forbidden, but because they were sinning against their conscience And so that's a concept we're going to get into in a little bit, but I wanted to just finish that little section, and then next week we will talk about section two, the need to get the details of the instruction. We're going to look exactly at what Paula said verse by verse and I want to kind of make little statements that sort of summarize what he's saying