Well good evening. Like to welcome you to our evening service and looking forward to uh getting into the Word of God together tonight. taking testimonies and uh just singing praise to the Lord. So let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer and then we will get started with our service tonight. Let's pray. Father, we're so very grateful for the Lord's day and the opportunity that we've had to gather this morning earlier, and I thank you for the rest that some of us were able to get And I pray that tonight, as the Word of God is opened, that we would be refreshed and challenged from your word, as we have opportunity to share testimonies tonight, I pray that those things that are shared would be a tremendous blessing and encouragement to each person that's here. And we pray for those who are sick and those who have traveled. I pray that you would give them travel mercies and help them to be back in good health very soon. And we pray that you would bless the meeting we have later tonight as well. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, so you have our fourth string song leader tonight, and uh we will go ahead and get started by turning in our hymn books to hymn 392. 392 and the song is Who is on the Lord's Side? Let's go ahead and stand up together as we sing this song together. 392 Who is on the board side? Who will send the key? Who will be another life to bring? Who will be the world 's side? Who will By thy call of mercy. I die with me, we are on no more side , Savior , we are not going. Entering of me raised all for your. That name I want to be, in Jesus' name, it must be on his time. I know that I see eyes, we are all seeing nor we are. Jesus now has caught us not with God or chair Al With Thy Alta I understand with thy last thing heavy He to come to me Thou hast made us merely Has made us green by thy grand I thy great define we are all For his good unchanging taste of joy Joyful in blessing by thy racing. It's great singing You may be seated as we turn back one page to three hundred ninety-one I am resolved. By the way, you'll see a little bit of a theme here tonight. We're looking at David and Goliath. That's going to be the text that we dig into. And so you see this encouragement to stand strong. So 391, I am resolved. Let's sing it out. I am resolved no longer to leave your charm by the world's delight. Things that are minor, things that are older, things that are on my side, I will take them to him , be symptom. Jesus great as fire, I will come to thee I am resolved to go to the sacred, leaving my sin and He is the true one, he is the just one, he has the words of mine. When I'm green , be such great, I will come to me. I am resolved to follow the Savior. Painful and should be stay in what he says, yeah, use what he will, then he is the very way I will hate. He such great and high yet I will come to thee I have resolved to To the kingdom leaving the path of scan Friends may oppose me , close may be sent me to the light. Hello, haste and to get haste is so bad and greedy He such great as I am I will commun Good singing. We do one more, 592, and this is soldiers of Christ Arise. And I don't think you can sit down and sing a song like this. And so let's go ahead and stand up Five hundred and ninety-two soldiers of Christ arise. To the price of Christ and virtue are born, so it used with God 's heart in his eternal son. Strong in the world of horse and end his mighty heart To win the strength of Jesus Trust is more than conquered. And gave you our musical. And all your comics has He made work new. So look and stand in our life. No weakness of the soul. From strength to strength on Rashul and fight and cry. Thanks to see that Song like that one needs the organ, so we we tend to sing songs like that on Sunday mornings, but what a great song. Uh Braxton has our missions moment. It's a great song, really love it. And so let's stand together as we sing this song together. 105 For me to live is Christ. In my fordeath I'll dismiss. I love his hand, I'll only share to them in Christ who died, to magnify his name for me. To live it rise, for me to live it try, pursuing here my highest price, for me to live it. This fine love Christ shall make my own. To serve with a Lord For me to devise For me to devise Pursuing death My high end price for me to live in Christ You know my vorture passes off to your past your give my sink You know, you know his victory for the grave, you know his mighty power to say , would we live his price? Me to live his price , pursue me give my highest Christ for me to live his price , the joy in Christ and And her cease and run to him, he brings true peace, content in him, and at his name, in all his strength and pride, For me to live, for me to live it 's cause , could you be here? My night price, for me to live. I say he may see that. Great song. All right, well let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles to 1 Samuel seventeen. And I do know what is being planned in the back for the kids and they're going to learn how to throw a slingshot. Not a well you don't throw the slingshot, you throw the stone with the slingshot, and they're not gonna be throwing stones in the back But uh they're gonna get a demonstration on how to do that. So that's what's uh that's what's awaiting you young people. So um I'm excited about that opportunity that you guys have And the reason that that's going to happen tonight is because of the text that we're dealing with. And this is 1 Samuel chapter 17. And we're going to read verses 1 through 11 together for the opening of this time. But we're actually going to look at the entire chapter together. And this is a story, the record in Scripture of David and Goliath, one of the most iconic and well-known scriptures in all of the Old Testament. Here's what the word of the Lord says. 1 Samuel 17, verse 1. Now, the Philistines gathered their armies to battle. And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together and pitched in the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines. And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side. There was a valley between them. And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines named Goliath of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span. He had a helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail, and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass. And he had greaves and brass upon his legs and a target of brass between his shoulders. And the staff of his beer was the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam. And his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron, and one bearing a shield went before him. And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? Am not I a Philistine and ye servants of Saul? Choose you a man for who? For you, and let him come down to me. If he be able to fight with me and kill me, then Will we be your servants? But if I prevail against him and kill him, then shall ye be our servants and serve us. And the Philistines said, I defy the armies of Israel this day. Give me a man that we may fight together. When Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed and greatly afraid. Let's just take a moment and ask the Lord to help us to understand some very important truths from His Word and how to apply the text in front of us. Father, as we read your word and as we dig into these truths, I pray that you would speak to our hearts. Father, help us to not just see this as a story told in our junior church or in our Sunday school classes, but help us to recognize this is a real event in the history of Israel. This is one of the key moments that really took David, a shepherd boy, and put him into the discussions of the people, put him in the on the radar of the king. And those that were around him. This was a moment of great valiance and courage. And so I pray that as we dig into these truths, You will help us to understand how we are to apply such a text before us. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. First thing I want to do this this evening is I want to talk to you for just a couple of minutes about the background of the passage that is in front of us. As I mentioned earlier, this is Probably one of the most fascinating and one of the most well-known passages of Scripture in all the Bible. So anybody that grew up in a church that had Sunday school or junior church or even if you went to vacation Bible school, at some point you heard the story of David and Goliath. And I hate to say it, but you may not have heard it being presented in a way that really applied it very biblically, but we know the storyline. We know about David going out to fight this massive man, Goliath. Well, there are three major plots that we find in these verses in front of us that I think are an important piece for us to understand on the front side. This is not just a story about David and Goliath. This is actually a story about Saul and David. You have this contrast between two guys. One is a mighty man of valor who just happens to be a teenager at the time, and the other has been a king for probably 15 years. And he head and shoulders taller than everybody in the land of Israel. And he's a timid and fearful man. And he's dismayed. And so you see the story of these two men. One is the man who was chosen by the people, and the other is the one who's going to replace him. But that hasn't come to fruition yet. And so though David has been anointed to be the next king, Saul is going to remain the king for at least 15 more years. And during that period, Israel was going to see A terrible example of very, very poor leadership. The ruler of Israel would isolate himself, he would become a stubborn man, he would cling to power through manipulation and force. And he would unsuccessfully try to kill David. This was Saul. This was the story of this man. A man who started out with so much potential and then he falls flat on his face. And he creates all kinds of trouble for the nation. And then we see David, who's going to demonstrate himself to be a man of tremendous character. A man who is bold, a man who is humble, you say, well, how does boldness and humility go together? Well, they actually do in the life of David. A person who was resourceful, he was tenacious, he was courageous. In fact, when we think about the spirit of this guy, David, I hope all of the boys in this room will become young men. who have that kind of a a courage. I don't mean that you're going to go out and fight giants. I'm not suggesting that. But you'll have some backbone, some spine. It'll be a person who trusts the Lord. So David's a great example, and he's only a teenager. He's not a whole lot older than some of the boys sitting in the front here. He's not a whole lot younger than some of the young men sitting here in the back And God is going to preserve David's life, establish him to be the next king of Israel, and he would be a beloved king. So we see this storyline of David and Saul, but then there's a second one, and this is the one that we tend to focus in on, and this is the story of David and Goliath. Goliath is a national hero amongst the Philistines. He was this incredible, fearsome specimen of a man. When the Bible talks about how big he was, If you were to take those measurements and you were to actually put it into our feet and inches thing, he's a guy that was over nine feet tall. He was nine feet nine inches. And some people say, well, were people really ever that big? The fact is, actually, there are people that historically, even in the last couple hundred years, who would have been over nine feet tall. But this guy was a huge, massive man. In fact, when it talks about the armor that he wore, it weighed 120 pounds. That's a lot of a lot of baggage. In fact, when he went out into battle and he carries this spear, this spear was of probably 13, 14, 15 pounds. That's how heavy the head of the spear was. So if some of you guys like to split wood and you've got a mall, it's almost that mall is almost as heavy as the the thing that he goes out there to fight with. And here's David, teenager. And here's a blend of several qualities that are going to come out in the text in front of us. He's described as a handsome young man. He's described as a passionate musician. He's described as someone who's attentive to little details. He's described as responsible and driven to fulfill his duties. But the thing that really stands out about David is that he really loves the Lord. And that was what motivated him to be a person who was attentive to David. detail. And that's what motivated him to be driven to fulfill his duties. And that's what motivated him to have this instinctive courage. It was his love for the Lord. And then there's a third theme that we see in these verses, and that is the theme of the gods of the Philistines and the one true God, the Lord, who created heavens and earth and the earth. And the Philistines were a powerful people. They were known for their military might. In fact, they were Phoenician in ancestry. And when they came into this region, they took it over by force. And in their minds, the reason that they had so much military power was because of their gods. And you're going to see that come out as we work our way through the text as well. We also see the nation of Israel that is God's covenant people, and they have divine right to the promised land. By the way, they still have divine right to the promised land. I'll just mention that. But God gave them this land. And when the Philistines come out to fight against the people of Israel, they're fighting against God's people and trying to take away land that God gave to them. And ultimately, this is a clash of worldviews. And so the events that take place are very important for us to understand in their context. So we see those three themes. We see Saul and David, we see David and Goliath, and then we see the gods of the Philistines versus the ones who got. Second thing I'd like us to look at are the details of a couple of truths that are going to help us as we look at this passage. And by the way, when I consider some of the things going on in our nation today, uh literally today, okay I think these are things we need to be reminded of. They're not just pertinent for the text in front of us, but they're pertinent for us right now. The first thing is this: God alone establishes people in power. God alone establishes people in power. Psalm 75, verse 7. God is the judge. He puteth down one and he setteth up another. That amazing statement. Romans 13, 1. There is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. That word ordained means God puts them in their positions. So God alone establishes people in power. Second thing I want to mention. is that despite their flawed characters, these their flawed characteristics, he works through them to accomplish his purposes. You will never have a president who is a perfect man. There'll never be a king who is a perfect man. You know, sometimes we talk about David, we talk about him in these glowing terms as if he was this this perfect sinless man. And the fact is couldn't be further from the truth. David was extremely flawed. I mean during his greatest moments he's a tremendous example for us to follow. But some of his darkest moments, he's an example of what happens when people sin. And the terrible consequences that flow out of that. So we're reminded that God works through people that are imperfect. And that is all he has to work with in this fallen world. And so in Proverbs 21, one it says that the king's heart is in the hands of the Lord. And as the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. Now that's not saying that every single ruler recognizes that God is working through them. There are many rulers who don't acknowledge God at all. They don't recognize that he's at work. In fact, in many ways, they fight against his moral purposes. He still works through that. To accomplish things that are sometimes beyond our understanding. And we understand this better when we look back at history and we see how God works and moves through people's lives in history. But we see that second truth. Third truth. Nothing can stop what he has determined to accomplish. Nothing can stop what he has determined to accomplish. Daniel chapter four, verse thirty-five, says this All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. He doeth according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth None can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? And I remind you that that was written by not Daniel, by Nebuchadnezzar Nebuchadnezzar recognized that he was actually accountable and answerable to God. And if God is going to work in a situation and he has purposed to accomplish a thing, it doesn't matter how hard you fight it. It doesn't matter what you think you can accomplish, you will not stop the purposes of God. Truth number four, we must walk in wisdom. God alone is the final arbiter of our safety. Proverbs 21, verse 31. The horse is prepared against the day of battle, but safety is of the Lord. Now, as we look at those four truths, I think they will help us in the interpretation of the text in front of us. of us. I think they'll really be a help to us as we even think about the times that we're living through right now. So let's talk about the storyline of this passage of Scripture as David goes and he fights Goliath. First thing we're going to see is that David was introduced to Saul through some very unusual means. And Braxton talked about this last Sunday. And this is what we find in 1 Samuel 16, 14 to 21. In verse 14, it says that the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. And then in verse 18 it says, Then answered one of the servants and said, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite That is cunning and playing, a mighty and valiant man, a man of war and prudent in matters and a comely person, and the Lord is with him. Now I want to just pause for a minute and say something. He wasn't talking about a guy that was in his 30s or 40s. He was talking about a teenager. Did you catch that? But let me read to you what it says again. He is cunning in playing, so he's an excellent musician. Kind of like Frank, right? He was cunning in playing, a mighty valiant man. You say, a 15-year-old boy? Apparently he was. Okay. And it says that he was a man of war Now he wasn't in the army. He doesn't actually, he's not even a part of the army when he goes out to fight against Goliath. But he is someone who has that spirit. This guy who knew about David understood. This is a guy who is fearless. Says he is prudent in matters. You know what this means? This means he had good judgment. This means when it came to dealing with older people, he dealt with them very wisely. You know, sometimes when a person is really strong They don't handle older people very well. It's true. They fight against them. They buck with them. But that's not the way this guy was. So you see this strength, you see this wisdom. He was a musician. He was a valiant warrior. But here's the last part that's really important. It says, the Lord is with him. And interestingly, as you read through This section of scripture, the next several chapters, that statement, the Lord is with him, is stated, I believe, four or five times. And the reason for that is to emphasize that the reason that David is so effective in what he does is because God's hand of blessing is on him. It's not because he was a perfect person. God was working through him and in his life. And then in verse 21 it says, And David came to Saul, stood before him, and loved him greatly. He became his armor bearer. And so the way that David meets Saul is when he's a young man, he is brought into the court as someone to play and to sing before the king, to calm his spirit when he was in a very foul mood and it happened often. Then we come to the next section of this storyline, and that is in chapter 17, verses 1 to 2, and we see that the Philistines gathered for battle. And by the way, this is something that happened over and over and over and over again. in Israel's history. There was a constant conflict between the Philistines and the children of Israel. And one of the reasons for that conflict was because the children of Israel were not being obedient and faithful to to God's commands, and so God permitted their enemies to come out against them. And so in verses 1 and 2 it says, The Philistines gathered their armies to battle and were gathered together. And so all the men of Israel were gathered together and pitched by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines. The next thing that we're introduced is to this man named Goliath. And in verses 4 through 11, we see that he comes out for 40 days. Every single day for 40 days. And he steps out into this valley between these two hillsides, these mountainsides. And he cries out to the children of Israel and he says, Send somebody out to fight against me. And he defied them and he mocked them. And he put out this challenge. In verse 4 he says, there went out a champion of the Philistines named Goliath, whose height was six cubits in a span. So we know he's nine feet, nine inches tall. And verses 8 and 10 he says, why are ye come out to set your battles in array? Am I a Philistine and you the servants of Saul? Choose a man. Let him come down to me. If he's able to fight with me and to kill me, then will we be your servants. But if I prevail against him and kill him, then shall ye be our servants and serve us Just have a question. Like who authorized him to go and uh to bring this up? I mean like like like why why didn't the children of Israel say, Oh let's all take him out? You know, twenty of us go and take this guy out at one time. Well, apparently for 40 days he just walks out there and he mocks them and he challenges them and they cower in fear. In verse 10, he says, I defy the armies of Israel. In verse 11, it says, when Saul and all Israel heard those words, they were dismayed and greatly afraid. You know what they did when they were sitting in their tents at night? They talked about how they were going to get out of the situation. Hey, maybe you could go do I'm not doing that. Hey, maybe you could do it. I'm not doing that. How are we going to get out of the situation? This is day 38. How many days is he going to do this? And there's all this talk amongst the children of Israel. They're terrified. And then we see David is introduced back into the story. At verses 12 to 20, we see that Jesse sends David to check out Check on his brothers and see how that is they're doing. So over a month has gone by since J uh Jesse sent out three of his oldest boys to fight with the army. And you know, it wasn't like you could uh you know pull up your your phone and oh there's an update. Look at that. There's this what's going on in the world. No, it wasn't like that. They had to actually send somebody out there. So he tells his son, get all this stuff together, go see your brothers, and ask them how things are going. And in verse number 16, it says that as David comes to be apart with his brothers, the Philistine comes out that morning. And here's David. He's asking his brothers how things are going. And he sees this massive man walk out into the valley area. And this man stands there, and David's like, who's that? They're like, uh, that's Goliath. Goliath, who's that? And he starts shouting and cursing and mocking the children of Israel. And David's listened to this and he's like, how long has he been doing this? Um, forty days. Forty days Do we not have a man amongst our men? What's going on here? I mean this is the way that David's thinking. Why doesn't somebody go out? What's gonna happen if they go out? And they're like, we're not gonna do that. Are you kidding? And they tell the story that, well, if somebody goes out there in their triumph and they actually survive, the king will actually say, you can marry my daughter. He's like, I'll do that. And he starts talking to these guys. And in verse 17 to 20, we see that as David is talking to his brothers, his oldest brother walks up and he says, What in the world are you talking about, David? Listen to how he puts it. And Jesse said unto David his son, I'm sorry. In verse 23, I'm skipping ahead. Well, we'll go back to 17 to 20. Jesse said unto David, his son, Take thou to thy brother. And David rose early in the morning, left the sheep, and went and as Jesse commanded him. He came to the trenches, to the host from going forth to fight, and shouted for the battle. In verses 22 to 23, David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage and ran into the army and came and saluted his brethren. He talked with them. Behold, there came out the champion. And in verse 23 it says, and he spake according to the same words and David heard. Now in verses 24 to 30, David is really upset. And he gets into this conflict with his brothers. And verse 24, it says, All the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him and were sore afraid. The men of Israel said, Have you seen this man that has come up? Verse 26 says, And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done? For who is this uncircumcised Philistine that he should defy the armies of the living God? Verse 28. Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? With whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride and the naughtiness of thy heart. Thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle. David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause? He spake from him toward another and spake after the same manner. So what's going on? Eliad says, David, did you just come out to see something going on? What did you do with all the little sheep? You see the condescension? You see the the the the edginess and by the way Eliad knew that his brother David, the youngest of all of those brothers, had been anointed to be the next king And that he'd been passed over. He might not have liked that very much. There might have been a couple of reasons why he was upset at David. But the very simple, the bottom line of this whole thing. Is that David is more courageous than his brothers? And David is more courageous than all the guys around his brothers, and David is more courageous than Saul. And these guys aren't very happy. But here's what's really fascinating. Saul hears about David, and he actually has a conversation that leads to David going to fight Goliath. And verses 31 through 37, this is what it says. When the words were heard which David spake They rehearsed them to Saul and he said for him. Now, this is kind of a fascinating thing to consider here Obviously what David has to say stirred up enough people that they went to Saul and they said, hey, I gotta tell you something. There's a kid who came to see his older brothers and he's talking like he's gonna go out and fight Goliath. And Saul said, really? Yes. He's talking like he's gonna go and fight Goliath. He says, send him. I want to talk to him. This guy was probably like, ah, all right. And he pulls David aside. And David comes up. Verse 32. This is what David says to Saul. David said to Saul, let no man's heart fail because of him. Thy servant will go out and fight this Philistine. Now, we know from the text that David had already had interactions with Saul. One of the things we have to keep in our minds is we really don't know how much time has gone from the time that David first came into the court and played for Saul. And the time that we're talking about here. And by the way, there's a really big difference between a 12-year-old boy and a 15 or 16-year-old boy. There are some young men that when you look at them at 12 years old, you look at them at 15, you almost can't even recognize them. They look like a totally different person So we really don't know how much time has gone by, but as David and Saul are talking, somehow David was compelling enough that he was able to convince Saul to let him go out and fight. And to me, this is one of the most shocking things about this entire storyline, that the king of Israel, this very strong man who was known to be a warrior. He was head and shoulders above everybody. He allows this 15-year-old boy to convince him to let him go out and fight Goliath. And and the nation's entire, we could say their future was hanging the balances while he goes to do it. It says something about David and it says something about Saul. It tells you Saul was a coward. Saul didn't want to do it. Saul was willing to let this boy go out and fight against Goliath when probably he's the guy that should have gone to do it. And so in verse 33, Saul says unto David, Thou weren't not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him. Thou art but a youth. He a man of war from his youth. David said to Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep. There came a lion and a bear and took a lamb out of the flock. Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear, and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them. And here's the key. Seeing he has defied the armies of the living God. This isn't just about David wanting to be a hero David is upset. David is courageous. David is motivated because he is tired of hearing Goliath for 40 days going out and mocking the God of Israel. He's saying this guy serves idols and we serve the one true God. Why are we so timid and why are we so fearful? Have we not seen what God is able to do? Haven't we read about the nation of Israel and God's deliverance out of Egypt? And haven't we read about how God gave Jericho into the hands of the nation of Israel. Haven't we heard the stories of God's provision and God's protection and all that He's done? What's our problem? That's what David's saying. He says, the Lord that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. Verse 37. Saul said, Go, and the Lord be with you. That's pretty amazing. Now, up to this point, we have seen a lot of drama, but it's going to get better. Because David decides not to just walk out there. Like a soldier would with all of this gear when when Saul says, why don't you take my armor, David says, no, I'm not used to this stuff. I'm a shepherd boy. I've got a sling. I've got stones. And I'm going to go out there and I'm going to kill the giant in the way that I would, you know, deal with any conflict that I deal with, that I'm used to. So he goes out there And so in verses 39 and 40 it says, David said to Saul, I cannot go with these. I have not proved them. David put them off, and he took his staff in his hand. He chose out five smooth stones out of the brook and put them in a shepherd's bag which he had, even a script. And his thing was in his hand, and he drew near to the Philistine. In verses forty one and forty-two he says this The Philistine came and he drew near to David, and the man that bare the shield went before him. And when the Philistine looked about and saw David, He disdained him. He was but a youth, ruddy of a fair countenance. He said, You're a kid. Why are you coming out to fight me? I'm insulted. That's what he said. And verses 43 and 44, the Philistine said, Am I a dog that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods. Said to David, Come to me, I will give thy flesh to the fowls of the air and to the beasts of the field. Whew. He's not playing, is he? David said to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with sword, spear, shield, I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied. This day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand, and I will smite thee, and take thy head from thee, and give thy carcass to the in the ho of the host of the Philistines, to the fowls of the air, and to the wild beasts of the earth. That's a little that's fighting terms right there. He says, it's not going to go the way you think it is. But here's what he says. Here's why. So that all the earth may know that there's a God in Israel. That all this assembly should know that the Lord saveth not with sword and spear. The battle is the Lord's. He will give you into our hands. When the Philistine arose and came and drew near to David, David hasted and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine. In verses 50 through 58, what do we see? We see that David prevails. He throws that stone, and that stone, one stone. Took the man down. And David goes with without any sword. He goes up to the Philistine. He's laying on the ground. He pulls his own sword and he kills the man And the the Philistines are stunned. They don't know what to do. I mean, it was it was Goliath's uh challenge, right? He said if If you can beat me, then we'll serve you. And if I can beat your guy, then you'll serve us. And guess what? There it is. But this is the part that really stands out to me at the end. In verse 58, it says, and Saul said. Whose son art thou, young man? David answered, I'm the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite. Now, doesn't the text tell us before that Saul had met David and he kind of knew who he was? The answer is yeah. Say, well, what's he doing? I think this is what he's really saying. He's like, who is your father? Where did you learn to do that? Where did that courage come from? That tenacity, that fearlessness? Who is your father? That's what he's saying. He's looking at this guy and he's like, I want to know what family that kid came from. Because we don't have too many guys like that. What an amazing passage of scripture. And that's exactly how it happened. The question is, what do we take away from it? I want to give you some final thoughts that I think I hope will be very encouraging to you. The first thought that I had as I read through this text is that God is in charge and we need to rest in that and be comforted by it. It's really easy for us, especially in the digital age that we live in. We can literally sit there all day reading article after article after article after article about all these things that are going on in the world. And all these predictions that are going to happen, and here's the simple fact, nobody writing those articles knows what's happening. Nobody knows. They cannot predict tomorrow. The simple fact is that God's in charge. He's going to do what he's going to do. You say, well, I'd like him to do what would be nice for me. You're not in charge. He is. But he's good. And what he allows to unfold and how he works through those things, it's a part of his good plan for his people. God uses all kinds of situations to draw people to himself, all kinds of situations to mature his people and to help them to love him and to grow into Christ's likeness. And we see this laid out in the text in front of us. Second thing is this. He lifts up people through ordinary circumstances that are often completely out of their control. Now it is true. That a factor in David becoming a national hero was he was willing to like step up and go fight Goliath. There's absolutely no question about that. But the question is what put him in the palace? Did he make any choices to put him there? No. Why did he end up going to see his brother so that he was even there at that moment to step into the situation? Well, because his dad told him, just go take some food to your brothers and see how they're doing. Now these are very ordinary things. I mean this is like, hey, could you go do the dishes? Could you clear the table? I need you to go cut the grass. These are like really ordinary things. This is a part of the story that put him in that place at that time to do what he did. Thirdly, he raises up courageous people in time of need to do things that others are unwilling to do. The truth is that as we look at history, I mean we can look at the this nation's history, we can look at a lot we can look at, I mean when you talk about history, you could talk about, you know, periods of time, nations. We can look at civilizations. You can look at it in so many different ways. But especially when you look at biblical history and the nation of Israel, you know what you see? That when things are really falling apart and things are really unraveling, God just has this way of putting the right person in the right place at the right time. And that little event or that individual's life and their influence in that moment is a thing that completely turns the tide. That's what God does. And you can't always predict how he's going to do that. Here's a boy who was watching the sheep, and the next thing you know, he's a hero. And the guys in the army are saying, you're not even old enough to go to war with us, but we want you with us because you're a mighty man of valor. That's a pretty amazing thing to think about. How did it happen? Will God raise them up at the right time to step into that fray? And guess what? He does it too. God does that today. He's the same God. He works in the same kinds of ways. Different circumstances, unquestionably, but he raises up people for those times. And we can take great comfort in that. Fourthly, David's passion and courage were more than natural qualities. The fact is that David probably had a natural disposition to be tough and to be rugged and to be fearless. But that's not ultimately why he went out to fight Goliath. You know why he fought Goliath? He was angry that Goliath mocked his God. That's just the bottom line. He was he was angry that God was being mocked. And that his people were so timid, and that they were unwilling to step in and say, we'll trust our God and we'll do what we need to do. David's passion and courage were more than just these natural qualities. This is the result of God's work in his life. This is the evidence that the hand of the Lord was on David. Next, we see that he was motivated by this all-consuming love for God and a desire to uphold his honor. And so as we read these truths and we look at this passage of Scripture, we need to take great comfort in the way that God works. We should be consumed with a passion for his glory in the same way that David was. We need to be willing to engage the difficult situations that we encounter courageously, selflessly, when we're called to do it. I'm not suggesting that we throw caution to the wind and we do dumb things. I'm not saying that at all. What I'm saying is that sometimes we get ourselves in a situation, and when I say we got ourselves in our in a situation, God put us in a situation. And the only way to do the right thing is to do something courageous. The only way to do the right thing is to do something that nobody else is willing to do. You are forced because God put you there. And guess what? We've got to be willing to engage the situation, just like David was. The last thing I want to mention is that these qualities are not developed in a vacuum. David was the man he was because of the home he grew up in. You say, well, where do you get that from? When you read the book of Proverbs, you know what's really interesting about the book of Proverbs? Solomon says, I'm teaching you the things that my father taught me. Catch that? And that his father taught him. That's a pretty interesting thing to consider, isn't it? So where does Solomon's wisdom come from? Came from the school of hard knocks for David. Came from David teaching his son. Where did David's wisdom come from? It came from Jesse. Let's not forget Ruth and Boaz. is where David descends from. These are wonderful people. When the Bible talks about a person like a Boaz, when he talks about when the scripture talks about Ruth, talk about them as very godly, very virtuous people, strong people. There is a reason that David was the man that he was. And so I want to just make this little challenge not just to our young men and our young ladies, but to their parents. Let's raise up kids that when they become adults, they're ready to engage in whatever capacity God calls them to. God 's not going to call a whole bunch of people here to go out and fight giant. I'm not here going to suggest that at all. But the fact is, every person in this room, especially our young people, may find themselves in places Where in God's hand of providence at work in your life, you have no choice if you're going to do the right thing but to do the hard thing. To do the courageous thing. Do the thing that nobody else is willing to do. And you need to be willing to step into that and do it. And so we need to raise up our children in such a way. We need to invest in them in such a way. And so that's what I want to challenge you with this evening. Let's learn these lessons. From the life of David and his willingness to go out and fight Goliath. What an amazing text of scripture. So many truths, so many things to ponder. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we consider the text in front of us, I pray that we would digest it very thoroughly. That we would see the qualities that were in David's life because of the way he was being trained and guided in his own home. And we see his passion for your glory and his love for you, and his willingness to stand up when nobody else would do it. and his unflinching courage. Lord, I pray that you would raise up a generation of young Christians that would have such a valiant spirit In whatever capacity you place them in, whatever opportunities are before them, whatever challenges lie ahead of them, may they be the kinds of people that when they're in those situations , They will be much more concerned about your glory than their temporary pleasures, their temporary comforts, and the opinions of others. May they be courageous and principled. people. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, well we have one more closing hymn. So let's go ahead and turn to hymn number 400. Take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord, to thee. Please let's stand together and let's sing this hymn together. 400 take my life. Let it be. Take my life and magnet context and fortune. Take my hands and my delu , Adrian Bosala, Hadiga Bostad. Take my feet and let me sweat and beautiful for thee. Take my voice and let me Wait all me for my king, always all me for my king Take my life. Take my silver and my gold Not a my God I will not I will take my love, my Lord, I forgot I mean it. This treasure Say myself and I will be every more We have a brief business meeting after our service, and so we'll take a little bit of a break before that to uh give everybody a chance to get situated, uh to fellowship with one another. So we'll take uh say seven, eight minute break, and um then we'll Make sure we pass out financials to anyone that did not receive that already. And then we'll have our meeting. Shouldn't be long, just a couple of items, but want to make mention of that. And also for the kids, there'll be a demonstration in the back. So if you guys would like to go and see that that'll be starting up very, very soon. So I'd like to ask if Bill Phew, if you could close us in prayer, and then we'll take a little recess before we have our meeting. Dear Lord, thank you for bringing us here safely today. Please help us as we go throughout our life wherever you might have us that we would. Take that time in your word and uh with those godly people around us to be become prepared for whatever situation that you would have us to be in, to show that courage. godliness, um honesty, integrity, Lord. Please keep us safe as we come home after the business meeting tonight and help the business meeting to go well too. In Jesus' name. Amen.