Okay, turn with me in your Bibles, please, to 1 Timothy chapter 3. First Timothy chapter 3. And our discussion this morning is what is a church and how does that affect how I view relate to it. What is a church and how does that affect how I view it and relate to it? The scripture that I want to start out with this morning is 1 Timothy 3, 14 -15. This is what it says These things write I unto thee, hoping to come unto thee shortly, but if I tarry long that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God. The pillar and ground of the truth. Notice the phrase, the house of God, the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth. What is the significance of that statement? Statement, the house of God. I want you to think Old Covenant, what was the house of God for the nation of Israel? Okay. The tabernacle and then the temple. Yes. When he makes this statement, is the physical temple in Jerusalem still li uh available to go down to? Or up to? From the perspective of the Jews? Yeah, it was still there. It was still there. It wasn't until 80 70 that it was destroyed and when this was written, um, I don't believe that that had happened yet. Okay? So when he says that the church is the house of God, that is a distinction. between the way that the Jews view the temple and what Jesus is or what Paul is basically saying is the church. The church is where God's presence actually dwells. Then we have the phrase pillar and ground of the truth. Can somebody expounds a little bit what that comment, that statement might entail. Pillar and ground of the truth. What do we use pillars for? Hold things up. Okay? When we have the term ground, what are we thinking of? Foundation. Okay. So the church has a very unique role, doesn't it? The role is not only to be the place where God's presence dwells in the New Testament era, But it's also the pillar, the support of the truth, and it's the foundation. Okay? So if we want to know what is true and right, we should be able to find it in church. But it's not always the case, is it? It's only going to be the case that that church is a healthy, biblically functioning congregation. And so I want us to first of all begin by asking the question, what is the church? And And I'm going to begin by what it's not. Okay? Now you may when you hear this say, Oh, I already know this, but it might be that you don't. I don't know. But one of the most common misunderstandings of the church is that the church Is a place for a building. When we talk about Anchor Baptist Church, as far as Google Maps is concerned, Anchor Baptist Church is this building right here. Well, is Anchor Baptist Church still in this location on Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and Thursday? Friday, Saturday? Well, no. I mean technically Anchor Baptist Church is spread all throughout this community because the church is not the building or the location, rather the church is something else. I have this comment. From a book called What the Church Is and Isn't. The church is not a place, it's not a building, it's not a preaching point, it's not a spiritual service provider, it's a people. The new covenant, blood-bought people of God. That's why Paul said Christ loved the church and gave himself for it in Ephesians chapter 5. He didn't give himself up for a place, but for a people. A second thing that it is not Is it not a statistic? And that's important for us to consider. Now, as a pastor, as a missionary, as someone whose life focus is ministry, I can tell you that a lot of the people that I wrote. shoulders with, while in theory don't believe that the church is a statistic, in practice they think a lot like it is. So if you have a pastor's fellowship, what'll guys do? They'll all sit down and be like, so how many people come to Sunday school these days? Oh, that's not important. I don't want to talk about having people come to Sunday school these days. Oh, what's your offering like? And they ask all these like statistical analysis kind of questions. You know what's interesting? We have no idea how many We have no idea how many people were saved and baptized at Ephesus. We have no idea how many were saved and baptized at Colossae. We have no idea what the attendance was at the church of Philippi. don't know. Does that seem kind of interesting to you? I mean if it was really that big a deal, don't you think that Paul would have said, Oh, it's good to see your attendance is up to 150 today. He never said anything like that. I mean, I'm not saying that the size of a church is a totally irrelevant thing, or that the giving of a church doesn't say something about that congregation, but the reality is that attendance and giving and the pos position that people have given that church and maybe a certain niche within Christianity or something like that, those are not really the things that talk about the health of a congregation. A church is not a statistic. I read this and And I thought it was a really interesting statement. A man was reflecting on when he came out of seminary. And when he came out of seminary, one of his professors Brought him across a quotation that he had read many years before. The quotation came from the memoirs of a man named Pastor Alexander Waugh, who lived back in the 1830s. He said this: I know the vanity of your heart. You will feel mortified that your congregation is very small in comparison with those of your brethren around you. Listen to this. But I assure you. But assure yourself on the word of an old man that when you come to give an account to the Lord Jesus Christ at his judgment seat, you'll think you had enough. Have you ever thought about that? The truth is is that we should not be focused on statistics, but we should be focused on the heart and soul of what we're doing. We should be focused on what we are, on what we're becoming, on what we are in our health as a church. not necessarily the number of people that are there. And so let's move on to the answer of see there you go. What a church is. What a church is. The first thing is the church is an institution established by Christ as head and built upon his finished work. Matthew 16, verse 18. If you could turn there. And this is what Christ said. And I preached a sermon on this. This is the first sermon, Sunday sermon that I preached here at Anchor. Christ says, I say unto thee that thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. Christ is the head of this institution, Christ is the one. who established this institution. It's built upon him and his finished work and his person. A second thing that we see is in Acts 20, verse 28. Go ahead and turn there if you could. The church is a body. Now, when we use the term institution, we don't necessarily think organic. But when we hear the term body, then we think of something that has life, something that is organic. It's a body purchased by his shed blood, gathered under biblically qualified leadership for their spiritual growth into Christ's likeness. Look at Acts 20, 28. Paul is speaking to a group of pastors. And he says, Take heed therefore unto yourselves and to all the flock over which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers. To feed the church of God, which He has purchased with His own blood. You don't feed things that are not living. You feed things that need nutrition, that need strength. Christ purchased. Purchased a people, not something inanimate. He refers to it as a flock. A third concept. It's a body that is under his authority, that is being purified day by day, and is the object of his affections. Turn to Ephesians chapter 5, please. Ephesians five twenty three Beautiful passage By the way, if you ever wonder why is marriage such a sacred and holy thing to God, is because marriage was designed by God to be a picture, an illustration of something that is very, very important. And that is Christ's relationship to his church. I pray that our marriages, in some degree, in some proportion, reflect that. But this is what Paul writes. The husband is the head of the wife, as Christ is the head of the church. He is the Savior of the body. As the church is subject unto Christ, so let wives be to their own husbands and everything. Husbands, love your wives. As Christ loved the church and gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word. And here's the phrase that I I I just I love this. That he might present it to himself, a spotless church. Having no spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish before Him. What a wonderful statement. When God looks at the church, we are the object of his affection. We are under the authority of Christ. But when he looks at us, he sees an imperfect group of people. That doesn't bother him. Now that doesn't mean that he wants us to stay that way. He wants us to be moving into Christ's likeness. But the reality is he understands exactly where we are. And what is he doing? He is working to sanctify and cleanse through the washing of water by the word. In other words, the emphasis of the word of God, the scriptures in the local church, is how God purifies his people. He's talking about people that are already saved, but people who need to be growing in sanctification. We then go on to another. It's a body that is God's heritage. 1 Peter 5. 1. I know I've referred to this passage at least once. Recently, the elders which are among you I exhort who am also an elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and a partaker of that glory that shall be revealed. He says, feed the flock of God which is among you. Among you taking oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. And here's the phrase I want us to catch. Not that I want you to ignore the rest of the text, okay? Neither is being lords over God. God's heritage, but being examples to the flock. Not as lords over God's heritage. You know, it's kind of like this. your family, there are things that you have the right to say to your kids because they're your kids. How would you feel if somebody else is not a part of your family, has no relationship to you, decides to just come and like drop the ham on your kid? You 'd be like, you're out of line entirely. You have no right to do that. Because he's my child, not your child. Am I correct on that? Yeah, 100%. I mean, if you don't have that authority position Then it's not your domain, it's not your realm. And so what does he say? A pastor, those who are leading the congregation, even though they're in a position of authority within that congregation, they're really not the ultimate head of the church. So they don't have the right to domineer. They don't have the right to to act as if they're the master of individuals. It's like somebody coming and commanding your kid. It's not their domain. It's not their realm. They don't have that right. He says, this is God. Heritage. Your heritage is your offspring. You get what I'm talking about? Those that are following after you. And so when we talk about the church, we're talking about something God has established. We're talking about a body that's been purchased by his blood, gathered under biblically qualified leadership. It's a body that is being purified, and it's God's heritage. And then lastly, I want to mention, and if Ephesians chapter 3, it's a body that's designed to be growing in unity as it grows together into Christ-likeness. I love this text. He gave. Who is that? It wasn't Paul. It was Christ. We could say Christ gave apostles and prophets and evangelists and pastors and teachers. And here is the reason he did it. For the perfecting of of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ, till we all come into the unity of the faith, the knowledge of the Son of God unto a perfect that is a You are man. And I won't read the whole passage, but I would encourage you to consider looking at that passage because in the end it says it's all so that he will increase the body to unto the edification of itself in love. Is that uh five. Five? And it's got Ephesians three. Yes, five. Oh, then I made a mistake. It's actually four. I'm looking at the wrong thing. You guys are all reading different Bibles. What in the world? Those chapter divisions, they're irrelevant. They came in in the middle in the Middle Ages. I mean, come on now. Text it's important, guys. Okay, I stand correction. Chapter four. By the way, there there there are a few little uh mistakes uh as far as uh typographical in here. I've been under the weather a bit this week, so they're could be a bit of fog in these things. Hopefully that'll improve, not get worse. Yes. Ephesians chapter 4. I ha I you know people always say that you get sick a lot in Ghana. Apart from having a runny stomach all the time No, I didn't get sick very often. You know? Anytime I left the house and ate anything, I gotta run a stomach. That's the truth. But here that problem is not a problem. But everything else is I don't know. I like not having you register. Sorry guys, that's too much information. Okay, so moving right along. We are going to now move to the term that is used. And if you don't know any Greek, not not important. Uh But I just have it there for anybody that's interested. That's the word ekklesia, and that's what it looks like in Greek. The word ekklesia is an interesting word. It's a general term. You know, like in English, we have terms that we can use in about, you know, sometimes four or five different ways, depending on context. The truth is, ecclesia is like that. Every time the word's used, it's not always referring to a local church or even to the church in general, as in the body of Christ. Sometimes it's just a general term. But the specifics are that This. It's a called-out assembly, and it's a separated group. I want us to think about some of the specifics that we find in the New Testament. First of all, when we read the New Testament and we look at all the passages where the word church is used, or where the concept of church is used, we'll find out that many of the passages, not all, I didn't even say I would say half, but a good number of them are referring not necessarily to an individual localized group, but are referring to Christians in general. And the most common examples of this would be found in the book of Ephesians. For instance, in Ephesians 5, when he says Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. I don't think that when he makes that statement, he's just thinking of Ephesus alone or Philippi alone, but he's talking in general terms of the body of Christ. When he says you've been baptized into Christ by one Spirit, he's referring to the church, if you will, as the body of Christ in a universal setting. I know amongst Baptists, some they don't like that. term universal church because it's too Catholic, I guess. But it's not a Roman Catholic concept. It's it's in the Bible. And I think if we dig into the scriptures and we're just honest with what the text is saying, we'll find out there are many places that The word ecclesi is used in that setting. Secondly, it can be referring to, and most generally is referring to, a local assembly. Here are some things that we see about it. First of all, it's always referring to referring to an assembly of believers. Now that's not to say that within that assembly there are people that are unbelievers. Most certainly there could have been. In fact, when they were dealing with problems at Corinth, and he talks about putting someone outside The church. He says, you should view them as an unbeliever. Well, the reality is that sometimes when you're dealing with situations, you don't know what a person's true situation is. You just don't know. But when we talk about the local church, we're assuming that the Those individuals are saved. Secondly, there is a formal identification with Christ. Now somebody tell me, what is that formal identification with Christ? Baptism. Baptism. Very good. So when somebody's getting baptized, what are they saying? Well, they're actually saying a lot of different things, but yes, one is I'm aligned with Christ, they're showing a picture of the gospel. At some point in our teachings we'll actually talk about baptism, what it is, what it isn't, some of the various understandings of baptism, what the biblical understanding of baptism is and why it's important and all those things but there's a formal identification before you become a part of the local church you have to first of all give a clear testimony of salvation And secondly, you identify publicly with Christ in baptism. Third, there's a formal commitment to one another. You know, I've heard people say, I don't believe that church membership is in the Bible. Well, the truth is you'll never find A text that tells you you have to be a member of the local church. However, I want you to think about this for a second. When they picked deacons and acts, and the apostles said, here's the criteria, choose out from among yourselves. Well, who were they? Who was making that decision? I mean, they knew themselves in some way, right? In Acts it says, and there were added to the church 3,000 souls. Well, in other words, there was a group that was represented. recognize somehow, I'm not saying they all wrote letters or they had some kind of formal id you know identification as we have in church situations here today, but they had a way of understanding who was a part of the body and who was not. When When Paul says the church at Corinth that this individual is unrepentant and you've made uh offer you know, you've tried to reach out to him and try to resolve that issue, and you put him out of the church, what does that what does that entail? Obviously there's a body. So when we read the New Testament and we think about the functioning of the church, there are so many passages that you realize, if we don't understand a church membership, then those passages really make no sense at all. So there is a formal commitment. Yes, go ahead. Question or comment? Well this is important because it's had come up several times. Doesn't the scriptural premise almost suggest an informal type of recognition? rather than a formal process. What do you mean by that? Can you explain to me? So so so so so but it's like we're built four thousand men into the church basically the implication is that they accepted Christ, they accepted the gospel just they were just they were just like massive people who who were saved, they shared comedy and whatever. There seemed to be a lack of formal protocol. Yeah. And and that's where this discussion goes. I agree with you, but I think that I think what I would like to understand is they obviously didn't have a questionnaire or something like that. Right, exactly. Where's the scriptural foundation for the formalized process that we've developed that normally associated with like the Catholic Church or as religious. Yeah, and what I would what I would say is that um you know I'll give you an example like when we were in Ghana we had a baptism class. The apostles didn't have a baptism class. But there There weren't you know five or six different understandings of baptism in those days. And there was no um there was no stigmatization Uh there there there was a major stigmatization that was associated with baptism. So, for instance, when they got baptized in Acts chapter 3, they were choosing to publicly identify with somebody who 50 days before had been crucified publicly, had been beaten and spat upon, and who the religious leaders had tremendous antagonistic attitudes towards. You know, the Apostle Paul was probably one who voted for Christ to be crucified. Okay? And um after the church is exploding in Jerusalem Paul is is getting letters to go out and to bring them back to Jerusalem to stand before uh the religious leaders. And the religious leaders had power. They even had governmental authority. So I think it's wisdom that really dictates that. I don't we can't go to scripture and say, okay, here's a questionnaire that we ask or something like that. But because we have so many different understandings of baptism, we have to articulate to people what baptism is. You know, because we have so many different church types that have varying views about salvation, for instance, we have to actually sit down with somebody. In those days it was, do you believe that Jesus is the Messiah? I mean it was pretty simple. And they're they're they're they're their you know, their faith in Christ, there weren't all these different competing views out there, you might say. And so in our generation I think we have to be wise to ask the question, do they understand what this baptism means? means. Do they understand the gospel actually? And so that's one of the reasons that a little bit of a a process is there. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. So I mean that's why there's there's freedom. That's why there's freedom between how one church may do it versus another. One church may, I say, go tremendously overboard on their membership process. And then another church might be so uh careless about how they do it that they end up having people in their membership that when they got baptized they thought that's how they got saved. You know, they think that washed their sins away or you know, a lot of different views and so So sometimes people tend to do a little bit more of the foundational discipleship on the front side to make sure that people understand what they're doing. We've got to draw a balance on those things. Yes. So two different there, Second Timothy uh Paul talks to them. Um Second Timothy two uh three seconds Timothy two two and the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses the same that thou the fable men. who shall be able to teach others also the idea of mentorship and teaching that. And then uh three fourteen, but continue thou the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of knowing then that thou hast learned nothing. Yes, so the idea of establishing, like you said, some type of TV or something. And and the reality is story that when you when you are in a ministry context for a while and you see the various ways that things can go, that's when you start feeling like you have to tighten up the process. So the longer a person is in the ministry, the the more inclined they are to tighten that process up, generally speaking. When somebody first You know, they point a church for the first time, they do things in an extremely informal way, and then they get burned a couple of times and then they start going, Oh, you know this person didn't have a clue what they were doing when they came into our church and all of a sudden you have to you're like, Oh, we don't want to do that again. And it can get overboard. I mean you gotta have a a reasonable balance with that. And I remember when we were in Ghana, we really dealt with this a lot with our with our church members because we wanted to have a a careful process, but they got really over It was like if if you didn't like have this incredible testimony and you didn't come faithfully to church and you didn't miss a meeting for like four months, then they were like, We cannot and I said, No, that's that's overboard meeting and you can't do that. You know? So we had to work for the process. And um but it is interesting in First Peter, when Peter mentions baptism There's a passage in Peter that talks about baptism being a type of Noah. I don't you know that passage? Okay. In that passage, Peter makes an interesting statement about baptism and he talks about the fact that in the original languages you can see that there was some kind of a questioning involved. So the leadership of the church definitely would have questioned those individuals. The extent to which they questioned them, I don't know. And when that's written, that's a little further along in church life than the original. you know, when the church was first birthed. I mean, you know, it's Paul who's birthing the church, if you will. I mean God, but Paul is and Paul's an apostle and he was thorough. I mean he he spent hours teaching people and they spent hours listening. So I mean when he sends Timothy back to Ephesus, he's going to actually remove unbiblical leadership. Believe it or not. There are people in the leadership who are not qualified to be pastors and deacons. He's actually Going to have to go in and remove those individuals. And he's going to have to establish new leadership and the criteria is given. I mean, can you imagine the kind of internal turmoil that man faced? That's not an Any other questions? Yes. Um that's what you were saying. Uh thinking when you when you set the Bible you think about it um in the time frame. I'm curious to see that context of what you had said about almost making generation or culturally determined in the history of that area things that have a lot to do with the wisdom of how you approach Well, let me give you kind of an interesting example. So when when we read the book of Romans, we tend to think uh doctrine by justification by faith alone. Right? That's what we tend to think. Because we think of the book of Romans in light of the Reformation controversies. Okay? Martin Luther nailing his 95 Theses, a lot of the commentaries that are written on Romans, the the old classic works, those are guys who were living during that time. But what's interesting is if you step back and you read the book of Romans and you try not to think about the Catholic-Protestant conflict, you will see the doctrine by of justification by faith alone. clearly established there. But what you will also see that you miss is that a lot of the controversy going on at Rome was because of disunity between Jews and Gentiles who are part of that local congregation. And Paul is trying to pull them together. so that he can have them support him in his work to Spain. And so he's expounding lots of rich doctrine, but when he wrote that book to those individuals, they were thinking more of Jew Gentile controversies. We don't have Jew Gentile. Controversies in this church. We don't. I'm not saying it can never happen. But we don't have that cultural context today. And so the principles that are established and the doctrines that are established for those individuals that the the applications were somewhat culturally uh it was their cultural context in some ways. And so um yeah it didn't I mean they were able to establish qualified leadership very quickly in some of those churches. And we tend to think of, you know, Paul's missionary work being in totally pagan uh context, but the truth is that he always went to synagogues. He was he was preaching the gospel to j uh Jewish, we could say, pro uh people who were they're they're practicing Judaism. They have a a lot of Old Testament context. They knew doctrine, their Bible, they knew it very well, but they weren't understanding Christ the Messiah. And so it was a lot easier for them to set up pastors and deacons. and those things who were qualified because they had a lot of folks who were grounded individuals biblically with a misunderstanding of who Christ was. And once that was firmly changed in their minds, they were in a good position to be teachers. I mean look at Paul. He was a very young convert when he became an apostle. Yet he had a thorough understanding of the Old Testament. From the wrong paradigm. And once that was corrected, he was, you know, an amazing spokesman for the gospel. So, good questions. Okay. United under the Lordship. So Of Christ. The idea is that we as a church, and you know, for your uh your question here is something that I think has bearing on this statement, when we say we're united into the lordship of Christ, what we're saying is that That Christ's commands dictate what we do as a church. Well, Tori goes, well, okay, so Christ never uh commanded that we have a uh a questionnaire before somebody joins the church. Soul scriptura. We're not gonna have a questionnaire. Okay? So we honestly we ha we get into some of these areas where we ask the question, are we expanding beyond what Christ commands to the church or not? That's actually where a lot of debates sometimes come into the church, really. And we have to be humble, we have to be gracious, we have to recognize what God's standard is, and if we are adding to what God says, or if we are simply in wisdom, we are applying it in a in an appropriate way in our context. Context. Okay? Those are tough questions. And we have to really approach them in a very humble manner. But the church is united under the lordship of Christ. We don't pick leadership based on who's popular or who's gifted. We pick leadership based on what God says is the criteria. So the most gifted individual in the church should never be a pastor sometimes, or should never be a deacon. God's word has to dictate what uh what we decide about those matters. How the church relates within itself. We should not follow a business model as a church. We should follow a biblical model as a church. And that's very, very important. The truth is that you you'd be amazed How much of the way we look at church life is not shaped at all by the Bible, it's completely shaped by our cultural context. It's it's it's stunning, honestly. And when you're a missionary, one of the things that you you know, you discuss this with lots and lots of people who are also missionaries. And we don't always draw the line in the same places amongst ourselves as missionaries. But we say we're not here to establish a Western church. We're here to establish a biblical church. And all of a sudden you start looking at Some of the things that you do, how you conduct your business, how you pick your leadership, how you do all those things, and you ask the question, are we really doing this in a biblical manner, in a Christ-honoring manner, or are we doing this in a business model? And if we do it, According to the business model, what we have is a business. It's that simple. But if we do it in a biblical way, what we have is a church. And sometimes the business model is easier. Okay? It is easier to command people than it is to lead them. I promise you. It's a lot easier. But one is healthy for their souls and one is not. And one is healthy for the leadership souls and one is not. And so united under the Lordship of Christ. Next, united to follow his commands to the church. One of the things that I want us to do as we study these issues is I want us to see what Christ says about these issues. Because as much as possible, we want to follow that. You know, there's a thinking in Psalms circles. I know my my dad grew up in in mainline a mainline denomination. And I remember he and I were were discussing polity issues and we were discussing business issues and all this kind of stuff. And now I'm not saying that my dad followed that Train of thought, but he basically said, Well, you know, Joel , when I grew up, we never even thought about this stuff. We thought it was complete freedom, man. We'd have to worry about that. He's like, but now as I study the Bible, I begin to realize how much God actually addresses. How much those issues are articulated in the scriptures and how when we don't follow those things and we pursue freedom, if you will, we actually run amok in those areas. And then this last statement, and this is, I'm going to expand a lot of these things as a general statement, because this is not the purpose of the church, this is what it is. So select biblically qualified leadership, preach and teach sound doctrine, make disciples, observe the ordinances, and attend to the needs of those within the body. Just a real general statement. We'll develop that in greater detail down the road. Okay, I'm gonna run through this like seven times. Somebody, if you know how to help me with this, I would really gladly appreciate that. Uh any questions while I'm doing that? Yes. Well yeah, a lot of whole years follow this you know, establishing the charge of the schools. I mean, they take violence um follow things to the library, yet they can still get things to do things that are not Well there's a reason there is a reason that uh that God uses the term sheep when he talks about the church. Okay? He uses the term sheep because because just In general, this is how the average church member thinks, I would guess. Okay? I come to church, I want to hear a good sermon, I want to interact with my friends and I want to go home and not have any drama. It would that be pretty pretty You know, I mean really. I want to hear a good sermon. I want to interact with my brothers and sisters in Christ if I don't want any drama. And um and the truth is that A lot of times your average church member doesn't really think about a lot of the issues. And unfortunately, a lot of times there's not a purposeful teaching on those things. We can say we want to be a biblical church, but unless you expand. what a biblical church is, then you don't know what it is. And the truth is you can say something a bunch of times, that doesn't mean that people grasp it. I was I was reading something some time back and I think they said the average person picks up about 25 to 30 percent of what That's kinda scary. So I gotta say it four times. And then once you get it, yes. What a blessing. You want to hear the same lesson, then I doubt it. But but the i the idea is that repetition I mean, you can hear something and it's good content but you don't pick it up. And um you know, you hear something and y you grasp it but then you forget it. I mean, we constantly have to be going through these kinds of things. Yes. There's a lot of interesting insights into this process and running for office and engaging with the public in general. And to that point it really makes me mindful of a lot of the weight in a lot of the uh not correct, but God's take Yeah, because he understands how people gravitate towards strong personalities, strong messages, and it's very easy to take people and to convince people to believe things that you aren't true or aren't their own fantastic. I mean I'm seeing this just in the political sphere when having conversations with people about things that are common sense to many people, but they honestly the most legitimately believe things that are just not true. And it just reminds me why God takes this idea of spiritual leadership so seriously and why it came down so hard on people that abused that leadership to persuade others to do things wrong. Well, let me make this comment. When somebody is constantly telling you what to think rather than encouraging you to think, that's a little bit of a warning. You know, believe this, believe this, believe it this. The truth is that um we need to learn how to process things ourselves. It used to be that in the academic realm when you went to the university you interacted with a lot of ideas and you were encouraged to learn how to process those things, to work through those things, and to think ration rationally and critically about things. And um it's not that way anymore, believe it or not. It's Here's the one thing that you're exposed to over and over and over again. And if something is true, then I want to state it emphatically. But I don't want to just state it emphatically. I want to help you to see how I came to that conclusion. And I want you to be able to pick up your Bible and look at it and say, Well that's exactly what it's saying. You understand what I'm saying? When you hear something from the pulpit, you should be going, Oh yeah, I was reading that the other day, and that's exactly what it is. We should be encouraged not to just turn off the We should have a heightened sense of critical analysis. And one of the ways that we be begin to be good students of the Word of God is we learn how to ask the right questions when we read the Bible. When we read the Bible, we start asking the right questions, and we start having an expanded understanding of what the passage is actually saying. And so really, um, and and I think that that you know each generation seems to have like a stereotype. But the truth is that that's not an entirely bad thing The truth is that questioning things, if it's true, then you'll have a much firmer conviction of it after you have questioned it. I mean there is a purifying process Something passes through the fire, it comes out purified. And the reality is that our ability to articulate truth is increased by interacting with other people as well. So all right, question two. Who is the Lord, builder, and shepherd of the church? Anybody want to guess? Christ. Christ is. Very good. One answer. Christ is. But I want to make a couple of observations about this, some implications. Because Christ is the Lord of the Church, we need to labor to recognize only his word as our final authority. We need to labor. Now I we can say I can make a statement like, well, the Word of God is my only authority, but let me tell you something. If you analyze me long enough you're gonna learn that there are gonna be a lot of things that I do that I don't have biblical basis for. And you do too. The idea is that we we are purposing to do that. Well we won't do that if we never read the book. We won't do it if we never study it. We won't do it if we don't listen to preaching and teaching carefully. If we don't take notes And those kinds of things. We won't do that if we don't analyze why we make the decisions that we make. We need to labor to recognize that His Word is our final authority. Second point, we should endeavor to make expositional preaching. the primary teaching and preaching guide of the church. Now I am not antagonistic in any way towards topical teaching. That's what I'm doing right now. Okay? It's topical. Nothing wrong with topical. But topical has a tendency to To make the teacher the authority. Okay? Because rather than the text dictating where the lesson goes, rather than you expounding what it's actually saying, you have something you want to address and you go looking for places That you think addressed that. Now maybe you get it right. Maybe you do have the right texts that address that issue. Maybe you don't. And maybe you begin to take passages and pull them out of their context and you begin to explain. expound them in ways that they really were not meant to be expounded. And so expositional preaching and teaching is the best methodology, if you will, to be the main diet for the church. Because the word of God is dictating the time. I mean don't think that if we preach through the book of 1 John, oh it's just this dry, well let's read this verse and let's make a couple of it's not a commentary. You can preach expositionally. You are teaching expositionally, but what is the next topic that you address. Well the next thing that John decided to write about. And why did John write it? Well because God moved him to do it. Okay? So not only are we preaching God's word, but we're preaching the progression that God established in those particular books of the Bible. And we get a sense of the whole flow of a book. And there are things that we don't miss as easily when we take that methodology. Three, we labor to emphasize doctrine, catch this, in proportion proportion to their clarity and emphasis in the scriptures. Can somebody explain to me what I mean by proportion to clarity and emphasis? The main things are the plain things. Is that what you're talking about? That's a great statement. Yeah, very good statement. So I have noticed that a lot of times the things that people get the most passionate about are the things that they have the least biblical support for. Am I right or wrong? And why are they so passionate about it? Because nobody else sees what they see. And why don't other people see what they see? Because there's hardly any support for it. Well and when people don't seem to see what they're seeing and they become passionate about that issue. And the the reality is that not every single truth in the Bible is of equal weight and importance. Now I'm not suggesting that something that's true is irrelevant. That's not what I'm saying. But what I'm saying is, let's say that you're in your house and there's a fire. And you say, Hey kids, get out of the house. And one of your kids says, Oh, I didn't brush my teeth this morning. Okay. Go ahead and brush your teeth, why not? You'll just die in the bathroom. No. It's true they need to brush their teeth. But it's also true that they need to get out of the house. And at that moment, getting out of the house Is of greater weight than brushing your teeth. And the reality is that when it comes to studying the scripture, not every truth is equally weighted. Now, I believe we honor the Lord when we dig into the text and we understand what he says and what he wants. But the reality is Sometimes we ignore or we miss the most important issues. We don't emphasize them. We don't spend time on them. And we still emphasize secondary issues Things that are not not of that magnitude and that weight. The reality is sometimes you can sit in a church and the pastor preaches the same thing week after week after week after week after week. And as you listen, you're like I know that's important, but I think in the last month maybe that should have only been addressed once. You get what I'm saying? And the truth is we can very easily become fixated on something that is of lesser importance, and at the same time we are we are missing out on the most important things. We tend to be too dogmatic about things that are not as clear as things that are. The gospel is very clear. But you know what's funny? I promise you, if you went to every independent Baptist church in our general area and you sat down and you listened to their pastor give the gospel, they'd not all give it in equal clarity, I promise you. I know that's that's scary. And that's sad. I'm not saying that those men are lost, but in the clarity in which they present the gospel. Yet that's the most important thing, isn't it? Yet they can argue and fight about peripheral matters, and they can defend their pet issues to the death Yet the most important thing in our Bible, they don't articulate it, with clarity. And as as God's people, we can't afford to do that. Next, we need to labor to diligently preach and teach the whole council of God. There are a lot of things in the Bible that that that because of fear they don't get addressed. Because I don't want it to be a divisive issue and it doesn't get addressed. Maybe because of a personal thing that that pastor or teacher went through. They don't touch those issues. But the reality is that if Christ is the Lord of the church, and He is We've got to preach the whole counsel of God. Everything that He says is important. We should labor not to compromise or show partiality for the sake of convenience. Oh that that's my uncle. I can't I can't say anything to him about that because you know we have this family relationship. Man, that family's got a lot of money and if this issue didn't go down the way they wanted it, then We really get it. Well, whether you realize it or not, those kinds of thoughts definitely pop in people's heads. And the truth is we have to show impartiality We cannot compromise for the sake of convenience. And you know, church leadership and church members, we are human, so we all have the tendencies. But we have to resist them because Christ is the Lord of the church. And we need to labor to keep one another, including leadership, accountable to Christ You know, one of the things that that that is a big problem in our independent Baptist churches is that pastors become little king dictators, and they can do and say anything they want. And nobody could ever come to them and say, hey, what do you think about this? I'm concerned about this. That unquestioned authority, do not touch God's anointed. The truth is that that attitude is is devastating to that individual and it's devastating to that congregation. And and I can tell you that that there are Scores of examples right now among churches just like ours where there's no question if you are on the outside and you were able to analyze what goes on in that church, you would say that pastor is untouchable. wants will happen no matter what. And if it doesn't happen, he will blow that church apart. And the reality is that if Christ is the Lord of the church, then those who are in leadership are under his authority. And the congregation is under God's authority. And God in his word actually builds in checks and balances for congregations and for leadership. And so we have to be very cautious that we Build those into our congregation and uphold those things as well. I didn't finish what I wanted to today, but I'll stop. There are any questions or comments? The third one. Uh labor to emphasize doctrines in proportion to their clarity and emphasis in Scripture.