To welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we're in Luke chapter 3 again. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it and let's look together at verses 24. Down to verse 38. Now we're not going to read all these verses, and the reason is because it's early in the morning and I think I'd mess up probably almost all the names in there. But just to get a sense, let's get started in verse 23. We'll read down to verse 24, and then I'll kind of conclude that, and then we'll take some time to reflect on it. Luke 323, and Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being as was supposed the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli. Then skipping down to verse 38 it says, which was the son of Enos, which was the son of Seth, which was the son of Adam, which was the son of God. Now when we come to this passage of scripture, I want to give you a simple summary statement and then reflect on some really interesting topics that are kind of tucked away here. in Christ's genealogy. And they might be some things you never thought about. We tend to not really dig into genealogies very much. It's not something that We spend a lot of time on because we don't think there's a lot of practical information there. But this one is interesting, and so I want to get into a few of the details. So first of all, summary statement. The following section of Luke records Christ's genealogy, and this is key, through his mother Mary down to Adam. demonstrating his full humanity and connecting him not only to Abraham as a Jewish man, but to all mankind through Adam. And so this passage is going to take the genealogy of Christ from his mother through her side of the family all the way down to Adam. You might say, well, why is that significant? Well, it's significant because Christ did not have a biological father. And so when we get into these details, some of the things that we'll talk about, they wouldn't make sense unless we recognize that Christ had no biological father. He's God in flesh, he's conceived in the womb of the Virgin Mary, and so That's an important detail to keep in the back of our minds as we look at this. So let's look at the first fact that we find in this text, and then we'll move through it carefully. Christ's humanity came exclusively through Mary, while his legal standing came through Joseph, his legal guardian. Let me say that again Christ's humanity came exclusively through Mary, while his legal standing came through Joseph, his legal guardian. Notice carefully how verse 23 is worded. It says, Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being, and here's the key, as was supposed, the son of Joseph. And then we see the statement, which was the son of Halie. Now the question is, was Joseph the son of Halie, or was Jesus the son of Halie through Mary? And the answer is, Joseph was not the son of Phili, but Jesus was the son of Philip through Mary. In other words, Heli was Jesus' grandfather on the maternal side, on the mother's side. And as we work our way through this genealogy and as we look at the details, what we're going to see, it appears, is that he's not just going to talk about Jesus' maternal grandfather. But he's also going to do this in another portion of it when we get to a man named Zerubabel. And this is a very interesting detail. So first thing I want to show you is that people assumed that Joseph was Jesus' biological father. But in fact he was not. And we see that in the phrase being supposed the son of Joseph. The second detail we're going to see here is that Christ's humanity came exclusively through Mary. who was the fa whose father was Halid. Notice the statement, which was the son of Halid. So Jesus is biological grandfather didn't exist because he didn't have a biological grandfather on his dad's side. His biological grandfather on his mother's side is this man named Haley. The third thing I'm going to notice is this. This is a clear reference to the miraculous nature of Christ's conception. So in Matthew, we see a statement about the Virgin conception of Jesus. In Luke, we see a couple of statements about it, and we see that this is a fulfillment of prophecies made in the Old Testament. The second fact that we're going to look at is that there's a significant difference. There are several differences actually between Luke and Matthew's accounting of the genealogy of Christ. Now for those who don't believe that the Bible is God's Word and that it's inspired by God and that it's perfect and preserved for us may look at the differences between Luke and Matthew's genealogies and say, well obviously there's a discrepancy here in the Bible, and so we can just throw this out and say that it's not true. Well, whenever we're talking about people's backgrounds and where they come from, every person has a mom and a dad. So if you want to follow someone's genealogy, you can do it through your father's side of the family or you can do it through your mother's side of the family. And so there's no reason for us to be concerned or shocked when one of the Gospels basically follows the legal side of Christ's genealogy through Joseph, his legal guardian, though not his biological father. And in another gospel, we follow the genealogy of Christ's mother. And so that's essentially the distinction between Matthew and Luke, and we talk about that. Matthew's following the legal standing through Joseph to Abraham, and he's connecting Christ to the promises made to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. And so Matthew is a Jewish-oriented gospel. In fact, we see the statement, this happened that it might be fulfilled, which was spoken by the prophet. And and then we have a prophet Isaiah or one of the other prophets. And so Matthew is writing primarily to a Jewish audience. Well when we come to Luke, we we see that it's written to a man named Theophilus. Theophilus is not a Jewish name. Theophilus is clearly a Gentile. And so the the emphasis of the book of Luke is going to be written to a Gentile audience. It's written to a Gentile man. And not just to that Gentile individual, but it's going to be written to other Gentiles who are going to read it. And so Luke follows Christ's humanity through Mary's father, Heli, to Adam, connecting him to the promises made to Adam at the fall. I think it's important that we recognize that God made promises not just to Abraham, that He's going to make of him a great nation, and He's going to bless all the nations of the world through Abraham. But God made a promise to Adam and to Eve in the garden when Adam sinned. And though Adam had sinned, God says, I'm going to send a Savior through the seed of the woman. And that statement is so interesting because that's such an unusual way for us to look at genealogy. Well, it would make sense That what Luke is ultimately doing is he's taking the genealogy of Christ through the seed of the woman, through Mary, all the way back to Adam. And the reason that he's doing it all the way back to Adam is because he's essentially connecting Christ all the way back to the promise made to Adam in the garden. that God was going to send a Redeemer who would crush the serpent's head by the seed of the woman The third thing we'll notice is this. Matthew mentions four women, which would have been extremely unusual in Jewish culture. And to add to this anomaly, two of those women were Gentiles. And two of those women were associated with stunning moral failures. So we see that Ruth is mentioned in the genealogy in Matthew. We see that Rahab is mentioned in the genealogy of Matthew. These are both Gentile women. We see that there's an allusion to Bathsheba. Now she's not stated by name. It says she's the wife of Uriah. But we see that she is talked about in that particular context. We also see that Tamar and the story behind Tamar is a terrible story. It's a blot on Judah's reputation and really on that entire family. And so what it what do we see? We see that God takes the time to record those women's names, indicating the fact That in spite of the pain and the suffering and the humiliation of some of those stories, and in spite of the fact that there were times that Jewish men married Gentile women, God still used those individuals in his ultimate plan to bring the Redeemer into the world. But then we see another interesting distinction between these two genealogies. And this one is perhaps the most complex. And so rather than getting into all the weeds here, I'm just going to try to lay out a couple of the details that are that are associated with this distinction Luke and Matthew both mention a man named Zerubbabel, who is the son of Shatil. So we see this in Matthew's genealogy, we see this in Luke's genealogy So what it tells us is that if you were to follow Mary's line down to that point in history, and you were to follow Joseph's line down to that point in history. We would see that both of them were descended from a man named Zerubbabel, the son of Shatel. But what's really interesting is that when we look at Matthew's gospel, We see that the grandfather of this man, Zerubabul, the son of Shiatel, is named Jechaniah. When we go to Luke's gospel and we see the genealogy that Luke records, he doesn't mention Jechaniah. Instead, he mentions a man named Neri. In other words, he has two different people mentioned for the same guy as their father. And you go, well, what is Luke doing and what is Matthew doing? Well the truth is there's a lot of debate about what they're doing, and we can't be a hundred percent sure of what they're doing, but as I've dug into this conflict or controversy, what I believe is happening here is one of the gospel writers, Matthew. is following the lineage of Zerubbabel through his father's side, and Luke is doing the opposite. He's following it through his mother's side. And by the way, this would make sense when we consider the fact that Matthew has been following the genealogy of Joseph, not the biological father, but the legal guardian of Jesus, and Luke has been following the maternal side. The the the uh the way that Jesus is descended through Mary's side of the family. But then the question comes to why is it That Matthew is going to go down anziable down the father's side, whereas Luke is going to go down the mother's side And one is going to go back to David and then ultimately back to Abraham, while the other will go from David to Abraham all the way to Adam. Why is that? Well, I want to remind you that Luke is connecting Jesus through his mother's side, through the seat of the woman, all the way back to Adam. And so it wouldn't be shocking if he's done it in one location that he would do it in another location with this man named Zerubbabel But then the question comes, why is that even significant? Other than the fact that he's obviously done this, why does it even matter? Well, the answer is found in the fact that God cursed this man Jeconiah back in Jeremiah 22 And in Hegai chapter 2, a descendant of Jechaniah, through his father's side, a man named Zerubbabel, God is going to reinstate this man And we ask the question, well, how can God curse Jechaniah and say, you will not have a son that's going to be ruling in Israel? Whereas in Zek in in in when we come to Haggai, he clearly states that Haggai is going to be re-established as a part of the Messiah's lineage. The question is, how is this possible? Well, it's really only possible If you go through the descending on the mother's side. And so notice what it says in Jeremiah 22 about this individual, Jeconiah. who 's recorded for us in Matthew but not in Luke's genealogy as the grandfather of Zerubabel. He says, as I live, saith the Lord, through Canah, this is talking about Jeconiah, The Kaniah, the son of Jechaniah, king of Judah, were the were the signet upon my right hand, yet would I pluck a defense. Write ye this man childless A man that shall not prosper in his days, for no man of his seed shall prosper sitting upon the throne of David and ruling any more in Judah. So clearly God is saying, look, I am cutting off your descendants as people who are going to be blessed ruling on the throne of David. Then we come to Haggai chapter 2, and it's interesting. He says, In that day saith the Lord of hosts, Well, I take the Oz of Rubbabel, my servant, the son of Shatel. says the Lord, and will make thee as a signet, for I have chosen thee, saith the Lord of hosts. Now what's interesting is when we look in Jeremiah 22, he talks, he uses the term signet as something that he's throwing away and taking off. And in Haggai chapter 2, he's talking about him being a signet to God. And so the question is, what's going on here? Well, what's going on is that God is re-establishing his blessing on the seed of David through Zerubbabel. And we will see that Zerubabel is a direct uh is is directly in the line to Christ, really on both sides, on Joseph's side, the legal side, and on Mary's side, the biological side. But what it seems like is going on here is that Luke is recording the maternal side of this man Zerubbabel to ultimately leap over or go past Jechaniah. and therefore bring a harmonization to these two situations, both the curse of Jechaniah and the re-establishing of Zerobo. Now, I will be honest with you, that's a very complex discussion, and if you want to read into it more, feel free to go and do that. But it very well seems that that is what Luke is doing versus what Matthew has done here. So then we come to a third fact, and that is that God's providence is preeminently displayed in these verses. When we look at these stories, we need to realize that behind every name is a storyline. Some of these storylines are really rough, really difficult. We look at the storyline of, say, a Tamar. We look at the storyline of somebody like Aruth. We look at the storyline of someone like Bathsheba. The fact is that as we go through this line, we see lots of complexities, lots of difficulties, lots of embarrassments. But what do we see throughout this entire storyline? We see the consistency of God to perform his purposes to ultimately bring in the Messiah. And so when we look at the genealogy of Christ, whether we're looking at it through the maternal side or the paternal side, whether it's the legal side or the biological side, what we're ultimately seeing is the providential hand of God is at work. So here's the question that we want to ask this morning. What can we learn practically from this portion of God's Word? The first thing I'm going to say is this. There are certain non-negotiable facts that form the foundations of the Christian faith. When we talk about the gospel, there are certain things that if you deny them, you deny the gospel itself. If you deny the deity of Christ, you deny the gospel. If you deny the humanity of Christ, you deny the gospel. If you deny the perfection of Christ, then you deny the gospel. And so when we talk about the perfect humanity and the perfect deity of Christ being placed into one individual, the full humanity and the full deity , Within this one person, we recognize that this is a non-negotiable aspect of the gospel. When we talk about the miracle of the Virgin Mary having a child, the Lord Jesus Christ We recognize that this is a non-negotiable aspect of the gospel. If you don't believe in that, you really don't embrace the gospel as it is. The second point I'll make is this. The way that God works providentially is remarkable, and it is truly wonderful to behold. Life is complex apart from God's personal care. And the fact is that if it's not for God being at work personally and individually in people's lives, we would have unbelievable chaos. Think about how much chaos is in the world as it stands today. If it wasn't for God's guiding hand, his sovereign work, then we would never see the things accomplished that God purposes to do. Yet what does God do? He accomplishes his will. In spite of all the ups and downs of history, God keeps doing what God's going to do. And there's no individual or no set of circumstances that will ultimately thwart his eternal purposes. A third point is this. The gospel is not a strictly Jewish gospel. The reason that Luke takes the genealogy of Christ through Mary, down to Ciro, through his mother's side of the family, all the way back to Adam. is to connect Christ to the promise made to all humanity back in the garden when Adam and Eve sinned and were experiencing the full weight and consequences. of now living in a fallen and broken world. The gospel is not just for the Jew, it's for the Gentile. It's for people from every kindred and tribe and nation. And we see that demonstrated in this genealogy. And the third point, or the la the final point I'll make is this. God's grace transcends all human frailty. And this grace is both what motivates and causes God to complete his redemptive work. It was the grace of God that moved him to have a plan of redemption. It's the grace of God that accomplished that plan of redemption. And it's ultimately the grace of God that humbles our hearts and self-righteousness and pride and rebellion. And brings us humbly to that place where we recognize it is Christ and it is Christ alone. It's his work on that cross. It's his righteousness. that is available to us in Christ. It's his resurrection, his triumph over the grave. That is where we find the gospel and redemption. And so if you look at this storyline, it's all about God 's grace. And so I hope that this has been an encouragement to you this morning. I don't know how you're feeling today. I don't know if you're discouraged, if you're fearful, if you're angry. But the reality is no matter what set of circumstances we encounter in life, God is consistent and his grace will accomplish what he wills to do. Hope that this has been a challenge to you today. It has been to me as I reflected on it. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, help us to take these truths and to live in the light of them. Help us to glory in the cross, in the empty tomb, and in your son 's righteousness. We thank you for the things that we've been able to think about, and I pray that you would help us. to really embrace and understand these truths. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well I hope that you have a great rest of your day and Lord willing we will continue our study tomorrow. Bye now