First Samuel chapter twelve and the topic that we're looking at this morning is learning from a faithful leader. Learning from a faithful leader. And we are studying the life of really Saul and a little bit of David and also a little bit of Samuel in our section. We're really looking at passages in 1 Samuel. And today we're going to kind of skip over a little bit of the details that are early on in the uh the kingdom of Saul. And we're going to talk a little bit about Samuel's leadership. Now let's remember that Samuel is at the end of his life, and the people have rejected his leadership. And they've more or less rejected his leadership because they're rejecting God's authority over them. They don't like God's authority. They want a king. Secondarily, they also recognize that Samuel's boys are not going to be good leaders. And so they're rejecting Samuel's leadership primarily because they want a king, but secondarily because his sons were not going to be good leaders. But one of the things that we can see whenever we look at people is that We see a mixture of good and bad. And that's what's so interesting about studying history. You can see people that in their time were giants. They were amazing people You bring them into our society today, the things that they did the way that they thought, and there would be people who would be very harsh and very critical of those same people At the same time, if you could take people in our generation and put them back a few hundred years and put them in society, uh they would have been loathed. The way that they thought, the way that they looked at situations in the world would have really been hated by society. My point is this every person is a mixed bag. Every person who has great qualities also has weaknesses. But when we look at Samuel, today I'd like us not to focus on his weaknesses, but on his strengths as a leader. So with that in mind, let's look at 1 Samuel chapter 12, and we'll begin in verse number 1. 1 Samuel 12, 1. Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice. in all that ye said unto me and have made a king over you. And now behold a king walketh before you. I am old and grey-headed, and behold, my sons are with you I have walked before you from my childhood unto this day. Behold, here I am, witness against me before the Lord and before his anointed. Whose ox have I taken, or whose ass have I taken? Or whom have I defrauded? Whom have I oppressed, or to whose hands have I received any bribe to blind mine eyes, wherewith I will restore it to you? And they said Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand. And he said unto them, The Lord is witness against you. And his anointed his witness this day, and he hath found aught, and if he hath found aught in my hand, and they answered, He is the witness Now what I want us to do is I want us to look at the life of Samuel as he lays it out before the people. But before we do, I want to kind of put it in the context of the storyline. Somebody tell us leading up to today's lesson what has been going on in Israel over the last few weeks and months of their history as a nation? Can someone give us some of those details? Thanks. And uh all in regards to getting on this edit with They're religion. They follow after the gods of the Canaanites. Okay. They repent They call up for deliverance and provides the judge delivers. And so Samuel's going to be the last of them, but then they start taking a look around and I don't like what are saying the sound looks like that CD stage round Yeah. So so we're kind of going beyond the days, weeks, and months to uh the generations there. But basically God delivers his people out of Egypt, they end up in the promised land And Moses is dead before they enter the promised land. Joshua died. And after Joshua, the people are going through a series of judges. And basically what happens is the nation is caught in this cycle. where they rebel against the Lord, they serve the the gods of the Canaanites, and what does God do? God brings an oppressor against them and it's a judgment against his people And they crowd to him for mercy and they they say, We've sinned, and what does God do? He sends a delivery, raises up a judge. And as long as that judge is alive then he kind of keeps order there. But the theme that is repeated over and over and over again is that everyone did what was right in his own eyes There was no king in Israel. And so instead of there being this central focus on the Lord, people just kind of do their own thing. And the end of that season is where Samuel comes in. And now the people have gone to the place where they have pushed and pushed and pushed, and now this generation finally says, We demand that you give us the kings. And we saw that that was a bad idea. And we see that God even lays out through Samuel the kind of king that it's gonna that the man's gonna be Last week we saw that Saul appeared, at least on the outside, to be a good leader or to have the potential to be a good leader. He had all the outward trimmings of a good leader. He's head and shoulders, taller than everyone. He comes from a strong family. On the negative side, though, we see that the same man comes from The tribe of Benjamin, he comes from Gibeah, which is a city that is very, very corrupt. And we're going to find out as time goes on that he has the character of the people that he grew up with. And he becomes a very defensive leader. He goes after anyone that he sees as a potential rival, and he really rejects God and does it his own way. But initially Saul is going to rise to not just power, but people are going to love Saul And the circumstances surrounding that are found in chapter 10 and chapter 11. Basically, I'll summarize it this way. Samuel presents Saul as Israel's first king Chapter 10, 17 to 25. And then in verses 26 and 27, we see that there are some people that kind of speak out against Saul. They don't like him. What's interesting is that even though there were people that did not embrace his leadership at that moment, Saul, he's restrained in his response. It's sort of like, wow, he has the ability to do that. Well, that's the way we would think as time goes on. But at the time people would say, This is a very, you know Presidential kind of a king, right? He's the kind of person that doesn't go after people that are his enemies. He just he kind of you know lets the situation play out itself and he shows that kind of restraint. In verses one to fifteen of chapter eleven We see that God in his providence brings a set of circumstances on Israel where Saul rises up, he leads the people, he defends a group of people in Jabesh Gilead. And when he does that, the people say, This is our leader. It's like that kind of established him, that conflict and his leadership at that moment, they sort of establish him in the eyes of the people. This is our king. We're going to follow him. Now we transition back to Samuel in chapter 12. The first thing that we see is that Samuel defends his ministry. How would you sort of summarize the verses that we read in chapter 12, verses 1 to 5? What's he saying? He does work Yeah, I was a good judge. Okay. It's sort it's sort of like you know, you've had struggles with a person at work and you're their boss and You know, you you can see the handwriting on the wall. As time goes on, you can tell like this relationship is on its way downhill. And this is not going to get turned around and eventually they're going to move on And so they, you know, they put in their two weeks notice and they're pretty edgy about it. And you're like, you know what? I was a good boss to you. I put up with a lot of stuff from you. And you just you'll get it off your chest and you say, here is how I treated you as your boss. And the person sits there and they're like, you know what? Everything that you said is true. I can't say anything. Okay, that's basically what Sam was doing. Or you know, you you have somebody that you're dealing with that You know, you've you've been good to them, but they haven't seen that. That's what Samuel is doing. He's laying out a defense of his ministry. But he does more than that. It's not just about the fact that he feels compelled to defend what he has done. But he also feels compelled to defend how God has orchestrated his rule over Israel. Why is that? Why do you think he feels compelled to defend God's leadership over the nation? Yes. So you see, Samuel understands that the people's rejection of him is secondary to their rejection of God. So let's look down in verses 6 and following, and let's just get a little bit of the sense of these verses. Samuel said unto the people, It is the Lord that advanced Moses and Aaron and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt. Now therefore stand still, and I may reason with you before the Lord, and all the righteous acts of the Lord which he did to you and to your fathers. When Jacob was come into Egypt and your fathers cried unto the Lord, then the Lord sent Moses and Aaron, which brought forth your fathers out of Egypt and made them dwell in this place. When they forgot the Lord their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera and the captains of the host of Hazer, and into the hand of the Philistines, into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against him. And now come down to the end, verse twelve. When ye saw that Nahash, the king of the children of Ammon, came against you, ye said unto me, Nay, but a king shall reign over us when the Lord your God was your king. Now somebody tell me Why is he putting this out there now? What do you think he is maybe fearful of or he can kind of see coming on the horizon? What do you think? Does that question make sense? Well, if they seem like if they seem like they want they want someone to go and they can They want a king in their own image. Yeah. So it's kinda like this So Samuel viewed himself as sort of this restraining element over the people, and he was that. Okay? So whenever something's going on, he comes in to be the judge. You know, there's an issue over here, he's the one who comes in. If they were stubborn with Samuel ruling them, then what's going to happen when they have a guy who's not Samuel? He's not a godly king. He's he's someone who's guided by his flesh. He has a mentality like the people. Samuel's like, you know what? You're not gonna have that restraint anymore And you need to realize that God has dealt very well with you as a nation. And you need to recognize it was his hand. His hand is what brought you here, his hand is what defended you, even when your enemies came out against you. It was because he was judging you. He was removing that protection because you were stubborn. And so basically what he's saying is, I'm not just defending myself, I'm defending God, because your problem is ultimately with him. Now let's go down to verses thirteen to fifteen. Samuel encourages the people to be faithful in spite of their foolish demands. Can somebody read for us 13 to 15, please? Now therefore behold a king whom ye have chosen and whom ye have desired. Behold the Lord has set a king over you. Pause for a moment. I not not that I wanted to cut you off, but I want to emphasize something here. He says, Behold the king whom Ye chose, okay? And who ye have desired. That's really important, okay? You got what you wanted, but If ye hear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice and not rebel against the commandment of the Lords, then shall both ye and also their kings of freedom. Over you continue following the Lord your God. But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord, or revile again this man of the Lord, then shall the hand of the Lord be against you as it was on the Okay, very interesting. So so here's what's going on. S Samuel knows that it's very likely That the people are going to kind of go off the rails. Okay, that's what he believes is gonna happen. But here's what's really interesting Even though God knows what's going to happen, God has predicted what's going to happen, Samuel knows where this is going. God still puts in front of them this opportunity. He basically says, you still, in spite of your rebellion, in spite of your difficulty, in spite of where your heart is set, in spite of the person that is over you, you still have the potential To be blessed by God. Now, this is not how we would tend to handle a situation like this. When we finally draw the line in the sand and we say, enough's enough. Go do what you want to do. And I hope that everything crashes and burns when you walk out this door. That's the way that we feel, okay? We don't say, you're wrong, but I really hope things work out for you. And if you do this, it's going to go well with you. He doesn't handle it the way that we would. He says, God still is giving you opportunity. And someone might say, well, it wasn't a legitimate opportunity. I mean, look what happened. God knew it was going to happen. Yes, God knew it was going to happen, but God still gave them a legitimate opportunity to not face that reality. In other words, when God's looking at the people, he knows if you take point A, you end up here. If you take point B, you end up over here. I know you're gonna go here, and that's where you're gonna end up. But that's a legitimate option. And so when you end up there, it's not that you didn't have the opportunity to end up here. That's basically what he's saying That's really significant to me. When it comes to Gali leadership, even when those who are under your care Don't like the way that you've governed or managed that area of responsibility. You really need to have The attitude that God has here and that Samuel is portraying here, it's a very powerful thing. And it's not natural at all. Anytime I've been in this situation, I didn't feel like acting like that at all. And anytime you've been in that situation, you have you wouldn't have felt like acting like that at all. But that's the way that he does it Now look at verses 16 to 18. Just to help the people. Oh, Bruce, finish your second. Or did you finish? Okay, then you're good. Thank you. My brain is spinning slightly here, you know, today. Go ahead. Father will stand and see this great thing which the Lord will do before your eyes. Is it not in harvest today? I will call unto the Lord, and he shall send thunder and rain, and ye may perceive and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of the Lord, and asked of you to be So Samuel called unto the Lord, and the Lord sent thunder and rain today. And all the people greatly hear the Lord and Samuel Okay, this is really interesting. Now, uh here in Maryland it seems like it can rain pretty much any time of the year. On any given day, there's always that potential, right? But if we lived in Arizona, or if we lived in Israel, it wouldn't be that way. There's a time of the year that it rains, and it doesn't rain a lot, but that's when it rains. And you get out of that season and it just it doesn't rain. It it doesn't happen. It's pretty much as far as the weather goes, it's like an impossibility. It doesn't happen And so basically what Samuel's saying is this, you know that this is the season where we don't get rain. Not that they got lots of rain normally. You don't get rain this time of the year. And just to help you to understand that I'm not just shooting from the hip, just speaking off the top of my head, it's all just in my heart, and I'm just pouring it out. God really is saying this through me to you. And there's going to be evidence of that. And he said, here's a sign that what I'm saying is true. You know, it's also kind of interesting when we look at the book of Deuteronomy One of the things that we find in the law is that there were people who were true prophets and people who claimed to be prophets And there were certain factors that kind of separated the wheat from the chaff, the true prophet from that person who was not a prophet. And one was that the prediction that you state will come to pass with 100% accuracy. No man living has the power to say, let's have some rain right now. And in the middle of the hottest and driest time of the year, it just begins raining. Like we can't do that God speaking through this man. We then move on to this next point. The people respond, at least in the moment, to what is being said. Verse 19. All the people said to Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto the Lord thy God, that we die not, for we have added unto all our sins this evil to ask us a king. Now I want to ask this question. Was this repentance in the genuine sense? No. What would you call this? Like how would you define this? I mean there is a sense in which it was repentance, but go ahead. It's sort of like the idea of I'm sorry I got caught, you know I'm sorry something bad happened because I did something. Not necessarily I'm sorry because I did it in the first place. Okay. Yeah. Huh? Oh So we could I guess I'd put it like this. Repentance in the genuine sense doesn't just affect my head for ten minutes. It changes how my heart looks at an issue. In other words, it reshapes my worldview. And so we've we've seen this many times. You know, a person does something and their heart is bent and pressed in a certain direction, and there is this temporary reversal just for the moment because of something really significant that's just happened. And they feel really bad. I mean, after all, it's just started pouring down rain and lightning and thunder, and he has called us out as a people, and we're scared. But two days later it's like Did it really rain yesterday? Ah, I don't remember. Was that supposed to signal anything to us? Yes. It's like when people get into a big thing and then they rain, Lord, if you get me out of the things and I will follow you. Yeah. In the moment they think that that's the answer, you know, and that's what God wants to hear. Yeah. You know, but it's it's not really true. They're not planning on following God. Sure. Yes. Because sometimes events can happen in a second event. If it's if it's something that is contrary to your character and your history, you can prevent a quick minute. Oh yeah, absolutely. But if it's if you show a bad and then You know, you're caught in the pattern again. It's very unlikely that it tends to be demonstrate in a day or in a week demonstrate. Yeah, absolutely. Sure. What I would say is this Repentance can happen at a moment in time like that. Absolutely it can. And there are times that it does. The question is, is there Is there a sticking to it? Does it actually leave you changed or is it simply, you know, just uh an up and down bump on the radar, basically what it comes down to And there are times that people are caught in this perpetual cycle of, you know, I do this This happens, I feel bad, I make this commitment, I'm gonna change, and then boom, we're right back in the same cycle And that's essentially what Israel has done. This is just one more of those blips on this, you know. To the top, back to the bottom. That's basically what we see with the nation of Israel. But there is a temporary sorrow and a feeling bad of what they've done. And this statement, we're going to do everything that you tell us to do, we're going to be different Chapter 20, verses 20 to 22, Paul re - or Samuel reassures the people of God's love for them. Look down at verse 20. Samuel said unto the people, Fear not, ye have done all this wickedness. Ye have not set aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. Excuse me. Yet turn not aside from following the Lord, but serve the Lord with all your heart. Turn not aside from then showing ye good after vain things, which cannot profit nor deliver. For they are vain. For the Lord will not forsake his people for his great name's sake, because he hath pleased the Lord to make it his people. Now this is really interesting. Samuel does not connect God's love for the people to their repentance. He knows that that is a temporary blip on the radar. He does not connect God's love for the people to their faithfulness to him. They've been unfaithful. He connects God's love for the people to grace And that is really significant. The fact is that even though God knows exactly what's going to happen, it's like, oh, I've seen that a few times. Been there, done that, got the t-shirt. God's like, I've watched you be there, done that, and get the t-shirt over and over and over again. But my love for you is not connected to the fact that Well today you've made this commitment. It's going to change. I love you because it's grace. And that's huge. The fact is When it comes to our own personal walk with the Lord, there are times and there are seasons and there are people that frankly are caught in perpetual patterns of struggle and really are just like the nation of Israel going through that cycle over. And over and over and over again. And and frankly, they will battle with these things their entire life. Yet God's love for them ultimately is rooted in his goodness and his grace. And he didn't save them because of their goodness. He didn't choose to love them because of their goodness. It's because he is good. And that's very significant. Next, verses 23 to 25. Samuel restates his care for the people. Moreover, as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the Lord. And ceasing to pray for you. Alright, I want to ask you a question. If you're praying for someone and then you don't pray for someone, who do you think you're sinning against? Do you understand the question? Like like if I am supposed to be praying for Tim and I'm not praying for Tim, like wouldn't you think that I'm sinning against Tim? Like, you know, it's my responsibility to pray for him, to care for him. That's not the way he looked at it. I'm not being faithful to God. Now can anybody tell me why Samuel would have processed it that way? Why do you think so? Yes. Yeah, I mean to use the phrase it was his job sounds a little colder than I would wanna but but you're right. I mean Just keep it straightforward, man. No warm and fuzzy, Sam. Just tell us what it is, right? It was his job. He was supposed to do that. It was it was his calling, okay? God put him in that place. His job was to be in a pastoral role to the people. He was to lead them, he was to shepherd them, he was to pray for them And so his care for the people, it was rooted in his love for the people, but that wasn't the highest reason that he did what he did. It was that he saw that God had called him to that place and God put him in that position and and we see that come out in that uh in that statement there. Continuing on I will teach you the good in the right way. Only fear the Lord, serve him in truth with all your heart. For consider how great things he hath done for you. Verse 25, but if ye shall still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king. There's a lot that can be said about those verses. For instance He basically breaks down their primary duty. You need to put God in his right place. Or maybe you should put yourself in right place in connection to God You know, he is to be the center of your life. He is your highest responsibility. You have to set your life under his care. You need to fear him. You need to respect him. You need to honor him, reverence him. You need to fear the Lord and serve him in truth with all your heart. Don't be hypocritical. Don't pay lip service. And do it with all of your being. You know, a lot of times we'll we kind of break up our life into all these little categories and we say, I'll give God this part, and that's a pretty high percentage after all, you know, if we're gonna divide the pie up. I mean he gets 35 to 40 percent. That's a lot. I'm only gonna take 25% for myself. I'll give the rest of my family. No, God is the center of it all. And he is supposed to divide up the pie the way he wants to. That's really what it comes down to. So serve the Lord with all your heart. And he basically gives them what's going to sustain them. He says, You need to think about what he's done for you The scripture tells us that we love the Lord because he first loved us. Our capacity to love is rooted in the fact that he Set out to demonstrate his love for us on the cross. He drew us to himself through the preaching of the gospel. And he kissed us by his power. The fact is that their ability to be faithful was rooted in how they thought about God and how they thought about what he did. And then he also warns them, if you don't do that, there's consequence. Samuel restates his pastoral care. And so what I want to do now is I want to just kind of lay out a couple of simple observations. about these passages, these verses. First observation is this godly leadership is not always properly appreciated. Now I'm not saying this because I don't feel appreciated. I'm just saying it because it's here, okay? And I'm not saying that godly leaders aren't always appreciated. In fact, to be honest with you, there are there are some people who um Who serve who they maybe go people go too far the other way where they almost worship the person and that's wrong as well. The truth is that if somebody's invested in your life, walked through some hardships with you, um you never forget that. You you absolutely don't. I mean if somebody's been at your bedside in a crisis If somebody's come and answered that call when you have a major issue, you just you do not forget those things. But the fact is this, just because someone is godly and just because someone is faithful doesn't mean that people always see that Doesn't mean that they always appreciate that. In fact, sometimes people under the care of godly leaders may tell you, that person's godly, but I still don't like them They're faithful, and that's why I don't like them. I don't like what they're telling me. I don't want to hear this anymore. The fact is that godly leadership sometimes is actually hated and disliked And it really comes down to the heart of the people that are under that kind of care. I I'm gonna kind of give an application of this in a few minutes, but I just want to kind of put that there. And so in verses two and three we see his statement, he says Behold, the king walketh before you. I'm old and gray-headed. My sons are with you, and I've walked before you from my childhood unto this day. I mean, let's not forget that Samuel didn't start serving the people when he was 25 or 30 or 40. He started serving the people when he was the age of the kids in vacation Bible school this week. I mean he was working in the temple or in the tabernacle for Eli. He was a servant from the time he was a little child. And he's basically saying, I've been faithful consistently. And you still reject me. And I and that's hard. That's what he's saying. Observation too, godly leadership is not about self And let's let's be very honest about this. A lot of times people want to get into places of leadership because it's about them Okay? A lot of times people get very irritated in leadership positions because it's really about them. A lot of times people will treat other people when they're in a leadership position because it's about them It's really about positioning yourself to have influence. And the bottom line is that godly leadership doesn't position itself to create influence. Godly leadership is in a position of influence because that's where God puts them. And it's not about self. Again, there's going to be a significant observ uh uh application at the end, but verse four he says this. They said, Thou hast not defrauded us nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken aught of any man's hand. You know, one of the things that we see about leadership just in general in the world is that most people when they get into leadership and they may start in leadership without this mentality but power has a tendency to corrupt And so a lot of times, you know, a person gets into a position of power and what do they do? They start figuring out how they can make more money. They start figuring out how they can, you know, push their agendas through more carefully. And that's ultimately why we have authoritarian dictatorships all around the world. Because when people get into power, they abuse them. Godly leadership doesn't do that. And Samuel was an example. Though he was not as faithful as a dad as he needed to be, he was a very good example in this area of leadership. Number three, godly leadership is unbiased And how it administrates its oversight. Now, one of the things that causes people to be unbiased or to have a bias in how they handle situations is one, fear. Two, is the desire to please yourself. In other words, I'm treating that person this way versus this person this way because I'm afraid of that person. Or because I want to get something out of that person. This person doesn't provide as much opportunity as that person does. So I'm going to make sure I treat them a little better than I'm going to treat them. Or I'm afraid of that person. I'm not afraid of them. So I'm going to come down hard on him, but not on him The fact is that godly leadership does not do that. And Samuel didn't do that. When there was a case in front of him, and this person was somebody that he he clicked with, and this is a person that he didn't click with, he looked at the facts and he called it as it was. This person has the potential to give him benefit. He can benefit from him. This person has nothing to offer him. He treats them the same way. This person has treated him kindly. That person is not. This is what bribery ultimately comes down to. You gave me a gift, now I owe you back. That's what bribery is And Samuel didn't do that. Number five. I'm excuse, number four, godly leadership is most concerned With God 's view of their service. Now, it's not to say that a person who's in a position of leadership and they have a godly spirit Could care less about what people think about what they're doing. That's not really what I'm saying here. But what people think, whether good or whether bad, is secondary to what they know that God thinks In other words, if this person is very well liked and everybody thinks that they're very faithful and they're doing a great job, but deep down inside they know that they're cutting corners They know that they're doing things in a way that is not acceptable to God. What people say in the positive is not helping them to kind of like balm their conscience Their attitude is, well, what does God think? And I think about that. Or on the other side, when things get really tough and decisions have to be made That in principle have to be made, but they're difficult. They're not understood. Not everybody has the details. There's a lot of talk about what's going on. That person says, you know what? I serve the Lord It's about what he thinks. It's not about what everybody else thinks. I do feel bad that people don't understand what's going on. But what the Lord says stands, and that's my highest responsibility, is to him. And I want to ask this question, what does that help a person with? How does that help a person if God is their highest priority? What do you think? Okay, that's true. Mm-hmm. Sure. You know one of the things that is so frustrating about watching the political world is that the political world is not based on principle. People do what the population wants. It really that that is ultimately where a lot of decision making comes. I'm not saying everybody. Yes. Uh that'll be true. Yeah. Whoever is allowed to have a lot of voice and that's just alignment of the But what you see is you know you come around election time and and you know you'll you'll hear this. Um well that was a really good political move right there What does that mean? What that means is the determining factor in what they said, why they said it, why they didn't say it, wasn't, well, that's the right thing. They did it. It's Well that's the good political move to make. It's pandering, yes. And godly leadership doesn't do that It's not about opinion poll, you know, which way is the wind blowing today? This is the right thing. If if everybody's on board or not, this is what we need to do. And the goal is to help people to see what is right Not to simply blow the way or lean the way the way it blows. Yes. And for me the goal of leadership, I should go back and analyze decisions that have been not always going to be the right sort of refusing out what you go the best way possible but as you can analyze it and Have a clean consciousness for the Lord and have that your vote was right. Even if it may everything go away Sure. Yeah. And you know there there is a consistency when a when a person in leadership um governs or administrates that position, if they administrate it on on principle, you can pretty much know what's going to be said or be done before it happens. And so, you know, everybody's saying this or that, and you're like, well, I know what the scripture says about that, so What everybody's thinking here is kind of a nonessential. This is what's gonna happen. You have you have that consistency. You see that repeatedly. And that's what happened with Samuel. Samuel was very consistent and that's a that's a huge huge mark of leadership right there. Yes So like the people they really what it's odd as the answer to them is seems like so like It it it it seems a little bit hard to comprehend, oh you really projecting me than I'm projecting you because you think about it. I don't think he's supposed to put his thoughts up when his thoughts as judges, it just says that he did that, it doesn't say anything he was supposed to. But when they went, they could have revolted or whatever, and they could have just, you know, did like um uh uh A son of Absalom, right? Yeah. But they didn't. They understand all and said, oh, they wanted him to languish his authority. And make them a king, who a king who wasn't like directly responsible to God. The way he rule was a critical one that Jesus was directly God is ruling everything and he is pulling over you know the the whole problem um you know it's all the like uh The theocracy. Yeah. They didn't want that anymore. So really they wanted they wanted to talk to stop with their king. They didn't want to talk to stop with God who was really the king through samples and put it then to give that up and really put it God to sort of and and and directly God to it I would say, okay yeah who's not a king who's not handled beast just like all the rest of the king Yeah, so the ultimately Samuel is he's a mouthpiece, but it's He's the mouthpiece for God. I mean he's he's simply delivering here's what God said. This is what he says to do in this situation, so this is what we need to do. And they didn't like that. Yeah. Observation five. Godly leaderships godly leadership patterns their judgments after God's word. And I have a couple of scriptures there. I'd like you to turn to Psalm ninety-nine verse six, please. Start in verse 5. Exalt ye the Lord our God and worship at his footstool, for he is holy. Moses and Aaron among his priests and Samuel among them that called on his name, they called upon the Lord, and he answered them. He spake unto them in the cloudy pillar and kept his testimony and the ordinances. that he gave them. The the point that I wanted to make here is that these men, Moses, Aaron, and Samuel, And really Samuel and Moses probably stand out better than Aaron in this example, but when God looks at the whole picture, he says Aaron was also faithful. The reason that these men were faithful is because they patented their judgments, their decisions between what is right and what is wrong. They patented it after the Lord. And so if a person is going to be a godly leader, he's got to be in the word. He's got to be a gospel-centered person. He needs to be a person who takes the tools that God has provided in his word. And he applies them and he lives out uh in light of those things, and he governs based upon truth. It's kind of interesting. One of the one of the laws that we find in the Pentateuch is that the king was responsible to hand copy the entire Pentecost. Uh I remember when I was uh in you know Christian school as a kid, one time I got an attention I say one time. It happened more than once. Truth be told. It happened at least once. And uh we won't talk about circumstances of any of them. But I remember my punishment was to copy sections from the Bible. That were connected to what I had done. And I was supposed to copy them a lot of times, front and back, margin to margin. And then at the end of the hour of writing out all these scriptures that were talking about what I had done, I turned those things down. And I thought, oh, what a tedious process. When you write out something, it's part of that it's part of what helps you to think through it and to for it to become a part of really your heart. Uh I it's interesting over the years I've had different Bibles that I use for my devotions, and one of the things that's always interesting is that when I pick up one of those Bibles, I find like tons of notes. Now they're illegible You can't read them, I can't read them, you can't read them, but they're there. And the question is, well, why do I write in the margins of my Bible? Why do I underline and circle and highlight and all those things? Honestly, for me, it's because it's part of my learning process. I can hear something and it just it doesn't it's like it's like it just goes. But when I write it down, like I'm hearing and I'm writing, it actually really sticks, it's cemented. And so what does God do? God doesn't say, well, the king needs to have a copy of the law that's been passed down from king to king. He says he has to write it down himself. In other words, it's going to become a part of that king. As he's writing, he's reading, he's thinking, he's putting it on paper, it's in his own uh not paper on a scroll, you know. It's it's it's in his own handwriting and when he goes back to it, it's supposed to be a part of him. God understands that those who are in leadership need to know his words. And it needs to be a part of their lives. It needs to saturate their lives. To such an extent that when something happens, their most natural response and inclination is to respond in a godly, Bible-centered way. I want to move to lastly to this section. Well, I'll make this comment before the last section. You might say, well, you know, nobody in this room is uh is a prophet. And that's true. There are no prophets in the room. And so we say, well, Samuel is a prophet, I'm not, so it applies to Samuel, but it doesn't apply to me. And the answer is that's not true. This is simply one man in his position of leadership. But the kinds of things that God expected of Samuel as he functioned in that role as a prophet and as a judge. Those are the exact same principles that God expects us to govern by in the roles that He has placed us in The fact is every person in this room has some area where you have delegated responsibility and authority from God. Every single person in here does. If you're a dad, then you have a biblical responsibility in the air of your home to raise your children in a certain way. If you're a grandfather, If you're a husband, if you're a wife, if you're a boss, if you're in a position of any kind of authority, even in the issue of the of the church, you know, we have we have Sunday school teachers in all these classrooms right now They have areas of delegated authority. As a pastor, I have an area of delegated authority. We all have areas where God places us at points in our life, and we are responsible to govern in those ways. Family leadership, church leadership, community leadership. We have those things. And I want to encourage you, just because you say, I'm not a prophet, I'm not a pastor, I'm not a king, doesn't apply to me, that's not true. You have areas today, and you will have areas in the future. Where you have a responsibility. But I want to finish out with some practical applications. Let me just say them one at a time and then we'll open it to questions if we haven't. First of all, is this Have realistic expectations about how people will view your leadership. I think that when people are very young And they get into a position of leadership. It's that first opportunity they have. They believe in their heart that they're very whimsical. That they have figured things out and people are going to follow them and they're going to thrive under their leadership. And all those people who didn't thrive under other people's leadership will thrive under their leadership. And you will find out, as all of us do or have, that people are people. We are human, they are human We're gonna make mistakes, they're gonna make mistakes. And the reality is that when it comes to leadership, even when we have been very faithful, there will still be people who don't appreciate that. And we have to keep that in our minds. We're not in leadership because we're perfect. We're not in leadership because we're the only person who could have filled that role. It's because God in Providence wanted us as broken people who have our problems to fulfill that role. And so we need to keep our expectations in check. Two We need to keep pride and the tendencies to self-promotion in check. We all have it. We all do. You know, from the time we're small children, you know, go to the nursery I have some kids in there. Chad has some kids in there. Mickey's has some kids in there. You know, lots of kids in the nursery. I love my children. I really do. But when I'm at home, I am probably a referee. I'm a wrestler a lot, okay? A lot more than I like to. Sometimes it's a boxing match, sometimes it's a wrestling match, and sometimes it's a football match, okay? I like the football better than the wrestling in the boxing. Sometimes it's a debate, okay? The fact is you get to be the judge. And that tendency, pride, selfishness, self-promotion, that we see in our kids when they're toddlers. And we strive so hard to teach them how to respond in situations. And we pray that they will grow to be mature individuals who will not be guided by their belly We still have those tendencies and we may go through a season of life where we feel I'm a humble person. I'm not a self-promoting kind of a person. I don't have that tendency to step on other people. Well, in the circumstances you find yourself in at the moment, that might be true. But when you get in authority over the right person Or the right people, the right personality types, when things align just the right way, you'll be surprised what is going on inside of you. And the truth is we all have this tendencies And it might be somebody who's under our care who is very similar to us. They rub us the wrong way. It might be somebody that's so difficult different than us that they rub us the wrong way. Might be the way that somebody relates to something that they said. They had no idea. The right set of circumstances can draw out of us amazing things. And we have to constantly keep in check that tendency. Three, we need to labor to be consistent and unbiased in the ways that we handle people that are under our care. This is the reality of life. There are some people that we connect with and some people that we don't connect with. It's true. It's true of everybody. There are children, your children, who you seem to relate to better than others who are in your house. There are some kids that it's your child, your son, your daughter, but you are much more inclined to show them mercy than you are to show them mercy. And you say, why is that? Well, it's sometimes it's just the alignment of our personalities, how we think through situations. The bottom line is that we must labor, we must fight hard. To be unbiased in how we handle situations with people. And when we don't cut it right, we need to admit it. Go to the person and say, you know, I I don't think I handled that situation the right way. And here's how I should have handled it. And I want to say I'm sorry. And we have to learn how to do that. We are gonna make mistakes. It happens Next, keep your eyes fixed on the judgment seat of Christ. When times get really tough, we've got to remember that ultimately we serve the Lord Jesus. Ultimately, we're going to stand in his judgment seat. Not in the judgment seat of those who are sitting under our care. And so his standards and his principles and what he knows to be true That's the final call. And everybody may think that we're doing great and we're not. And everybody may think that we're struggling. And the fact is that we're doing well. We have to keep our eyes fixed on the Lord and continue in that on that path the way he wants us to. Next, we need to be scripture saturated individuals If we are in any kind of leadership, we cannot neglect the ministry of the Word. We cannot neglect the ministry of the Word in our own private walk with God. We have to read the Bible, folks. We have to spend time in God's word. If we don't, if we neglect it, we are going to crush the people under us. And we're going to crush ourselves We can't neglect the preaching ministry of the word. We can't neglect the local church. We can't neglect those opportunities that we have to grow and to thrive, because those are the means that God has established for us to grow. I believe in prayer, but I believe that the word is what ultimately changes people. And that's very important that we don't neglect the ministry of the word. We need to develop discernment by studying the examples in Scripture. This is my final observation. You know, we've heard this statement many, many times that those who fail to learn from history are condemned to repeat it. I know we've heard that many, many times. You know, you sit in a history class and your teacher says, I know that some of you don't like history, but let me tell you why it's important. History is ex Whoa, there was something there. History is extremely important The fact is that we learn from other people's mistakes. It's amazing. It's amazing how many times We can be saved and rescued from going through tremendous hardship or dragging other people through tremendous hardship if we would just read about someone else who went down that road and where it ended up A historic perspective is so important. And what's wonderful about the Bible is that the Bible doesn't just give us what happened. But it explains to us what God thought about what happened. How God said it should have gone down, or how God said it could have gone down, or how God worked in those situations And so what's wonderful about studying history in the Bible is we're not just seeing what happens, we're not just seeing what happened from the view of A historian who is very slanted in what he wants and doesn't want to portray. We have God's Clear statement. Here's what happened. Here's how I saw it. Here's what could have happened. Here's how I worked. Here's what they should have done. We get to see all of that. And that is how people mature beyond their years, is by being people who study and think diligently about the lives of others in the scriptures and they have God's perspective on those situations. God wants us to be equipped for a service, and I think there's a lot we can learn from Samuel. Any questions? Questions? Yes? You just brought to mind something you said properly. You remember something you said a year. That's impressive. Well let's hear what it is first. Uh it'll bring him as a remembrance. But as we're as we're looking through the scripture and as we're as we're looking at Samuel's life and how God worked with him and how they work through the scripture and everything you're saying here It's it's it's by case law is what we're looking at. We look at the cases of what Samuel and God and and Israel are going through at this time We discern where God approved, where he didn't approve, and we can apply it to circumstances in our own life. Yeah. But we have to be scripture saturated what you're you're you're saying in order to be able to recognize righteousness and godliness. So yeah, it's a So so so an example like an like an ox getting to eat cr the the grain when he's crushing it, that can be applied to making sure that you pay people for the work they do. There you go. But yes, yeah, that's a really good point. And the the truth is that um We learn so much by studying the examples in Scripture. Very, very good. Okay, well let's go ahead and close with a word of prayer and then we will head to our morning service.