As we continue our study through the uh Old Testament here in Second Chronicles. And if you can turn with me to chapter twenty-nine We're just going to look at a brief summary of the next four chapters to cover Hezekiah. So we'll make it through 29 through 32. time this right it'll be about nine nine thirty by the time I'm done. Oh But we're going to look at lessons from the heart of Hezekiah, and I'll just read the first couple verses in 2 Chronicles 29, verses 1 and 2. 2 Chronicles 29, verses 1 and 2, as we look at lessons from the heart of Hezekiah. In verse 1, Hezekiah began to reign when he was five and twenty years old. And he reigned nine and twenty years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Abijah, and the daughter of Zechariah, and he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that David. His father had done. Father, we come before you this evening. Thank you that we can gather together as a church body. Focus upon your word. Not just listening to words spoken tonight, but understanding that it is the very word of God that is quick and powerful, able to change lives. Able to transfer one from selfishness and pride, eternal death, to humility, to everlasting life. Through the power of the Word of God and through what Christ has done for us. Could we learn lessons from those we read in the Bible? Sometimes people think that as we come to your house, it's where perfect people are People go to read a perfect book and do their perfect little lives. But Father, it is really a humility in recognizing that we cannot live without you, and that we can learn from the lessons of those that are not so perfect in Scripture. And learn from them and understand it is the word of God that can be used by the Spirit of God in our hearts and lives to conform us, to transform us. And to be more in the image of our Savior Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. This evening we're going to look at one of the better kings of Judah here in the southern tribe. And we're going to look at lessons from the heart of Hezekiah. We're going to look at just one major lesson from each of the chapters. I just kind of summarize each chapter. as we s uh study through this. And so in chapter 29, we're going to look at the heart of Hezekiah to restore the temple. But just give some brief background here, in verse two it says, As he did that which is right in the sight of the Lord, according to all that David his father had done. Now to state the obvious, if you're reading through this and you know Hezekiah and you're thinking of King David, you're like, wait a minute, how is he? That that that's not that's not his dad. David's not his father. It's not talking about his actual literal physical father, as it is a descendant of and after David's heart. And I'm going to show this in just this quick comparison between the two fathers. His earthly father is Ahaz, and that's in the chapter before us. We're just going to briefly look at that so we can compare the two so you'll see the heart of where I'm going tonight. So in chapter 28, just looking at the first couple verses, if you want to turn the page back if you need to, this is his literal physical father in contrast to David, who's mentioned in chapter 2 of 29. It says, Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem, but he did not that which was right in the sight of the Lord, like David his father. So he's comparing to the lineage of David, and David was a man after God's own heart. For he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel. And made also molten images for Balaam. Moreover, he burnt incense in the valley of the sons of Hinnam, and he burnt uh burnt his children in the the fire after the abominations of the heathen whom the Lord had cast before the children of Israel. He sacrificed also burnt incense in the high places and on the hills and every tree. Skipping to the end of the chapter verses twenty-four and twenty-five. And Ahaz, chapter I'm sorry, chapter twenty-eight, verses twenty-four four and twenty five. And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God, and cut in pieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut up the doors of the house of the Lord, and he made him altars in every corner of Jerusalem. And in every several city of Judah he made high places to burn incense unto other gods, and provoked to anger the Lord God of his fathers. So that's his literal physical father we have of Hezekiah. What we have in verse 2 of 29, he says that he did that which was right in the sight of the Lord according to David had done. David his father had done. So that is his physical father, but he chose to live a life that was after David. So if we go back to 1 Samuel 13, 14, what was David's, what was, how would he be after David? It says in 1 Samuel 13, 14, but now thy kingdom shall not continue. This is talking to Saul, as the Lord hath sought him, A man after his own heart. And the Lord hath commanded him to be a captain over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the Lord commanded thee. This is A message to Saul, he is going to lose the kingdom. He's not obeying the Lord. His heart is not after the Lord and what the Lord desires. And in Acts, if we had any doubt whatsoever, in Acts 13, 22, the word of God says, and when he had removed him, he raised upon him David to be their king. So it's talking about removing Saul. And adding David to be king, or setting up David to be king, to whom he also gave the testimony and said, I have found David, the son of Jesse, a man after mine own heart. Which shall fulfill my will. So we have a contrast. We have a man who wanted to do his own thing. He disobeyed the commandments of the Lord, and he was against the Lord. His heart was not searching after the Lord, nor did he desire to obey his commands. You have King David, who though we know had many grave mistakes, and it's not that he was without sin, but he was a man who desired to obey God. He desired to follow him, and when he did sin, he was quicker to repent. Whereas Saul and Ahaz, they were not, they kind of did their own thing. And so here when Hezekiah, when it says There in verse 2, according to all that David his father had done, and he's doing right in the sight of the Lord, here is a king that is that that's a great compliment. He is after David, he is after the Lord, wanting to obey him. and desiring to be with him. So it's not talking in actual, this is his physical son, but yet the intentions and of the lineage of David was to obey God and to follow him with his own heart. Heart. And as I pondered this truth in these opening verses, and as I study these next couple chapters, which we're just going to survey each one and just pull highlights from each chapter, what we're going to see is Hezekiah really did have a heart and a desire. He had his mistakes, and especially towards the end, which we will look at. But I think he really did have a heart and he had a desire to do that which was right, just as David did. So we're going to look at some of these things. Like I said, we're just going to pull highlights from each chapter as we cruise through here to look at the heart of Hezekiah. And in this verse 29, this first chapter, we are going to look at he had a heart to restore the temple. Look with me in verse three of chapter twenty-nine. And in his first year of his reign, in the first month Opened the doors of the house of the Lord and repaired them. Why were they shut? That's what his dad did. His dad closed the doors, his dad shut it down. His desire If we want people to worship, we've got to open up the house of God. We've got to repair it. We've got to clean it up. His desire was to restore, to rebuild, to cleanse, to get right the temple, the place of worship. When our high at heart desires God and his commands, we will begin to desire what God desires. To obey his word, to do what God has for each of us to do. And here it's to cleanse and restore the temple. And since we've already mentioned about David, what is it that David strongly desired and started making preparations for and then was told, no, your son's going to do that? It was he wanted to build a house of worship. He wanted to build the temple. So here, very similar. When we have a heart after God and to obey him, we had a desire to care for the church. the physical building to have a place where people can come and worship. That's what he was doing. If it's broken, fix it. If its doors are shut, let's open them. He wants to restore the place of worship. Worship. This was in his heart. Look with me at verse 10 of chapter 29. Now it is in mine heart. To make a covenant with the Lord God of Israel, that his fierce wrath may turn away from us. What he's saying is he's coming before the Lord, we have done wrong. We have been going the wrong way, worshiping other god gods. setting up all these false places of worship. And this is challenging itself because you've got to remember his physical father is the one he's trying to redo and undo. A lot what Hezekiah is now trying to restore and bring back. His dad is the one that caused all these problems and challenges. That's kind of convicting of itself as a father. We don't want to have our kids going behind us and saying, boy, dad, he just, he didn't do hardly anything right. Though we're not perfect, yes, but I mean we I mean we shouldn't be making excuses why we can't be in church. We shouldn't be making excuses why we can't come together as a family and pray over things. We shouldn't have excuses well. The Bible, yeah, we we read it at church a couple times, but not really at home You know, dad was not the same out in the work and at church as he was at home. It just seemed like he wasn't consistent. He didn't do things right. We don't want our children to have to undo and redo in a more biblical way what the father is trying to do. So as a father of four, we do, we should have a desire to help them to follow after us and take that baton and take it further than what we could. Not to repair and restore the damage that we have done, but to take them to the next step. Hopefully that can happen to us So here that is what Hezekiah is having to do. And he started off doing everything that his father should have done and didn't. So that's just a practical thought as we look at this. But his heart was to get the the fear that he said we need to get the the wrath and the fear of God uh or the fierce this fierce wrath turned away from us towards God. And we get right with him as we do our best to serve him. Then by the end of this chapter, look with me, I'm kind of targeting some of the heart, and I couldn't believe how many times it was used throughout these next couple chapters. Look with me towards the end of the chapter in verse 31 of chapter 29. Then Hezekiah answered and said, Now ye have consecrated yourselves unto the Lord. Come near and bring sacrifices and and thanks thank offering in the house of the Lord. And the congregation brought sacrifices and thank offerings, and as many as were of a free heart burnt offering. So he's getting the temple restored, and he wants people to come and bring these offerings freely because they want to, because they desire to. And here's one thing we're going to grab kind of grasp throughout these chapters. It's not just an outward trying to do right, look right, say right, okay, we've got a nice, beautiful building. We're trying to do these things right. It is really the heart of the issue. What do we desire? Do we desire what God desires? Because it is so easy for us to want for self, to desire to please self. to do what we think is best. And we've seen that with Ahaz and many others previous. But here Hezekiah is trying to go back and he wants the people to give. He's restoring the temple. He's cleaning it out. He's redoing everything his dad, all the damages his dad has done. But now he wants people to offer freely from their heart, offering to the Lord once the temple is restored. Restored. Then he runs into a happy problem. Look a couple verses later by verse 34. Look at this. But the priests were too few. That's a happy problem right there. There's so many people with so many offerings, there wasn't enough priests. He says, so that they could not flay the all the burnt offering, whereof their brethren, the Levites, did help them. Till the work was ended, and until their other priests had sanctified themselves, for the Levites were more upright in their heart to sanctify themselves than the priests. priests, not so great. But the happy problem is you had so many people coming and desiring to do which was right. And sometimes it just takes a person to have the courage to do what's right, to stand on the truth. I've seen uh we'll call it little huddles of teens. And they may be not doing something horrible, but maybe questionable. And I've seen this happen a couple times where one of them will finally say something something like, you know, maybe we should change each subject, or maybe we should do this, or or stop doing that. And if they do it with not a hesitancy, but you know, hey, this is This is right, we need to do this or let's stop doing that. And if they say it with a little bit of oomph and courage and conviction, you know what happens, the whole little groupie? Oh yeah, you know what? You're right, you're right. But we don't take the courage. to stop and to do that which is right. Hezekiah here, he's trying to encourage those restoring the temple. Let's get everything back in order. And other people, they start doing sin, they start bringing offerings so much so that hey, we weren't ready for all this. What a blessing it is to take the courage to take the right step and encouraging others to do likewise. We need positive peer pressure to do that which is right. When we think of peer pressure, we often think of peer pressure to do wrong. But what about the courage and the peer pressure to live for God, to obey his commands? To seek godly things. So that's a happy problem. So we looked at the heart of Hezekiah to restore the temple. Let's look at verse 30, where we're going to look at the heart of Hezekiah. to reunite the tribes, all of Israel, for worship in verse 30. So it looks like in verse 1. And Hezekiah sent all Israel and Judah And wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, so he's not trying to leave anyone out, that they should come to the house of the Lord at Jerusalem to keep the Passover unto the Lord God of Israel. Hezekiah is understanding. We're getting the temple restored. We're getting worship going again. God deserves to be worshiped. He should be worshipped. And then he begins thinking, you know what? I'm going to invite everyone. I don't want to leave anyone out. And a personal note, I was just going through this the other night. We were uh I have not written an obituary before. I've read many of them. Even publicly, I've read them before. But when you have to write it yourself, it's a little bit different. And I kind of went through this myself, like, wait a minute. Did I get all the siblings? And this is Becky's side of the family, so I'm not like super, you know, no no who's married to who and what their names and the right spouse and Wait no no, that's that spouse of this one has already passed and then you're trying to think of wait wait and then how many grandchildren are there and get all their names right and put them in order. I was trying not to weave anyone out. I mean that would have been wh I would have felt bad. So I'm taking it to Mike and to sh Jay and to Becky, and I'm like, can you just speak through this and make sure this is going okay? You don't want to leave anyone out. If it's a good thing you're trying to encourage people, you don't want to leave anyone out I imagine that's a very practical thing for me personally recently, but I think that's what Hezekiah is going through. He doesn't want to leave anyone out. God deserves to be worshipped. We should be worshiping him together. I know we're split right now, which you know shouldn't have happened, but hey, let's all come together. God deserves to be worshipped by all of us. It doesn't matter if you're on the other side of the river or if you're in the north or you're in the south, God should be worshipped. There's an excitement there. He wants others and to try and unite them around worshiping the Lord in Jerusalem, just like they used to in the good old days, as you could say, in Israel at that time. Then look down at verses eleven and twelve. This is kind of what happened here. It says, the word of God, nevertheless, diverse of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulon humbled themselves and came to Jerusalem. Also, in Judah the hand of God was to give them out of one heart. to do the commandment of the king and of the princes by the word of the Lord. In order for this to come together, you know what happens sometimes when uh You're separated from people for a while. Let's pretend that we have issues in our families, our extended families. That sibling that everyone has a hard time getting along with. Sometimes they're content just to be that way. A couple of days, turns to a couple weeks, turns to a couple months, turns to a couple years, haven't even talked to him. Don't even care to see him. You know what it takes to restore, to reunite those differences? The same thing that happened here. Did you catch it? It's just they had to humble themselves. Without pride in any one of them, you know, there's going to be contention. There's going to be a challenge. And there takes a humility to restore, to bring relationships. Oh, I guess I will go over there. I guess I will lower myself for whatever they're thinking, but they had to humble themselves for the the Lord does need to be worshipped. This is the right thing to do. Am I allowing my pride to get in the way of worshiping God the way that we used to, the way that I should be doing it? Are each of us struggling with our own pride to not to talk to that sibling, that loved one? And this becomes really real because time does run out. You may not have the time to try and restore. Now you can't enforce people, you can't make people. But when you're trying to worship the Lord, you're trying to obey his commands, and you want others to do likewise, that includes those that are not so lovable. That includes those that we may not feel like reaching out to. But Christ is the Savior of the world. God deserves to be worshipped by all And Hezekiah is reaching out to all of them to restore us. That is his heart. He wants them to obey. He wants God to be worshipped. All of Israel to worship as they did before. We continue to see more of this as we look down at verses 18 and 19 of chapter 30. For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim and Manasseh and Issachar and Zebulon had not cleansed themselves, yet they did eat the Passover otherwise, as is written. But Hezekiah prayed for them, saying The good Lord pardon everyone that prepareth his heart to seek God, the Lord God of his fathers, though he be not cleansed according to purification. Of the sanctuary. What Hezekiah here is saying in the preparation, all these people they weren't as prepared, they weren't maybe as ready. But what he's saying here is God is good. He desires to forgive everyone. He wants their hearts to still to start preparing to seek God. Because you have sin in your life. You have things that you know you need to get right with the Lord. You can't go worship him if you have issues, sin issues in your life. And here they had a purification process to go through, and so they weren't quite ready, the timing for them, but he's saying, hey, if you have a heart that's trying to seek and to do right, they're trying to be restored to the Lord, we need to work with that person. They might not have everything figured out. They might not be quite there yet. But if there is a heart of restoration, what Hezekiah here is saying, he says, is their heart preparing to seek the Lord? Okay, so they may not have time to go through all the purification process, but is there desire there? Are we going to help them in this? Or are we going to be over that? Oh, you should have been more ready. You should have never but you should have never done that anyways. Haven't you learned your lesson yet? You see the problem that you're in? You see you're still struggling with your sin. And you're trying to get it right, but you just keep messing up. Whatever is, but if their heart is repentant, if their heart is desiring to seek the Lord, why would we squelch that? Hezekiah sees this because he's inviting everyone. And there were some challenges here, but he's focusing on their heart. Is their heart are they desiring to be right with the Lord? Are they desiring to seek the Lord? Now that is hard for us because we can't open people up and see what's going on in their hearts and in their minds. But if the best that we can humanly tell, if they're trying to seek the Lord, if they're trying to do that which was right. Wouldn't we want to encourage that? Keep seeking the Lord. Maybe I can pray for you. Maybe I can encourage you. So we see the heart of Hezekiah, even with those that weren't 100% ready, he still wanted to encourage them. So we saw in chapter 9, Hezekiah's heart to restore the temple. Then, once the temple is restored and cleansed and gets everything ready, he has a heart to reunite all the tribes to worship in the temple that's been cleansed. Then in chapter 31, we're going to see how Hezekiah has a heart to return to tithing in chapter 31. Now before he does that, he kind of cleans house again here a little bit more. I want to read the first couple verses of chapter 31. It says, Now when all this was finished, So you have worship restored, the temple's restored, things are starting to go in the right direction, people are seeking God, they're desiring to follow Him, people are humbling themselves. Before the Lord, before one another. He said, All Israel that were present went out, verse 1 of chapter 31, of the cities of Judah, and break the images in pieces. So this is the opposite of what his dad did keep in mind. Hezekiah was doing the opposite of Ahaz, his father, his his earthly father. And break the images in pieces. and cut down the groves, and threw down the high places and the altars out of Judah and out of Benjamin, and Ephraim also and Manasseh. And they that had utterly destroyed them all, then all the children of Israel returned, every man his to his possession Into their own cities. Then look at this in verse 2. And Hezekiah appointed the courses of the priests and the Levites after their courses Every man according to his service, so he's trying to restore and teach and train, continuing, and the priests and the Levites for the burnt offerings and for the peace offerings to minister and to give thanks and to praise in the gates of the tents of the Lord. So throughout this process, he's continuing to push. We need to continue getting the bad and evil out. We need to stop this evil worship. We have the proper worship restored. Now we need more priests. We need more Levites. Let's continue to work on that. So he's trying to squelch the evil. He's trying to exalt and lift up the good. This is his heart. This is what he's dying. Let's obey the Lord. Let's follow his commands. Let's worship the Lord. And so he's getting more of the evil out, stopping that which is wrong taking place. As a nation, he is doing this. And there says what's interesting. By the time we get to verses 3 and 4, he appointed also the king's portion of his substance. For the burnt offerings, to wit, for the morning and evening burnt offerings, and the burnt offerings for the Sabbaths, and for the new moons, and for the set feasts, as it is written Written in the law of the Lord. He's saying, you know what? I need to start doing what's right myself with the king's portion with all these offerings. I need to personally do this. before the Lord. Then he continues on. Look in verse 4. Moreover, so he gets himself right, so he's removing the beam out of his own eye, if you will. Before he starts removing the speck out of others. And then in verse 4 he says, Moreover, he commanded the people that dwelt in Jerusalem to give the portion of the priests and the Levites that they might be encouraged in the law of the Lord. So he's encouraging the people to do right, to encourage these men of God that are trying to do right, and they're encouraging one another. And he started with himself first. I'm going to give what I should. Then the people start giving. And if you look at the, we're not going to do it for the sake of time. But if you start reading the rest of the text, they were giving in abundance. More than it was needed, more than it was necessary. And so it accomplished its goal. It was very encouraging. And that's what he continued to do. So he restores this tithing and the idea of giving and understanding it's all God's. Are we going to be obedient to all of God's commands in worship with possessions that He has allowed us to have that we get to rent for a while or however you want to look at it? Because everything we have, it's not really ours. We call it ours, but is it really ours? I've got a wife that the Lord has given to me. I have four children that he's given to me I can say it's my wife and it's my children, but I think a proper, better understanding is that is what God has gifted to me. That's what He's allowed me to have and to be a part of my life. It is a gift, it is a blessing. It's not like mine, I get to manipulate and do what I want with it. It needs to be a matter of obeying the Lord and to follow his commands and that each of us can worship him. Then we look at the end of this chapter. The end of chapter 31, verses 20 and 21. He says, And thus did Hezekiah throughout all Judah and rotten that which was good and right and truth. before the Lord his God. So he's living to please God. He's living for the truth of the Word of God. And this is in verse 21, and in every work which he began in the service of the house of God and in the law and in the commandments to seek his God. And here's part of the key. He did it with all his heart and prospered, with everything that he is, with his heart, his mind, his emotions, his will, his desires, and what he was trying to encourage himself and others to obey. He's doing it with all of his heart. These are lessons that we're learning from Hezekiah, and so far they've been pretty positive. He's doing things that are right before the Lord. He's trying to restore that which was broken. He's trying to open up what his dad closed with the temple of the Lord. He's trying to teach and to train more priests and Levites. He's teaching the people to give. He's teaching the people to worship in Jerusalem. He's encouraging all of Israel to do it again. God is worth worshiping for all of us. Then we see in chapter so in chapter thir twenty-nine we've seen that Hezekiah has a heart to restore the temple. In chapter 30, we saw he had a heart to reunite the tribes for worship. In chapter 31, Hezekiah had a heart to return to tithing. And in chapter 32, we're going to see that Hezekiah's heart to resist the takeover. So we have this king. You see things are going well. They're beginning to prosper. They have some stuff that I want. Ooh, those cities are looking awful nice. So Snacherib decides, I want these cities. I want to take them. Let's look at the first couple verses of chapter 32. After these things. And the establishment thereof, Snacherib, king of Assyria, came and entered into Judah, and encamped against the fence cities, and thought to win them for himself. And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem, what did he do? He gave up. Oh, you can just take it. You can just have it. So, wait a minute. We're trying to serve God. We're trying to build a nation centered on his commands and to obey what God has for each one of us as individuals and as a nation. He says, I've loved the nation, I've loved the direction we're heading, and we are trying to do what's right. And this guy is going to come and he wants to take our cities. He decides to resist. He decides to put up a fight. So he begins to prepare He begins to prepare. Look what he does. He starts preparing the land. This is just brilliant. This was great. When you start looking at the military benefits, all these things, it's pretty neat. But it says, he took counsel with the princes. And his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were without the city. And they did help him. He said, listen, armies get thirsty. They're marching, they're carrying off equipment. They get thirsty. For him to take our cities. We're going to cut off the water. So he gathered much people together in verse 4 and stopped all the fountains. And the brook that ran through the midst of the land saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come and find much water? Why are we going to keep feeding these guys and watering them if they're going to try and kill us and take us? This is brilliant. What they're doing. He's not going to give up without the fight. He's doing everything in. And what we're going to see in this chapter is he is working and and and taking counsel to do everything he can, humanly speaking, to prevent these cities. From getting taken over to protect God's people. But then later throughout this chapter, we're going to see he's going to pray, God, we've done everything we can. We need you to intervene. We could only do so much. And that's how it is with life. Sometimes we need to work as if it depends upon us, but then pray as if it only depends upon God. And I think that's where um Hezekiah is going to go here. And then look at this. He encourages the people in verses 6 through 8. And he set captains of war over the people and gathered them together to him. In the street of the gate of the city. And he spake comfortably to them. He's encouraging them. I know there's a large army out there. We're trying to serve God and do what's right. So we can continue to obey God. Let's see what God does. Don't give up. We're going to do everything we can, but we're going to trust in God for the result. And there was a couple times I had to uh Becky and I had some discussions like this over the last week. Humanly speaking, when someone's eternity is on the line. You could only , you feel like you're so limited sometimes. You can only share the gospel so many times in so many different ways. It's going to come down to that individual's choice. on what they choose to do. You can encourage them. You can share the word of God with them. But you are limited. It takes the work and it takes the power of God to actually change. It is the work of God by which someone can come to know Christ as their Savior. to truly have a heart, to desire to obey God. Sometimes they just need to be encouraged. That's what Hezekiah is doing here. He's encouraging the people. The enemy is wicked. They want to take us over. I know we're trying to do right. And Hezekiah from his perspective is probably thinking, God, we are trying as a nation to do what's right. Look at all we've done. Look how far we've come. In one generation, everything that my dad is tore down and shut, and we were opening and we're cleansing. Do you want to discourage these people? So he tells them, Be strong and courageous, be not afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude that is with him, for there be more with us than with him. With him is the arm of flesh. But with us is, here's the difference, great and mighty weapons, stronger, bigger cities and towers that we've built up. No. No. But with us is the Lord our God to help us. His strength, his encouragement, that he's encouraging himself, that he's encouraging God's people, it is God who's going to make the difference. He is the one that we need to trust in for the result. We're doing everything we can. We've cut off the water. We've been preparing. We've been doing all these things, even up to this point. He says, but we have God. on our side. He is the one that can help us. And to fight our battles in the middle of verse 8. And the people rested themselves upon the words of Hezekiah, the king of Judah. He is sharing the greatness and the goodness of God. He is encouraging them. Hey, listen, we are doing everything that we can, but at the end of the day, we are still limited. Humanly speaking, it is God who has to do the work. It is God who's our defense. He is the one that can deliver. He is the one that fights our victories and our battles. Let's just take courage and what God and who he is and what he can do. We need to rest. Trust him for the result. So he's encouraging the people. And what we see, God does deliver. If you read verse 9 and following, God does the work. He fights the battle for them. Now what they didn't do is Hezekiah just didn't pray and just say, okay, God, it's up to you now. He did everything he could Remember, he was cutting off the water and he's preparing all the everything that he was doing at this point. He wasn't just, sometimes we get caught, we just, we pray for something, but we put no feet to their prayers. We experienced this kinda as a family last week. I mean they had we had to pray. But there had to be some action. There had to be some transportation. There had to be you know some scripture shared and and you can't just pray and then not expect anything to happen for you. Oh, God can do it. Yes, we're not doubting God's ability. But if you want someone to be saved, if you want someone to be encouraged, maybe God will use you to be the encourager. We're going to pray for so-and-so that they would do this. They say, okay, can you do anything about it? Are we going to trust in God for the adult? Maybe it won't go our way. Are we still going to trust in God for the result, knowing that He is still good, and we're going to do everything that we humanly can, and we're going to pray as if it depends only upon Him, but we're going to work as if it depends upon us? But are we still going to trust God for the result of what may happen? Well, let's take courage in the goodness and character of God and trust them for the result. And however it ends up, this ended up being great. What happens to this great deliverance? Kings a challenge. You know, God sends an angel, he ends up defeating them. But then look what happens as we scoot uh move towards the end of this chapter in verses 24 and following. In those days, this is chapter 32, verse 24. In those days Hezekiah was sick to the death and prayed unto the Lord, and he spake unto him and gave him a sign. But Hezekiah rendered not according to the benefit they had done unto him. Why? Why is he doing this? For his heart was lifted up. Therefore, there was wrath upon him and upon Judah and Jerusalem. Well had happened. He'd seen victories. He'd been trying to live for the Lord. And here he comes off a great victory. Now he's getting older and he's reflecting on his life. And he's thinking, I got this. Look at what I have done. Look what I have accomplished. And you know what happens to the same heart desired godly things The same heart that desired all to worship the Lord. The same heart that desired for these groves, these images to be broken down. The same heart that said, be of good courage. Let's watch God work for us. Let's God watch fight our battles That same heart that desired to obey and to follow God. What happens is sometimes when God gives us what we desire, what happens is we forget that God is the one who grants it. And we can get lifted up with our pride and think, look what I have done. Look what I've done. So what did Hezekiah have to do? He had to do the same thing that some of the other people had to do earlier in these chapters. Look what he did in verse 26. of chapter 32. Notwithstanding, Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart. I think this is why Paul can say. You know , we can do all things through Christ who's strengthen us, but before that you talk about I know both how to abase and I know how to abound. Sometimes when we have nothing, it's easy to pray in great dependence and great fervency on the Lord when we're in great need. But when all we need is supplied, and we've had great victory and great success, and it seems like things are just going our way, sometimes we tend to forget the God who we depend upon. And that same heart that did desire and has desired and did great things for the Lord can get lifted up with our own self and get lifted up with our own pride and think that that same God that helped us, oh, I don't need him now. We can all be there. So this is a lesson of the negative that we can learn from Hezekiah. Don't let our heart that yes desires God and obey him, don't let it get lifted up with pride, thinking that we no longer need him How is your prayer life when everything is going well? Food in the refrigerator, vehicles are all full with gas, everything's paid, plenty of money in the a bank account, things are just going great. How is your prayer life? Everyone's healthy. Do we pray with the same fervency? Does our heart tend to drift towards self and think, I've got this under control? Hezekiah had to humble himself because that same heart that had good desires was getting a little carried away. This is here for our benefit for each one of us. We are going to be no different than Hezekiah. We can come into those same temptations and those same struggles. Would we not let that happen to us? Because he said he had to humble himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem. So that the wrath of the Lord came not upon them in the days of Hezekiah. You know what that tells us? If he didn't humble himself, what would he have gotten? The same thing as the wrath of God. God would have been upset and angry at him. Hey, look what I've done for you. And now, when all is well, you're going to forget me? Let me send you a reminder. that you're not in control. You're not so great like you think you once were. So as we looked at these chapters And we've compared both positive and a little bit here at the negative. We can learn some lessons from the heart of Hezekiah. We can desire to have worship to restore the place of worship, to restore the people, to encourage one another, to reunite others, even take our own humility with our own human relationship. That we would return to giving that which is already the Lord's. And that we would have a heart that can resist when evil rears its head and it wants to take us over. Be it after all of that said and done, with that same heart that desires all these good things, not be so tempted to get lifted up with pride and to think that we don't need the God that we depended upon when things weren't going our way. Would we l learn these lessons from the heart, both the positive and the negative, of this great king Hezekiah, as we go to him in prayer. Father, we are so grateful as we just take a summary of the life of this great king. He did many wonderful things, and to that we are thankful. But oh, how all of us can have a heart that's prone to wander. We can have a heart that can that is bent towards selfishness. Father, would we have a heart that desires to serve you, always recognizing a dependence, a humility? And sometimes if we just really preach the gospel to ourselves each and every day, And recognizing how much we have a great need of you. For without you, we can certainly do nothing. Would we always remember these truths? As Hezekiah had to have a moment of humility there at the end. He had to swallow his pride. Father, could we learn from this and stay dependent? Dependent upon you and learn these lessons from the heart of Hezekiah, and that you'd be with all that are here this evening, that we would all desire to honor you. To obey you, not just from the externals, but a heart that longs to be obedient and loving to you and encourage others to do likewise. And we could do this to honor, to exalt our Savior, Jesus Christ, whose name we pray. Amen