I want to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 Samuel chapter 18. 1 Samuel chapter 18. We've been working through the life of Saul. and also the life of David and because their lives are intertwined on a lot of different levels. And I have verses thirteen to fourteen, but we're actually really going to look at Verses 1 to 17, but 13 and 14 are going to be kind of a focal point in our discussion. So 1 Samuel chapter 18, we'll begin in verse number 1, and I'd like to see if I could get a couple of volunteers. to read for us. So if you would like to read three verses, one, so one to three, four to six, seven to nine Ten to twelve. I need thirteen to fifteen. Boom, thirteen to fifteen and sixteen to seventeen. I'll do that one. How that how's that? Okay, so let's begin our first reader, verses one to three, please. And make sure you read it out loud. I mean, obviously out loud, but loud enough that we all can can catch what things said. Bruce is like, I'm done, I read it quietly. That was not the point. Go ahead, you got it. And it came to pass when he had made an end of speech Unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David. Jonathan loved him as his former told. Saul took him that day and would let him go no more home to his father's house. Then Jonathan and David made a covenant because he loved it as his own hold. And Jonathan stripped himself of the rope that was upon him and gave it to David and his garden, even to his sword and to his bow and to his belt. And David went out wherever Saul set him, and he paved himself wisely. And Saul set him over the mount sword, and he was accepted to site All people and also in the fight of servants. And it came to pass as they came when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistines That the women came out of all the cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet King Saul with timbrels and joy and with Instrumental music. And the women answered one another as they played and said, Saul has played with thousands, and David ten thousand And Saul was very wroth, and the saying deceived him. He said, They have described unto David ten thousand, and to me they have described a thousand. And what can he have more but the king of? And Saul I gave it on that day and forward. And it came to pass on the morrow, and the evil spirit of God came upon Saul, and he prophesied into the house, and David played with his hand as it up And there was a javelin in Saul's hand. And Saul cast the javelin, for he said, I will smite David even to the wall. And David avoided God in his presence twice. And Saul was afraid of David, because the Lord was with him and was departing from Saul. Therefore, saw the mutual crown and made him captive over a battle by mountains, and did it before the people, and gave it the eight of my own. his way and the Lord his content. Wherefore Saul Paul himself very likely. He was afraid of But all Israel and Judah loved David because he went out and came in before them. And Saul said to David, Behold, my elder daughter Merib, her will I give thee to wife Only be thou valiant for me and fight the Lord's battles. For Saul said, Let not mine hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him. Now the passage in front of us is a fascinating, uh fascinating passage. And there are so many different details that I think are are worth noting and we can really explore them and and find out some really interesting things about it. Just for the sake of context, I'm going to ask the question, what was it about David that caused Jonathan to have this incredible love for him. There was this instant connection. What was it that David did or said that really got Jonathan's attention? Can anybody throw that out there? And I want you to understand something about this little dynamic here. David is a teenager. Jonathan is a seasoned warrior. Jonathan could probably just about be David's dad. Okay? So the the the the the age difference is very, very significant here Jonathan is a is a tough soldier, a leader in battle, and David is a kid. What is it that made Jonathan really love David? And when it says that he gave him his garments and those things It was like he was giving him an honor, saying, look, I recognize that you're a valiant warrior, and I'm going to show you honor by giving you these instruments. What was it about David that really stood out to him? What do you think What happened in chapter seventeen? Seventeen was uh Goliath. Goliath, yep. Goliath. Okay. Who was willing to go out and fight Goliath and who wasn't willing to go out and fight Goliath? Saul was not. Saul was not. Jonathan was not. Nobody in the military was willing to go out and meet David. There were no people that volunteered but David himself. And so when Jonathan sees David's valor and he sees the spirit that David has, that's something that he goes, that's the kind of guy I want to be fighting beside me. That's the kind of guy that I want to learn from. I want to grow with, I want to invest in. This is the kind of guy that I want to deal with. And so what really knits Jonathan's heart to David is his valor and his love for the Lord. And that's something that really stands out to Jonathan. Also, we want to notice a couple of things about it. It says that David behaves himself wisely. Now, I want you to think about when you were 15 years old, okay? Now some of you guys aren't 15 yet, and some of you 15 was like last year, okay? But if 15's been a long time for you, think about when you were 15 and imagine, especially if you were a guy Where you go into the public arena and all of these women are singing your praises in the streets. What would that have done to your head? Yeah, when you were a football star, think about when you came back to school after a triumph on the gridiron on Friday night. And all the all the girls at school are like, Scott's an amazing football player. Wow. I wish I could look at that like Maybe it's good to you it didn't happen, right? Think about what what praise does to people. Think about what praise does to people who are young Praise destroys people. It really does. I mean it's great when when people have done something commendable and you can praise them, you should praise them. But it has a tendency to really inflate people's egos and to destroy them. And what's really interesting is David did not allow that to happen It says he behaved himself wisely. He was very humble. He didn't let it go to his head. On the other side, how did Saul respond to this? He was furious. Saul is like, how dare they ascribe to David this boy that he slain ten thousand the Philistines and I've only slain Balad I mean I've been the king for a pretty long time here. I've been a mighty warrior. I've defended these people. Look at me. Why are they doing this to this boy? And he really gets upset. It's really interesting to notice the contrast between these different characters. Jonathan doesn't view David as a threat. He views John Jonathan views David as the kind of person he wants. beside him. Saul views David as an incredible threat and he is very concerned about David and he's trying to figure out how he can get David killed. So what does he do? He sends them out with his armies to be in positions where perhaps his new hero can be cut to the side and he can be back in his place. And then David, a very young man Shows incredible restraint, incredible wisdom, and uh very, very good example here. So these are some of the dynamics that are going on. But the thing that I really want us to focus our attention on today It's something that's found in verses 12 to 14. I want to go back there. I want to read this so that we can catch what really is the heart of this entire section. Verse 12 it says, and David was afraid of, or excuse me, and Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with him. And was departed from Saul. Therefore, Saul removed him from him and made him his captain over a thousand. And he went out and came in before the people. And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways, and the Lord was with him. What's really interesting is the reason that Saul feels threatened by David is because he recognizes God set me up as the king. But because of the way that I've behaved and the way that I've responded to God, he has removed himself from blessing me, from working in me, and working through me. And this young man right here He is the one who God is now working in. And you can only imagine how Saul's probably thinking, and he's probably going to replace me too Because, I mean, Samuel's made it clear. God's rejected you. He's going to pick out a new king. And so there are a lot of dynamics here. But I want us to notice this important phrase: the Lord was with him. I want to talk today for a few minutes about the importance of God's presence in our lives. When I say God's presence, I I do want you to realize that God cares about you no matter how you are related to him today at this moment. So you're not a believer? What does God care about? He wants you to be saved. And so he's working in your life and through various circumstances and through various means to draw you to a point where you see your sin and you're overwhelmed by his grace and you place your trust in the finished work of Christ. So we talk about God's presence, we're not saying that the unbeliever, God doesn't care about them. That's not true. He does. If you're a Christian, but you're not really walking with the Lord, and all of us have had seasons where that's been the case for us. Where we have not been in the place where we need to be. God wants to work in you and through you, and He hasn't kicked you to the side But the way that he's relating to you is not the way that he could be relating to you. Yes, he's your father, but he's not a father who you're enjoying sweet communion with. He's not the Father who is working through you to the extent he desires to and can. And then for the person who's walking in the presence of the Lord and enjoying and delighting in that position, God is working in you and through you in a very special way. And I want us to see kind of the contrast between the person who God's presence is not at work in their life As it can and should be, and the one who it is. And we see this contrast with Saul and with David. And I believe that part of the reason this is recorded for us is to help those who are reading it in those days and us today to understand, look, God rules the nation, he determines who's going to go into that position of king. And he's choosing the right kind of person. Not that David obviously was a perfect man. He did some really bad things. But David was a man who this was his general disposition in life. So let's begin with this first truth. Your greatest need in life is the presence of the Spirit. Your greatest need in life is the presence of the Holy Spirit. Psalm 51 verses 10 to 12. If you could turn there with me. While you're turning there, I want to ask the question: what is the background behind Psalm 51? David and Bathsheba. David and Bathsheba. So this morning in my Bible reading, that's what I read. That's where I was. Okay? Huh? David getting caught. Yeah, that's true too. David getting caught. But there's more to it than David's sin and David getting caught. There's also David's repentance There's David's humility. There's David's desire for restoration. You know, some people when they're caught just want to eliminate the Consequences as much as possible. It's really not about God, it's not about having a clean heart. It's not about having a clear conscience. It's really about keeping your kind of the way people see you and perceive you, keeping that as clean as possible. It's about damage control. That's not David's disposition in these verses. Look at verses 10 to 12. He says, create in me a clean heart. Now, if I'm asking God to create something, that means I don't have it at the moment. Right? And if I'm asking him to create a clean heart in me, I'm indicating I don't have a clean heart David understood that his heart had been defiled. He understood that the way that he had acted for well beyond the year The manipulation, the abusiveness, the dishonesty, David understood that his heart was unclean. And so what does he say? I want you, God, to create a clean heart in me. And I want you to renew a right spirit within me. He's indicating that there was a time that his heart was clean. There was a time that his heart was right with God, but that wasn't now. And he wanted that restoration. He then goes on to say: Cast me not away from thy presence. He was concerned that God would just cast him to the side and do exactly what he said with Saul. That's his fear. He says, Take not thy Holy Spirit from me. Now we're going to get into this in just a few minutes, but the way that the Holy Spirit related to the believer in the Old Testament and the way that he relates to the believer in the New Testament is different. It's not that the Holy Spirit is a different person. It's that God has chosen to work in his people today differently than he did in those days. And so before the cross and after the cross, God was in a different covenantal relationship with his people. Before the cross His relationship was to the nation of Israel. People were still saved in the Old Testament, the way they are today, by faith alone in Christ. We talked about this in our Roman study on Monday. But when it came to how God dealt with people, there were some differences, and this is one of the areas of difference. The Holy Spirit not only worked through David, but he indwelled David from the moment that David was anointed to be king till the end of his reign But the Holy Spirit didn't do that with everybody in the Old Testament. There were times when the Holy Spirit came upon people and moments where they needed His presence and His work to work in and through them in a very unique way. But that wasn't his typical mode of operation. And David doesn't want the Holy Spirit's presence to be removed from him. He wants the Holy Spirit to work in him and to work through him. He then says this: restore to me the joy of thy salvation, and uphold me with thy free spirit. One of the biggest things that David lost when David concealed his sin was joy. He did not have a peaceful, satisfied disposition. He wasn't contented, he wasn't happy, he wasn't joyful, he was troubled, he was burdened, he would go to bed at night, and his heart and his body ached. He was under so much pressure internally And he talks about that in some of the Psalms. He says, when I concealed my sin, my bones were aching within me. Amazing statement. And so what's he basically saying? I need my joy to be restored, and I want my spirit to be freed from the bondage that it's in The reason that I go to this passage is I'm showing you that confidence, joy, strength, a sense of God's love, wisdom, protection, a holy walk. All of these things are rooted in the fact that the Holy Spirit is at work in us and working through us. And David experienced that. Even though he was a fugitive, even though he had to run for his life for large portions of his young adult life. He was a warrior who went into battle. He knew what it was like to face the possibility of death by sword on a regular basis. He also understood what it was like to be king. David recognizes the presence of the Holy Spirit is critical to him having a healthy walk before God. And it is for us as well. Any questions or comments there? Yeah. Yeah, go ahead. So um this was when um we said uh they didn't dwell on police Is is that is Samuel is that when Samuel said he was an ordinance? Is that how how he says uh Yeah, so um when we looked at when we looked at um the passage dealing with s uh Samuel anointing David, it says the Holy Spirit came upon him from that day forward. Now it also said something very similar to that when Saul was anointed as well, but we have other passages that clearly tell us that The Holy Spirit departed from Saul and actually sent a persecuting spirit, which is a really interesting discussion that we could get into as well. But basically, uh God allows Satan to be vexed. By I think we could say a demonic presence. And uh that's how he dealt with him because of his rebellion. But um When it talks about God coming upon somebody in the in the Old Testament, it didn't necessarily indicate that they were indwelled by the Spirit in the same way that we are And I'm going to talk a little bit about what we mean by being indwelt. It means that he came upon them. And sometimes a term that you'll see if you're studying theology is a theocratic anointing. So this would be somebody who was the king, somebody who was a prophet, somebody who was involved in God's leadership over the nation, a theocracy. And God raises them up for a moment where they need to do something very significant. The Holy Spirit comes upon them in a very special way, and they're able to do something that ordinarily they wouldn't be able to do So so like that wouldn't necessarily be the same as being born again in a new test or I mean like it sounds like it saw was in twelve by the sphere and then it went away, so well y The question is, was he indwelt or did the Holy Spirit come upon him and use him at the at that moment? They would be different. And that's kind of up for debate. And I don't know if we want to get too much into that. But um now people in the Old Testament were regenerated. Just like people in the New Testament are regenerated, meaning that there's a moment where they receive new life and they're born again. But you know, believers prior to Pentecost were regenerated And the Holy Spirit related to them, but that didn't mean that he indwelled them as in their body was his temple, which we're going to really get into that concept today in our morning service. You had a question or comment? Well well kind of um a a contrast. Like if you look at Moses, Moses was never really dwelt with the Holy Spirit. God spoke to him outside of the Spirit You know, so it was kinda like here's another man of God that was doing God's will, but God worked with him in a different way. Yeah, God worked through him And most certainly the Holy Spirit came upon him, but he wasn't indwelt by the Spirit in the same way that you and I are today. So Moses never said, My body is the temple of the Holy Spirit who indwells me. And we don't have any examples in the Old Testament of that kind of terminology being used, but we have several clear statements of that in the New Testament. And so there's a distinction on how God related to saved individuals in the Old Testament. Yeah. It's a very interesting thing to get into. Okay, so let's talk a little bit about This statement. Truth to your greatest fear should be that God would fight against you. God would fight against you. God can can fight for you Or God can fight against you. I guess it's it's one or the other, right? And over the course of our lives, there are times that we might find ourselves in a position where we are very set to do something that we should not do. And we are doing everything we possibly can to do that thing. And you know what God does? He stops us. And he does it through remarkable means, things that are outside of our control. And there are other times that we don't set out to do something, and God accomplishes it in remarkable ways. There's a difference between somebody who God is fighting against and someone who God is fighting for. And when we talk about David, David was not aspiring to be the king. He was a young man. He wasn't positioning himself to get into the right place and I gotta get close to Jonathan because Jonathan's the leader of the army and he needs to see my talents and my abilities so that when I go out into battle He's impressed and I start rising up in the ranks. We don't see any of that with David. David ends up in the king's palace. Why? Because he played the harp. And the king was vexed by an evil spirit. And they said, we need somebody who can play the harp, who can soothe this man who is tormented. He needs some good music. Okay? It's like you're saying, I'm having a rough day. I need to go find something to listen to to kind of settle my nerves a little bit. I mean, that was that was his MP3 right there You know, David David had to smash it. Not a record. For the record, he just he played live. I mean he played in the King's Palace. And so like he didn't choose that. He wasn't looking for that opportunity. He wasn't positioning himself. God put him there through that kind of a set of circumstances. Even going out to fight Goliath, David wasn't thinking, oh, I'd like to be the national hero. I'm going to go out and fight Goliath He's like, you guys won't step up. Somebody's got to do this. I'll go do it. I mean, that was really his mentality. And so all of the the ways that David moves from being a boy watching sheep to being the king All of those details are guided by God's providence. God is positioning him on every single level. He's not seeking it out. Saul, on the other hand, is doing everything in his power to preserve power. To resist God. And that's a really dangerous thing to do. Don't do that. Alright So let's look at a couple of the results of what Saul does. First of all, we'll go to 1 Samuel 16, verse 14. God's presence departed from Saul, and he sent him a tormentor. First Samuel sixteen fourteen. Can somebody read this? Okay. Now I'm sure that a statement like that might trouble some people. And if it does, I'm sorry. But that's what it says. God sent a tormenting spirit to trouble Saul. Now when it says God sent, that doesn't mean that God says, oh, I want to ruin Saul's life. I'm going to go ahead and focus on him and send him out. The truth is that there's always Always satanic opposition. There are always times where Satan wants to destroy people who are in influential places. And all that God has to do is say this. I remove my restraint. Go for it and it's gonna happen. I mean look at the example of Job. God says to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job? There is none like him in all the earth, none that fears God and shows evil. And you know what David are Satan says, well, if you do this to him, he'll curse you. He says, go for it. Wow, that's kind of kind of crazy to think about, but that's what God did. And on some level, this is exactly what God did here. What's interesting is someone might say, well Why would God deal with Saul so harshly? By the end of the story we'll see that Saul is looking for demonic influence so that he can decide what to do So let's not, you know, get too rosy of Saul here. The fact is that Saul was very willing to resort to witchcraft And divination to determine what he should or shouldn't do in a circumstance. And God knows that, and God uses Fallen angel to go after him. Yes. It's also important to remember in our books. Saul was promoting Saul and it turned away from not that he ever was as godly as David. But he was promoting Saul, not faith in God and trusting in God. So that that's an important dichotomy in it's not just what he went after, it's what he wasn't going after I'll just throw this out there. Imagine if Saul had a Twitter account. I'm not going there. All I can say is he was a very self-serving man. And he was very willing to do everything in his power to uh destroy his opposition. Okay, two Saul was terrified of his most trusted servant. Now this doesn't make any logical sense. If you're dealing with somebody who is trustworthy who has honor, who has valor, who's obviously very skillful, who very clearly God's hand is upon them and he has put them in a place Wouldn't you go, that's the person I want next to me, that's the one I want working with me, that's the kind of person I want to replace me. That's what you'd want. If you're thinking clearly, that's what you'd want. But that is not how Saul was thinking at all. Saul was extremely antagonistic to the person that would ultimately replace him. And when he did that, it exposed what happens to a person when God withdraws themselves, the way that they think and act. 1 Samuel 18, verse 12, listen to what it says. And Saul was afraid of David because the Lord was with him. Now you would think that he would say. Saul loved David and he trusted him explicitly because God was with him. That's what you'd think. That's not what it says. Therefore, Saul removed him from him and made him his captain over a thousand and he went out and came in before the people. Now it's interesting. If I have somebody that I really trust, that's who I want beside me If I have somebody that is very competent and has good character, that's what I want beside me. That's the person I want who's going to look at me and say, hey, what do you think about this? That decision you're going to make, I'm a little concerned about it, and here's why. And you sit down and you're like, you know what? Thank you for that little check and balance right there. I didn't think about that, but that's really good. That's really true That's what you would expect. That's what you would hope would happen. But that's not what happens. He sends him out to fight, but the intent of having him fight was not that he knew he was a competent fighter He hosts exactly what David set up later on that leads up to Psalm 51. He sends David out saying, this guy's gonna die in the battle He's a valiant fighter. I know he's going to lead the charge, and he'll be the first one to go down. I'm sending him out there Of course, his plan slightly backfired because when David comes back, he's a hero because of his valor and God's protecting him. And that just made him all the more angry. Verse 14: David behaved himself wisely in all his ways, and the Lord was with him. The reason that David had such grace The reason that David had such humility, the reason that David was able to navigate all those complex situations, is because of God's presence. It's not because David was a more naturally good person. It's that God was with him. God was guiding him. And I will tell you One of the things that really strikes me about this discussion is that when we go through life, there are a lot of complicated situations. There are issues that we have to be very cautious in how we deal with them. There are people that we have to be very cautious in how we deal with them. We need to handle them wisely And we will not do that if we don't have God's presence working consistently in our lives. This is why David could do what he did. Very, very important. Wherefore, when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him. So It's amazing. The guy's doing the right thing. Doing it for the right reasons. Doing it in the right way. And it makes the situation worse. I mean like that's kind of shocking, but it's true. You know, sometimes we will tell people, you do the right thing, things will get better. For David, didn't work that way. So okay, I I had a hand here and here. So I'm gonna go here and then I'll get to you. Good. But you have someone who's in, whether it's long term or short term, you have this idea in your brain, I'm going to fight the God of the universe. That's going to work out okay. The fact that you're getting other bad idea. It's a real bad idea. So just the idea of and then he's not taking advantage of this wonderful opportunity in front of Yeah. It's a really good thing that God's restrained. You know, I don't think we should be surprised when God acts in justice. We should be surprised how often he doesn't. Because he really does restrain himself. And he's really patient with people. D Saul hadn't been the king for a year and a half here. He he'd been there for a long period of time. And he really demonstrated his character So God knew exactly what was going on inside. Yes, Lisa. And maybe you have two really good friends and their own thing path and then one chooses to go a different direction. Yeah. It kind of causes um isolation because they feel judged even if by some of their choices, but it's kind of just self That's a really interesting observation. But you know they feel bad, they feel wrong, they feel bad, so then they put the display. Yeah. Uh it's true, it really is. Now, sometimes we can be that way, but there are times that we're not and we're doing things As well as possible. And the truth is that excellence for one person is a threat. And for another person, it's this is the kind of person I want to work with. And so some people will be threatened by doing things well, doing things the right way. It really bothers them. because they are very self-serving and they feel threatened by it. And others will say, man, that's that's who I want to work with. That's who I want to deal with. And I guess one of the things that we need to be prepared for in life is that that's that is the explanation sometimes of why things are that way. And we're seeing a really a classic example of that. So, okay, let's continue this little section here. Saul saw, Saul saw, and knew that the Lord was with David, and that Michael Actually, I'll I'll say I'll say her name the way it would have been in in Hebrew, because it's not Michael, it's Nikal. Alright. We'll go with that. She, Saul's daughter, loved David. And Saul was yet more afraid of David. So not only are you winning the battles, but you're going to take my daughter and you're going to become My son-in-law, I don't like this at all. He's really troubled by that. And Saul became David's enemy continually. What an amazing thought that when people are not walking with God, those who are trouble them. And especially when someone has been exposed to truth uh for a season of life. And some of the most antagonistic people to the Christian faith. Are people who walked in the midst of the church for a season and then eventually said, I I want no part of this, for whatever reason And they can be extremely antagonistic. That's really what's going on here with Saul. He's extremely antagonistic. Next. Saul tries to kill his own son in anger, fear of David. So Why not keep it in the family, right? Let's keep the kingdom in the family. Well, if you kill your son, it ain't going to happen that way, okay? We go to 1 Samuel 20, verses 30 to 33 Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of the perverse rebellious woman. Now, if we could read that in Hebrew, There might be some language there that we if we translated it purely into the English, we maybe wouldn't say it. I'll just leave it at that, okay? That was a pretty stiff uh nasty uh attack on this man. Uh thou son of the perverse, rebellious woman, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own, that thou hast uh confusion. And unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness, for as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die. And Jonathan answered Saul his father and said unto him, Wherefore shall he be slain? What hast he done? Saul cast a javelin at him to smite him, whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to slay David. Ah, it's a real He realized that his dad wanted to kill David because of what the response, okay? You can see that that Saul is really angry. He's just boiling with anger. And he is so blinded by his anger that he's ready to kill his own son. This is what happens when a person isolates themselves from the Lord. 1 Samuel 22, verses 16 and 17. Just to kind of let you see where this can go. Saul murders God's priest out of anger. 1 Samuel 22, 16. And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou and all thy father's house. The king said unto the footmen that stood unto him, Turn and slay the priest of the Lord, because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled and did not show it to me, but the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priest of the Lord. The context of this particular situation is that that Saul is chasing David And David has gotten away from him. And on the way to the wilderness, David goes and he stops and meets this man, Ahimelech. And Ahimelech has no idea that David is in trouble with the king, he has no idea that he's running for his life. He is completely oblivious to these facts. And he gives the sword of Goliath to David. He gives him and some of his men some food. And then they're on their way. And when Saul comes, he asks no questions other than, Did you help this man? I'm going to kill you. He didn't think about the fact that this man had no clue what was going on. He had no thought for the fact that this man was a just man, that he was a priest. He has no regard for human life. This is stunning, really. That's what we're dealing with. Next. Any questions or comments before we get to the next one? Saul is consumed with killing David. Verses chapter 24, verses 1 to 2. It came to pass when Saul was returned from following the Philistines that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engede. Then Saul took 3,000 chosen men out of all of Israel and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats. You know, it's interesting. We study World War II history. We look at the the influence of Nazi Germany One of the catlists to why Hitler ultimately went down was his fixation on the Holocaust. He was willing to put resources into the extermination of the Jewish people. It wasn't just Jewish people. There were others involved, but primarily the Jewish people. He was so fixated on that that he removed resources from places where he needed them and ultimately weakened those defenses and ultimately was part of his downfall And what we see is that here is Saul, he's supposed to be defending the nation of Israel against the Philistines. His men have gone to battle, they're weary, they're worn out, they come back. And as soon as he hears where David is, it's like, snap, let's go get him. And he's removing all of his resources and going after David. He's literally consumed. His every thought is about how he can remove David. It's a scary place to be. That's where he gets. And lastly, I'll come to this. Well, there's two more I could mention. But Saul goes to visit a witch to hear his face. I'm gonna deal with that passage on one of our Sunday schools. uh dealing with some of the things that we learn from that. But he's basically willing to go to a woman who is involved in divination. who is not supposed to be amongst the people. And he tells her, I'm going to spare you the justice of the law so that you can help me And basically, he's willing to go to witchcraft to try to get help on his final day. And that is his final day. His son and he dies sadly in battle. And in a shameful way, he ultimately takes his own life. When I look at all these details, I think there's one principle that stands out. We need God's presence. We need to make sure we don't fight God. We need to make sure that we don't isolate ourselves from the means that God uses to give us wisdom, to give us a settled heart. We need that because we ultimately can become very self-destructive if we isolate ourselves from God's gracious means to strengthen and mature us. That is what Saul did. He isolated himself, and ultimately he was punished dearly for it. I'm going to stop there because the next section involves a lot of development. And are there any questions or comments? Truth three we're gonna talk about next time and it's I think next week we have a mission here. I have to look at the schedule again, I forget. Um but I can't. I I believe we do. I'll have to look at the schedule. But um we're gonna talk a little bit the next time we get into this, we're gonna talk about the Holy Spirit's role in the Old Testament versus in the New Testament. We'll make those distinctions. So it'll be a real practical lesson. Yes. Well going back to what you said about Saul fighting against God. I mean there's a there's a incredible object lesson that we dare not pay like it. Yes. Samuel anointed Saul to became in God's presence. I mean, he told Saul that God chose him. Then Samuel was or Saul was openly disobedient. And Samuel told God, ripped the kingdom from him, and gave him to another. And to your point, you know, here is David. Now becoming annoyed that Saul, if he was following God, if he was uh uh Still observant, he was reverent, he would have accepted that, but instead he goes to the utmost extreme to many what Esau kings do in the cultures around them. Yeah. According to Saul. And God puts up and takes down. And now here he is trying to kill his son and uh and David with that. So to look at to look at the situation kind of bluntly. I mean Saul is not obviously going to be king forever, and uh he should want there to be a peaceful transition to power. Um you know he's not a young man anymore. He's not really leading the battles anymore. His son's leading the battles. And um if he was thinking in a In a principled, reasonable manner, he would have gone, you know what, my time as king is done and David's a good man. I'm glad he's doing it. God could have picked anybody. He picked somebody who's very very capable. He's a leader. He's gracious and um he could have he could have handled it that way. Jonathan could have been, you know, his most trusted uh leader in battle. And um they already had a great relationship. And the truth is that that Saul wasn't thinking about the health of the kingdom at all And he was at a point where his days were done anyway. Like he should have just been willing to to to let that happen. But it's not what happened. And It's not that God didn't want to allow him to do it that way. I mean, really, he could have allowed it to happen that way. He obviously was positioning David in his providence. And It's interesting the difference between the way that Saul passes on his leadership, he didn't really pass it on. God took it from him and gave it to somebody else, and the way that David passes it on to Solomon. And when Solomon becomes the king, David has laid aside all the materials needed to build the temple. He has taught his son. He he prays one of the greatest prayers that we read in the Bible is when s when David is praying uh before the people at basically the transition of power to Solomon becoming the king. And it's it's one of the one of the most magnificent prayers in the Bible. Not that we should be impressed with prayers, but it talks about God's character. And David's an old man and he he does that well. And it's a it's a very peaceful transition. But instead, after Saul, there's a civil war And you know, if it wasn't for God's hand on on the kingdom it would have been self included. So it's a it's a really It's a really interesting story. And it's true, it happened. That's exactly how it happened. Yes. I think it's important too to remember in our fast food culture, David didn't kill the live on Tuesday and then Saul fell on a floor on the Sunday. Uh -huh. Decades. Yeah. There was a long period of time. Yeah. I've been working out this plan So stall dub demo deeper and deeper and deeper. Yeah. Yeah, I think we're talking fifteen or so years. Yeah Could you give me more than that? I have to look at my chronology a little bit there, but yeah. It it could be fifteen to twenty years of time to solve there And a lot of that time was David running for his life. So Alright. Well, let's go ahead and bow for a word of prayer, and it's been a great, great study this morning.