Okay, if you could take your Bibles, turn to Matthew twenty-eight. Matthew twenty-eight, and we will begin reading at verse eighteen. Matthew 28. Over the last several, well, the last two quarters, we've been going over some foundational truths that are connected to a biblical church, a healthy functioning church. And we can have our doctrine right, we can have our practice right, but not necessarily be a healthy church. A healthy church involves both a heart that is walking with God, and that is the culture that we have as a church But biblical practice is very important. You can have a friendly group of people, but if they're not biblically uh preaching and teaching uh sound doctrine, it's not a healthy church. So we need to understand that we need both. We need to have the heart that makes us have a healthy church, but we also need sound doctrine. And so in Matthew 28, we're going to look at the final of the Baptist distinctives that we've been going over for quite a while. The last discussion we had was on the issue of soul liberty. And we spent only three weeks on that. I was someone asked me, Oh, Pastor Joel, why are you putting away the Soul Liberty Sheets? I thought we had another week coming. I was like, can you handle another week? Very practical, very important discussion. This this morning we're going to look at two ordinances. Well, we're going to look at one of the two. But we're going to mention the two ordinances of the local church, and they are baptism and the Lord's Supper. I'm not actually going to discuss the Lord's Supper today. Don't think we'll have time to do it, but at some point in the near future, I'll actually preach a sermon that'll be dealing with the Lord's table. And I do think that we have some misunderstandings when it comes to the Lord's table. I think sometimes our emphasis is not where it needs to be. And so I want to deal with that in a sermon But today we're going to look at baptism. Matthew 28, verse 18. Yes. An ordinance is something that Christ commanded the church to do before he left Okay? And it's something that not only did he command to do it, but we see that the church practiced it as a part of their regular worship. And I will say that The Lord's table and baptism were things that were regularly going on in the local church. It's likely that they met every time they met on Sunday. They celebrated the Lord's table. And we don't do that in Baptist churches and and some well not all Baptist churches, some do. But I think in a lot of ways that's kind of a reaction against what happened in Roman Catholicism and what happens in a lot of mainline Protestant churches, where the Lord's table has become a part of our means to salvation, which it's not. And we'll talk about talk about that with baptism. But baptism and the Lord's Supper were very regular occurrences in the early church because you had brand new converts constantly coming into the congregation. And they were regularly celebrating the Lord's table. So it's something that Christ commanded, and it's something that was practiced in the early church. And so By by default, we follow what Christ commanded and what the apostles practiced. A third what sometimes people will see as an ordinance is foot washing. A lot of my Mennonite friends in Ghana practice foot washing. Some of you might be glad that we don't do that in our church. Uh Christ did command his disciples to wash each other's feet that night, but I'm not convinced that he committed them to do that from that day forward. And we will see uh when we talk about the ordinance of baptism, that this is something that he expected to be regularly happening. So every time a person is saved, they place their faith in Christ, they publicly make a statement of that in their baptism. Okay, Matthew 28, verse 18, it says this. And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power, it's authority, is given unto me in heaven and in earth. Go ye therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Ghost. Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you, and lo, I am with you always, even unto the end of the world. Amen. So in this command, Jesus is basically saying, preach the gospel, make disciples. He's saying baptize those who embrace the gospel and then teach them everything that I taught you. Discipleship. Real simple thing, right? Give them the gospel when they trust Christ, they need to follow the Lord and believers baptism, and then they need to be disciples, and they need to grow the rest of their life in discipleship And notice he says, you need to go into all the world. And he also says, I'm with you to the end of the age, the end of the world. So this is something that obviously is expected to be repeated over and over and over again. And so this is one of the reasons why we know that It's an ordinance. It's something that was commanded and repeated and expected to be repeated until Christ returns at his second coming. So what I want to do today is I want to deal with this issue of baptism. Some truths related to it. So if you have your notes once I have someone pass them out. Nathan, can you pass notes? Don't get me sticky donut. Got him on his shoes. Good job, Nathan. You can wash your soup, but you can't wash paper. That's true, but you can always print up another one really easy. Ah, a young and fresh perspective. You can wash your suit but not the paper. Because he doesn't play the way the driveway. Okay, if you look down on your paper, the first truth we're going to see is this: we need to know what baptism is. First of all, baptism is a step of obedience to God as an outward expression of one's internal faith. Now, we don't have a statement of that in the Bible. That's something that we are able to kind of deduce from looking at multiple passages of Scripture. But first of all, step of obedience. How do we know it's a step of obedience? If it's a step of obedience, it was commanded somewhere. Where was it commanded? A turkey is still sitting there. I just read it. Matthew 28-19. Perfect, yes. Matthew 28, 19. So in Matthew 28, 19, Jesus is commanding his disciples, the apostles, to do those things. And the Great Commission is not so much given to you and to me as much as it is given to the church. And so as the founders of the church They have a responsibility to see that this continues on. And so if Jesus commands them to baptize people Then when they preach the gospel and people trust Christ, then they are commanding them to do the same. We're gonna see that when when Philip leads the Ethiopian eunuchs of Christ, the Ethiopian eunuch says, What hinders me from being baptized? And he basically says, you have to believe this message And when he embraced the message then he got baptized. We also see that the uh uh the Philippian jailer after uh he says, What must I do to be saved? And he says, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Then he takes him home, and there at his house, what does he do? He preaches the gospel, and at night the household got baptized. So what we see is that it's something that was being commanded and being practiced regularly The second thing we need to understand is that baptism is a symbol. Baptism doesn't do anything spiritually to you. It's symbolic. Okay, and a great illustration of that is a wedding band. I don't know if I can get my wedding band off now that I had so much turkey for Thanksgiving. In five years I might not be able to do that. Okay. A wedding dance is very important But it doesn't make me married or not married. So I just took my wedding band off and I was sitting on my Bible. Did I cease being married the moment that I took that off? No, I didn't. If I put this wedding band, it's gonna say on Billy , Billy's pinky. If I put this on Billy's pinky, would he all of a sudden be a married man? Of course not, okay? In some cultures they don't use wedding bands. Some people within American culture don't wear wedding bands. But it's a symbol So when I got married, I gave a wedding band to my wife, she gave one to me, we put it on, and when we wear that wedding band, what we are doing is we are identifying That we are married. So everywhere that we go, when I walk into a store, when I go to a hotel if I'm on a business trip If I'm traveling and I stop at a gas station, wherever I go, when I wear that wedding band, it's a symbol. It tells people that guy's married. So the way that he should conduct himself should be consistent with a married man. The way that I relate to him should be consistent with how I relate to a married person. It's a symbol. It doesn't make you married. It doesn't make you not married, but it's symbolic of the fact that you are married. The truth is that baptism is just like that. You know, before a person a person has placed their faith in Christ, maybe they go through a baptism class. And the baptism class is a month long. And something terrible happens while they're in their baptism class, and the person has a car accident and they die. They died before their baptism. Are they saved? Of course they're saved. Because the baptism doesn't save them. The baptism is an identification mechanism And so that person is saved whether they've been baptized or not. Now if you have a Yes. Is there isn't there a verse of Peter says baptism which now saves you? Yes. Isn't that an ideal I believe that some denominations would maybe use that to say that that's into saving mechanism. Sure. How do how do you handle a bird like that which seems to so explicitly Well the the answer is that the word salvation can be used in a lot of different contexts And so the question is, what are we being saved from? And so when we deal with that passage, what you'll see is that the salvation that's that's being talked about is not my salvation between me and God But it's actually the salvation of having a filled conscience or not. And so it's interesting he talks about baptism as an anti-type. And um I got a book. I got a book in the library, I think, that deals with that passage in tremendous detail and I've also written some like I've written some things on. I have to look them up. Anti-type type? An anti-type means it's a picture. It's a picture. Yes. Um I know we can't add anything or or take anything away from what salvation is. Yeah. Um, but I really believe he's a believer. I mean just But he believes that you have to be saved and baptized. He can take into multiple multiple versions Where it says, be saved and be baptized. So when I try to talk to him about that, I talk to him about the people across. He was saved and yes, at this age you shall be in that liver. Yeah. Well, the the two most the two most prominent passages that talk about baptism and salvation are when Peter preaches at Pentecost and he says, Repent and be baptized for the remission of sins and you shall receive the Holy Ghost. One of the things that that you cannot see in the English is you can't see how those words are related to each other that you can see in the Greek. And so the word repent and then be baptized, be baptized is is kind of like a parenthesis I'd have to I'd have to like pull out a diagram in Greek and show you what I'm talking about and show you how the words are connected. It gets a complicated conversation, but it's something that I've that I've dealt with and I could give you again a piece of paper that I I worked on that. Um another you know these two passages are are passages I've dealt with. So I can pull out some things and show you that. But it it involves a little bit of detail that I think would be outside the scope of our discussion today to get into that. But you know, one of the one of the passages that you that you mentioned, the th the thief on the cross, is one that Obviously he wasn't baptized and he said today you'll be with me in paradise. It's also true that someone might counter say, well, that was under the old dispensation. Not the new one. I guess technically that's true. Okay? Because Christ had not died yet. Um but so that that you do have a sticking point on that particular one Uh but what I will say is that when we come to the Old Testament, or when we come to some of the Acts passages, you have people who are believing the gospel They're receiving the Holy Ghost, okay, just like the people did at Pentecost. And the discussion is How can we keep them from getting baptized when they most clearly are evidencing that the Holy Spirit has come on them, their believers? So in that particular passage, the discussion is, we know these people are saved. We see a spirit evidence of their salvation that is exactly like what happened at Pentecost. How is it that we can forbid them from baptism? That one's very significant because it's clear that God is telling the people in a visible way, these people are now saved. Now they need to get baptized. So it's it's kind of an interesting passage. Like I said, I dealt with this when I was in Ghana and I wrote a series of articles on baptism and salvation and those kinds of things. I can I can pull them up. They're all I think they're on my blog that I was working on when I was there. And I dealt with all those passages in somewhat detailed. So I can pass this along to you guys. Alright, well we'll get into a couple of things as we get going. Okay, so what is baptism? Number one, a step of obedience. Number two, it's a symbol. Symbol. The spiritual realities that are pictured in baptism are found in Romans chapter 6. I'd like you to turn to Romans 6 and we'll look at verses 3 to 8. Now please understand something. When I say that baptism is not part of salvation, I'm not trying to diminish baptism at all What I'm trying to say is that when God looks at Joel Pourchet and he says, You are righteous, he doesn't factor my baptism into it. He says you are righteous on the basis of the work of Christ. He died for your sins. He rose from the dead. His righteousness has been imputed to you. You are justified, not because of your baptism or because of some experience you had. It's because of what he did for you. And in Christ you are righteous. That is the basis. So I'm not suggesting that baptism is insignificant. I'm suggesting that it's not a factor in what God is looking at when He says you're saved or you're not. Yeah. So we also need to keep in mind the context in which Pentecost happened, and then we're talking about that too. Prior to that, prior to all uh completing the the New Testament, the baptism that they knew was the baptism of John. And so John was a baptism of their and from their their evil works, you know Uh and deter and do the one that was coming. Yeah. But so so there is a there's a Yeah, the baptism of John is different than New Testament baptism. What it was symbolizing was different. It was a Jewish baptism that rep that represented basically, we're an unclean people. We need salvation through the Messiah. And so by going into the water baptism, they're basically saying, we recognize our need for the Messiah. We are a repentant people. We are looking for him. So that it was a different kind of baptism. Just like the Passover and the Lord's Supper, they're connected to one another, but they're distinctly different on the two sides of the cross. Yeah. The Jewish Jews today would still practice mikmah, the ceremonial going down into the water, cleaning of every cleaning your sins and coming out we'll be totally immersed. So the principle was in place. And then Christianity, Christ said, once you're saved, you're going to show the picture this way. Well, what Christ basically did is he took something that the Jews understood and he applied it to a New Testament concept. And I mean even when we talk about the the the way that the church is organized, the church is organized very similar to the way that the synagogue was organized. Okay? And it was a predominantly Jewish demographic that would be the heart and soul of the the the local church. So um we talk about the Pat Passover into the Lord's Supper and we talk about The baptism of John and really there were baptisms, there were washings that were going on under the Old Testamental covenant system. But those are being applied in a different way in the New Testament. Okay. Romans chapter six. Let's read verses three to eight and I want to kind of point out a couple of truths that he mentions here. Verse 3, know you not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ, were baptized into his death. Now please understand something. The word baptism here It's not talking about water baptism. Okay? It's talking about spirit baptism. And you might say, well, how do you know that? Well, because you aren't water baptized into death. Okay. Yeah. It's talking about his spirit baptism. It's talking about a person's identification with Christ. And we get into a whole discussion about what it means to be baptized by the Spirit. I bet If we had that conversation in our congregation right now, we would get a couple different ideas. Okay? But my opinion is that the baptism of the Spirit is simply talking about being placed into Christ and being identified with the body of Christ. But we can get into that conversation another time. Um there are differences of opinion on that one, okay But let's continue on. Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we should also walk in newness of life. If we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall also be in the likeness of his resurrection. Knowing this that our old man is crucified with him, and that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. He that is dead is freed from sin. If we be dead with Christ, we believe that we also shall live with him. Now all those truths that are mentioned are impossible to see. When you were baptized into death, Torchno. Anybody see anything different about you? If if anything, you might have actually had a the rosier look on your face, right? As you were baptized into death and raised to walk in newness of life. Those are spiritual realities. You can't see them. The Bible didn't tell us that those things were so, we wouldn't know that they were. Okay? The reason that we know that what is being stated here is true is because Paul states it So we don't see a person being placed into Christ. We don't see him being baptized into death and raised to walk in newness of life They're spiritual realities. Now we can see the evidence of a person who has died to sin and is alive unto God. The evidence is that their life begins to change. But you can't see those spiritual realities. So what baptism is, is baptism is a symbol that pictures those spiritual realities for us in a physical way. And let me just kind of grocery list a couple of things that are mentioned in the text here. We're identified with the gospel of uh with the gospel itself. Christ died, was buried And he rose from the dead. So when a person is baptized and we watch that they have been dumped in the water and they come back out of the water, that's a picture of what happened to Christ. He died, buried, and he rose again. Now, we don't count to three and bring them up. They'd get real scared if we did that. But Christ was dead for three days. And that's that is a symbol. It's a picture of that. It's interesting when we baptize, it's a great time to preach the gospel. Because people are getting to see a physical reminder. Just like when we talk about the Lord's table, we practice the Lord's table. That's a great time to preach the gospel. To remind us of the gospel. Because when we're doing that, as Paul said, you proclaim the Lord's death till he comes. That's what he says about the Lord's table. So he believed that that ordinance was a picture that was demonstrating in a visible way that people could see those spiritual realities. A second thing is we're identifying with the results of the gospel. It's a picture of conversion. So what does he say in the text? He says, you are baptized into his death That you were raised to walk in newness of life. That is pictured in baptism. Third, it's identified with the blessed hope. There's a future resurrection. So what we're doing is we're talking about how baptism pictures the gospel, how it pictures what happens when you're baptized into Christ, the Spirit baptism. And it also is a symbolic reminder of the fact that this person's going to die, they're going to rise again. All of those uh spiritual truths Some that have happened, some that will happen are pictured in baptism. It also is an identification with the Spirit's baptism. We are placed in the body of Christ at conversion. You know, not only are you in Christ, as in you're now justified because of his righteousness, but you're in the body of Christ. Now when we talk about the body of Christ, some people will use the term like universal church, and some people really don't like that term, but to use the term the body of Christ Very consistent with what we have here. If you're saved, you're identified with a group of people who are also saved. And God's the one who places you in that body. And then lastly, we are identified with a break from error The former religious association, that was not true. So when a person gets baptized, he's basically saying, what I embraced formally was wrong. Where I am today is truth. So when a Jewish convert in that time period got baptized, that's when his family would disown him. Because he's basically saying, I'm not involved in Judaism anymore. I'm a Christian. If we were in the Islamic world and we saw a Muslim place his faith in the Lord Jesus for salvation, when he gets baptized, that is when his persecution will begin. Because that is viewed as a break from the old and an embracing of the new. Well, on another level, you know, if you grew up in a denomination that became apostate and uh You got saved and baptized when you were 22 years old. Your mom and dad might not have liked that very much. Because what is it saying? Well, what what I was informally, I don't view it as being biblical truth anymore And I'm embracing the faith once delivered to the saints, not an apostate denomination. And so all those those realities are being visibly demonstrated for people. And really, my job as a pastor is talk about these things. To say, hey, here's what's going on. What you're seeing is a representation of these things. And when we talk about baptism, we're talking about somebody being identified. They have a new identity. Very very significant. Any questions there? Yes. Is it a problem with the bathroom then? No. I mean we probably shouldn't, but I mean the question is what was the first baptism? You know, this gets into a discussion about Protestant and Catholic baptism. And uh one of the reasons that this was a Baptist distinctive was because we had the, you know, we had Basically Roman Catholicism dominated all of Europe. Coptic Christianity is down in in Africa, and Eastern Orthodoxy is in, you could say, the Middle East and Greece and Turkey and those places. And when Martin Luther nailed his 95 thesis, Luther understood the gospel, but Luther didn't embrace biblical baptism. Okay. And so some people will ask, well, like what do you do with Protestant baptism? I mean there are there are Presbyterians, there are Lutherans, there are Frankly, still some Anglicans, not many, but a few, who um who truly do preach the gospel. Okay? I've read Bishop Riley's book on holiness. I have no doubt in my mind that Bishop Riley, as an Anglican bishop, wants to say man. He articulates the gospel with tremendous clarity. And someone will say, well, so what is Protestant baptism? You know, baptism of babies. And the truth is that we don't find it anywhere in the New Testament. It it'd be interesting to listen to well R. C. Sproul is no longer with us, he's in glory, but to listen to somebody like R. C. Sproul defend infant baptism could be pretty interesting. Anybody ever heard that? I don't know if you have. You've heard RC's call. That is circumcision? So you just by getting your hands. That's exactly what it is. So in the Protestant view, it's basically but another form of circumcision, which We clearly are like under a new dispensation, and baptism is not the same as circumcision on a lot of levels, but that is the thinking And so if if it's a if it's a a gospel preaching Protestant congregation, then basically what they believe is not that their baptism saves them But it identifies them with a covenant community, and in that covenant community they're going to preach the gospel to them. And when they go through their confirmation, they're supposed to embrace the faith. So I'm not saying I agree with that, I'm just saying that that is an explanation of what's going on. Is it marriage kind of like a marriage, uh becoming a marriage, uh reconcilation, vows, type of thing? Is it do you see it as long to be baptized twice along together? Um express. And if the first time a person was baptized as an adult, they didn't understand the gospel or the congregation that they were being baptized in association with wasn't preaching the gospel I could see them wanting to get baptized again. And they should if it's really that that congregation wasn't preaching the gospel. Like you can have another church that does preach the gospel, does understand baptism, they have a lot of other problems. And if truly that Congregation is preaching the gospel and you understood it that way and they understood it that way. I wouldn't encourage them to be rebaptized. Some people might want to, and if they're Some people do it in the door when we were already in the least they'll do that in the door in case tomorrow. I mean if they want to do that. I don't know what to say about that. Doesn't It's different. I it's the experience I guess. I don't know. Cleaner water in the Jordan. Apparently it wasn't back in the day. You get uh Okay, yeah, right here. One thing that I was always taught as a child, and I don't know how to get through behind this, but I was always taught that if you believe that your baptism saved you, then Or if you believe that your baptism is then you part of your salvation , you don't really say the scripture goes to the inside on that. The object of your faith needs to be Christ alone. Okay? So if the object of your faith is anything but Christ alone, then you have a problem Okay. Now it's possible for a person to place their faith in Christ as a child, to go through a period of life where they are influenced by other people, and they get maybe mixed up for a period of time, but as time goes on they begin to correct their thinking again down the road. I I wouldn't say that that person's unsafe Well, I guess what I'm trying to say is that you have a person that for a period of time doesn't have a biblical view of baptism, and that's when you meet them, you may be convinced they're not saved twenty years down the road you may realize that they really were saved, but they were confused for a period of time in their lives. I think that that's a possibility But if somebody is resolutely depending on something outside of Christ, then they have a problem. They're not trusted in Christ alone. Does that make sense? So it could be anything. I mean it could be the fact that they walk down an aisle an evangelistic crusade. And they're trusted in the fact they walk down an aisle. They're their face really not in Christ. It's actually in that physical walking down an aisle. So there's a lot of different things that can be associated with that But if a person's truly a believer, I think when he starts hearing right teaching, he's gonna have a a genuine repentance. He's gonna have a clarification in how he sees that issue. Does that make sense? The Holy Spirit's going to work in his heart. I mean, there are areas where we get off that can be quite significant. But God, if we really belong to Him, He's gonna pursue us in those areas and He's gonna correct how we see those things. Should they? That's a conversation I'd have to have with them. And I'd have to really analyze what they believed and um what was believed in the place where they were baptized And in the midst of that conversation it may come down to an issue of conscience and in their conscience they feel they need to be baptized. Or maybe I would say, I think that based on what you've told me you do need to be scripturally baptized, because formerly you really weren't. So there I mean it'll be a discussion that you'll have and it may not be real easy to come to a conclusion right away. You may have to really work through that in a discussion. These are the kinds of things that pastors deal with behind the scenes that you don't know about. You know? And sometimes people are like, why did he do that? Well, he may have like labored for weeks trying to figure out what to do there You may have called a bunch of other people who are pastors and said, what would you do with this one? So some of these things are not easy, honestly speaking. Okay Very good. Let's move to truth number two. We need to understand why baptism is important. I'm going to move to these somewhat quickly, I think. Number one, it's commanded. Matthew 28, we saw that. Two, it was practiced in the early church. The pattern in Acts is always the preaching of the gospel, placing of one's faith in Christ, and then obedience to Christ Apostles. by making an unashamed public profession of one's faith by means of submitting to water baptism. Let me just show you two examples of that so that you can see it rather than just hear me say it. Okay? Turn with me to Acts chapter 8. It's eight thirty-five. I'll begin reading. Then Philip opened his mouth and began at the same scripture and preached unto him Jesus. And as they went on their way they came to a certain water, and the eunuch said, Here is water, what doth hinder me to be baptized? Now let me just make a statement here. What was the first thing talked about? Huh? Christ. The gospel In fact, the man had been reading the prophet Isaiah and he didn't understand what he was reading. The reason that he was reading it is because he was coming from Jerusalem He had just been there for a series of festivals, Jewish festivals, and he's coming back and he's reading this scroll and he says, I don't understand this. Well, God sends Philip to meet this man. And he walks up to the man and he says, Do you understand what you're reading? And he says, I don't. He says, Well, let me explain it to you. As he's going through the gospel with this man, you know what's really interesting? He goes I think I need to be baptized. Now where do you think that idea came from? Anybody have an idea? What was going on in Jerusalem when this man, the Ethiopian eunuch, was there? Pentecost. Okay. Thousands of people heard the gospel, embraced the gospel, got baptized, and this man is driving back a long journey back into North Africa, we could even say Central Africa. I guess technically. And he's reading the prophet Isaiah and he goes, huh, I don't understand it. It may very well be that he went to that portion of scripture because he heard Peter preaching on it. Who knows? But as he's going, he understands he needs to be baptized. He says, What hinders thee from being baptized? And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest They answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God. He commanded the chariot to stand still, and they went down both into the water, Philip and the eunuch, and he was baptized The point that I'm trying to make is that baptism is something that came after preaching the gospel and an understanding of the gospel. We go to Acts chapter 16, a similar situation. And I'm just bringing these two out. We could go to a lot of other passages if we wanted to spend the time with this. But in Acts 16, verse 33, it says this. Well, I'll start in verse 30, though you are pretty much aware of this passage. Acts 16:30 says this. He brought them out and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? And they said, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved. Now this is interesting. Why is he asking about salvation? Could it be that Paul and Silas sing in the prison had an evangelistic element to it? And this guy hearing this and all of a sudden he sees this This earthquake and all these things going on, and he's terrified and he realizes what they're talking about, what they're singing about, it's real, it's true, I need it. What do I need to do to be saved? And he says, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ The truth is that this man had to have had significant information prior to that statement. And it happens between guards changed in a prison. But then it says this in verse 33 He took them that same hour of the night and washed their stripes and was baptized and he and all his straightway And when he had brought them into his house, he set a meal before them and rejoiced, believing in God with all the house. And uh one of the things that we see here is again preaching of the gospel and baptism. And uh very significant passage. There are others we could go to, but we'll stop there. Preaching the gospel, understanding of the gospel, faith in the gospel, and a public testimony of that faith through their baptism. Three, it demonstrates that we're not ashamed of the gospel. It would cost people something. It cost them a lot in Jerusalem. It cost them a lot in lots of places. You know, it's interesting in Ephesus when the people turned to God and were baptized, they took all of their curious They're their their books of witchcraft basically. And they brought them to a certain location and they destroyed those things In 1 Thessalonians, he says, we know what entrance the gospel had to you, how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God. The fact is that when a person gets baptized, they're making a very public statement that they are trusting in Christ and they desire to follow Christ. This is why getting baptized in your pool by yourself makes absolutely no sense. Okay? It's not a biblical baptism. Though I know I've heard of people doing that. Okay. Next. It demonstrates our desire to follow Christ as his disciple. In Luke chapter 9, Jesus talks about how important it is that we are ready to count the cost and to follow him. Well it's interesting, we go back to Matthew 28, after he says, preach the gospel, baptize them, then he says, and teach them all things whatsoever I have commanded you. Teach who? Well, the people that got baptized So we understand that baptism is something that not only is a breaking from the old, there's all these things that are demonstrated in a picture in our baptism, but it's also recognizing that I'm going to walk in newness of life. I'm now a disciple of Christ. I want to learn his ways. I want to follow his ways. I want to live in a way that's consistent with the position that I have publicly stated I'm in. So very, very important. Any questions or comments? Yes, sir. So that half their children were baptized. Yes. And it was it's ironic that it's the opposite. They were almost going to pacify my mother and other people. They didn't believe, but they certainly And the means of just sort of feeling that for the sort of ease as opposed to fixing breakfast. Does that make any sense? Oh absolutely it does. I mean it's I I I understand what you're saying. I don't know if I'm making sense to the right. Yeah, I understand what you're saying And the truth is that depending on the culture that you're a part of, the church culture, um, getting baptized could be sort of a getting fit into the culture you're in as opposed to breaking from um what is comfortable. And and see this is one of the reasons that when we talk about the book of Acts um people got baptized immediately. And when we come to do baptisms now, uh in a lot of churches, I I'm of this per persuasion that you want to spend some time with a person that can Explaining to them what baptism is and what it isn't and why it's important. And you actually have to go through those things so that when they come to get baptized, they understand it. Because and you know if you're in southern culture where everybody in your community goes to church, getting baptized is like welcome to the family, guys, you know, that's so good Whereas if you're from a Muslim community, getting baptized means that you don't step foot in that community again or you'll be killed. You get the difference, you know? And so we have to explain to people what it is and what it isn't when in their minds, because of the culture that they're in It's it's a very popular thing to do. In fact when we're doing our uh children's evangelism, we gotta be careful that we don't just make asking Jesus to be your savior to be, you know, like fitting into the the kids club because it can become that. And so all these kids are getting saved because their their buddy did and they don't even know what they're talking about. They just know, my friend, he raised his hand, he talked to his teacher, he got a piece of candy, he got to get up in front of the church and Everybody clapped and everybody said this is wonderful. I'd like that attention. I'll do that. So, you know, the context you live in does determine a lot of How you view that particular issue. Yes. And then there there could be a lot of pressure from, let's just say, other denominations. on that. Well what happened what if what if something happens to your little child and you haven't made that provision? There could be a lot of, you know, you're talking about To make mom happy and aunts and uncles and what happens if little Johnny eats something happens to little Johnny and you shouldn't do that. You know, they'll go to the point of you're condemning his eternal soul. And we go, where's that denied? Well, if you grew up if you grew up in a Protestant denomination and you don't baptize your children 'cause now you're a Baptist, I guarantee that something goes on in your head going I mean that's what you grew up in, a very devout Protestant background. And there's no question that your family is looking at you like what are you doing? You know, not understanding what baptism is and what it isn't So okay. Two three. We need uh was did you have a question, Dori? Uh later. Oh what's what's half an appointment? Come on down to the office. Okay, two three. We need to understand what baptism does not do. I'm going to state these quickly. Christ's righteousness and obedience, not our righteousness and obedience, are the sole basis of our justification. Romans 5, 18 and 19. I encourage you to read that. It's your own time. Two, it's the blood of Jesus, not the water of baptism that saves the soul from hell and washes away the sins of a man. First Peter one eighteen and nineteen. I think I'm going to read that one because it's very significant. Let me turn there. For as much as ye know that you were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversations received by traditions from your fathers. But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot. That passage basically says You don't get saved by your money, and you don't get saved by some tradition passed down from your dad or mom or the church you grew up in Now for these people, they're talking about obviously Jewish culture, and circumcision was probably the most prominent thing in their mind. But when we talk about the Protestant or Catholic denominational thinking , we would have to put infant baptism in there because some do very much associate that with their salvation. Truth number four, we need to understand the correct mode of baptism. It needs to be by immersion. In every instance in the Bible, it was a full-body immersion. This also implies the definition of the word, and it completes the picture. Now you know it's kind of interesting. You might ask, where does the word baptism come from? Well, believe it or not, it's a word that they created when they were translating the Bible from Greek into English. They took the Greek word baptizo and they basically transliterated it and used the word baptism. But the truth is that that word means to place into. Okay? You could very easily, instead of using the term baptize, say place into. Or immerse or dung. That's basically what the word means So if our English translators had not decided to transliterate the word, which I'm not I'm not a problem with doing that, okay, but we need to understand that that that word It doesn't just mean to baptize as we would use it when we're talking about church baptism. That was a word baptizo that was used in their culture in a lot of different contexts. It simply meant to immerse something or to dunk it And that would clear up some of our confusion sometimes. And whenever we see it in the New Testament, it's very obvious that the person is being immersed Okay, yes. And it's good in our heads when we read baptism to read in our mind. Yeah. Well, you know, when we come to the passage in in Romans six Obviously the word's baptizo and when we think water baptism, we're not thinking correctly. It's the place into. You understand what I'm saying? Okay. It needs to be after one's conversion, after they're saved, after they trust in Christ. Three, it needs to be public Um there's no point in a private baptism. Okay. Um the whole point is that you're telling people that you are saved And you can't tell people you're saved in your baptism, in the pool in your backyard, or in your shower room, or something like that Four, it needs to be with the biblical understanding of what baptism actually is. And I think now as we get Farther removed from what was very understood in those days, we have to take more time to explain to people what it actually means and what it doesn't. Next, with a desire to follow the Lord as a disciple. And with the understanding, this is a step of obedience. If a person is unwilling to get baptized, that does not speak well For their profession of faith. Now I'm not saying that a person is lost because they haven't gotten baptized yet. But what I am saying is it does not speak well, does not give you confidence that they're truly saved. Because it's a it's a step of obedience. It's a very important step. Something Jesus told us to do. How can you grow as a disciple if you won't follow the Lord on the most basic Command that he gives us. And so this is a very important topic. Last is this, we need to disciple young believers. And I have some passages that are there, but we need to understand that once someone is baptized, that's like The start. From that point on, we really want to teach them the word of God so that they can grow and get grounded in the faith. And get into a position where they have the ability to disciple others as well. Any questions in closing