Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to dig back into this passage, 1 Samuel. I pray that the content would be very helpful to each of us. Help us to be willing to internalize and look at the way that we judge circumstances and people And help us to be careful that we take into consideration these warnings that are before us. And we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, I'm going to begin with a question. What was the nature of our discussion last week? Does anybody remember that? Okay. Judging Snap Snap judgments. Snap judgments. Great. Is a snap judgment a good or bad thing? Bad Generally speaking it's bad. I I'm not gonna say I mean if you're in a pr pressure in some situation where you have to make a judgment, then that's what you have to do. Okay. There's nothing you can do about that. But generally speaking, we're talking about interpersonal situations here. Uh making a snap judgment is a very dangerous thing. And there's some checks and balances that we need to put into place so that we make sure that we make our judgments carefully. For those of you who aren't here last week, take your Bibles to 1 Samuel 16 And that's where we are in our discussion today. What I'd like to do is kind of get you caught back up to speed with a little bit of uh just kind of review over from last week. The passage we're looking at is basically Samuel has been commissioned by God to go and pick out a new king. Now that statement's a little bit I guess pick out is maybe not the right word because Samuel's not technically picking out the next king. He's simply following God's instruction as God has determined who the next king will be. Can anybody tell me why that is significant? Why is it important that we recognize it wasn't really Samuel's choice, but it was God's choice? Kind of in the big picture. What would you say? Yes. Yeah. So the people's choice was a bad one. Okay. Just put it like that. The people's choice wasn't so good. And so Basically, this is here to remember to remind us that the nation ultimately belongs to God. So when the nation takes an action, whatever the action is, that action is ultimately rooted in God's plan. for the people, not just their own plan. And so he's really emphasizing that. 1 Samuel 16, basically what we see is that God sends Samuel to Bethlehem. He sent him to a specific family. uh the the family of Jesse and he basically says out of Jesse's voice the next king is going to come And he's a little bit worried that Saul is going to find out that he's going to pick the next king, and he's really scared about that. And so God kind of gives him an out. He basically says Simply tell the people that you are going to sacrifice to the Lord. And that's what he was going to do, but there were more details to that than than than what was given. But God did that so that he wouldn't have to deal with that with that conflict. So he goes and he's going to have Jesse 's boys get ready for the sacrifice. And when they are called to the sacrifice, God is going to reveal to him who the next king is, he's going to anoint the next king, and then basically that person is going to kind of Live in semi-obscurity until God brings him to the front and establishes him as the next king So when he does that, basically what makes the story interesting is that the first person that he sees, the firstborn, is someone who appears to have good leadership qualities. It's sort of like somebody's in college and they're going to the mailbox and someone walks into the post office area and they go, that's who I'm supposed to marry Really? And you made that judgment on the basis of what? Okay Exactly. You didn't make that judgment off of anything substantive. You simply made it based on your first sight impression. Sometimes that works. There are a few books on the radar where things like that happen, but that's not very typical. Usually that ends up becoming a a problem. We'll put it at that. And that's kind of what Samuel does here The first person he sees, he's like, that's gotta be the one. And God says no. And really the point of that interaction is God says, don't look at his outward appearance which appears to be very good. I see the heart and I know what's inside that person. You don't know what's inside that person And what's inside of them is the reason I'm rejecting them. Yeah, I think a lot of times when we use a verse I said, Well, don't judge us, you know, man see it, man sees the outward appearance, but God sees the heart. We tend to use that verse to say, well, you can't judge me based on how I look. Inside I'm a good person. Okay? Well actually what's really going on is the person appears outwardly to have it all together, but internally he doesn't. And so it's actually the opposite of how we would tend to think of that verse. And so what we learned in our discussion was that we have to pause and we have to ask the question Am I making a judgment on a good, solid basis, on a principled basis, or am I making a judgment in an irrational manner, which can ultimately lead me to pain and struggle? And we started in 1 Timothy 5, where in 1 Timothy 5, basically, Paul tells Timothy, when you are going to make a judgment about establishing someone in leadership You need to be patient and you need to be slow in establishing a leader because there are some people that you'll pass over, they don't appear to have good leadership qualities, but they actually do And there are others who you will rush to place in a position and they have poor leadership qualities and then you're going to really suffer as a result of having put someone in a position that they had no business being in And so that was kind of our springboard starting point. So let's go ahead and let's pick up with a godly perspective. A godly perspective. And we basically looked at a couple of principles. The first principle is this: man's judgment is limited and often wrong. Now I didn't say that man's judgment is always wrong. There are generally some caveats when you make statements like that. There are times that the clock is right, even if there's no battery pushing it, alright? And I don't know if that clock is right. It's different than that one. So we'll just go with that. Alright? One of them is Maybe they're both wrong, I don't know. But we made this point. Our judgment is limited. There are things that we don't have the ability to see Or there are things that we don't have the ability to see quickly. And so we have to take time so that as time plays out, what's really there becomes more apparent. And we saw that in 1 Samuel 9, which was when Saul basically is chosen by the people, and it said that he was head and shoulders above everybody, and there was nobody in all of the land that was like this guy. Then we come to 1 Samuel 16, and Samuel sees another Saul coming, and he says, that's the guy, and God says, wrong. Sounds good. Not a good idea. Doesn't work. And uh he tells us why. The second truth is this. The scriptures warn us to be very careful about how we make a judgment. So basically, it's not just that we recognize from this example and others that we have limits. To what we can understand and how we can judge a situation. But the Bible tells us we have to be very careful when we're about to make a judgment. And This comes on a lot of different levels. I mean, you know, think back to when you were 15 or 14 or 16 and how you saw a situation that you were thoroughly convinced of how you understood it to be You knew you were right. And today you look back and go, I couldn't have been more wrong than you can imagine. I was so wrong on that issue. Well, as we get older and we kind of learn from the School of Hard Knocks, sometimes we start realizing that initial judgment wasn't correct, and we start learning from that. But why is it? What does the scripture tell us about how to make judgments? Well let's look at them one by one. The first one is don't judge a matter till you've heard it entirely. I'll add that word, it's not in the notes, but I think it's important that we hear the whole matter. Proverbs 18, 13, He that answereth the matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him In other words, when you answer a question and you make a judgment and you really don't have all the necessary facts to make that judgment, it's going to look bad on you down the road. And that's what he means by it's going to be shame. to that person. In other words, people are going to look at you and go, huh, you should have thought that through more. You should have taken a couple more questions before you made that decision. Shame. Folly. It's emptiness. Question two. We need to ask ourselves, or we need to question ourselves before we make a judgment. And I really spent some time on this one last week because I think this is extremely important. Matthew seven, one to five tells us to judge not lest we be judged. However, that's not the end of the thought. That's only a part of the thought. He says, because The way you judge people will come back to being how they judge you. So if you hold somebody to a very harsh standard and a very inappropriately harsh standard, then that's what they will hold you to when you're the one in that position. He then goes on to say, before you make a judgment, you need to consider what is in your own eye that is blocking your ability to see clearly. And we talked about the fact That we do not see things clearly when we engage in sinful practices and we refuse to deal with them And it's kind of interesting tonight this morning when we look at 1 Peter chapter 2, we're going to actually touch on that principle just a little bit. The idea is that if I will not deal with something, like for instance, if I will not forgive, if I'm an unforgiving person, if I'm a very proud person, if I'm somebody that's harboring some kind of a lustful passion. Then what's going to happen when I see somebody dealing with something like that is either I'm going to give them a pass because it makes me feel guilty when I do it Or I'm going to be extremely harsh with them because it bothers me that I do that and I'm kind of like trying to get it off my chest and they become kind of the casualty there. Or I just won't have the ability to see that thing clearly. That imbalance is often connected to the fact that we have something inside of us that we will not address that keeps us from seeing clearly. The third consideration is we need to consider the witnesses that are before us before we make a judgment. You know, there there is a time when a witness is not reliable because they're not an unbiased witness. Okay? So if somebody comes to me and they tell me that they have this issue with another person, I have to consider the fact that their interpretation of that situation might not be reality. The fact that that's their child, or that's their spouse, or that's their parents Or that's somebody that they really dislike, or that's somebody that they really like a lot. That's somebody that they have a financial relationship with. Whatever those external circumstances are They might cloud that person's judgment, their ability to see that clearly. And I have to consider that when I'm making a judgment. And then the last one, and I as I reflect on it, I don't know if I would have worded it this way, have no mercy on a false witness. Don't treat being a false witness lightly. I think I'll use that. That kind of I'm not encouraging us, you know, I thry tooth for tooth or anything like that here. But it is interesting under the Mosaic law If you were a false witness and you were found to be a false witness, whatever the punishment would be for the infraction that you were saying somebody did, you would be held to that same standard. That's pretty serious. Okay? So you know you think about the situation with uh Naboth's vineyard and how there are people that brought an accusation against Naboth that was a false accusation. And ultimately, he receives the death penalty. If they were following the law, all of those individuals would have faced an execution because of their dishonesty and the way that they represented that person's case Just a little, think about this for a second. How would our justice system be aided by false witnesses being held to the same standard as the one they were accusing? So American justice is So we've gone down to just one. So I so first of all, I mean if we had two of this is per Yeah. So this is this is something that that really does trouble people, and I and I totally get this, that When we look at the justice system, there are times that we go innocent until proven guilty. Obviously they're guilty. Well, how do you know that? What is better? To judge an innocent person or to let someone go who is innocent? In the eyes of the law, it's to let someone go innocent. And by the I'll get it in just a second. By the way This is a principle that we have in Western justice that you don't see in other cultures. You know, there are cultures where you are guilty until you can absolutely prove your innocence. And by the way, we don't want to give you too much time to be able to prove that fact because we just want to get this system out of the way, you know. But that principle is there In many ways because of biblical thought here. Yes, go ahead. I would be I'd be afraid to be a witness though. What if your world I mean people finish coins if some studies were a lot of that you're not accurate and what you saw you saw. Yeah. So, you know, you might think you see something and testify to that effect and then you're wrong. So Well there there's a there is a difference. There's a difference between somebody who is knowingly dishonest And a person who simply they did not get the whole picture. And that is something that a good judge would take into consideration. Hopefully. Yeah, you know our our justice system has become pretty complicated. And and I think really it's because we've abandoned uh biblical ethic a lot in our culture and so we've turned justice upside down on a lot of levels Yes. Um works isn't when it says false witness is actually kind of directed at somebody who Yes. It's not somebody who comes forward and then doesn't realize. Yeah. In fact, I will I will I will put it like this. And they have differences in what they're explaining, that sometimes actually strengthens the argument that they're telling the truth. And you would say, are you sure? Absolutely that's true. When everybody's saying the same thing, I mean like really saying the same thing, then you kind of go, is it possible that they sat down and kind of hashed out their plan here so that everybody make sure they say the same thing. And I'm not ta I'm I'm talking about like casual inconsistencies, things that it's a it's about observation, it's about the fact you know it's interesting. I'll I'll put this out here. Uh I was taking a class And in that class, they we were analyzing a situation where there was a gunman who came into a building And in that scenario, we were asked to observe all of the details of what took place. We watched it one time, and first question, how many gunshots were there? How many gunshots? What did each person do? And what did you see that was good and what did you see that was bad? And we just we laid it all out. And then after we talked about it, we watched it again. And it was like, wow. There were a lot of things I kind of missed in that. And he said, So what if you were in the room? You're just sitting here, you don't have any adrenaline rush, you're not you're not afraid your life's in danger, you're not about to pull a trigger, you're just watching something that took place and you missed all those details. What if you're actually in the store? Yeah, it's true. I mean, there's a lot of stuff you will not pick up. And um and the fact is that when you're dealing with witnesses , people recognize that that happens and so you're affirming to be giving the truth to the best of your ability. You're not lying uh you are mistaken in some of the details. And this is really kind of part of the point we're making here is that we don't get all the facts. We don't. As we remove ourselves from a situation, sometimes we have better clarity, sometimes we have less clarity, believe it or not. We tend to emphasize things that we would not have emphasized initially. So interesting points. Alright, moving along. Truth number three Human judgment is often wrong because of five human limitations. I'd like you to take your Bible, turn with me to Job 40, verses 1 to 4. The story of Job is one that It's a powerful story. It's a tough book. It's in the wisdom portion of the Bible, just like Proverbs and just like Ecclesiastes. Because it's helping us to understand that there are times in life what we think is really going on isn't really going on. Okay? And that was the case with Job, but not just Job, also the people that came alongside of him and were counseling him. In fact, it's interesting, one of those guys was firmly rebuked because he was so like aggressive and he was so strongly convinced of his point of view God just flatly rebukes this man and he says, You don't know what you're talking about. You've got no clue. You are, you know, going like you've got it all figured out, and there's a lot that you're missing. But I want us to look at some of what's going on here in this passage because it gives us some insight into how we do have limits. And what we need to keep in our minds when we think about those limits. First of all, Job 4, verse 1. Moreover, the Lord answered Job and said , Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? Boom, slam right there. You're going to teach God, the Creator, the Almighty, the All-Knowing. You are gonna teach God. That's what God says. And by the way, he he really does love Job, okay? And he blesses Job after all this is said and done. And God is actually very merciful and very kind to Job. But in this particular moment, he speaks straight to him, and he's very blunt with him Can you reprove God? Then Job answered the Lord and said, Behold, I'm vile. What shall I answer thee? I will lay mine hand upon my mouth. Interesting statement. Job 42, 1. Then Job answered the Lord and said, I know that thou canst do everything. No thought can be withholden from thee. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understand not, things too wonderful for me, which I knew not What were some of the factors that Job was beginning to think about? What were those factors that he was thinking about that made him Put his hand on his mouth and stop talking and just listen to what God was saying. Let me throw out a couple of ideas. The first thing is Job and us, we cannot see everything. And there are certain details that if we knew them, it would change how we looked at that situation You know, I give the example of your kids are spatting, one is coming to you and presenting themselves as the angel who is being terribly treated by their brother or sister And then you ask three questions and you find out that the angel might not be on the right side. Whatever that means, there might have been an instigation on their side And so it was more of a retaliation, which is not necessarily a good thing, but it was retaliation, which means that you got to go deeper into that situation to resolve it. You can't see everything Two, you cannot see the most influential aspect of the person, and that's the inner man. There are many times that I I use this specifically, we do the right thing for the wrong reason. And there are also times that our motive is correct, but the way we executed it didn't work out so well. And what's very interesting is that God actually knows What we're doing and why. I go back to the statement that Paul makes in First Corinthians. He says, if my conscience does not condemn me, that doesn't mean anything. God Himself will be my judge on the final day. That was a paraphrase. I understand that, okay? Didn't sound 1611-ish. But it certainly got the point across. He basically says, I may have a clear conscience on the matter, but if my motive's not right and I'm you know I have a blind spot there, then God's going to settle this issue. On the other side, there may be people that are extremely hard on me, and they're holding me to a standard that's incredibly inappropriate, and they think they're right And on the final day, God says, They were wrong. I vindicate you. That's something that we really need to keep in our minds. We don't have the ability to see the inner man. Now we do have glimpses into it by things people say. We do have glimpses into it by you know responses that people have But what goes on inside is very complex. I mean, how many times do we have an issue in front of us and we are extremely conflicted about it? And as we deal with the being conflicted about it, we have good motives at times, and then it flips to the other side, and then our motives are very bad. And, you know Think about an issue like forgiveness. The person's wronged us. We know it's wrong. We know we need to forgive them. Maybe we've even chosen to forgive them. We've told them we forgive them. But inside, we go back and forth on this issue. That's complicated. How would you like to make a judgment about a person knowing how much they vacillate internally? It drives you crazy. It drives me crazy. It drives us crazy when we know how much we've isolated in these areas. Yet we will make very strong judgments about people and circumstances. Well we don't even have the ability to see that. What's great about God is God sees it and he can judge it perfectly. And that's a wonderful thing to think about. Three, people are master deceivers. It's true. You know, people are masses of deception You know, you walk up somebody's door, you knock on the door, and you hear screaming inside. What in the world? Somebody's at the door! And then like 15 seconds later, somebody walks up Hello, can I help you? Oh, come on in. We we're so glad to see you. Really? You need to work on some of the insulation your house because I I heard more than you wanted me to hear. Or I remember we would go on visitation when I was in high school and college and I'd I'd go with another person and they'd they'd be Man, this guy needs to cut his grass and the door knock, you know, knock on the door, the guy opens the door. Hey, I really like what you got going on over here. And I'm just like, oh my. People are masses of deception. They really are. We are. The truth is when we feel cornered, we we don't want to be exposed. We we don't want people to think negatively of us. And when you have an issue of judgment People are really good about presenting their case as positively as possible. They really are. Conflict resolution is really tough because you gotta work through the noise of people's presentation of themselves. to get down to the heart and soul of what's really going on. Next. We're easily deceived. Sometimes we want to be deceived. That's what bias is. We want to see it the way we want to see it. I remember one time I was having a conversation with my grandfather and he said, you know, Joel, if there's anything I've learned in life It's this. People believe what they want to believe. If you tell them what they don't want to hear, just prepare yourself. They aren't going to listen to what you have to say. That's true. That really is true. And uh and the point of that statement is not to just throw up our hands and say we don't want to influence anybody and we want we don't ever want to give the gospel, we don't want to work in discipleship, we don't ever want to confront wrong. I'm not saying that at all. Not at all. We serve a God who gets into the heart and change the heart in ways that we can't. But this is true. And this plays into how we look at circumstances and people. And lastly, we always come with some bias. I wish that I could say that when I deal with situations, I don't have a bias. But I can't say that. I can't say that. And you can't either. You know, it's interesting. There are times that we have a lot less of a bias. Okay? Think about it this way. If you were a doctor and you had to do open heart surgery on your mother I think the way you'd approach that surgery would be different than if you were doing it on just somebody you didn't know from Adam. Or someone who you were not kindly disposed towards. Just true. You will not bring the same level of care Now, if you're uh if you're a principled person, you try to keep your emotions in check to the best of your ability, you try to do things the right way. But if you're in that situation Then you have a bias. But it doesn't just happen in an area like that. You're building something for a person. You're doing some kind of a service for a person. You know, you're a contractor and you're working on somebody's roof and the lady comes out and rings you out and tells you how how much a roof is a loser. Well You might just cut a few corners up there just in case. You know, it's too bad you had a leak up there by your skyline. Maybe next time you should bite your tongue, lady. You know, there's a tendency to feel that way. And we can laugh about that, but the truth is we do have bias. And we have to keep that in check. So I want to get into some application. Any questions there before we Yeah, go ahead. What are some ways we can, and maybe you're getting to this, that we can focus on changing our attitude or our mind in that way Like what we have been talking about, not just the last comment. Yeah. So one of the things that I would say is we have to be aware that we have a tendency And one of the big problems is that people are unwilling to actually admit that. Like, oh, I'm I don't have a bias here. Well All these people sitting around you can tell that you do, and they're in their own like gentle way trying to tell you that's the case. We have to be willing to honestly admit that. And then the second thing that I'd say is we have to begin to develop a godly sense of justice. And what I mean by that is We see people as in the created in the image of God, so we realize that when I don't judge this correctly, I'm actually not viewing that person with the value that they have. You know, it's like like when somebody steals something, they're they're basically saying, I don't think that that person really has the same value that I have So their stuff is not as important as it is being mine, and so I'm going to go ahead and take that. Or um, you know, we're bearing a false witness. We're using the justice system to basically do our dirty work It's kinda like what David did with Bathsheba's husband. So he wasn't going to pull out a sword and kill the man. Instead he used his military service to put him in a place Where he could kill him. That's ultimately what it was. And that's bearing false witnesses. It's using the justice system to take advantage. So we have to begin to establish a godly sense of justice. And that that involves valuing people, that involves valuing truth, that involves valuing what God values. And the more that that becomes our worldview and the more that that really saturates our thinking then the more our sense of justice will be correct. And then on the other side, it's not just our sense of justice that's important, but it's the way we seek to execute justice. So our disposition towards people is important. So this morning I was reading in First Corinthians thirteen. That was oddly enough where I was in my in my New Testament reading. And the thing that really caught my attention today that maybe I haven't sought through a whole lot. Is that he's not saying that love trumps all these things or love sort of like moves them to the side and all you need is love, he's basically saying all you do must be coupled with love In other words, you give, you don't say, oh I don't give anymore, I just love people. No, you give with love. And basically saying that That love is what must be coupled with all of our service. So even as a person is dealing with an issue of justice where there's condemnation or where there's vindication, they still need to do it with a sense of love for the individual. And so their character has to be correct. And this really comes into how like we would discipline our kids. I mean, we can be really good at the justice side of discipline. But our kids really don't feel loved by us because we aren't dealing injustice in a spirit of love. Humility So I think kind of all those things come together and and God is the one who works that into us as we study the Word. Any other questions? That's a great question. Yeah. Early on talking about the world of eating wisdom. He says, Then shalt thou understand righteousness in judgment and activity equivalent. He hath in the feel of fairness. And he says, Gay in every good path. When wisdom entereth into thine heart and validness and pleasant unto thy soul, verse eleven, discretion shall preserve thee in understanding and understanding Yeah, it's excellent. So the more that God's word is what shapes our worldview and ultimately shapes our character, the more we're going to deal correctly in these matters. And um and also it'll it'll shape whether or not we are really the ones who are supposed to make that judgment. You know, there are some times that It's not in my court to make that call, and so I need to just refrain from judgment on that issue. Yes. I think that a lot of times judges find themselves having to explain the way something should be interpreted because it's not our culture is now so deeply toward terms of powers. Secrets that we need a judge that early explain to us for other people that we have to look at something a certain way in the eyes of justice. It's sad that we have to do that, but it's it's required. It's because we've lost we've we've lost the sense of words have meaning. And not just they have meaning as in what I want them to mean, but they have meaning in what they were originally intended to mean. In other words, there was a specific intent behind why that was given, and we've missed that. Yeah, so it's an interesting point. Okay. So Let me give you a couple of uh examples of how we tend to judge incorrectly Judging a person standing before God, if you go to Matthew chapter 7, Jesus talks about teachers in the church. And he says, beware of wolves In sheep 's clothing. When they come to you, they're coming to you in a very kind, very gracious manner, but inwardly, he says, they're raving wolves. Now the idea is that there are people that can have a very good appearance, but internally they're very dangerous. And one of the things that we see really all throughout the early church, and I know people will say things, I want our church to be a New Testament church. We want it to be guided by the New Testament, but do we want it to be like the New Testament churches, like the Corinthian church? Like, hey, I'd just love to deal with the kind of problems they dealt with there, why not, you know? Uh the Colossian church, people are all worshiping angels. You know, in First Peter he's like you need to stop going to these like pagan festivals with some pretty bad stuff going on, you know So Church of Laodicea, you're like the water in the city, you're not cold or hot, you're nasty. Are you out of my mouth? That's what Jesus said like One of the things that we see in the early church is that there were people that saw the network and they saw the community. that was there within that body of Christians. And that 's a very attractive thing. People want to be a part of something that's inside of us. We want to be a part of a community where there is love, where there is acceptance, where there is strengthening one another, and all those kinds of things. We want those things. And there were people that did not embrace from the heart the doctrines that were being presented. They were not truly saved people, but they liked the community setting. And once they got into that Christian community, what did they do? They began to make friends, they began to establish themselves, but their intentions were not good. Their intentions were evil. And so basically saying, be careful how you judge a person standing. I remember when we would uh deal with folks in Ghana And someone would make a profession of faith. I I was excited about that, but I always in my mind said, well, I'm going to wait and see where this goes. Because six months later, the guy doesn't get the job he wants, he walks away I remember this one fella, he he wanted me to finance a business for him. That was that was that was why he came. And he's like, I want to do Bible studies with you and I want to be a part of the church. And he would come early, early in the morning waiting for church to start. And well Time will tell. When he finally dropped the question that was always there, and I said, well, I'm not here to finance people's businesses, I'm here to preach Christ. Never saw him again. I don't understand it. It's the weirdest thing. Well, that's the way it works sometimes, folks. In John 12, we look at the example of Judas Who was the treasurer of the disciples' group? It wasn't Peter. You wouldn't want a guy like Peter, you know, hot-headed guy handling all the money, would you? No, it was cool and collected Judas It was the guy that everybody said, Hey, he is the one who wants us to use the money wisely. I mean remember when Jesus is there and And this lady comes and she breaks the alabaster box and she's weeping and she's wiping Jesus' feet with her hair. She says, How could this woman waste all this money? Could he use this for the poor? He says I could have gotten a piece of that one right there. That would have been great. The fact is that people's motives are not easily seen in the beginning. And so sometimes we just have to refrain judgment. Just wait, just wait and see. I mean what's inside? It comes out. That's just that's the way it is. If you got a person who has a very genuine, godly disposition, they may come across as really rough and crusty, but as time goes on, you start realizing this person really loves the Lord. They care about me, they care about the people around them, and you're able to get past that. You have other people, they got it all together, but inside, major problems, and you begin to find that out later on. Here's another one, judging our own standing before the Lord In Matthew seven, Jesus makes this statement, Not everyone that saith to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven. He says, many will say to me in that day, have we not done? And they list all these things. And he will say, Depart from me, I never knew you. Now this is interesting. He doesn't say I knew you and then you walked away. He says I never knew you. Now he's not saying that I wasn't aware of your presence. I didn't know anything about you. God knows every person individually as they are. He says, I did not have a relationship with you. You were not my child. Even though you did all those things You were not a genuine child of God. There are many people who believe that they're good with God, but what they're using as the gauge to determine that is flawed It's not on the basis of the gospel, it's not on the basis of what God has revealed, it's on their own standard of judgment. And so it's not just how we judge other people standing before the Lord, but even ourselves. We need to make sure that we understand where we are in front of the Word of God. Three, accepting the beta flattery. Proverbs 2 and Proverbs 7 especially and I spent a good bit of time dealing with the strange woman in the book of Proverbs. And I didn't do that because I like talking about strange women. I did that because Solomon spent several chapters Addressing this issue. But what's very interesting, if you go and you look at what he says about this immoral strange woman, the quality about her that is most pronounced Is the way she uses her words. It's not how she looks, it's not how she dresses, it's the way she talks. And she is a master manipulator. She uses sweet words. In fact, the way that Solomon writes it is her lips drop as the honeycomb. They drop as the honeycomb. In other words, her words are very sweet. They're very calculated. They're very measured. And the idea is that if we're not careful, we will accept the beta flattery. This is different. By the way, flattery is not the same as being encouraging. You know, you can go up some people need encouragement desperately, and if they're never encouraged Then they're just going to shrivel up. They need that that encouragement, and that's important. And we have to be willing to give that. You know, when someone has has done something well, we need to express that. But we have no ill intent Encouragement has no ill intent. It's not I want to say this so that they're in a position to have this happen. It's completely pureness motive. And so the difference between flattery and the difference between encouragement is most pronounced in the area of motivation What is your intent? What are you trying to accomplish? And also, flattery tends to not be true. I'm not going to say it's never true, but it's often not true. I've never heard anybody tell me this before. There's a reason for that. If you've never heard anybody say this before, maybe it's not true. Okay? Just say it. Alright. Next. Accepting those who are attractive. And James two James emphasizes that the church was being partial, and the way that they were being partial was toward those who had money and those who looked good. He says, beware that you don't allow this wealthy person to come into your midst and you say, hey, come and sit in the place of honor. Oh. You can sit by my feet. You got no money. You got no clout in the community. And he says, let there be no respected persons in the church of God. The fact is that we are very prone, if we are not careful, to be favoritist, uh to show favoritism towards people on the basis of how they look, on the basis of what they can get us Many, many people go through life and their relationships are not in any way tied to genuine Christian love Or genuine friendship, all of their relationships are about stepping to the next level. In other words, that person can take me from here to here. I want to get close to them so I can go from here to here. And their life is all about leapfrogging. Folks, be very careful that you don't accept that way of judging people. Truth five, we also tend to be too negative in how we judge people standing. Judging another person standing before God. While the scripture does teach us to be cautious of wolves and sheep's clothing, I think we can go to the other extreme. Where we will not affirm that a person is genuinely saved or a person generally loves the Lord. Example, when we were working over in Ghana, there was a young man And uh very, very sweet young man. And uh he came from a background where he was religious, but he didn't know the Lord, and he was interested in a young lady at a certain church. And She basically said, I I could never date you because you're an unbeliever. And he's like, I'm an unbeliever. I go to church. And she said, Well, your church doesn't preach the gospel. And it was true. It didn't. And this guy went through a season of really struggling, like I'm not a Christian. Like he he didn't understand how he could be viewed as an unbeliever. And he came into contact with the gospel and he was saved. And and I'll tell you what, over a course of years, I've No doubt this guy is genuinely saved. But what's interesting is there were people that would not recognize that he was saved because of his initial interaction, why he started coming to hear the truth. Now it's a double-edged sword. We have to look at it from both sides. And so we can't just make a harsh judgment on this side or swing to the other side. Judging our own standard, 1 John chapter 1 and 2. You know what's interesting. I've had conversations with people. This is a kind of a pastoral comment here, okay? When I go through the book of 1 John There are some people that need to ask the question, Am I really a Christian? And some of those things that are stated. Should cause them to doubt that they're saved because they're not. Okay? On the same side You can go through those same passages, and if you're not careful with the emphasis, if you emphasize it incorrectly, you could have a person who really loves the Lord, has a very gentle disposition. a very introspective personality and they really doubt that they're saved. I struggle with sin still. Well everybody does If you're alive, if you live in this world, you struggle with sin. The fact that you struggle with sin doesn't mean you're an unbeliever. The fact that there's struggle and the fact that there's desire to overcome it and the fact that there's ups and downs many times is actually an indication that you're truly saved and that there's really a battle going on inside. If you didn't care at all. You'd be on the other side. The point that I'm trying to make is that there are times that we are too harsh in our judgments, not too positive. 1 Corinthians 16, 1 Timothy 4, Titus 1, 2 Timothy. These passages are all very interesting because he's talking about church leadership And I mentioned this at the beginning. In fact, I'll go back to this and I'm just going to emphasize the statement that's made, and our time is almost up. He says, Lay hands suddenly on no man, neither be partakers of other men's sins. Keep thyself pure. Some men's sins are opened beforehand, going before the judgment. Some men they follow after. Likewise also the good works of some are manifest beforehand. They that are otherwise cannot be hid. Basically, what Paul is telling Timothy is, there are some people that you will be quick to put in positions of authority and they shouldn't be there. You're not patient enough. There are others you will pass over because they're quiet. They appear timid. They don't seem to have that flamboyant personality that everybody's attracted to. But they're a good, godly, solid individual who is really going to be used of the Lord and don't overlook them. The point is sometimes we reject, and I say passover, maybe is a better word, those who are quiet, those who are timid, and those who don't appear to have leadership qualities when we shouldn't do that. And I'll also lastly mention this one: rejecting those who look ordinary. Isaiah 53 says this. Who hath believed our report? And to whom is the armor of the Lord revealed? He shall grow up before them as a tender plant And as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see him there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid as it were our faces from him. He was despised and we esteemed him not. Who's that passage talking about? The Lord Jesus Christ. People rejected Christ because he was an ordinary person. It's a really interesting thing. They didn't want an ordinary carpenter's son to be the Messiah. They didn't want someone who was born and laid in a manger in Bethlehem in his earliest moments. They wanted a king who had it all together. And the fact is that there are ordinary folks who are faithfully serving Christ and sometimes people overlook those gifts, those strengths, and those opportunities to impact the kingdom of God. And so I encourage you, let's not do that. This is a really good study, very practical study. I think it's one we constantly need to keep in our minds. Any final questions? Comments? All right, let's pray and we'll head to the service