Father, thank you so much for your faithfulness. Thank you for the opportunity to study the Bible today. I pray that as we open up uh the scriptures and as we look at these passages That you would really speak to our hearts. Help us to understand the significance and the weight of these truths. And I pray that these things would sink deeply into our hearts. I pray that you would do a special work in our lives through these passages. And to help me as I communicate these things to do it effectively. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. 1 Samuel chapter 8, and our study is Israel demands a king. Israel demands a king. I want to ask you a question. Was it wrong, morally wrong, for Israel to have a king? To have one? Was it wrong for them to demand one? What was the problem If it's not wrong for them to have a king, obviously they end up having a king at some point in their history. What was the problem with their desire to have a king? Huh? Who was their king? Yeah, okay, good. So let's go ahead and dig into this passage and explore this topic. Israel demands a king. And it came to pass when Samuel was old that he made his sons judges over Israel. Now his the name of his firstborn was Joel. It's a good name. At least I think it is. Our family seems to think it is. We've got a lot of them, right? The name of the second son was Abaiha. There you go. Anybody can have a son, go for that one, Abaiha. Yeah. They were judges in Beersheba. And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after Lucre and took bribes and perverted judgment Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Samuel unto Ramah, and said unto him, Behold, thou art old. And thy sons walk not in thy ways. How would you like to have been Samuel on that day? They say, You're an old man and your kids are Well, they're not very respectful. We don't want to deal with your family anymore. That's kind of what they said. He says, and they said unto him, Thou art old and thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now make us a king to judge us like all the nations. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the Lord, and the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people, and all that they say unto thee. for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt, even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me and served other gods So do they also unto thee. Now therefore hearken unto my voice unto their voice, howbeit, yet protest solemnly unto them, and show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them So let me kind of summarize what's going on. Samuel is an old man and sadly Samuel has not raised his kids well. And so his sons are very dishonest people. In fact, his sons are a lot like the sons of Eli. And it's very sad that that that happens. Sometimes you have very godly fathers, and their kids are not. Sometimes you have very ungodly fathers and their kids are. The reality is that Samuel was a godly man. There's no doubt about it. But Samuel was Well, he he failed in this area. He did not do as well as he could have. And so the reason that the people want a new king in part is it's it's reasonable, okay? If these are the guys that are going to rule over them and they're not good godly men Then you can understand why they would want a king. And so there was some element of truth to their to their frustration with Samuel. But that really wasn't the main reason that they were upset and wanted a king. The fact is that Samuel's failure was there, but it was not the main reason that they wanted a new king. The main reason was this. They did not like God being their king ultimately. They didn't like his laws. They didn't want to follow his ways. They were a very rebellious people. Samuel's presence as a strong leader did keep them in check on many levels, but it did not make them a godly people. It just managed them. It just kept them from going as far down the road that they wanted to. But secretly within their homes a lot of people were serving idols, and they were doing a lot of the same things that the pagan people around them were doing. And so when they come with this demand, Samuel goes, What do I do? I know this isn't what God wants. And God basically says, Samuel I've watched these people for a long time, many, many generations. Their heart has not been following me for hundreds and hundreds of years. And so their frustration with you is really their frustration with me. And I'm going to give them what they want. And so you let them take what they want, but before you do it You need to state very clearly the consequence of their decision. And if they're really going to move forward, let them do it. But they need to know that the consequences they'll experience, the hardships that will follow that decision, are gonna have already been stated. And so when those things happen, they're gonna look back and they're gonna remember that conversation. And they're gonna know that that's exactly what God said would happen. And so that's really what's going on. Israel demands a king And God is going to give them what they want, not because it's his will, not because it's going to be good for them, but because God says, Enough's enough. I'm going to push you on your way. And you're going to experience the hardship of it. Now God's not going to reject the nation of Israel here. He's eventually gonna step in and give them a good king, and for a period of time, Saul's actually gonna manage the kingdom pretty well And Saul's going to have a legitimate opportunity to be a good king, and he's he's gonna blow it. That's really what it comes down to. But that's The situation. Yes. Yeah, it reminds me of uh we 've been watching the problems and one of the things that was mentioned is answer a pool. One person says answer not a pool according to the Ali. But then then the the reason the next verse says he answered fool according to his folly. Yeah. So I mean here 's what they want. They want their own king and Yeah, so so in a sense Samuel's doing both. He's going to say, go ahead, you can have the king, but let me state my peace. On God's behalf, here's what's going to happen to you. And uh it's sort of like, you know, you have a kid he's being rebellious and they're eighteen, they're nineteen, they're twenty. You really can't stop him at that point. And they say, Here's what I'm gonna do, and you say What am I gonna do? I can't stop you. But here's the consequence that will follow you. And it's not like I hate you. It's not like I'm predicting your failure. I'm telling you here's the predictable outcome of the decisions you're gonna make That's what God's doing with the nation of Israel. Yeah. And also given the warnings to the problems about, okay, um take the council vote for orders, elders, mm-hmm, that kind of thing. Yeah. So not just say, hey, here's the consequences of what's gonna happen, here's why, and this is what God tried to protect you from. So if you fall into it, you know, here it is. Yeah. And and the the reality is that sometimes God gives us what we want to our to our to our own demise And that's part of the process of bringing you back to him. It really is. So when God gives the the people over to their wishes, he's not just doing it because he's like, I'm done with you He's gonna let them experience hardship. And that hardship is gonna be meant to humble them and bring them back. So God deals with people that way, and sometimes we even have to deal with people that way So, what is the purpose of the section? God moved the writer of 1 Samuel to pen these words as a constant reminder to Israel and to us that rebellion always leads to pain and strained fellowship with God. In other words, once this has been written and once this stands in the text of Scripture, when the nation of Israel is going through hardship, they go back to this passage and they read it and they go, there it is. This is the explanation as to why I'm dealing with what I'm dealing with. And that can be a tool that God uses at that point where they are humbled And if God just stopped them, they'd never get to that point. So it's part of the process of bringing someone back to repentance. God wants you and I to be careful in what we demand from Him. Because he knows what's best for us. There are many times that God has stated what is right, what is wrong. We want something so badly And he says, don't do it. And at some point he finally says, okay. I'm going to let you do that, but you will understand why I said no. I I could think at times that my my parents did that with me. And after I went down that road and came back and said Dad, I'm sorry. I I think I understand why you said not to do that now. Okay? And that that happens many times. That's what God's doing here. So what truths will motivate us to be very careful about what we demand from God? Let's go ahead and look at a series of truths here. Scene one, God's will for Israel. I think for us to understand this passage, we have to understand the overall context of what's going on. God enters into a covenant relationship with Israel, and that was a very special place. God didn't have to choose the nation of Israel. He didn't choose them because they were this godly group of people that excelled above all the other nations. They were a stubborn group. God said, I'm gonna call you out, I'm gonna use you, it's gonna be grace, a hundred percent grace. And so here's what it says in Exodus nineteen. Moses went up unto God, and the Lord called unto him out of the mountain, saying, This is Mount Sinai. Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel. Now, does anyone know what the word Jacob means? That name? Deceiver. Deceiver, trickster, okay? So, you know, how do you think Jacob got that name? It's because that's what he was. In other words, as Jacob's growing up, people gave him that name because they said, this is a tricky guy. And as he gets older, he continues to demonstrate, he's a tricky guy. And so when he refers to them as the house of Jacob, he's reminding them that they come from the stock of tricky people. Okay? They come from the stock of a man who was He was very deceptive. He did things his own way. He was really stubborn. But then he uses the term the children of Israel. Now, what's the difference between Israel and Jacob? What was it that Changed the name of Jacob. Who changed his name? Yeah, but who is the one who gave him that name? God did. God did. He said, I'm gonna change your name. And you know what's really interesting? When we read the Old Testament, when you see God through the prophets refer to the children of Israel as the children of Jacob, look at the passages, and you know what you notice? They're following in the the line of Jacob at that time. They're being stubborn. They're being tricky And when he talks about them being the children of Israel, he's reminding them of the fact that though that's what they are, he still loves them And he's entered into covenant with them, and it's a grace position. And that's what he's talking about. So he says, Tell the house of Jacob, the children of Israel Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, and how I bear you on eagle's wings and brought you unto myself. Therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant, Then you shall be a peculiar treasure. Now, when he says peculiar, the way we use the term today is not the way that he intended it, okay? We see an odd person who say, oh that that sounds very peculiar What he means is he's very unique and very special to God. That's really what he means. There's going to be no nation like the children of Israel. Not that God doesn't love people from every Every people group. He does. But that group of people are going to be in a very special place because God's going to send the prophets to them. He's going to give the word of God through them. He's going to send the Messiah through them. God is going to deal with them as a nation in a very special way. And so he says All the earth is mine, ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Now what is the the function of a priest? Can someone tell me? Intercessor. Intercessor. Okay. You go between two individuals that can't come together under normal circumstances. Like an inner intermediate an inner an intermediary person. So I I remember I used to experience this a lot when I lived in Ghana. You'd have an older person who someone in the family, could have been my age or a little bit younger, he said something, he did something that was very distasteful to that older person Now you might not even realize that's what had happened. There's a cultural issue. And the older person would be furious and say, I know more, we'll speak to you. You can't come into my presence And so let's say that that kid, or that 18-year-old, or that 28-year-old, that 35-year-old, that 40-year-old, wanted to go and speak to his dad or his grandfather He wouldn't even speak to him. He would if he was sitting out in front of the house, he'd walk inside. You knocked on the door, he wouldn't come to the door. He'd send somebody to the door and say, I'm not going to meet with you. I can't talk to you And you say, why not? You've disgraced me? You can't talk to me. Simple. And that wouldn't come from his mouth, that would come through somebody But if you wanted to be able to go and talk to that person and resolve it, you actually had to go to a person who had standing with him but was not offended with you. And you would present your case to that person, and he would talk to you, and he would determine if you really were humbled and serious and you wanted to make things right with your grandpa, your uncle, or your dad, whoever it was And once he understood the situation and believed that you really wanted restoration, he would go on your behalf and he would talk for you. And he would actually appeal on your behalf. And he wouldn't do that unless he really thought, you know, that he could do that. That's the function of a priest. He goes between two individuals. So the nation of Israel, in God's desire and God's plan, was to actually stand between the nations and God. And they were supposed to be a holy people set apart to God. The fact is that God received Israel by grace, and God wanted to use them. Because of this grace. First Samuel 8 17, the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken to the voice of the people and all that they say unto thee. They have not rejected thee They have rejected me, that I should not reign over them. In God 's understanding of this situation. He understands that Samuel is part of the problem, but he is not the front of the problem. He is just an excuse. Ultimately, the nation of Israel was angry with God. They didn't like his authority. They didn't like the way he dealt with them as a nation. And so their way to demonstrate their anger against God was to exact Samuel and whoever Samuel would appoint to rule over them when he's gone. This is very significant. Any question or comment here? Okay, scene two. Israel's chaotic condition. The fact is that when Israel came to this point where they were going to go to Samuel and say, We don't want you to rule over us We want to pick our own king. They were not in a frame of mind as a people to make a good decision. Okay You know, it's like it's like you have somebody that comes to you and they're really angry with you and you know they're not thinking straight and they say, I'm gonna go and do this, and you're sitting there going, that's a really dumb idea And if I tell you that's a really dumb idea, then you're gonna just go and do it. That's the way that the people were, okay? And sometimes you just But people follow their dumb idea because it's what they gotta do to realize it was a dumb idea. That's really what it came down to. Judges 17, 6 says this, in those days there was no king in Israel, every man did that which was right in his own eyes Now a lot of us would say, well, well that's good. You know, follow your heart. Do it in your head. If it seems like a good idea to you, go and do it. Well Doesn't always work that way, folks. You follow your heart and your heart will lead you to very bad places. And that's what we see in the book of Judges. We see that the nation is making really, really bad decision after really, really bad decision. You want to talk about idolatry? You want to talk about the kind of immorality, the kind of violence , the unbelievable injustices? Read the book of judges. And just ask the question, why in the world did God allow us to know about that? It's because He wants us to understand what people do when they follow their heart. When God doesn't factor into the decisions that they make. When his authority is something that they don't want, he says, here's where that can lead. And so we see horrible decision after horrible decision. We see a man who's a national hero and he says, I'm going to sacrifice to God the first thing that comes out of my house. And what comes out of his house? His daughter. And it seems that he was gonna fall through with that. That's that's crazy. We have another guy who he basically has a concubine, it's like a second well, probably not his second wife, she would be one of many a harem. And she's not even really the status of a wife. He basically just uses her And they stay in the city and she stays outside and she is horribly abused and dies on his front porch. And the logical conclusion that they come to is let's cut her body up and send it all throughout the country and say, Let's go up and let's destroy the people in the city. I mean, well you talk about cowardic. You have this nether guy who has decided that he wants to become a priest and he's going to establish his own little religion and his mom encourages him that and they Follow through with this. These are just a couple of the stories. These are horrible stories. These are terrible, terrible things that are going on in Israel. The point is that when Israel says we want to pick our king, this is how they're thinking And that's crazy. And you know what God does? He lets them do it. Erratic behavior, selfishness, famine, oppression, injustice, polygamy, all those things are going on in Israel. And you can only imagine how Samuel is going, God, a national election at this time doesn't seem like a good idea. You understand what I'm saying? It's like democracy at its best. These people are not the kind of people who want picking our leader. God says, okay. I know it's going to happen, but this is the way it's got to go down. Scene number three, Israel's selfish demands to God. 1 Samuel 8, 1 to 9 says, It came to pass in Samuel was old that he made his sons judges. His sons not walked not in his ways, but turned aside after filthy lucre, and took bribes and perverted judgment. It says Thou art old, thy sons walk not in thy ways. Make us a king to judge us like all nations. But the thing displeased Samuel. And they said unto him, Give us a king to judge us. He praised unto the Lord, and the Lord said, Hearken unto the voice of the people, and all that they say unto thee, They've not rejected thee, they've rejected me. But I should not reign over them. At the end he says, solemnly tell them, show them the manner of the king that shall reign over them. I don't think I have to walk through that passage in great detail. I think it's very clear what's going on God says, give them what they want. Scene four, God's response They've not rejected thee, they've rejected me. Their heart is not with me, he says. Give them what they want. I will not fight them, but I will warn them of the seriousness of their decision, the consequences that will follow. And God warned the people, leaving them all and and the generations to follow, a testimony of the damaging consequences of following your heart rather than God's revealed will. You know what's really interesting? This scene in Israel's history is something that God could have just let happen, but not recorded it. So, what happens at the end of Saul's life when Things are in complete chaos in the land of Israel. Basically there's a civil war, and there are a group of people that are wanting David to be the king, and there are a group of people that want to keep Saul's family in the position. Saul actually commits suicide in battle. At the end of his life, he goes to a witch. I mean, what an unbelievable situation. Saul is as low as low can get. Well, God has it here so that the people that are around Saul, when they pick up the scriptures, will go, here's what happens. When David is the king and David is thinking about going down a road that he shouldn't go, God wants David to read these passages and say, here's where your heart is pointing. And God wants you and He wants me, as we sit here at this point in our lives, to learn from this. He wants us to realize that when we are at decision points in our life and we are becoming like Saul We better take note that the kinds of things that will follow our rebellion are devastating Now, not saying that anybody in this room is going to be Saul, okay? I mean, that's not the prediction here. It's simply a principle. When God removes his restraint and he lets you walk in your own way, bad things happen. Very bad things happen. Destructive things happen. They hurt you, they hurt the people around you. I think on the other side, for for us who are in the position where we're dealing with the person or we will deal with the person who's in this position, we have to realize there comes a point where you just let them go. You let them do what they're going to do. You know, it might be your kid. You know, as hard as that is, you you look at a young person that you love dearly and you want to see them walk in the right way, there comes a point where your restraint cannot happen anymore And the best thing is to let them go. And you might say, well, then God's done with them. Absolutely not. Just because they're walking down that road and they're hurting themselves doesn't mean that God is finished with them. It could be that they end up like Jacob wrestling with God on the mountain one day And God has to, well, pop their heads out of socket and say, okay, now I'm going to let you go across the river and meet your brother. He's not going to kill you. I'm not done with the promises that I have for you. And he's not Jacob anymore. He's Israel. That can be the result as well. When God brings us to repentance He does it through sometimes our own rebellion and the consequences of our own folly. If we insulate Someone from the folly of their ways, they may never really understand how serious it is. And so by removing the restraint That's what God is doing with Israel. , He gives them an opportunity to repent and to be restored down the road. And the fact is that may be where we are at times in our lives and where we are with people. It could be someone that we love dearly. It could be someone we don't know very well, but we see this over and over again repeated. This is the pattern that God used, and that's how we should respond as well. Scene four, any questions? Yeah. Go ahead. Um I just they I find it interesting and that it's like they uh it seems like they so they want so the same people that are I don't think it doesn't seem like they really want justice by the because they're complaining about Samuel Suns accepting bribes. But yet you're the they're the ones that are bribing them to give them more. And the fact that they have It's two people to bribe, I guess you could say. At the same time the fact that they have to have somebody to judge them is just it just points to their own disobedience. They know what is right and wrong and what they're Sure. So they're and they want they want like somebody to rule over us like we would rule over ourselves and give us give us what we want. So when you when you step back and you look at a situation that you're not embroiled in, an issue like injustice, an issue like bribery, those kinds of things. And you look at the one side that's crying, we want justice, the other side that's saying, well then why are you trying to pervert it by giving us stuff? Okay? And you step back and you go, that doesn't make any sense, all right? Well the fact is that when we are not restraining ourselves by biblical command and principle When we are not letting the standard of God's word be our point of authority and we say, you know, God said to do it this way So that's what I'm gonna do. If we don't do that, then the fact is that we are very erratic in where we where we come down on things. So if you talk to me here At that moment emotionally, this seems like a good idea. Okay? Talk to me at another time emotionally. It doesn't look like a good idea, so I'll tell you the exact opposite. And we can bounce back and forth between these two different positions on something. And and then we can step back and look and go, Well, this is a horrible thing. I wish I wasn't dealing with this. And you're like, well, you created it. You know, I mean that's that's bribery is fed by the one giving the bribe and fed by the one taking the bribe. It goes on both sides. And so if you can cut off the source on one side, then ultimately you can dry it up. You know what I'm saying? I I used to deal with this when I was overseas. Driving down the road, you get pulled over by a police officer. Okay, I know what the speed limit is. And I I know the drill here. I've done this a few times, alright? Get pulled over, sir you're speeding. Okay, how fast was I going? Well you were going such and such. That's not true. How do you know that? Well because I watched my speed. I know how fast I was going. I was going such and such Which was under the speed limit. So you're telling me that I'm not telling the truth? Absolutely I am. Well he the guy knows it. He knows that he's lying. He says, well what are we gonna do about it? I don't want to trouble you today. I don't want you to trouble me today either. So how are we gonna deal with the situation? Well it's very simple. You can arrest me and take me to prison and I'll stay in the court of law and I'll give my testimony and we'll see if the facts line up on my side or your side. Or we'll just sit here. And so we sit there, and we'll sit there. Guy goes away. 15 minutes later he comes back. He sits in the car. So what are we going to do today? Ball's in your court, sir. You have the authority, I don't. But I can tell you this. If you want me to give you 10 bucks, it ain't gonna happen. Walks away. 15 minutes later it comes. And I I blew 30 minutes of my day, okay? And it could go on for a little bit longer. But the fact is there comes a point when that guy goes, You know what? I'm not getting ten bucks out of him. But the longer I deal with him, the less likely it is I get ten bucks from everybody going by. So he finally says, Here's your licensor, have a nice day. Now you know what's interesting? I I I I've dealt with that many times. Many times. Sometimes it's more than 30 minutes. Sometimes it's an hour. Sometimes it's forty-five minutes. Sometimes I needed to get on the phone and call somebody to have a conversation. But you know what's amazing? I never had a corrupt police officer arrest me and take me to the police station and put me in handcuffs because they knew that when it went to the courts the truth would prevail. They knew that. And so danger guns and eventually situation involves itself. That's the way you deal with bribery. Now, I guess in some situations then they just do arrest you and then they pay off the guy that's over them and it's a really nasty situation But the bottom line is that takes two sides here, you know. But that's what's going on in Israel. A lot of destructive things. And it ultimately came down to the fact that the people were not guided by God's word and God's principles. They were not living under his authority. They made themselves their own authority. Number five. Scene five, the difficult consequences that God predicts 1 Samuel 8 10 says this Samuel took all the words of the Lord unto the people and asked of him a king. And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you. So, you know, general election. This is the platform of the party. Let's see what they have to say. Okay, he will take your sons and appoint them for himself, for his chariots to be his horsemen He shall run before his chariots, and he will appoint him captains over thousands and captains over fifty, and will set them To ear his grounds, to reap his harvests, to make his instruments of war and instruments of chariots. He will take your daughters to be confectionaires, to be cooks, to be bakers. He will take your fields and your vineyards and your olives. Yards, even the best of them, and give them to a servant. Sounds a little bit like socialism. He's gonna take it all and give you what he thinks you need. Okay. He'll take your men servants, your maidservants, your goodliest young men. He'll take the tenth of your sheep, and you shall cry out in that day, because your king, which ye shall have chosen you, the Lord will not hear you in that day. In other words, he says, you're going to choose a guy, and here's what he's going to do to you. And even after I tell you to do not that this will happen, you'll still do it. It's amazing. Nevertheless, the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel and said, Nay, but we will have a king over us. That we may be like the nations, and our king may judge us, and go out before us and fight our battles. And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of the Lord, and the Lord said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice and make them a king. Samuel said, Go every man unto his city. I'll summarize it this way: your king's going to abuse his authority. He's going to take your stuff. He's going to use everything that you have for his own benefit. You're going to have constant conflict with the people around you, and your fellowship with God is going to be broken. You want a king? Yep. We're gonna get our king. You go, Dad. How could you make that decision? The fact is they were deceived. They really believed that God would not what he said would happen wasn't going to happen. They really believed that they knew best. Well folks, you can't argue with a person like that. I mean, what are you gonna do? Physically restrain them, hit them over the head? You let them do it. You let them experience what has been predicted by God. So after Samuel rehearses all those things, and those are the exact things that happen When they choose their king, they say that's what we want. Running for the president. I'm going to take all your land. I'm gonna take everything that you have and I'm gonna keep it for myself and I'll give you what I think you need. That's who I want to be my president It's what they did. It's absolutely what they did. Here's some lessons. Well, let me read Psalm 106. It says Verse 12, Then believed they his words, they sang his praise, they soon forgot his works, they waited not for his counsels. But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness and tempted God in the desert, and he gave them their request, but sent leanness to their souls. This was Israel's history. On the day that they're standing before Samuel, on the day that they want to choose a king, Saul, that should have informed them. But it didn't. Some lessons. God's ways don't always seem the best, but they are The world's ways the common way. If you took an opinion poll on that day, how many people would have stood up and said I'm voting with God stays the king. You guys, you pick your own guy, but I'm gonna stand alone and I'm not gonna go down that road. No. I mean everybody was united. That's what they wanted. Made sense to them You know, many times a person gets in a position like this and they go in and talk to people. What do you think? And they can find enough people tell them that's a great idea. They really can't. Sometimes even Christians do this with other Christians. But the fact is that what God says is true, it stands. And you know, if it's a hundred to one, well God 's way wins. It's just that simple. God's ways are for our own good We're prone to demand things without any idea of the consequences. You know, before we get down on the nation of Israel and say, well, look at these people. They are so stubborn. They're so foolish. They're so deceived Well well we're all at times like that. Okay? I know I did this with my parents at times, and maybe two of you did the same thing. You know You had somebody in authority over you and you just pushed against it and said, I'm going to do my own thing. And they looked at you like That's a really bad idea. And the consequences follow. We are to be governed by God and his laws, not by the will of men who rule selfishly. You can pick your sin, but you can't pick your consequence. How many times do you hear somebody say, I know that God's gracious, I'm just going to go ahead and do this and see what happens? Please don't do that. God is gracious. He is loving. That's true. But if he just lets you go down your merry way, it's not going to end well. You always reap to a greater degree than what you sowed. Now, folks, that's both a positive and a negative principle. If you invest wisely in good things, it doesn't happen right away, but over a period of time God is able to take the good that has been sowed, and He's able to multiply it in a wonderful way to his glory and for your good. In fact, when we go to that passage in Galatians, it says That he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption, but he that soweth to the spirit shall of the spirit reap life everlasting. That passage, we tend to look at it in a negative way But it's actually meant to be both positive and negative. In other words, you sow to the flesh, here's what you get. You sow to the spirit, here's what you get. You know, for our for our young families, I mean you labor and you work with your kids and it's hard, it's not easy, but you do it day in and day out. And you know there'll be a day that you you reap the blessings of that You might say, well, it doesn't seem like it right now. Well, if you have labored and you have sown, there will be a day that you will experience the benefits of that. On the other side, when we sow to our flesh over and over and over again repeatedly, then we're going to experience incredible hardship as a result. of that. God's people are to be distinct from their unbelieving neighbors. A Christian is not identified by the color of the shirt he wears. Or by the style of their haircuts , but by their character, the way they treat people, the way they relate in circumstances. the way they think, their world view. In other words, my neighbors, when they have problems , And they don't know the Lord, the way that they approach those things and the way that I approach it's it's it's supposed to be different. Because their worldview is different than mine is. And so we may look the exact same in a lot of ways, but the way that we live and the way that we think and what we value and what we live for and what we don't do, it's really different because we're a Christian there now. God does not walk in fellowship with those who demand their own way. Now God loves people. He wants the fellowship with them. He wants the fellowship with every person in this room. He wants to be the center of your life and he wants you to delight in him and he wants to work in your life in a very special way. I I absolutely believe that. But when we harden our hearts against God and say, No, I'm doing it my way, he withdraws. He withdraws because our rebellion separates us from him. That doesn't mean that he's done with us. It doesn't mean that he withdraws indefinitely. It may be that he's withdrawing so that as you walk and you stumble, he can step back in and say, Would you like to try this over again? That's what he does. God is very good. So my conclusion is this. Will you take time to think about your own walk with the Lord? I think it's very important. We don't get to the place that these people were quickly. It's not like one day we wake up and we become like that We become like that over a long period of time. Wrong thinking, wrong decisions Over years and years and years, they get us to a point where we are just like these people. And so we've got to identify when we are moving in that path And when we are moving in that path, it's time to assess, it's time to repent, it's time to get help, it's time to let the word of God change how we think. And at that point, before we're there, we can begin to adjust and move in the right direction. Have you chosen the path that is like these people, one that's common but leads to pain and suffering? I can't tell you how How truly sad it is to see people in a position like this. I think that there are times that we become very angry. And cynical and we just want to see people get it. I think that's the wrong response. The fact is that I think it should really It should really cause us to be grieved and to pray deeply for people that we know like this. Are you compromising and looking for something that may in the end hurt you We talk about compromise. The idea is that I know it's right, but this is a very insignificant thing. It's not a big deal. I mean it's not like I'm doing that over there. So what's the big deal over here? Well you do that enough, guess what? That's where you end up. It's where you end up. It's about trajectory. It's about trajectory. I mean when two planes fly off a BWI, they go off the same runway. And they start in the same direction. And just a little adjustment to the east, to the west, to the north, to the south, 3,000 miles later, they're on a different continent. Okay? Just a little adjustment. It's not a huge one. That little adjustment puts them in a different city, thousands of miles away, a different continent, a different country. And the fact is that when we make the little decisions wrong, we're down the road to big failures. And be careful what you ask for, because if you ask enough, God may eventually give it to you and ultimately to your detriment. I know this is a very Heavy topic. But it's so important. And when we get into the life of Saul, we're going to see What happens here? You know what's amazing? God didn't kick Israel to the side on this day God gave Saul legitimate opportunities. Saul actually could have had a good reign. We're going to see that as we get into the story of his life. So even though God made a very decisive decision at that point, he still didn't walk away from the people He didn't walk away from Saul. Like he continued to love them. He continued to show grace to them. He continued to move and work alongside of them. And the fact is that we need to follow that example with God When you let the person walk, that doesn't mean you hate them. It doesn't mean you're like, the line's been drawn and we never talk again No, you want to keep the door open. Want to keep the line of communication. And there comes a day when perhaps That opportunity comes in and God is able to really do an amazing thing. Yes. Verse 21 when um Samuel was trying to look at restoration. Yeah. Well, and not only that What you'll see later on in the passage is that God sends a visible sign to the people that what they did was bad. And I think if I remember correctly, in the harvest season, which is normally a very dry time in Israel He sends a violent rain. It's sort of like, that doesn't happen very often around here. And why did he do that? He said this is a sign that that I've heard you. I'm letting you do what you want to do. And what I've said is true. And what's amazing is as the people kind of For a short period of time they they acknowledge that they're doing the wrong thing. Samu prays for them. He says Far be it from me that I should neglect to pray for you and um I tell ya There is tremendous restraint demonstrated in this passage, and I think it's very, very instructive to all of us. So all right. Well let's go ahead and have a word of prayer