Please take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter 2. Did anybody notice that our piano's been tuned? No, I'm just kidding. If if you have the ability to figure that out, then we need to hire you to do it next time. Philippians chapter two I gotta water up here just in case, because it's last last Sunday night. It's like my my my my voice is right here and all of a sudden it's like I'm like, I gotta gotta land this plane really soon or I'm gonna be in trouble. So I got that up here just in case. Philippians chapter two. Let's look in our Bibles at verses three to four Philippians chapter 2, verses 3 to 4. And actually, just to kind of get the context, we'll be looking at verses 3 and 4 tonight, but let's look at verses 1 to 4 for our scripture reading. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory But in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others Last week we looked at the first section of this four-verse part. And what we saw last week was that Paul is drawing our attention, specifically those listeners, but ours as well, he's drawing our attention to consider our position in Christ, not just in a, we could say, spiritual manner, but in a practical, experiential manner. And so he explains that if you have experienced consolation in Christ and comfort of love and fellowship of the Spirit, and tender affections. If you've experienced those things, then you need to listen up. You have a responsibility, and here's what it is. That's basically what John's saying or what what Paul is saying. So I want to kind of summarize this next little section, verses three and four, with the following statement. After reminding the church of their practical experience as Christians, Paul wants to state in simple terms How they should relate to one another now that they're in Christ. Just real simple. How are we supposed to relate to one another as Christians because we're in Christ? Because the things that He has stated are true about us. How are we to relate to one another? And the reason he does this is because God wants us to reject the fleshly temptation to be self-absorbed. Or we could say self-focused and replace it with spirit-empowered responses. That's what God wants all of us. It's not natural for us to respond in the way that Paul is going to tell us we need to respond. But that's what God expects of us. So with that in mind, we're going to look at a couple of very simple truths tonight that we find in this passage. So let's look at the first truth. The first truth is this: we are all made of flesh. We are all made of flesh. No matter who you are in this room. Whether you've been a believer for the last two years and you're a very young Christian, or whether you've been a believer for the last 50 years, And you know your Bible very well. You have been a part of a good gospel preaching church for many, many years. You have a good, sound, stable walk with God. No matter where you are, we are still made of flesh. All of us. And because we're made of flesh, there are certain things that we have to constantly be on guard for Notice what he says in verse 3. He says, let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. Paul would not have had to say that if there wasn't a natural temptation in us to do things in strife and for vainglory. Look in verses one to four, we just read it. He kind of gives us the complete picture of the Christian life. He's basically saying our experience as Christians is going to have two sides to it. One is we're going to see the fruit of the Spirit being produced in our lives. We're going to see God growing us and God maturing us. But then there's another aspect. We're going to see temptation. We're going to see tests. We're going to see days when we fail. We're going to see days when we stumble and when we sin. And when we look back and we say, man, I wish I wouldn't have said that. I wish I would have would not have done that. I wish I would not have responded in that kind of a way. And so our Christian experience really involves both sides of that. Because what does he say? If you have any consolation in Christ, vows of mercies, he mentions all these, we could say, wonderful things that are produced by the Spirit of God in us. If those things are true, then this is what you need to do. And then he says Don't do things in strife. Do you see both sides there? So the the Christian that has tender affection toward God and one another can also be full of strife and vainglory at other times. And he has to guard himself against that. And so basically what we see is that the Christian is caught in a tension between two things. I am saved and I have the guarantee of eternity and glory, but I still live under the fall. I'm still a fallen creature. I still live in a fallen world. Everybody around me is a fallen creature. And so I have glory and the fall, and I'm caught in between the two of those things. And that's where we find ourselves every day. And so we need to kind of remind ourselves of that from time to time. I have to be on guard. The fruit of the Spirit can be evidenced in my life, and within a short period of time, in the same day, I can respond in the most carnal way possible. And we see examples all throughout the Bible of this. People who are very godly at periods in their life, and then they did terrible things. Example, David. I mean, look at David. He was such a tender-hearted man. He had the opportunity to kill Saul and remove his greatest enemy, and what does he do? He holds back. And he says, I'm not going to touch the Lord's anointed. I'm going to let God settle that matter. And David, what does he do? He doesn't touch Saul when he has the opportunity to kill him. This is a very seasoned man who can fight in the battle, and he he holds back Yet then when he's supposed to be at war, he's on his rooftop and he sees one of his most trusted men. He sees his wife. And this is somebody that he knew. He knew the family. This woman's grandfather was one of his trusted advisors. He knew this woman's husband pretty well. In fact, he calls him to the battle and comes to come back and what does he do? He he basically takes this man's wife and he commits adultery and then he has this man killed Same guy. You say, how in the world is this possible? And then you look at the situation with Absalom and how he handled that. Yet then at the end of his life you see him basically talking about how much he loves the Lord, and his his love for God is so evident in his life. And so what we see is that in all of us, we see both sides. We see the struggle between our flesh and we see God working in our lives producing spiritual fruit. We see Paul describing this in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Listen to what Paul says and listen to it very well. He says, We preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. And ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Christ. Paul is basically saying, myself and these other apostles and all these people who are preaching the gospel, we have this great responsibility to preach Christ. And then the next phrase he says this, but We have this treasure in earthen vessels. The idea is like pots of clay. This very precious message of the gospel. is being presented by feeble people. People who sin, people who stumble, people who get discouraged. And he says, the reason that God chose to do it this way is so that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Do you see what Paul's saying? Even in his greatest moments of ministry, he reminds himself that he's like a pot of clay. And he's feeble. And God's the one who should get the glory. We then go to another passage. That's Romans chapter 7. And in Romans 7, Paul really lays out what I want to communicate tonight about this first point, that we are all made of flesh. In Romans chapter 7, let's look down at verses 18 to 25, and I want to hit a couple of the highlights of what Paul says. In verse 18, he says this, I know that in me, and this is not Paul saying, I know in you. He's saying, I know in me. He says, I know in me that is in my flesh. Dwelleth no good thing. Paul is speaking of himself. He's one of the godliest Christians that we see in the Bible. He's one of the most uh honest, and we could say most diligent and most faithful Christians we find in all of the Bible. You don't find many faults in the Apostle Paul, but he says, I know in me dwells no good thing. He says, to will is present with me. I want to do the right thing, if you will, but how to perform that which is good, I find not. Even the Apostle Paul, this great man, could could look you in the eye and say, Look, I know that in me dwells nothing good. When I want to do the right thing, the power to do it. It doesn't lie in me at all. In verse 19 he says this, the good that I would, I do not. The evil which I would not, that I do. You ever been in a situation like that? Like you know what's right in your head, and you say, I want to do the right thing, and then you follow through and you don't do it. I've been there many times. Many, many times. I've been there as a missionary. I've been there as a pastor. I've been there as a father. I've been there as a husband. I' I've been there just as a Christian. You know what's right to do, you want to do it, you don't follow through. And Paul says, that's because we live in this fleshly body still. We are between the fall and glory. We're caught between these two. And we see both sides at work in us. Verse 20 says, Sin dwelleth in me. Verse 21 to 23, I find then a law that when I would do good, evil is present with me. I delight in the law of God after the inward man, but I see another law in my members, warning against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin, which is in my members. O wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from the body of this death? This is the Apostle Paul speaking. He says there are times that I have this tremendous battle inside. And I want to just make a small note here. I think sometimes as Christians we get in our heads That the fact that we struggle means that we're a defeated Christian. We think that we're a bad Christian. We think that we're in big trouble. I want you to realize something. The fact that there's a struggle in you is a reminder that you're alive in Christ. That's really what it is. If there was no struggle, you should check your pulse and ask, are you really alive in Christ? The fact is that the unbeliever just follows his belly, if you will. He just does whatever he wants. He does what feels good to him. But for the believer, he has this tension between the old nature and the flesh. And the Spirit of God indwelling him in that new nature, and he feels this tension constantly. That tension is Something that reminds you, hey, I am a believer. God loves me. He's working in me. He's developing me. It's a natural part of our Christian experience. He says, but who can deliver me? He says, I thank God through Jesus Christ. Only Christ. As a pastor, I can sit down with somebody who's got tremendous problems and I can look at them and say, hey I love you, I can pray with you, I want to help you, but I can't change you. You know what I'm saying? You're gonna look at your kids. You look at your spouse. You look at the people you work with. You look at the people that sit around you in these pews. You don't have the power to change any of them. You can pray for them, you can walk with them, you can encourage them, you can tell them what God's word says, but you have no ability to change them. But God does. And so what does God do? He says, just walk alongside them. And sometimes they're going to walk alongside you. And encourage them. And carry their burden next to them and carry their burden with them. And one day they're going to have to carry your burden for you. And as you do that, I'm the one who changes them. That's what God does. So the first truth that we're reminded of is that we live in a body of flesh. And so we go through this tremendous battle to do what is right. We come to a second truth, and that's this. We must put to death our fleshly appetites. We must put to death our fleshly appetites. I know I've said this before, and I hope you don't miss this. We cannot, we could say, entertain our fleshly appetites. We can't manage our fleshly appetites. We have to kill them. Because if you try to manage your fleshly appetites, they will overcome you. It's that simple. We look down at what it says in verse number three. He says, Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory. He says, nothing You have to deal with sin and those temptations and those lusts and those responses. You have to deal with them swiftly and harshly, and you have to deal with them right away. We go to Colossians chapter 3. I want you to turn there because I want to show you that this is a parallel passage. The idea is parallel to what Paul is talking about in Philippians chapter 2. In Colossians chapter 3, verses 5 to 9, basically what Paul is saying is put off or put to death. the fleshly responses and appetites that are regularly a part of your Christian experience. Put off and put to death those fleshly responses and appetites that are regularly bombarding you in your Christian Look down in verses 5 to 9. This is what the text says. Mortify. That word means put to death or kill it. Mortify therefore your members which are on earth. Now I want to kind of explain what each of these words means because I will just tell you that some of the words in this passage. They're they're complicated. They're not words we typically use. For instance, do you use the word evil concupiscence very often? Okay, do you even know what that means? Evil concupiscence. Okay? This is not a word, this is not a phrase we use very often. And and I will and I will even say this, even when you go to a modern translation that won't use a phrase like evil concupiscence, a lot of times it'll be kind of a very general word that we still don't quite understand. So I want to kind of explain to you what each word means so that you can kind of get the sense of it. So first of all, mortify or put to death your members which are on earth. And then the first word is fornication, sexual immorality. And by the way, this is a very general term. This could involve any kind of sexual perversion. So it's not just talking about uh uh uh two unmarried people getting together and being immoral. It actually covers all kinds of sexual immorality And then the word uncleanness. In other words, it's something that's not clean. Do I have to really explain explain that too much? Just a simple word. Then we come to another one that's very interesting. Inordinate affection. Inordinate affection. Inordinate affection basically has this idea. It is a natural desire that becomes exaggerated because of the way that you indulge it. It's a natural desire that becomes exaggerated because of indulgence. Okay, so when when we talk about somebody getting addicted to something like gambling, you know what it ultimately is? That that desire to make money becomes unnatural. It consumes them, that greed consumes them, and they can literally sit in a casino and just lose track of all time and just run up the debt on their credit card, you know, boom, boom, boom, just like that. because that desire has become unnatural and it consumes them. When we talk about lustful passions , There are all kinds of lustful passions that can get that way. Where all of a sudden what is a natural desire that God gave us is something that now is unnatural and it it just overcomes us. Something like food. When we talk about somebody being gluttonous, well, it's totally natural for someone to have the physical appetite to eat. But gluttony means that that appetite becomes so indulgent that it dominates me. Or a lot of sexual passions. For instance, when a person is involved in pornography, well when they first get involved in that, there are certain things that over time they don't seem to affect them the same way. And so That natural, God-given sexual desire becomes very powerful beyond what it normally would be. And so when he talks about inordinate affection, he's basically saying natural desires That have become unnatural because of the way that we have related to those desires. We then come to evil concupiscence. The idea is a shameful passion. This is a desire that when somebody is aware of it, it is shameful. So it's a little bit different than this idea of inordinate affection. It's something that is very distasteful. We then go on to something else, covetousness, which is idolatry. Then he says this, also put off these anger and wrath. Now, I sat down and I asked myself the question, isn't anger and wrath the exact same thing? The answer is actually they're not. Anger has the idea of this intense reaction. If you will, it's like this. Your kids are doing something that kind of drives you nuts, and all of a sudden just in a moment you just you yell at them, you do something that's Really quick and short, but it's angry. But then it's done and it's a reaction. Wrath is a little bit different. Wrath has the idea of something that just boils under the surface So it's not this quick reaction. It's more like I'm just I'm fuming inside. If you will, it's like something that is smoldering. And so that is the difference between anger and wrath. A lot of people will say, hey, I don't have an anger problem because I don't snap at people. I've I've never put my fist through a wall before I've never yelled at my wife and thrown something at her. I've never hit somebody. I haven't done those kinds of things. I don't have an anger problem. But deep down inside they're boiling with bitterness. And wrath. Okay? So basically Paul's saying both of those two responses, they're wrong. We then go to malice. That's the idea of you want to hurt somebody. Okay. And generally, and it's interesting how malice comes right after wrath. Because wrath has this premeditative side where you think about something, you just you you you mull over it for a long period of time and you're like, I want to get even. If I get the chance, I'm gonna do this guy in I'm going to get even with this person. And so that's what malice is. Malice is that desire to harm someone. Maybe not physically. Maybe you want to harm the reputation. You want to hurt them publicly because of how they treated you. But that's what we mean by malice. Blasphemy. Blasphemy basically means to slander. It means that we speak evil of somebody. And by the way, this can be like done in a very tactful way. You know, you can just drop a little statement about someone. Oh, I I kind of wonder if such and such is true. Or hey, did you hear about this or that? And you just kind of dropped this little tidbit. Okay, slander can can be a very subtle thing. It can be very like straightening in your face. Very, very serious things. Then he talks about filthy communication. That has the idea of being verbally abusive. And then he says, lie not one to another, seeing you've put off the old man with his deeds. So why do I go through that list? Because this is the world we live in. Okay? People that don't know the Lord, people that don't have control of their emotions, not just unbelievers, Christians live in this realm a lot. The anger, the wrath, the abusive language. That that boiling inside, overcome by sexual temptations, overcome by greed, different kinds of lusts. A lot of Christians live in that realm. And what does he say? Put it off. Put it off. Now let's translate it back to Philippians. And this Philippians passage, he basically says this: let nothing be done through strife. In other words, don't fight for position. He says, let nothing be done through vainglory. Don't desire self-promotion. Proud elevating of yourself. He says, look not every man on his own things. The idea is don't be self-consumed. Don't be self-absorbed. Where you could care less about anybody around you and what they got going on in their life. All you care is about your own interests. All of this comes under one heading. Put it off. That's negative. Put it off. Don't do this. Don't have strife with anybody. Don't desire self-promotion. Don't be self-consumed. Put those things off. And so the first truth was what? We live in a body of flesh. Truth too, we've got to put to death and we've got to put off those temptations that are a part of our Christian experience. But then there's a third, and this is very important. We have to replace our selfish appetites with grace-filled responses. That's really important. If all you focus on is I'm not going to do this anymore, and I'm not going to do this anymore, and I'm not going to do this anymore, guess what? You have left a vacuum in your life. And at some point, boom, it's coming right back. It's that simple. That vacuum is there, and something is going to press to fill that vacuum. And so what does the scripture teach? Don't just put off those things, replace them with grace-filled responses. Spirit-filled responses put off and put on in the place of those things. Notice what he says in verse three, but in lowliness of mind Esteem others better than yourself. In other words, what he's doing is he's saying, don't do this and do the exact opposite in the place. In another passage he says, let him that stole steal no more, but let him work with his hands. Let him give. And so basically what he's saying is, you replace the wrong with what is right. Again, let's go to Colossians chapter 3 and see how Paul addresses this. In Colossians chapter 3, verse 12 to 16, he says this. Put on, therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, put on bowels of mercies or that that tender compassion. Put that on He says, put on kindness, put on humility of mind, put on meekness. The idea is instead of being dominated by your lust, you need to put on those qualities that are strength under control, if you will. He says, put on long suffering and forbearing with one another, rather than snapping in anger or boiling in wrath. Bear long with the people that are around you. Question, is that natural? Not in the least. It isn't natural for any person in this room. You might say, well, I'm naturally not a prone to anger kind of person. I'm really laid back. You know, laid back people tend tend to uh have problems with the wrath more than the anger. Okay. I know it because I'm one of them. I'm one of those, you know, laid back calm people. But that doesn't mean that something can't get under my skin. And you know what'll happen? We'll just say, you know, that person's kind of like gotten on my bad side. You know what I mean? The guy's on the bad side. Once you're on the bad side, you never get out of there. Right? Is that that is that how we think? Okay, that's what wrath is. You know, you don't snap at them and yell, but they got they gotten on your backside. If I get a chance to kind of not have to deal with this person anymore, yeah, I'll I'll I'll do that. You know That's the idea. So it's not really about our our natural disposition. We can all have a problem in these areas He says, put on self-control, meekness, put on long suffering, forbear with one another. Be patient with people when they treat you with nonsense. And guess what? Everybody gets that We're living in a fallen world. There are times that your spouse, as much as you love them and they love you, they do things that are just, it's like, what in the world are you doing? Why did you say that? Why did you do that? But we do the same thing. And so he says, be patient, forbear with one another, forgive. He says, let the peace of God rule in your hearts. He says, be thankful, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. The point that I'm trying to make tonight is that God's word says, don't just put off, replace it. with what is right. Let the word of God be the thing that guides and strengthens and fills and changes what you do. Replace the strife with humility. That's why he says, put it in lowliness of mind. Replace vainglory with esteeming others better than yourself. That's why he says, esteem others better than yourself. Replace being self-consumed with looking out for other people's interests. Every man should look on the things of others I want to ask you a question tonight, Christian. Are you willing to do that? That's not easy, is it? Because we're living in a real world. These are these are the people that we work with on a daily basis. These are the people that have wronged us. Are we willing to respond correctly in those situations? I want to kind of pull this all to something very practical You know, when we have a problem with people, this is how we tend to respond. And this is this can be this can be our spouse. This can be our kids. This could be our mom and dad, you know. If we're teens or young people in the church. This could be the pastor. This could be the congregation. This could be your boss. This could be the people that work under you. All kinds of this could be your neighbor who you're you know arguing about where your fence is supposed to be, whatever. When people don't treat us right, we tend to have these kinds of responses. Hey man, I have my rights. I have my rights, and we demand our rights. And we fight for our rights. We're willing to drop everything and go to battle with somebody over the most silly and insignificant things. I remember a story about an individual that I knew fairly well. This person lived next door to someone. They'd been neighbors for probably, I don't know, 50 years. At the end of those 50 years, the neighbor's son was getting to the place where he would be able to get his dad's property. His dad was getting older. He wasn't able to keep up with everything. And many, many years ago, when these two neighbors' kids were real young, they built a dock between the two houses. And they put that dock there and they drove a nail in the center of the dock and they said, This is your side and this is my side and we will share this dock And they were able to successfully do that for about fifty years. But it didn't last because the one son really got involved and brought all kinds of things. It ended up being a legal dispute Here's these two men that are in their 80s, who have lived next door to one another for 50 years. And they're going to fight over this little thing. And an outsider would look and go, What in the world are you guys doing? You know what I mean? Literally, they're killing themselves. They're killing themselves over a piece of wood in the water. I mean, obviously important because it's access to the water, but still. And you know, we can do that kind of stuff. We demand our rights. We fight for our rights. We ask the question, hey, what's in it for me? If I'm not going to benefit, then I can guarantee I'm not going to be involved in that. It's all about what I want, what I can get. What is this person really thinking? Let me read between the lines and figure this out. And so we kind of analyze. I know what they really meant. The truth is we don't know sometimes. Why can't they just do it my way? I don't get it. Obviously, they know that I'm a very knowledgeable person. I'm very common sense. Why can't they just do it my way? Why can't I connect with these people? What's their problem? These are the kinds of things that we say in our self-centered moments. I could go through a whole lot more statements that we make, but the idea is this. That is the natural response that we have. And that's all of us. If it's my neighbor and that's the doc we've had for 50 years, guess what? There's gonna be a part of me that wants to go fight on that. Say, look, what's the problem, man? But the truth is that God's word tells us to respond different Because we're in Christ. We tend to focus on the problems that we have with people, but we need to go deeper to where the root is. We need to realize that a lot of times the problems we have with one another It's because we're self-centered. If we would just put into practice what Paul is saying here, you know how much it would help our relationships? In every area of life. It really would. But you know what's interesting? The reason that we should do this is not because we're trying to have happier lives. Because it's the right In other words, we're not trying to mend those broken relationships for a selfish reason, are we? Isn't that kind of the root problem? So how should we respond? Let me just mention these things really quickly. Number one, keep in mind you're a fallen creature. That natural impulse, the way you want to respond, you better ask the question, is this what God wants? Because it's likely not. You're a fallen creature. I'm a fallen creature. We live in a fallen world. And it's only God's grace in our lives that can resolve the problems that we encounter. Number two, our actions and reactions are a significant contribution to the conflicts we have. Let's just be honest. We contribute when we have conflicts. I'm not saying we're 90% of it. If it's just 50-50, we're half the problem, right? And the truth is that most conflicts we contribute a lot more to than we'd like to let on. If we would put to practice what is going on here, it would really change how we relate to one another. And lastly, I need to put off my fleshly actions and reactions and replace them with spirit-filled attitudes and actions. This is what God wants of his people. I pray that the Lord will help us to put into practice what we've seen this evening. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Father, we thank you for this text because it really hits home to some of our greatest problems. The relationships that we have that we struggle in. Help us to realize that we do contribute to those problems. And help us to realize that we've got to put into practice what your word tells us. We've got to put off these fleshly responses. We have to replace them with Christ. empowered, spirit-filled responses. I pray that we would help you would help us as your people to grow and to mature into godly individuals who really relate to one another correctly. We ask that you would be magnified in our lives. We ask these things in Christ's name, Amen