I'm going to kind of uh go back and refresh us on a little bit of what we talked about the last time we were together. And so what we're going to do is we're going to read not just verses 4 through 11. That's really the text that we're looking at tonight. But we're actually going to begin in verse 1, and we're going to work our way down to verse 11, and it'll kind of refresh us on some of the background that gets us into this discussion. You know, when we get into the Book of Ecclesiastes, I think it's one of the most practical books in all of the Bible, and I really mean that. One of the reasons that the Book of Ecclesiastes is so practical is because what it does is it allows us to just see what life actually looks like. An honest evaluation of what goes on in life, with one exception that's extremely important being removed from the equation in many of those observations. And what's being removed from the equation is what you can't see. And that's God. And by the way, to remove him from the equation, he's not doing that because God isn't there He's doing that because there are times when we're looking at life, we don't see God's hands. We don't see his ways. We don't understand it. Doesn't mean that he's not working. It doesn't mean that he's not involved in the circumstances of life. But sometimes we can't make sense of it. And we need to understand that. So the book of Ecclesiastes is one of the most absolutely practical books in all of the Bible. With that in mind, let's begin in verse 1, and we'll work our way down to verse 11, though our focus will be in the second half of this section. The words of the preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem. Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities, all is vanity What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh under the sun? One generation passeth away, another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down and hasteth to his place where he arose, the wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto the north. It whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to his circuits All the rivers run into the sea, yet the sea is not full. Unto the place from rent the wit the rivers come thither they return again All things are full of labor. Man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be. That which is done is that which shall be done. There's no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said, see this is new? It hath been already of old time, which was before us. There is no remembrance of former things, neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after Now, when we read these verses, I want to give you just a real simple summary purpose statement of this section, verses 4 through 11. We could put it like this: the purpose of the section of Ecclesiastes. is to express the vanity of life without God. Let me say that again. The vanity of life without gods. It's an endless, meaningless, repetitive cycle. And we're going to see that expressed in several illustrations that Solomon talks about that you can see in life. In fact, if you're an observer of life, as a person gets older and they begin to look at what they've seen in life, they say, you know, I've seen that before You study history, you say, I've read about that before. Here we go again, right back to where we started before. We see these things repeat themselves over and over and over again. And we start asking ourselves the question: what's the point? to what we're looking at. That's really what Solomon's going to be getting into in this section. If you remove God from the equation, life is meaningless. It is empty. It is repetitive. It doesn't seem to be going anywhere. Very, very important. So what does God want us to see from the text? Well, he wants us to realize that apart from him, life is empty. Life has nothing to offer you if you don't have a God in the picture who is outside of time, outside of space, has a purpose in what takes place. place in this world, but he's not actively involved in the affairs of people. If he's not in the picture, life is meaningless. But I got good news for you. He's in the picture. You may not see it right now. You may not have the idea the eyes to actually recognize it right now, but it's true. It's there With that in mind, let's ask the question: how do we get a biblical perspective when it comes to this topic? Let's begin with the first truth, and that is this: without an eternal perspective, our lives are, catch this, shorts. and leave little impact on the generations that follow us. You know, it's kind of interesting. I remember when I was in college, I had the opportunity to travel on a missions trip to Eastern Europe. And on the way there, my friend and I got to travel through London. And it was one of those things where we started down in Florida, we flew up to Atlanta, and from Atlanta we flew to the UK and we stayed in London for an entire day, and we were completely exhausted because you can imagine these two college guys did not sleep the entire time from Florida all the way to that location. Well I remember when we got to London, my friend said, we're going to go see all the neat sights in London. And he had this whole grocery list of things that we're going to go and see. And so I remember going to the Metropolitan Tabernacle, standing there in front of that very church building where Charles had and Spurgeon preached for several decades. actually went into there and walked around inside the building and said, wow, a Spurgeon priest in this location. This is absolutely incredible. I remember going to some of those really well-known landmarks all throughout London. But one of the most interesting places that we went was to a graveyard. And we went into that graveyard and there we saw the place where Isaac Watts was buried. Now you know the name Isaac Watts. A lot of the songs that we sing, in fact, he wrote hundreds and hundreds of hymns. Do you realize Isaac Watts took all of the psalms and he wrote psalms, songs to be sung out of all of the psalms? He actually wrote several for many of the Psalms. I saw Isaac Watts' grave there. I saw Charles Wesley's grave in the same general location. I saw John Owen's grave in that same general section. Daniel Defoe, another person. Some of you might say, I don't even know who some of these people are. Some of them were well-known pastors and some of them were well-known writers, but here's the reality. The average person living in London today that walks by that graveyard every single day may not even know who those individuals are. They don't know who Wesley was. They don't know who Owen was. They don't know who Daniel Defoe was. They don't know who Watts was. They don't know who those people were, yet they were extremely impactful in the time that they lived What's the point? The point is this. Even if you leave your mark, one day you're forgotten. The greatest man that have ever lived, the greatest women that have ever lived. People who have tremendously impacted their generations are soon replaced and forgotten. And that's life, folks. And the reality is if there's no purpose in what you're doing, then you say, why do I even bother to deal with all the nonsense, the challenges of living in this fallen world? Here's how Solomon expresses it. He says, one generation passeth away, another generation cometh, but the earth abideth forever. Now, Solomon is not suggesting that this broken planet as it is today is going to stay in this condition as it is forever. We know that that's not true. We know that there's going to be a day when God's going to judge the world. And he's going to separate the sheep from the goats, and those who've embraced the Messiah, the Lord Jesus Christ, and have placed their faith in Christ, they're going to enter into eternity with God. And those who've rejected him are going to be cast into the lake of fire forever. And God's going to create a new heaven and a new earth. We know that, okay? But when Solomon is talking about the earth abiding forever in the context of these verses, He's saying, when I compare the world to the people that live in it, here's what I see. One generation comes and another generation goes. And it happens over and over and over again for thousands and thousands of years. And you know what? The same planet's still there. And what's he trying to say? He's trying to say, you know what, you're going to be forgotten one day. You are. You're going to be forgotten. How many of you even know your great-great-grandfather's name? How many of you could even say you know that? How many of you know anything about that person 's life? What they did or what they didn't do. Do we even know their names? Yet we wouldn't be here today if it wasn't for them. And that's how life is. This earth that is passing away is an earth that endures when it is compared to your life and to my life. And that's what Solomon's expressing in this first section. The second truth that we're going to see here is this, without the creative purpose of God, the natural world is full of examples of endless repetitive cycles. Now this is a really interesting thing that Solomon's going to do here. He's going to look at three examples that you can see in nature, and he's going to say, when you look at those examples, what you see It's something happening repeatedly over and over and over and over again. And he says, what's the point of all of this? Notice what he says in verse 5. The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place whereof he rose The wind goeth toward the south and turneth again to the north. It whirleth about continually. The wind returneth again according to his circuits. All the rivers run into the sea. Yet the sea is not full. Stop and think about that. These rivers are continually running into the sea, and guess what? It never fills up. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? You know, if you if you have your kids in the bathtub and they turn the water on and you just kind of forget about it, guess what happens? All of a sudden you start seeing water run down the stairs, okay? Why is that? Because as that water is filling that bath, at some point it's going to overflow. Yet that doesn't happen with the sea. How is that possible? The Nile River flowing into the sea. The Amazon River flowing into the sea. The Mississippi River flowing into the sea. All these massive rivers flowing into the sea continually, yet it just continues as it is. How is that possible? Solomon goes, that's amazing. He then goes on to say this. There's a reason that I mentioned the sun and the wind and the rivers. It's because when you look at these things, you see examples of an endless cycle that repeats itself over and over and over again, and you say, What is the purpose of these things happening? Now, by the way, when you think about it from the perspective of someone who's not thinking that there's a God who created this , A God who designed this, a God who governs this, a God who had a purpose, that's a very important word, a purpose in this happening, the way that it does. If you don't believe that, then that's the right conclusion. This is a repetitive, worthless over-and-over cycle. And so when we look at that, we could say, look, this is a drudgery. This is emptiness. This is meaningless. Yet we can look at the exact same illustrations from a very different viewpoint When we recognize God made it and God had purpose in it, rather than seeing drudgery and the sun rising and setting every day, we say there is consistency there. In fact, I'm going to give you an example of that in just a minute. But there are times in the scriptures that God says, you want to know how consistent I am? Watch the sunrise every day. Watch the sunset every day and be reminded it's going to happen tomorrow and it's going to happen the next day. It's going to happen the next day. It's a reminder that I'm consistent like that. I made that. So, which one are you going to take it as? Is it the consistency or is it the drudgery? It's all about perspective. It's all about worldview. Secondly, the wind. We see the wind as something that provides refreshment. By the way, the reason that we get, you know, the rain comes and then it dries out, and we get our seasonal changes and all those things, it's because of the winds. And if we could look at this issue of the wind and say, you know, this is something that causes refreshment and it teaches us of God's order and God's wisdom, or we can say there's something empty in the wind that just comes and goes and it goes in circles and nothing seems to happen. We look at these rivers, and we can say this is something that God has provided to constantly sustain his creation. We talk about the water cycle. This is an absolutely incredible thing. So you have this huge body of water that's salt, okay, salt water. And because it's hot and it's humid, especially in the tropics, what happens? It's constantly evaporating. And as it's constantly evaporating, what's happening? It's creating systems that move across the sea. And eventually those systems, what do they do? They get over land and they pour water on the earth And all that water collects into rivers and streams and it flows into the ocean. And as it's flowing into the ocean and as it's falling on the ground, what's happening? It's refreshing the soil. It's feeding the process of the growth of vegetation. And so what do we see God do? He's created this cycle that allows the world to be sustained and refreshed. Or you could say it's meaningless. What's the point? It's all about whether or not you believe there's a creator. It's all about whether or not you believe that there's a designer. Whether or not you believe that there's an intention to the design that He's made. Solomon's drawing us to think about this. What's the difference? Look at Psalm 8, verses 1 and then 3 to 4. It says this: O Lord, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth. Who hath set thy glory above the heavens? When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars which thou hast ordained, what is man that thou art mindful of him And the Son of Man that thou visitest him. In other words, you can look at creation and say, this is empty, this is meaningless, this is just this repetitive thing over and over and over again, or you could say, wow, God designed something with incredible Order and wisdom. It amazes me, it truly amazes me that brilliant scientists who study God's creation can look at the incredible order of creation and come to the conclusion that it somehow designed itself by random chance. Yet they can hold an iPhone in their hand and they would never, never, never tell you that that phone designed itself. They would never do it. They know for a fact that the the fact that you can hold this in your hand means that there are people over Decades who have invested hour after hour after hour, year after year after year, thinking about a plan, executing that plan. Troubleshooting, creating something that can be used by you and hopefully not abused by you, right? Yet they look at creation and they think that it doesn't have a designer. How is that possible? In James 1:17 it says, Every good and perfect gift is from above, cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither a shadow of turning. When he called them the father of lights, do you know what James is saying? He's saying God is the one who put the sun there. God is the one who hung the stars where he put them. God is the one who designed all of those incredible systems and how they work together. I know you love Going out with your telescope. I know that, Hansel, you like going out and seeing all these things. There are people that love to study the celestial bodies. And as we look into the sky, why do we see beauty there? Because God made it beautiful. Why do we see order there? Because he designed it. And so what does James do? He says, the same God who made this world with all this order and all this beauty is the same guy who doesn't change. And when he tells you he's going to do something, he does it. And when he says he's going to do it, he's going to follow through, even when it doesn't appear like it's going to happen. And the question I ask you this evening is this, do you see God in creation? Do you see his wisdom? Do you see his order? Do you see his care? Solomon is saying, look, you look at creation, and if you take God out of it, you say, What's the point? But when you look at creation to the eyes of someone who recognizes there's a creator , There's a sustainer. There's a God who has purpose. All of a sudden, what you see reflects his glory. What an amazing thought. We then come to a third truth. With an eternal perspective, the human experience with excuse me without an eternal perspective, the human experience is an endless cycle of pointless labors In fact, it's really interesting. When we dig into these verses, we find some really interesting statements that are made. Again, Solomon uses three illustrations. One is the illustration of our work. He's going to talk about how we labor in this world. He talks about our senses. The things that we see, the things that we taste, the things that we experience in this temporal world. And he talks about really the tragedy of human experience. Notice what he says in verse 8. He says, All things are full of labor. Man cannot utter it. The eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. The thing that hath been, it has, excuse me, the thing that hath been It is that which shall be. It's an interesting statement. That which is done is that which shall be done. Again, very interesting statement. There's no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said, see this is new? It hath been already of old times. Which was before us. There's no remembrance of former things, neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after. Now let me break down for you a moment for a moment some of the things that he's saying. First of all, he talks about work. He says, all things are full of labor. Man cannot utter it. I want you to think about this. Think about a project that you worked on, and you know all the labor you put into it. You know all the thinking that you did? You know all the planning that you did, you know all the times you had to correct things that you messed up on. You went through this process. Maybe you were designing something, you were building something. Something as simple as maybe building a tree house for your kids, something like that. Or working on a project in your house. Yet in the end, what do you see? You see the finished product. You don't see everything that went into it, do you? You don't see all the work, all the design, all the problems, all the fixes. You just see the end result. And basically what Solomon's saying is this is something that I've noticed in life. When you see something that's been done, you don't know everything that's under the surface that got you to that point. Very interesting. Why does he say that? He says because productivity comes at the expense of unspeakable labors. Unspeakable labors of the mind, unspeakable labors of the body, unspeakable labors of being willing to say, I was wrong, I gotta fix this, I'm gonna try something different. He says that Leaves us with this endless pointlessness to life if God's not in it. He talks about our senses in verse 8. He says, the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing. You know what's amazing? We are never satisfied with the stuff we enjoy, are we? So you buy a car. You know, you've been waiting forever to be able to buy that car. Maybe you haven't bought a car like I've never bought a car like that, okay? Maybe you have. You know, so for years you're like, I want that car and you save the money for that car and you get that car and you drive that car and you get it and you You you crank the ignition, you're like, this is this is it, I've arrived. And here's the question. How long does it take for you to be looking at the next model? You know what I'm talking about? Okay. How long does it take for you to realize, you know, that truck, that car, it's nice, but there's another one that's better. He says that's how life is. The things that we can see, we're never satisfied with them. The things that we can hear, we're never satisfied with them. You'll never meet a rich person that says, I've arrived, I don't need to make any more money anymore, I'm totally fine. I remember listening to someone who was was interviewing, who was it? I think it was Warren Buffett. You know who Warren Buffett is probably. Warren Buffett. He's ninety something years old. He is still he is still a pretty amazing investor. So I don't know. Maybe he's not what he used to be, but he's been at this a long time. And somebody was interviewing and they said, Mr. Buffett, have you gotten enough money? And he just smiled. He said, No. No, there's more to there's more to make. There's more to make How is that? How is it that this man who has made money his entire life and who's done very well for himself will never get to the point where he says, you know, enough's enough. I'm just gonna hang it up and I'm just gonna live off what I have, and I'm gonna just be content with it. Because that's the way life is. Our senses are never satisfied. And Solomon sees that. And then in verses 9 through 11, he talks about the tragedy of human experience. This is so interesting. The thing that has been, it is that which shall be. That which is done is that which shall be done. There's no new thing under the sun. Is there anything whereof it may be said, see this is new? It hath already been of old, which was before us. There's no remembrance of former things, neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come. Those shall that shall come after. Folks, the simplest way to put this is that people don't learn from history. They absolutely don't. You may even know that you're repeating history intellectually and still do it. It's amazing. People make poor decisions and the fruit of their decisions stick. That's what he's saying. What has been done is going to be done. Okay? You make a bad choice, guess what? You gotta live with that bad choice. That's life. People don't learn from their own poor decisions and poor choices and the poor choices of others. We look at what's been done and we realize, hey, that's been done before. New problems and ideas are not really new problems and ideas. We may have different names associated with those problems. We may have different faces associated with those problems. The circumstances may be in some ways different, but the reality is human nature continues to be the same. You look at problems that we read about in the Old Testament. We're thousands of years removed from the Old Testament, yet we read these stories of God's work in people's lives. We see the sinful choices of people, the painful consequences. And you know what we see? People do the same thing today. We go to the New Testament. That's only 2,000 years ago. And we read about people living in Rome and people living in Israel, and we see the kinds of things that were going on. Different names, different categories, same problems. New problems and ideas are not really new problems and ideas. And Solomon expresses that here. But this is what's interesting. He says we forget the past. And the future will forget us. Don't forget that. We forget the past, and the future will forget us. Just like we don't remember our great-grandfather's name, our great-grandchildren won't remember ours. It's true. You say, Well that's so pessimistic, Pastor. I'm not trying to be pessimistic, I promise you. I'm trying to help you to see something. You take God out of the picture, and what you have is empty. You take God out of the picture, and all of a sudden what you have is a life that misses what truly has value. To put it simply, it's tragic. And I want to be very practical here, and I want to draw this to a conclusion that is helpful to us this evening. There are four practical things I'll say here. First is this: life without God in eternity is tragic. You know, if somebody's living for this world, they're living for material possessions, they're living for the strength and the fruits of their labors in this life. That's not only going to find its way to an emptiness, but it's tragic. It's investing in something that doesn't have real value. Life without God is pointless. Folks, if God's not in the picture, then is there really any purpose in what we're doing? Why do you think in our culture there is such a terrible, terrible problem, and I mean a terrible problem with suicide Why is that? And by the way, it's not just people that are getting older in life. It's very young people. It's people who potentially could live for 60 or 70 years beyond when they're gonna take their own life. They have no idea what's ahead of them. Yet they're they're they're contemplating that fact. I remember hearing the statistics that over 20% of young people, over 20% of young people had within the time period, this is in the last couple of months, have like seriously considered taking their own lives. And you say, how is that? Because if you remove God from the picture, guess what life is? It's pointless. Why live without purpose? Thirdly, life without God is monotonous. You want to talk about living in a rut? That's the way that it is. You take God out of the picture, it's monotonous. And I want to warn you of a very simple thought. Even Christians can be pulled into this kind of thinking, where their perspective begins to think like someone who's thinking of life as a tragedy. Of life as being pointless, as life as being monotonous. The reality is if our worldview shifts from a God-centered, gospel-centered life. Then all of a sudden we can get into the place where we don't factor God into the picture anymore. It's not that we've become an atheist, but practically speaking, we think as if somebody does not believe in God We look at life as if it's tragic, as if it's pointless, as if it's monotonous. And I want to remind you again of what the Bible has to say about this fallen world that we live in. We started with this last time we met, but it's been quite a while. So I want to remind you of some of those very simple principles that the Bible teaches about life That if we don't believe these things, guess what we find? Life is empty and it has nothing to offer us. The first is this: God's world is good. And it was created with purpose. Genesis 1. In the beginning, God created. It's so important. There is a reason. There is a reason that a belief in a world without God, the Creator, is a world that provides tremendous emptiness. God created. In verse 31 it says, God saw everything that he made, and behold, it was very good. What God made was good, folks. And in verses in John chapter 1, verses 1 through 3, it says, all things were made by him, and without him was nothing made that was made. Not only did God create this world, but he preserves his creation for a purpose. In Colossians 1, verse 17, it says, by him all things consist. That means that he's actively, purposely working to preserve what he made. In Genesis 1, 26 and 27, it tells us we have value because he created us in his image. So God created man in his own image, and the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. There's purpose to our daily labors because God gave us the responsibility to care for his creation. He says in Genesis chapter 1, let them have dominion, responsibility. In other words, work has value to God 's We see that sin marred God's creation, and that is ultimately the cause of the frustrations that we see in this world. In Romans 5. 12, it says, by one man Sin entered the worlds, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. And then I conclude with this final thought: the gospel 's our only hope. Galatians 3. 13 it says this Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law. Being made a curse for us, for it is written, cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. I want you to realize that when we look at this world, We see that there's purpose, we see that there's design, we see that there's order, and we also see that there's sin. And the only way for us to escape the horrible consequences of that sin is through the gospel of Christ. That is the only hope that we have. And so when we look at Galatians, or excuse me, Ecclesians, Ecclesiastes chapter 1, and we read this per this passage of Scripture, what do we say? If God's that in this world, then what we see leaves us empty. But God created the heavens and the earth. The gospel provides us forgiveness. The gospel restores a lost relationship with God. The gospel gives us power to overcome sin. The gospel gives us eternal significance to what we're doing. The gospel gives us a future to look forward to. The gospel gives us a guarantee of eternity free from sin and this broken world. And I have good news for you. In spite of the monotony of what you see with your eyes in this world, there's a creator, there's a sustainer. And there's a Savior. Aren't you thankful for that? You know, as you sit here this evening, I want you to realize something. There are people in your life. I don't know who they are. You might know who they are. But there are people that right now, when they look at life, they don't see God. They don't see God. And because they don't see God, you know what? They have no hope. They're very discouraged. They're very frustrated. They say, what's the point? They say this is meaningless. And folks, that is when you have an opportunity to give people an answer of the hope that lieth within you. Let's be salt and light. This week, let's ask God to give us opportunities to share the blessings of the gospel with people who desperately need hope. We're living in a tough time. It's the truth. It's not the toughest time ever though, I promise you that. I I read history and I go, I'm glad I didn't live then. I mean it's bad now, but it wasn't like it was then. I'm glad I don't live through that. The bottom line is there are people that don't have hope right now and they need it. And we have the answer right here. I want to encourage you with that. Let's bow together for prayer. And let's ask God to use us this week. To be a blessing to the people around us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you so much for your tender care in our lives. When we look at this world, help us to see order, help us to see purpose, help us to see beauty, because all of that is reflection of the creator and sustainer of it all. Father, help us to glory in you. I pray that we would be salt and light in this very dark world. Father, this week give us opportunities to rub shoulders with people who have no hope so that we have the opportunity to share with them the hope of the gospel. Father, open doors. Provide opportunity and help us to absolutely make the best of those opportunities, not to waste those opportunities. Give us wisdom, give us courage, give us grace, give us kindness. Give us a burden and a passion to see you glorified in people's lives. Father, I pray that in these very dark days , Where people are looking for answers, you will use us to be instruments that you use to draw them to yourself. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.