Take your Bibles and if we could turn to the book of Ecclesiastes. We're in Ecclesiastes tonight and we will be looking at the first chapter, not the entire chapter, just a couple of verses. in the first part of the book of Ecclesiastes. And what we're going to be doing on the Sunday nights starting here going out is we're going to have a preaching schedule. Of course, Chris will continue what he's working through. Hans will be preaching from time to time. And when I'm on the preaching schedule, I'm going to be going to the book of Ecclesiastes. And uh if you're following our anchored in the word studies, you'll see that that's where I'm going through right now. I'm going through the book of Ecclesiastes. However, The depth that I'd like to get into in some of these studies, really I'm not able to do that in a 10, 15, occasionally 20 minutes But generally we're in that twelve, fifteen minute range uh daily devotional. And the truth is that some of the things that we get into on a very surface level and those anchored in the word studies I think we really need to dig into them. I think we need to really understand and unpackage some of those truths that are in front of us And tonight we're going to do that. And what's really interesting is tonight not only are we starting our study in the book of Ecclesiastes, but we're going to be doing it on a night that we're going to be remembering the death of Christ. His shed blood on our behalf, his body that was broken for us. And one of the things that we're going to do as we dig into the passage in front of us is we're going to see if all there was was the here and now If it wasn't for the cross of Christ, if it wasn't for eternity, if it wasn't for the gospel, the reality is our lives would be absolutely meaningless. They would be an endless toil, and we would simply say, When this is done, what's the point of it all? And basically what we're going to see this evening is that as Solomon looks at life And as he reflects on his experience under the sun, he's going to say that's the way that life is. However, as we dig into the book, we're going to see that Solomon recognizes there's a lot more than just what you can see. There's a lot more than just the endless drudgeries that we experience on a daily basis. Actually, there is value in what we're doing. There is an eternal significance to what we're doing. And we're going to talk a little bit about that this mor or this evening as we dig into the text in front of us. So with that in mind, let's begin in verse number one. The words of the preacher, the son of David, king in Israel, or in Jerusalem, Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. What profit hath a man of all his labor which he taketh up under the sun? Solomon begins the book of Ecclesiastes with this very important question What profit hath a man in all his labors which he taketh up under the sun? And the reality is by the end of the book, he's going to say, Let me tell you the conclusion of the whole matter Fear God, keep his commandments, that is the whole duty of man, for God will bring into judgment all of what man has done And basically what Solomon's going to say is, if it's not for God in eternity, there is no point to the endless trials of life. But because I know there's a God, and I know there's an eternity, and I know there's a judgment, then what I'm doing actually matters. And so I need to live wisely according to godly wisdom in this broken world. And I need to actually enjoy the good gifts of God in this broken world. And so He wants us to live life as God intended it. So the purpose of the text in front of us, or the main point of the section, is to introduce a discussion on the reality of living in a fallen world. And how to relate wisely to God, people, and circumstances during this short period of time we call our lives. God wants us to realize that life is meaningless apart from the gospel. This evening, as we remember the Lord's death until he comes, when we drink that juice, when we take that bread, and we drink it and we eat it. We are remembering that the reason that life has value and the reason that what we're doing matters is because there's a cross that means redemption. So very important. So, how can we have this reality settled in our hearts this evening? How can we be convinced and reminded and worship God with the reminder that life apart from the gospel is meaningless? And because there's the gospel, there's a reason to rejoice tonight. And so let's rejoice together. How can we have that reality settled and resonating in our hearts? Well, here's the first truth we're going to look at. And really what this is, is this is an introduction to laying out perspective on the book of Ecclesiastes. The first truth is this, God's world is a very good world. This morning we sang a song. This is my father's world, and to my listening ears all nature sings, and round me rings the music of the spheres. I love that song. It's a very pleasant song. It just kind of flows in a melodious way, and it reminds us of the beauty and the order and the wisdom of God's creation. I want you to realize in the midst of the chaos and the sin and the struggles we see is the beauty and order of God's creation. And when God made the world and everything in it, he said at the end of it all, it's good. And so I want to remind you of that tonight. The first thing we're going to see is that God created everything with a good, eternal purpose. Genesis 1. In the beginning, God. Created the heavens and the earth. Verse 31, it says, And God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. When God saw the creation on that final day and he looked at over everything he made, he said, This is a good creation. He enjoyed it. He delighted in it. It brought him pleasure and enjoyment. In John chapter 1, verse 3, it says, In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by Him, without Him was not anything made that was made. I want to remind you tonight that God created a good world. In spite of sin and the struggles that we face on a daily basis in our personal life, God created a good world. In spite of what appears like an endless drudgery for us at periods of life, God created a good world. And it's not just that God created a good world, but God literally preserves and maintains that world. It says in Colossians chapter 1 verse 17, he says, He is before all things, and by him all things consist. When he says that all things consist by him, the idea is it's not just that God made the world, but literally he takes care of that world. He preserves that world. He is personally, intimately involved in this world. You know, we see natural disasters and chaos that take place, and we say, why did God do that? Maybe the question we should ask is, why does God hinder those things from happening so much? The reality is it's his care on this world that keeps us from self-destructing. It's what keeps this world going. He's not just the maker of all things, but he is the sustainer of all things. Literally, we feed and we move and we have our very breast by the power of God's goodness. And we're reminded of that this evening A second fact that I want you to see tonight is this. We have value because God gave it to us. That's a really important truth. We have value because God gave it to us. When I think about the secular perspective that says I am not created by God and in his image, I'm simply the result of random change over billions and billions of years. I asked the question, then where does your value come from? How do you have value if you don't have a creator who ascribes to you that value and that works? What makes you different than all of the rest of creation? If you're just the result of random chance, then the question is answered with, I don't know. But I have good news for you. God tells us that He made us with a purpose And he ascribed to us value, and we see that in Genesis 1, 26 and 27. Listen carefully to what the scriptures tell us. God said Let us make man in our image, after our likeness, and let them have dominion. Later on it says, so God created man in his own image, and the image of God created he him, male and female created he them. And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it. Now I want you to realize in those short verses that I read, and I abbreviated it, there's a lot more there, but I wanted to hit kind of the highlight points of what we see in that scripture. It gives us so much information about our value, our dignity, our purpose, why we should be driven to live in a way that pleases God in this world. He talks about the source of our dignity and our value. He says, let us make man in our image and after our likeness. When God made you and when God made me He made us in his image. We reflect him in a way that no other part of creation actually reflects God. In fact, it's interesting. We come in Genesis Chapter six and he talks about capital punishment. Actually, chapter nine, after the flood. One of the things that he says is the reason that God required capital punishment for murder was because he created man in his own Image. That's where our value comes from. That's where our dignity, our worth comes from. One of the reasons that we believe that we should be pro-life is because man was made in the image of God. It's what separates us from everything else in creation. A second thing that stands out. The question is, what is the source of our sense of responsibility? Why does it matter if you work? Why does it matter if you create things? Why does it even matter if you're an industrious person or not? Well, the reality is if you have a secular perspective, the only thing that will drive you To work hard is the fact that you might not get food on your table unless somebody gives it to you. But as Christians, we have a different purpose that drives us to be responsible. Notice what he says. Let them have dominion. God gave us responsibility in this world. He wants us to work. He wants us to manage. He wants us to think. He wants us to be industrious. That's a part of God's original design. And so our value and our sense of responsibility, it comes from God, and it's stated in the very first verses of the Bible. Where is the source of our role distinction? Why do we say that God created male and female? Why are there only two genders instead of 70 genders? Because that's the way God made it. Notice what it says. God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him, male And female. It's that simple. God made two genders, male and female. And it's not just that He made those two genders, but He made those two genders distinct for a reason. He actually had a purpose in that design. It was God's design. It was God's will. It was God's purpose. One of the reasons that we have so much confusion in our culture today is because we have lost the sense that God made the world and everything in it with a purpose. He designed it that way for a reason. And when we mess that, we lose the glory of God's purposes. What impacts do we really have on this world? You know, we live 70, 80, 90 years. I don't know how long I'll live on this earth. I don't know how long you're gonna live on this earth. But at the end of it all, we're gonna die and there's gonna be a tombstone there, and it's gonna say, here's the day that she was born Here's the day that he was born. Here's the day that they were that they died. And here's something about their life. And that's the end of it. And the question is, what mark do you leave on this generation? What's interesting is he tells us. He says, be fruitful and multiply. In other words, when we get married, when we have children, we raise up a home, we leave a heritage behind us. What an amazing concept that God allows us. And by the way, I know that raising kids is a tough season of life because I'm in the midst of that season. But the reality is if you raise your children and you go through life and you actually have put in them things that carry with them for the rest of their lives, I'm sure that's a very sweet and powerful thing to see. Yeah, I think about when I get together with my mom and dad, and we had our struggles over the years, I promise you. We had our struggles. As every parent does with their children. That was a rhetorical comment. Not meant none of your children are in here to hear that, I'm sure. Alright. I'm really off track now. Alright. Thank you, Chad. One of the things that I've seen is how much joy it brings my mom and dad when they see me and my siblings serving the Lord. That doesn't mean that everybody's in the ministry necessarily, but seeing us do what's right, I can see it in their eyes. I can see it when they hold their grandkids and they play with their grandkids. The reality is when God created us, male and female, when he created marriage and he created family, he says, be fruitful and multiply and fill this earth, what was he doing? He was saying, here's a way for you to leave a mark on the generations. It's an amazing concept. It's part of God's good plan. What gives us eternal significance? In verse 7, he says, the Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground, and he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. And man became a living soul. What an interesting statement. As we study the soul in the Bible, one of the things that we see is when God creates us a living soul. That's a soul that is eternal. It's going to spend eternity somewhere. And God intended for us to know him and to enjoy him forever. And so we see the eternal significance of the human being created in the image of God because God makes him in his image and he makes him a living soul. Eternal significance. The last thing I'll mention in this passage is that God is the one who created, defined, and blessed marriage. In Genesis chapter 2, verses 18 to 24, it says. The Lord God said, It's not good that the man should be alone. I will make him and help me for him. And the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam and he slept And he took one of his ribs and clothed up the flesh instead thereof, and the rib which the Lord had taken from man made he a woman and brought her unto the man Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall cleave unto his wife, and they shall be one flesh. We talk about this thing called marriage. It's not society that determines what marriage is It's not the it's not society that says, This is what we will recognize as marriage. God made marriage. Just like God created us in his image and just like God created us with a purpose. And just like God gave us gender and role distinctions, God made marriage and God blessed marriage and he defined marriage and he did it for a reason. You say, well, Pastor, why in the world are we talking about this in Ecclesiastes? Because for us to understand Ecclesiastes We need to understand the goodness of God's plan and how sin affected that good plan. We need to understand how God's good creation and all these tremendous blessings that we're able to see in those first verses of Genesis. how they were marred by sin. And so that moves us to a third truth, and that's that sin has marred God's good creation. Now when we say it's marred his creation, what I mean is not that the creation is gone or that the creation is worthless. We 're rather saying that the creation now is infected with a problem. It's almost as if when you're a young person and you're healthy and you're strong and you get sick, that sickness affects you in every single way. And it doesn't mean that your life is over. It just means that you're a healthy person, a vibrant person now is affected by that sickness. And the reality is that God's creation that is good and orderly and beautiful and glorious to behold is affected by sin. In Romans 5, 12 it says, by one man. Sin entered the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. I think one of the best ways that you and I can understand the effects of sin on the world is to look at the first two chapters where we see sin introduced into the world. Genesis 2 and Genesis 3. And the reason that I'm going to talk about these things is because I want you to see how the effects of sin on the world are part of what cause us to feel that the world that we're living in has a hopelessness to it. Has a vanity to it. In other words, the reason we get that sense in our work and in our duties and in our families and what we do on our day-by-day basis, it's because of the effect of sin on God's creation. In other words, if we didn't have sin in the world, we would not have the Ecclesiastes' perspective. The Ecclesiastes perspective is a result of observation in a fallen world. And so let's look at a couple of details here. The first thing we're going to see is Genesis 2, 15 to 17. Then we're going to jump into chapter 3. And we're going to see how man responded to God and his circumstances when he sinned. It says this, the Lord God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden, thou mayest freely eat. But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it, for in the day that thou eatest thereof, thou shalt surely die. Now we want to ask this question. When God said, Adam, you're going to die, well, what does he mean by that? What he means is that your relationship between me and you is going to be broken immediately. The goodness of creation is going to be marred by the fall. You are going to begin this process of corruption and eventually physical death. You are going to return to the dirt. Your body will return to the dust. And your spirit will go to be with me or somewhere else. You're going to be held accountable for your actions That's what he meant. But I want you to see it with your eyes so that we can actually see the effects of the fall in motion as Adam sinned. Look with me in Genesis chapter 3, and I want you to see when Adam and his wife took that fruit and they ate that fruit. I want you to see how it affected them immediately. As soon as sin entered that world, I want you to see the effects, and I want you to think about how they actually have bearing on our discussion in Ecclesiastes. The first thing we'll mention is we see shame. In verse 7 of chapter 3, it says, The eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked, and they sowed fig leaves together, and they made themselves aprons. Why do they have this sense? of I need to cover myself and hide. It's because of shame. They'd never experienced that before. Yeah, here were here was this couple living in the Garden of Eden, unclothed. They felt no shame at all. Yet after one decision, they feel like they have to cover themselves. They feel like they have to hide from God's presence. They don't want to look at him. They don't want to speak to him. They feel shame because of sin. We think about broken relationships in verse 8. It says they heard the voice of the Lord God, and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God. Here, God has fellowshiped with Adam and Eve, and we have no idea for how long they were in the garden enjoying communion with God unhindered by any distraction, any kind of sinful hindrance. Yet now it's all of a sudden a totally different scenario. God says, Adam, where are you? And he's hiding. We see an inability to enjoy the good gifts of God. God created marriage. God created the perfect woman for the perfect man. And he put them together in the perfect environments. And he gave them responsibilities that they could perfectly fulfill. Yet, what do we see when God says, Adam, what have you done? This is what he says. The man said , The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat. What does that tell you? He indicted his wife. In other words, this good gift of God, marriage, relationship, it's broken. He can't enjoy that fellowship with his wife. Instead, he wants to pin it all on her. We see an unwillingness to take responsibility. We actually see that in what Adam says, but we also see that in what Eve says. In verse 13, it says, The woman said The serpent beguiled me and I did eat. We see pain and sorrow in verse 16 when God begins to explain the consequences of the fall. This is what he says. Unto the woman, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception. In sorrow shalt thou bring forth children. Where does that pain come from? Where does that sorrow come from? It's a result of the fall. In verse 16, he says, Thy desire shall be unto thy husband. And the idea is that she's going to be discontented with the role that she's supposed to play in her family. Where does that discontentment come from? It comes from the fall. And verse 17, he talks to Adam and he says, Curse is the ground, for thy sake and sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life. And he says you're going to experience frustration. Where does that frustration and our work come from? It comes from the fall In verse 18, he says, Storms and thistles shall it bring forth to thee. He talks about the inefficiency of Adam's work. Where does that inefficiency come from? It comes from the fall. And then in verse 19, he talks about this sense of futility. In the sweat of thy face Shalt thou eat bread till thou return into the ground, for out of it wast thou taken for dust thou art and unto dust thou shalt return And so we see an inability to enjoy God's gifts, pain and sorrow, discontentment, injustice, frustration, inefficiency, the sense of futility, all of that is wrapped up in the fall of mankind. And so when we come to the book of Ecclesiastes, what do we see? We see mankind who's frustrated. We see mankind who does not seem to be able to enjoy the good gifts of God. We see mankind doesn't want to be responsible and do his work for a good purpose. We see pain and sorrow. We see injustice. We see discontentment. We see this sense of futility. We see this inefficiency. And the question is why? It's because of the fall. And so that moves us to our fourth truth. Life without God is meaningless. It really is. Living in a fallen world, having no sense of God, having no knowledge of the gospel. having no understanding of redemption and forgiveness and salvation and eternity with God and God taking this creation that is fallen and marred and he's gonna burn it, he's gonna create a new heaven and a new earth And we're gonna enjoy it forever. If you don't have that sense, life is meaningless. It really is It's futility. And I want you to notice the words of the preacher. He says the words of the preacher, Ecclesiastes 1. the son of David, the king in Jerusalem. Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. What prophet had the man Of all his labor which he taketh under the sun. There are four statements that really stand out in this this these couple of verses. The first is this It's the words of the preacher. These words are not simply a discussion or a lecture. It's not just a series of musings. But the reason that this was written was to preach to us. It was to say, don't live life under the sun without God. It's a waste. It's empty. It's drudgery. It's painful. In other words, he says this book is meant to preach to us. It's meant to call us to decision. It's meant to call us to change. How we look at life and how we respond in circumstances. These are the words of the preacher. The second phrase that really stands out to me talks about the perspective of the writer. He's the son of David, the king in Jerusalem. The writer of this book is a man who is uniquely positioned to see things that you and I would not normally be able to see Things that the average person living in Israel during that time period would have never been able to see, a perspective that was unique and different from everybody else's. He had a godly father, yet a very flawed father, a father who sinned terribly, a father who brought all kinds of pain and suffering into his family because of poor choices that he made But still a man that understood redemption and loved God. Very unique perspective. And we see that he had the opportunity as a king to be in a position to actually change things. Yet at the same time, he sees the emptiness of it. And he's going to express that. And as we dig into this passage, as we look at lots of different interesting statements, we say, a king said that? The answer is yes. He said that because there are certain things in life you can't control, even if you're the most powerful person on the planet. There's still someone greater than you. You still have your limits. And Solomon will express that. The third phrase that really stands out to us is the theme of the book: Vanity of vanity, saith the preacher. Vanity of vanities. is vanity. Life is empty. It's repetitive. It's mysterious. It's complex. It's futile. Apart from God. If all you have is what you can hold in your hands. If all you have is the experience of this moment between the day you're born and the day you die, if there's no God, if there's no eternity. Life is empty. It really is. And he's going to express that over and over and over again. You know, as modern men, we think that we can somehow break this reality, but once you realize we can't do it We have so many people that believe we need to change society. We need to give people more money. We need to make people more educated. We need to make life more pleasurable. We need to philosophize a little bit more. And I want you to realize societal change, money, education, pleasure, philosophy, they cannot change this reality. Try to live life apart from God, it's empty. It's meaningless. Has no lasting value. His point is that without God in eternity, life is an endless drudgery The fourth thing I'll mention is this. There's a philosophical question that we must answer. What profit hath a man in all his labors, which he taketh under the sun? The truth is, if God is not a part of the equation, the answer is I don't know. That's really the truth. The answer is I don't know. Or the answer will be, it's pointless. If God is not in the picture, that's the way life is. But I want to remind you of how he closes the book. Ecclesiastes twelve thirteen. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God, keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man, for God shall bring every work into judgment with every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. I want to remind you of the words of 1 Corinthians 15. Paul writes, Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also you received, and wherein you stand, by which also you are saved. And verses nineteen and twenty he says, If in this life we have uh if in this life only we have hope in Christ, we're of all men most miserable. But now is Christ risen from the be the dead and become the first fruits of them that slept Verses 51 and following, he says, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. This corruptible must put on incorruption. This mortal must put on immortality. Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. Death where is thy stink? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Folks, there's a reason to rejoice. You say my job is an endless drudgery. Well, it is without God. You say, I look at the repetitiveness of life and I say, what's the point? There is none without gods. But today, we're remembering his body broken. Because of the gospel, your work actually has value. Your life actually has purpose. There is actually a meaning to what appears to be an endless drudgery. There's really an eternity to come. You are going to enjoy the benefits of the gospel that Christ has done for us. There is a reason. He says it this way. Therefore, based on what I just told you about the gospel My beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know that your labor is not, it is not in vain in the Lord I'm sure every person in this room has been here, may be here, will be here, where you look at life and you say, you know, this seems like an endless rut that I'm in. This endless repetitive cycle is so frustrating. And I feel overwhelmed and I say, what's the point? And the Bible calls us back to this text in front of us and says, because of the gospel, our labor is not in vain in the Lord. Tonight I want us, as we remember the death of Christ, his bloodshed, his body broken The fact that there is an empty team, as we remember the Lord's death until he comes, we will remember that it is because of the gospel that our lives are not an endless, empty cycle of vanity. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, we are so grateful that in the midst of life's challenges and struggles and trials, endless trials sometimes. In our darkest moments, the moments where we feel as if our lives are just meaningless spinning of our wheels. At those moments, we can be reminded again that our labor is not in vain in the Lord. Father, help us to live each moment. And light of eternity. Help us to remember that our value is ascribed to us by you. Help us to remember that our lives have purpose and design. That our labors are meant to bring glory to you. Father, help us to live life in the reality of eternity. As we remember Christ's death, his body broken, his blood shed, I pray that our hearts would treasure this gospel message. That we would be overcome with gratitude and humility. Father, may we turn from sin and purpose to walk in holiness. May we be joyful. May we worship you this evening as we think about the power of the gospel. Father, I pray that this would be a sweet time of reflection this evening. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen