Are anchored in the word morning reflection. Today we are back in Ecclesiastes chapter twelve. In fact, uh we are almost finished with our study in the book of Ecclesiastes. We have today and we have tomorrow. And then we have finished the book. So I'd like to invite you to look with me at verses 5 through 11 today. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verses 5 through 11. He says, When they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fear shall be in the way, the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail. Because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about in the streets, or even the silver cord be loosed, and the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto the God who gave it. Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher, all is vanity And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge, yea he gave good heed and sought out and set in order many proverbs. The preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written was upright, even words of truth. The words of the wise are as goads and as nails fastened by the master of assemblies which are given from one shepherd. And furthermore, by these, my son, be admonished, and making many books, there's no end, much study is a weariness of the flesh. Now when we come to this passage this morning, we can really summarize it with just one very simple statement. We will all one day meet our Maker. And so what Solomon's going to do is he's going to talk about the painful reality of death. He's going to emphasize that life is short. He's going to talk about that. In fact, yesterday when we talked about the fact that The season of life that we have when we have strength, vitality, opportunity is short. The other reality is not only are those seasons short, but this thing that we call our life is short as well. And just like we have a short time to actually have strength and energy, the fact is one day we're going to die. One day we're going to meet God. And we need to be prepared for that reality. And so Solomon's going to lay out several facts in this text in front of us that help us to think clearly, rationally, biblically, to have godly wisdom when it comes to this issue of death. So let's look at some of the things that he says. The first thing that he shows us is that death is sure, yet it it is an uncomfortable reality In verses five and six he says Desire will fail because man goeth to his long home, and mourners will go about the streets. The silver cord will be loose, the golden bowl broken, the pitcher broken at the fountain or the wheel broken at the system. He emphasizes really two things about death. One is that man is going to his long home In other words, as he lives his life and as he begins to lose his strength and lose his opportunities, as he gets to the end of his life, he begins to recognize that there's a reality setting in. I'm going to go and I'm going to enter into eternity. And when he compares eternity to our lives on the earth, he says, one is short and one is empty and one is long. And the fact is that we are going to spend eternity somewhere. And Solomon is emphasizing that. The second thing that we see is that he talks about mourners going about in the streets. He's basically saying that when a person goes on and enters their long home and a person passes into eternity, the people that are left here, who are separated from them for a period of time, they mourn. In fact, death is a very painful reality. It's painful for those who are going through it. It's painful for those who are anticipating it. It's painful for those who are now separated from family. And so when he talks about death, though he knows this is a sure thing we will face, he really emphasizes that it is an uncomfortable thing. It's a difficult thing for us to face. In fact, we even see it further emphasized by four metaphors that he uses for death. He says the silver cord is loose, the golden bowl is broken, the pitcher is broken at the fountain, the wheel broken at the cistern. You say, well, what is he talking about? A silver cord being loosed, a golden bowl being broken. The truth is that we don't really know for sure what those things mean other than that these are metaphors for death. One of the things that we will see when we study, particularly ancient Near Eastern talk about death, is that many times rather than speaking very directly about death and just calling it what it is There are metaphors, there are pictures that are used because people really do have an uncomfortable time talking about this reality. It's not an easy thing to face. And so when he talks about it in a metaphorical way, it's an indication that this is a very sensitive and difficult The second fact that we're going to see in the passage is that our bodies will decompose, yet we will go to be with God. And verse 70 says, Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was, and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it. Now when Solomon uses the term, we're going to return to the dust, he's he's really going back to what happened in creation. It says that the Lord God formed man from the dust of the ground, and he breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. And so what he's basically saying is God took the dirt and he formed a man and he created him in his own image and he gave him life. In other words, he's recognizing that when we die, our bodies will decompose and will go back to their former place. They were dirt, and that's what they become again. But he talks about the fact that God gave life and that life goes to be with him. When we talk about the death of a Christian, we see that absent from the body means being present with the Lord. And so what we see is that Solomon's not just talking about the fact that our bodies will decay, but that we will go to be with God. And that is very important. And by the way, when he uses that kind of terminology He's referring to that of the believer, the Christian, the one who's embraced the gospel message. While he's not explicitly stating that in this text, because this is not a text talking about Now the resurrection or talking about how a person becomes a Christian, this text is giving an indication that Solomon understands believers go to be with God. The third fact we see is this. This reality leaves us with a sense that life is like the wind. And verse 80 says, Vanity of vanity all is vanity. As Solomon reflects on life, and he reflects on the reality of death. It's a very painful reality. It's something we don't like to think about, something that we don't like to talk about. It's something that makes us uncomfortable. He says, you know what life is? It's vanity. It's empty. It's short. It's like the wind. It comes. It goes. You say, what happened with all the time? He said, that's how I feel. Well then he moves to a fourth fact, and this is extremely important, because this really is at the heart of what Solomon's trying to communicate in this passage. And by the way, this is at the heart of what he's going to indicate at the end of the book when we talk about that final section tomorrow. We need to constantly be reminded of these facts and have our perspective shaped by God's word. In verses 9 through 11, this is what Solomon writes. Because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge. Yea, he gave good heed and sought out and set in order many proverbs. The preacher sought to find out acceptable words, and that which was written was upright, even words of truth. The words of the wise are goads, and as nails fastened by the master of assemblies, which given which are given from one shepherd. It's interesting that when Solomon writes these words, he's indicating that he feels that he is in a position of not just the preacher. The one who's teaching and compelling people to respond to the information that he's given. But he's that of a shepherd. A shepherd is someone who cares for someone who is dependent. A shepherd is one who's looking out for the well-being of others. And so Solomon says, as the wise one, as the sage, as the man who's lived life and has learned a lot I want to teach. I want to invest in the people that are coming behind me. I want to shepherd their souls. I want to point them in the right direction. And so even though this is an uncomfortable topic, Solomon's going to address the topic because he knows that we need to hear about this topic. We need to be in informed about this topic. this This is something that we need to actually be shaped by a biblical perspective. And it's also interesting the similes that he uses. He says it is as a goad, it is as a nail that is fastened. And he talks about two ways that godly instruction and wisdom help us in this area. When he talks about it being a goad, the idea is that it prods us in the right direction. There are times in life that we begin to deviate from where we need to be. We begin to drift. And what do we need? We need someone to press us so that we get back into line. It's like a person who's herding cattle and that cat that that huge animal begins to move in one direction and he sticks him in the side so that he moves back where he needs to be. He says That's what the words of the wise are. They prod us, they point us back into the right direction. But then the second illustration he gives is a really interesting one. He says, there is a nail that is fastened by the master of assemblies. Well, what is the purpose of a nail when you're fastening something? It's to give it stability so that it doesn't fall off, so it doesn't move. It's to give it a permanence so that it stays where it's supposed to be. And so he says the words of the wise don't just get us back on track. But the words of the wise give us stability. The fact is that there's going to be a day that we walk through the valley of the shadow of death. And if we have embraced the words of the wise, we will fear no evil, because He is with us His rod and staff will comfort us. And so Solomon is indicating that this is a topic, while it's uncomfortable, it's a reality we have to face. And it's a reality that we have to face biblically. So you may be sitting here this morning and you say, well, Pastor, how can we practically think about this lesson before us? I want to share with you two final passages of Scripture. that I think are so extremely important when it comes to this issue of thinking about the reality of death. An uncomfortable reality, a painful reality, but in fact it is something we will all face. The first is 1 Thessalonians 4, verses 13 to 14. This is what the scriptures say. I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. That's those who have died. That you sorrow not, even as those which have no hope. Now, Paul never says that you don't sorrow. He doesn't say that that death is not a painful thing to go through. He says, when you sorrow, you sorrow not like the world who has no hope. He says, if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also would sleep in Jesus Will God bring with him? And at the end of the passage he says, therefore comfort one another with these words. The fact is what gives a person stability in the face of death Is the reality of the gospel. Like Christ died and rose from the dead, those who sleep in Jesus, God will bring with him. If you are a Christian and you are thinking about this reality of death, while you recognize that it is an uncomfortable thing to consider, you also recognize that as Christians we have hope. We don't sorrow as those without hope, because we recognize that God is going to bring us to be with Him We recognize that's what the gospel is a hullapow. It's not just about forgiveness of sins and escape from eternal destruction and hell It's not just about escaping the reality of the weight of our sin and what we deserve, eternal death, but it's about glory, it's about eternity with God. It's about heaven. It's about a new heaven and a new earth where God is going to allow us to be with him forever. And so this is something that can comfort us. In 1 Corinthians 15, the scriptures actually lay it out even more clearly. He says, Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we all shall be changed. This corruptible must put on incorruption. This mortal must put on immortality. Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. When Solomon talks about the words of the wise being goads and being a nail that fastens something, that's exactly what Paul is talking about in 1 Corinthians 15. He says, it's true that death is a painful reality. It's true that there is sorrow associated with death, but we don't sorrow as those with no hope We can comfort one another as we face the valley of the shadow of death. We can fear no evil because he's with us. We can be steadfast, we can be unmovable, we can be always abounding in the work of the Lord. Why? Because death is being conquered by the grave. Death is being conquered by the resurrection of Christ When Christ conquered death in his resurrection, he guaranteed that we, his children, will as well. And so I want to leave you with that word of tremendous encouragement. That though death is a painful reality, the grave has been conquered by the cross and the empty tomb. Let's comfort one another with these words today. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to think biblically about what is a very difficult reality. We will all face this reality one day, and I pray that you will help us. to face it with minds that are shaped by the scriptures. Father, if there's even one person who listens to this message today Who does not know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior, who's not placed their faith in His cross, His finished work, His righteousness. and his resurrection, that they will recognize that the only place to find hope in death is the gospel. That they would turn to you in repentance and faith and be saved. And I pray for every Christian that is thinking of this reality, I pray that our hearts would be shaped by the Bible and would be comforted in the midst of trouble. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to talk to you this morning. I hope that these words have been a challenge and encouragement to you. I hope that you'll share that with someone who needs that encouragement today. Have a blessed day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we will finish our study in Ecclesiastes. Bye now.