Let's go ahead and go to the Lord in prayer, and then we're gonna begin our Bible um Bible study for tonight. Father, we we thank you for allowing us to be in your house this evening, for getting us safely with the snowy weather outside. keeping everyone that's here safe for uh the safety of everybody at home. I pray that you would uh allow your your Holy Spirit to work through uh what you have for us tonight in your word. I thank you for uh the many folks that are here, those that are uh at home not feeling well, I pray you would comfort and and strengthen their bodies, heal them, and allow your your Holy Spirit to continue to minister to them beyond tonight in whatever way you seem fit. For it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. All right. So we're going to go ahead and be in First Samuel chapter thirteen. First Samuel thirteen. I'm used to being in the back, so please bear with me as I I 'm uh unaccustomed to the format of the Wednesday nights for the adults. Don't worry, we won't sing any any c children's songs or anything Alright, 1 Samuel chapter 13. Just to provide some context here. What we're looking at in chapter 13 is really something that's happening in the early parts of the reign of King Saul. So this is actually the second year of his reign. He and his uh son Jonathan are waging war against the Philistines who are encamped up in Mi'kmash And there are thousands and thousands, in fact there are as many as the sand of the seashore in th this Philistine army. And the Israelites seeing this turn tail and flee. They go AWOL. Um some of them even goes and flee the country. They're they're terrified. And those that stuck around to be with Saul They're actually still sitting there terrified of what's in front of them. And this this is what what uh King Saul has to work with. In fact, those that he even has, they they have nothing more than than farm tools to help them fight. They're they're very limited in their resources. But you know what? God God loves to work with with folks when They find themselves limited in their resources, whether that's you know materially or personally, they when people find themselves limited, that often tends to be the The time when God demonstrates his power and his might and his ability to carry out his will So I I I think of like when I was deployed last year early early on in fact when I arrived at my outposts, there was no chapel, there was no chaplain. Uh there were no ministries on that outpost. In fact, at at the time I didn't know a single Christian around me. And so I sat there and thinking, you know, with my you know, in my ignorance really, that I c I can't have a ministry here. I have nothing to help me, I have nothing going for me. I I you know, there's no other Christians, no one else to be involved with. And I basically put myself in a hole thinking, I I can't I can't do anything here. And yet God in his patience and his long suffering and his providence brought about circumstances that, you know, he he brought a chaplain, he brought uh individuals into in in contact with me. And within three months there was a full fledged ministry going. And God demonstrated the fact that he was able to carry out his will there on that outpost in in East Africa. And it it was a wonderful, uh a wonderful thing. And I learned from it that, you know , God can can carry out his will even when I'm so limited and even so so blind to see. how powerful my God is. And when we look at the end of uh 1 Samuel chapter 13, going into chapter 14 , We end up seeing how God wants us to trust Him to accomplish His will, even when we find ourselves limited. in our abilities and our in our capacities. So let's go ahead and read here in chapter 13. We'll start in verse 16 And read on through the end of the chapter. It says, and Saul and Jonathan his son and the people were that were present with them abode in Gibeah of Benjamin, but the Philistines encamped in Mi'kmash. And the spoilers-poilers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies. One company turned unto the way that leadeth to Ophrah, unto the land of Shual. And another company turned the way to Bethorn, and another company turned to the way of the border that looketh to the valley of Zebuim toward the wilderness. Now there was no smith found throughout all of the land of Israel, for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make themselves swords or spears. But all the Israelites went down to the Philistines to sharpen every man his share, and his cultor, and his axe, and his mattock. Yet they had a file for the mattocks and for the coltors, and for the forks, and for the axes and to sharpen the goads. So it came to pass on the day of battle that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan. But with Saul and Jonathan, his son, was there found. And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of N'Qmash. So God wants us to trust Him to accomplish His will, even when we find ourselves limited. And there's three ways, three aspects to trusting God that we find in both chapters 13 and 14. where we can see how we can trust God to carry out his will. The first way is by using the resources which which God gives us. Well we see in verses 16 to 21 that the Israelites had just basically farm tools. They had axes, they had ox, you know, their ox goes which kind of like a spear, but You think, you know, if you've ever been to a farm, you're used to seeing rusty tools, things that have been sitting around, they're they're You know, they're probably usable, but if you try to take it into battle and fight with it against a man with a sword that you know you know, may may have been recently forged and sharpened and prepared for battle, well that far 's gonna break and you're gonna be in trouble But even though they were able to to sharpen them, these these were old worn-out tools that they likely use for farming. But Israel they they used what God gave them. They went the at least the ones that stuck around with Saul, they they were ready to go to war and allow God to carry out his plan in defeating the Philistines and destroying the Philistines. Now, when we find ourselves limited in what we materially possess, it can be pretty easy to excuse ourselves from trying to do what God wants us to do. You know, when when we don't have the the money to to do something or when we don't have, you know, wha whatever it is, it can be easy to say, well, you know what, maybe maybe it's not God's will for me to do But we cannot shirk from our calling when God has called us to use what He has given us. We can trust that God, what God has given us, can be used to accomplish His will. But not just the Israelites had to use what God gave them. So so did Saul and Jonathan. You think the king and the prince of Israel would have all the resources they needed to do what they needed to do, but in fact They were the only ones with swords. Now you think, oh great, they had swords. That's good. Well those two guys couldn't fight an army the size of the sand of the sea. shore. They in fact if you think okay they had an army, well their army was, you know, really shrunk down and hiding in their foxholes shaking and trembling and they were freaking out. The their resources were limited. And they they didn't look around and say, well, you know, maybe you know everybody just go home, forget it, you know we'll we'll just we'll l let things happen the way they're gonna happen. No, they they stood their ground. They were prepared to go into battle. And You know what they they relied on who they had around them. Saul and Jonathan, they didn't turn tail and fle flee. They stayed right there, ready to lead their people into the fight. Now none of us is really called to do that. Um I don't think we're we're leading the army of Maryland up to to Pennsylvania. I think we would lose that battle. But um as the body of Christ, as a church, we too are dependent upon others to accomplish what God has called us to to do. Some of us may even be be better equipped than other believers. Someone, you know, someone may be smarter than you, someone may be stronger than you, someone may be more res resilient as you, someone may be better with words, more articulate than you. It it doesn't matter. As the body of Christ, we're called to be dependent upon each other. We are each other's resource because we're all called by God to accomplish his will. Not individually, but as the church. So we must work alongside believers whom God has placed in our midst to accomplish His will wherever we are. God is giving you the resources to accomplish his will. And all you've got to do is trust him by utilizing those resources. But there's another aspect to trusting God that we find in this passage, and that's the in order to trust God to carry out his will when we're limited, we need to seize the opportunities. which God gives us. Now look in chapter 14 with me. It says, Now it came to pass upon a day that Jonathan, the son of Saul, said unto the young man that bare his armor, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison that is on the other side. But he told not his father. And Saul tarried in the uttermost part of Gibeah under a pomegranate tree, which is in Migram. And the people that were with him were about 600 men. You want to talk about limited resources there? And Ahia and the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phineas, the son of Eli, the Lord's priest, in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone. And between the passages by which Jonathan sought to go over unto unto the Philistines' garrison, there is a sharp rock on the one side and a sharp rock on the other side. The name of one was Boses and the name of the other Sinah. The forefront of the one was situated northward against Mikmash, and the other southward over against Gibeah, and Jonathan said to the young man that bare his armor, Come and let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised. It may be that the Lord will work for us, for there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few And his armor bearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart. Turn thee. Behold, I am with thee according to thy heart. Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will discover ourselves unto them. If they say thus unto us, Tarry until we come to you, then we will stand still in our place, and we will not go up unto them. But if they say say thus, come up unto us, then we will go up. For the Lord hath delivered them into our hand, and this shall be a sign unto us And both of them discovered themselves into the garrison of the Philistines. And the Philistines said, Behold the Hebrews come forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves. And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armor bearer and said, Come up to us, and we will show you a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armor bearer, Come up after me, for the Lord hath delivered them into the hand of Israel. And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armor-bearer after him, and they fell before Jonathan, and his armor-bearer slew after him. And that first slaughter which Jonathan and his armor-bearer made was about twenty men, within, as it were, a half acre of land which a yoke of oxen might plough. I know I read a lot there, but there's two major things in in seizing those opportunities which God gives you that we learn from observing what Jonathan and his armor bearer did here. If you notice in the first ten verses, Jonathan, he saw a providential opportunity. Despite the fact that, you know, Jonathan was going to act without informing his his chain of command. He was going to inform King Saul. And he didn't get any substantial help. He did he he got his armor bearer, but he didn't call, you know, he saw twenty men. He didn't call eighteen other men to come and help him fight. Instead, he saw that there was an opportunity and he understood that though it would seem that he and his armor bearer were outnumbered, they had the God of Israel on their side. They had the God who was going to fight for them. And they could trust in their God to provide them with the opportunity in which he could display his power. You know, more often than not, you know, I I find myself seeing opportunities the wrong way. I see things that come up as challenges or problems Or things that, you know, either I can't overcome them or I'm just gonna complain about them. But you know what? When when those kind of things come up in life Rather than complain about them, rather than gripe about them, rather than looking at them and saying, This is hopeless, there's no point, there I shouldn't even bother with this. Rather, we should see them as opportunities to try Trust God to carry out what He has in store for whatever the situation calls for. Whatever the outcome of any opportunity, we should trust God to bring about the opportunities for us to trust him. You know what? We ought to be praying and looking for those opportunities to present themselves. Jonathan, he saw this opportunity. He he thought about it, he looked at it, he said, you know what, it may be that the Lord has given us this opportunity and we're going to seize it And that's what he did. He didn't just see the providential opportunity. He seized the providential opportunity. And verses 11 through 13. We see him revealing himself to these Philistines. They say, hey, come up here. And he says, you know what? This is God's battle. He's got this. We're gonna go and fight them. And those two men defeated 20 soldiers. And when we see an opportunity, we sometimes are inclined to sit and wait for God to do something rather than do something ourselves, right? We see an opportunity, but like, no, maybe Great if you know somebody you know more qualified, somebody godlier, somebody you know better read, somebody with a better temperament, what whatever it is. We may see see it as an opportunity for somebody else. But no, God brought opportunities in your life so that you could see him work, so that you could see him work. So seize those opportunities. When an opportunity arises, wisely proceed to seize that opportunity with full confidence That God will see you through its outcome, whatever that may be. That's what Jonathan, what Jonathan did. He didn't presume upon God. He simply saw the opportunity. As a chance for God to see reveal how powerful He was, how mighty He was to carry out His will. So so far in our pastures tonight, we've seen how trusting in God when we find ourselves limited is carried out. when we utilize what God given resources we've been given, and when we look and seize opportunities that God gives us. But there's a third aspect to trusting God that we we find ourselves when we find ourselves limited in our service, and that's by acknowledging The ways through which God works. You know, the world that they'll talk about seizing opportunities, they'll talk about use your resources. But as children of God, when things seem completely hopeless, when we think this I can't do anything about this Then we accept how God works. Because God works far and beyond what we could ever comprehend. And He reveals that to us in the remaining remainder of our passage. Notice in verse 15. After Jonathan's victory over the garrison, it says, and there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people. The garrison and the spoilers, they also trembled. And the earth quaked, so it was a very great trembling. And the watchman of Saul and Gidea of Benjamin looked, and behold, the multitude melted away, and they went on beating down one another Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Number now and see who has gone from us. And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armor bearer were not there. And Saul said unto Ahiah, Bring hither the ark of God, for the ark of God was at the time with the children of Israel, and it came to pass while Saul talked unto the priest, that the noise went on and increased. And Saul said to the priest, Withdraw thy hand. And Saul and all the people that were with him assembled themselves, and they came to the battle. And behold, every man's sword was against his fellow. And there was a very great discomfiture. Moreover, the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, which went up with them into the camp from the country round about , Even they also turned to be with the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan. Likewise, all the men of Israel which had hid themselves in the Mount of Iphraim. When they had heard the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle. So the Lord saved Israel that day, and the battle passed over into Beth Aven Listen, God, God worked mightily in this situation. When Israel, when the king, when the prince found themselves limited. They utilized what resources they had. They seized the opportunities that were presented to them. But then they saw God do something that was completely and totally just Him. The earth shook. The hearts of the Philistines were were turned around. They started attacking one another. They were panicked. They were anxious. They couldn't figure out what was going on. In fact, when Saul and the Israelites saw this happening, they couldn't figure out what was going on. And Saul was so confused that he called the priest to bring the ark of God just so he can figure out, you know, mm mm you know maybe we could offer sacrifice. I don't know what his reasoning was, but I know that he he was at a loss So much so that eventually he's like, you know what, forget the ark, we're just gonna go into battle. We we need to just do something. And they go into battle. But then you see at the very end, so the Lord saved Israel And that tells us God worked to incapacitate the Philistines. God defeated the Philistines. It's a it's it's remarkable. This is a remarkable event. These innumerable soldiers found themselves trembling after they had watched Israel's men trembling. But it it wasn't out of fear for Israel's small equipped army. It was for the fear of God. What was going on? Obviously the Israelites couldn't shake the earth. The earth was shaking beneath them. They were panicking. They couldn't help but run away from the battlefield out of terror for the God of Israel. You know what? Only God Himself can influence the hearts in such a providential way. And maybe you find yourself limited when you're working with people, when you see people, and you think, what can I do? With this situation. Well, how can I help this person? I'm I can't do anything. Listen, God works providentially today to Now I'm not saying you know you're gonna walk up to somebody and God's gonna put his fear into them and they're gonna start running away or you know, slaughtering one another. That's That's not what I'm saying. I'm saying God. God is working in people's lives. He's working in circumstances beyond just ourselves. And whenever you have doubts about what people are doing, what why people are doing things, whether you have the capacity, the ability to do anything about it , have a gift God, who says, hold on. I'm doing something about this. I'm working in this. You may not know how God is working. You may not see how God is working, but We can accept the fact that He is, because He is the sovereign, providential God of the Universe. We see his power displayed here. Not just in incapacitating the Philistines, but in the way he unified Israel against the Philistines. And to me to to me this is honestly even more remarkable than even the defeat of the i the Philistines. The Philistines start attacking each other and the Israelites they say, Alright, let's go into battle and those those six hundred men Go into the battlefield and start fighting these Philistines and some of the Israelites that had betrayed Israel and joined the Philistines, they said, Oh, I'm on the wrong side here. They turn around and they start fighting the Philistines And then the Israelites that are hiding in the mountains, the ones that went Abal, they say, something's going on over there. And they look and they say, Israel is defeating the Philistines. And they join the battle. And you know what? This unity, this this joining of the people together Yes, I understand this is during a part of King Saul's reign when he's starting to drop the ball. He's starting to mess things up. But you know what? That's an even greater testimony of the fact that this is God's doing. He unified Israel to go against the Philistines. It's only God that can do that. Only He could have brought about that kind of unity in that exact moment to save Israel that day. Now today, you know, the church isn't going into a battlefield to with you know ox goats and um axes, pickaxes. But the church is in a really real battle with the world in this very moment. And you might be looking around at it and saying What can we do? Our our our community, our country, our world is Completely astray. And what can the church do? We may look into spirit and wonder, why are we so limited? Why can't we do anything? And when we think that, we need to realize we have a God who's bigger than the church. We have a God. Who can bring the church together and can unify his church, his body to accomplish his will And we can accept that fact no matter how limited the church may seem. Because you know what? It's the Lord Jesus who ultimately does the work anyway. The Holy Spirit, working through us, carries out the sovereign will of our everlasting Father. It's the Lord who wins these battles. It's the Lord who teaches and enables our hands. To carry out his will at any given moment. So we can trust him. We don't have to look around in despair. We don't have to look around and grieve at our inability. To change the world, to change our communities, to change our nation. Because you know what? Ultimately, God is at work. He's going to carry out his will. In fact, he's carrying out his will right now. And we can trust him. In fact, God wants us to trust him To accomplish his will, even when we find ourselves limited. Now, more often than not, we'll we will in fact find ourselves limited It's we're human. We're limited. But by using the resources God gives us, by seizing the opportunities God gives us, and trusting the way He works. Then we can learn a little more each day how to build that trust Now perhaps you find yourself quite limited in how you serve God. Maybe you you you feel like the people around you are limited in serving God. You know what? You can Trust that God has given you every tool, every opportunity you need to follow through in your service to the Lord. You can accept that in all your time here on earth, our God is working. So no matter how limited you think you are, as Jonathan told his armor bearer, God is not limited to save by many or by few. And he will ensure that his will is accomplished. Let's trust him. Let's do that today. We go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you so much for the powerful truths revealed in the passage we looked at tonight, in your word, the awesome truth that we can trust you. Y awesome truth that you're at work, that your will will be accomplished. You are sovereign, and you're providentially working in us, in your body, in your church. In this world to accomplish your will. Father, in in all of us there is At least a little bit of doubt, a little bit of anxiety when we look at ourselves and see how limited we are, how much inability we have. But when we look at you, we know that you are not limited. And you seek to glorify yourself and reveal to us your glory in using us limited people to accomplish your will. We thank you for for all of this in Christ's name. Amen