Let's turn together to the book of 1 Corinthians again tonight, and we are in 1 Corinthians chapter 9, and we looked at verses 1 through 14 in our reading. last week, but rather than reading the entire section, I'd actually like to kind of focus in on the portion that we're going to look at tonight. And that is verses 7 through 13. So rather than reading the entire section, which it is kind of a unit that all works together, we're going to look at verses 7 through 13. Here's what Paul writes. Whoso goeth to war any time at his own charges? Who planteth the vineyard and eateth not the fruit thereof? Or who feedeth a flock and eateth not of the milk of the flock. Say I these things as a man, or saith not the law the same also? For it is written, in the law of Moses, thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. Does God take care for oxen, or saith he it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt. This is written, that he that ploweth should plough in hope, and he that thresheth in hope should be partaker of this hope. If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing that we shall reap of you carnal things? If others be partakers of this power over you, are not we rather? Nevertheless, we have not used this power, but suffer all things, lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ. Do you not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple, and they which wait at the altar are partakers with the altar. Even so hath the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel. All right, just so that we can kind of remember what we've talked about over the last little bit, last uh last last week, um we saw that kind of a basic summary of these verses is that ministers should faithfully demonstrate the truths that they proclaim. So Paul has given some very hard teaching to this church. And he's telling them that the way that they need to order their life, in fact, it's going to put them in some challenging places with their neighbors. It's going to put them in challenging places with those who they work. four. It's going to put them in challenging places potentially with those who are in the government over them. It may also put them in contention with people even within their own families. And so what Paul is saying is tough. He's talking about living a very distinctive Christian life. And that's something we need to always do. He's also going beyond the distinctiveness of the Christian life, and he's talking about issues of conscience. And so he's also saying, not only do you need to be distinct from your society, your culture, and you need to live in a distinctly Christian manner. But you also need to consider the consciences of the people that are around you. And so your behavior and the way that you live your life needs to not just consider, we could say, the basics of the decisions you make, but how they affect other people. The reason for that is you need to love the people around you. You should desire to minister to them. You should desire to reach them with the gospel. You should desire not to put a stumbling block in front of you. And so what Paul is saying is challenging. Lots and lots of things that we read in the Bible, in fact, they're not easy to do. It takes the grace of God working in our life to actually do those things the way that we're supposed to. And so what Paul does after giving this difficult teaching is he says, I want you to understand something. I'm not just telling you to do this. I'm showing you how to do it. The reason that he's doing that is to help them to realize that in fact he is not a hypocrite, but also to show them that this is something that they can do. And so he's exhorting them to follow his example, not because he's a perfect example, but because he is very conscientiously living his life. A great example is as parents, we should tell our children, here's how you walk with God, and to the best of our abilities, we're flawed people, but we're trying to do that. And so follow our example. That's really what we should be striving to do. And so Paul gives a whole series of examples. And this is under part number three. Okay? I'm going to remind you of the things that he said. In verse 1, he talks about the fact That he really deserved to be respected or honored on some level in the role that he had in ministry, but he didn't demand that. Verse number one, am I not an apostle? Am I not free? He's saying, Listen, the reason that you're a Christian is because I'm an apostle I came to this city, I preached the gospel to you, and there should be some basic level of appreciation, of respect. you should put some weight into what I'm saying. He's not saying that to kind of like puff himself up. He's simply saying, even though I have the right to expect that, even though that's the right thing for you to do, I'm still going to minister to you whether you do it or not That's him humbling himself. Or a second dis example is in verse number four, he says, Have we not power to eat and to drink? And he basically says there are dietary decisions that I make for the sake of ministry. If I'm going into a Gentile's home, I'm willing to eat the food that they put in front of me. Even though I grew up as a in a Jewish context There's certain foods I never ate. They were unclean to me. I don't like them. But to not create contention with a brother or someone I'm trying to lead to Christ, I'm going to lay aside that cultural tradition and I'm going to eat the food that's put in front of me and I'm going to do it because I want to connect with that person. Or I'm going to go into a Jewish home. And they're going to follow all these rules and all these regulations and all these rituals. And they're totally unnecessary. And I know they're unnecessary. But I'm willing to put up with that. Why? Because I want to reach these people. That's what he's saying. Third example was the issue of marriage, verse 5. Have we not the power to lead about a sister or a wife? In other words, a believing wife? As well as the other apostles as the brethren of the Lord and Cephas. So Paul was married, or Paul. Peter was married. He did have a mother-in-law. He mentions that as a casual statement there. And what he's basically saying is this, I do have the right to get married to a believing woman. In fact, look, many of the apostles are doing this, and they're traveling with their spouse. But for the sake of ministry, I'm choosing not to do it. That's what he's saying. And then the fourth thing that he mentions is the one that he's really going to park on here, and that's what we're going to break down tonight. And that is receiving financial support. In verse 6, he says Or I only and Barnabas have not we the power to forbear working. He's not saying I want to be a slacker. He's saying I have the right. Who as one who is ministering to you the Word of God to expect that you will make sure that my needs are met so that I can adequately minister to you in the Word, and because I minister to you in the Word, But I don't do that. Paul spends a lot of time breaking down this concept, and so we're going to do that tonight. Notice part number four. Paul's decision to work and to refuse financial support from the church We just read those verses, so I'm not going to read them again, verses 7 through 13, but I want us to just kind of work our way piece by piece. So what Paul says here, ask ourselves why does he say that, and then what is the driving point of all of these things? So the first thing that I want you to notice here is this. Those who minister the word should be supported by those whom they serve. Those who minister the word should be supported by those they serve. And Paul is going to lay out several reasons that this is the way it should be done. Not one of those reasons is I don't like to work. Or not one of those reasons is uh it's too much time and it's too much energy. That's not why he did it. The logical conclusions that he presents are very carefully worked out, and I want you to see them. So the first thing that he says here is that it's common sense as a principle. Common sense as a principle. And he's going to raise three illustrations from normal everyday life. that help us to understand that when people work, they should be paid for the work that they do. The first example that he gives is in verse number 7. Look down what it says. He says, Whoso goeth a warfare any time at his own charges. You know what's really interesting if you look at history There are lots of times in history that there are people who lived in absolute poverty. In fact, during the Roman era, there are people that were slaves in the Roman Empire. And the only way that they could get out of being the status of a slave in the Roman Empire, or the only way that they could get out of that poverty. was to join the army. I know it sounds kind of funny, but it's true. Why is that? Because when a person did military service in those days, they were going to get they were going to get paid for their labors In fact, uh when they were successful, not only were they paid by the Roman government, but they were also going to get to enjoy the spoils of their victories. This is one of the reasons that in those days uh military service was something that people were were very aggressive in. This is why the people were so harsh with people that they conquered because they would literally take everything of value from these individuals. And so what Paul's basically saying is this, when a person goes into military service, they don't do it for free. They're paid. They're willing to put their lives on the line. They're people that are literally buying themselves out of slavery in the Roman world. by going into military service. There are people who have lived in poverty and they go and they join the military because that's how they get out of that situation. He says nobody in their right mind would go and fight for the government without any pay. Now, there have been some people in human history that did do that because they were captured and forced into those situations. Uh lots and lots of authoritarian regimes have done that. But Paul is using an analogy that people can understand. Yeah, we understand that you go to war And you fight for the king, the emperor, the leader of the city, whatever, and you get paid for that. That's why you do it He gives a second example, verse number seven. He says, who plants a vineyard and eats not of the fruit thereof. I 've learned this by personal experience. That when you have a garden and you uh you do all that work. You want to get the food. That's why when a groundhog comes into my yard, it is very much at their own risk. It's happened several times. I have rules about this. I'll leave them alone. But the whole idea is I want that food. I want that produce. I don't want to go out there and see that all of my uh all of my sweet potato leaves have been chopped down because the groundhog got in there or some little worms got in there and it's eating all those tomato leaves or burrowing into the side of these lantern flies. Man lanternflies are killing stuff in my yard. Well, why do we feel that way? Because if we do all this work, we want to benefit from the products of our of from the fruit of our labors. And so if a person's a farmer, they don't raise all that stuff and just give it away. They do it so that they can turn a profit, so they can feed their family, so that they can take care of themselves. And so he says, Who plants a vineyard and does not eat the fruit of it? Who plants a vineyard doesn't harvest that and sell it in the market and then keep the proceeds? We do that because that labor has value. And so we understand. That that person should be paid for their labors. Third example: raising animals. Who feedeth a flock and eateth not of the milk of the flock? So he gives these examples. And he's basically saying this. People understand naturally that if you work And your work has value, then you should be paid for what you do. By the way, that's why socialism doesn't work. Did you realize that? That's why communism doesn't work. Because the incentive for people to work hard is completely removed. Those who work hard are stolen from. And those who don't work hard are incentivized to stay that way because guess what? It doesn't matter how hard you work. But in a society where you are paid fairly for the labor that you do As much as that happens, what does that do? That incentivizes people to be industrious and to work hard. I know that's an aside issue, but the whole point of this is very simple. Common sense establishes the principle that if you work, you should be paid for your labor. He think is a second illustration. It's not just common sense. God's word establishes the principle as well. And the illustration that he gives is interesting. It is a case law from the Old Testament. And when we read Old Testament case law, sometimes it's helpful to realize that basically what we have is all of these scenarios, these situations And so in that situation, it tells you how God wants you to handle the situation. And the reason he does that is because that situation, that case It's supposed to establish a principle, or in some cases, more than one principle, and that principle can be applied in lots and lots of different scenarios. This is an excellent example of case law being applied as a principle. Notice what he says in verse 8. He says, see I these things as a man. In other words, am I just talking like everybody else in society, or is there more to it? Or saith the law the same also? It is written in the law of Moses, thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. Does God care for oxen? Or sayeth he altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, this is written, that he that ploweth should plough in hope. And that he that thresheth in hope should be partaker of this hope. Now, this is very interesting how Paul is applying this. And it gives us a lot of insight into how to use Old Testament law. We are not under the Old Testament system. It's important for us to understand that. We are under the New Testament dispensation. We're in the church age. We're not under the old Mosaic covenant. However , God's character didn't change at the cross. If we look into the Old Testament, we're not going to see a different God with a different character. His character and ways are consistent because his nature doesn't change. So when we go into the Old Testament law And we see the principles that are laid out in those passages of Scripture, what's amazing is we will see how those same principles are going to be applied and used in a New Testament context. And here's an example. So the example is this. Providing food for animals that benefits you. I'll give you another example. In the book of Proverbs. It says that a righteous man cares for the life of his beast. Has anyone ever quoted that to your child who didn't want to put food in your dog's dish or water or uh Okay, I have done that. A righteous man cares for the life of his beast. He takes care of his animals. Alright? You're you you you take in the responsibility to have a dog, to have a cat, whatever the animal is, you feed it, you make sure that it has the proper shelter, you make sure that it has clean water, you make sure that it's not sleeping in its own waste. You take good care of that animal. Why? Because that's what people of good character do. And so he uses the example of an animal. Here is this animal that you have the responsibility to care for, and not only do you have the responsibility to care for it, but you are literally benefiting from it. Your dog makes you feel happy, maybe. Your cat makes you feel happy, maybe. It depends on your dog or your cat, right? That animal helps you put food on your table. As he's treading out that corn, you are using that to put food on your table. You're using that to take food to the market and to sell it and then to bring money home and then to buy things that you need. You are benefiting from that animal. So not only do you have the responsibility to take care of it because you own it. But you have the responsibility to take care of it because you are personally benefiting from it. And so that's the example that the Old Testament uses. And this Old Testament principle goes this way. You should allow your animal to benefit from their labor. While that animal is doing his work, don't put a muzzle on him so he can't eat what's there. Someone says, man, I want to squeeze every ounce of profit out of this thing. He says, no, you can't do that Let the animal eat while it's doing its work. In fact, that'll even incentivize it to do its work better. God takes care of them through you being responsible. When we say that God is sovereign, we don't mean that we're a bunch of robots. And God just like pushes buttons. No. God works through ordinary means. How does God take care of your animal? Through you taking care of your animal. By him telling you to do it and you having the conviction in your heart and head that you're going to do it. How does God take care of your kids and all those kinds of things? Well, through you being responsible. And so he reminds them of that. And then the third thing, the animal will actually be motivated to do its work by the way that you care for it. If you give that animal the opportunity to eat while it's working, it's going to work harder. It's actually going to be more efficient. It's going to do a better job in the long run. So take care of your animal. That's the principle. Third thing I'll say here is this. There's tremendous weight to Paul's argument. Let me put it like this. If you understand that an animal should not starve while it works, How much more should you value a person made in the image of God who feeds your soul? That's what he's saying. If you know that an animal should be taken care of, how much more the person who takes the precious word of God and communicates it to you? That is the argument that Paul is making here. He's making this comparison of a lesser to a greater. An animal has value to God, how much more a human? How much more, not just a human, but one who you benefit from, not just materially and physically, but spiritually. On the most significant level, those things of eternal significance. That's his point. And so the consistent teaching of Scripture on this principle is that those who labor, whether it be physical labor, whether it be spiritual labor, even those animals that labor for you. You have a responsibility to make sure that you take care of them. It's like someone who comes to your house and they do work. Don't cheat them when they're bidding out the job. They shouldn't cheat you, you shouldn't cheat them. It goes both ways. Treat them fairly for their labors. And so we see this in verses 13 and 14. Do you not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple? And they which wait on the altar are partakers with the altar. Even so has the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel. So so Paul has looked at common sense Paul has looked at Old Testament principle. Paul has looked at Old Testament example. And at the end of this all, his point is this. You have a responsibility. To take care of me. That's what he's saying. Isn't that kind of a crazy thing to think about? But Paul's not done. He has established that as his argument. But that is not the ultimate end of his argument. And listen to how it breaks down. The reason that you should support the Lord's work is not to give the minister free time. It's not to give them more time to build a church. By the way, pastors don't build churches. God builds the church. Now it's true that if pastors aren't doing their work. Well the means that God works through is uh is is we could say being blunted. It's like trying to dig a hole with uh with a dull shovel instead of a backhoe. Maybe we could say that. But the truth is that it's God who builds the church. It's not about time and it's not about power. It's about duty. It's about responsibility. In fact, the argument that Paul's making is it's actually unjust to receive a benefit on the most sacred level and refuse to financially support those who labor in the word and doctrine. That's his point. Now, the truth is we probably don't think in those terms. Sometimes people give to the church because they feel guilty if they don't. Sometimes people give to the church because they have been squeezed a lot and coerced to do that. Sometimes people give because they're hoping to get something back But the argument Paul makes is you should give because it's unjust not to. If you are receiving a material a spiritual benefit from those who labor in the Word, you should make sure that you financially support those who do. And so he says this in First Timothy five. Let the elders, and that's a pastor. Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honor, especially they who labor in the word and doctrine. And here's that example, for the scripture saith , Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn The labor is worthy of his reward. So he even goes on in this passage to break it down a little bit more to simply say this. You know, you guys are living in a way that demonstrates you understand this. Do they pay their taxes? Yes. What are their taxes used for? Building roads, bridges, aqueducts, and paying the military. That's what their taxes are being used for. And so that kind of links back to his illustration of those who go to war. They don't do it for free. Do you pay for your food in the marketplace? Of course you do. Why is that? Well, because the farmer worked. And there is value in his labor. It is unjust to steal from a farmer. You need to pay the farmer. You understand that you're doing that. Do you take care of your animals? Of course you do. So then why would you neglect to support those who minister to you in the Word? That's Paul's point. But that's not the end of his argument. Look down in verse number 12. He's now going to move from that established principle to his actual practice with the church. In verse 12, he says this, if others be partakers of this power over you, are we not rather? He says, if what I've just said is true. Then don't you understand that as an apostle who has planted this church, who has labored in the word, that I absolutely have the right to expect this from you. That's what he's saying. But then notice what he says next in verse 12. Nevertheless, or however, but we have not used this power, but suffer all things. Now, don't miss what he's saying. I have the right to expect that you take care of me, but I am refusing to demand that of you. And you say, well, why? Why does he take all the time to prove this point and then say, but I don't do this? It's because there was a reason that Paul did not demand that they take care of him financially. Verse number 12 is the motive. Lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ. In fact, it's interesting. I'm reading through 2 Corinthians right now in my personal reading. So I'm uh you know I'm studying in 1 Corinthians, but at this moment I'm in 2 Corinthians, and it amazes me that there are several times in 2 Corinthians that Paul actually addresses this issue where he says, you have not paid my bills. These hands, my physical hands. have labored to take care of the people that are a part of my team. And I have ministered to you in the word. And he had a reason for that. Here's the reason. He did not want to hinder the spread of the gospel at Corinth. Here's how you apply what Paul's saying. It's wrong for you to refuse to support those who minister to you. It's also wrong for you to hold that support as leverage over them. And he knew for a fact that's exactly what the church at Corinth would do. Since they viewed support the wrong way for the sake of ministry, Paul refused it and met his own needs with his own hands. He believed it was better to sacrifice to minister freely than to minister with strings attached. He made this sacrifice for the sake of the gospel as he ministered to immature Christians That is actually the point of the text in front of us. It's not just to prove that we should care for those who minister into the word. It's to demonstrate that while that is true, if you are ministering, it would be better for you to not demand your right so that you can freely serve Than to demand the right and then to hinder the ministry that you do. I'll put it like this. We get ourselves in all kinds of situations where people wrong us. They say things behind our back. They do stuff that we don't appreciate. And we could take kind of two basic approaches in these scenarios. We could do number one, I'm going to go and I'm going to demand my pound of flesh in every one of those situations. I'm going to prove to you that you're wrong. I'm going to clear the air on this issue and that issue, and I'm going to make sure that you resolve the issue according to my expectations, and we do this with everybody. And you know, there's people that look at their lives that way. And you know what? They're miserable people. Or you could recognize this. You can't fix everything in life. You can't resolve every conflict. People aren't always going to say the things that they should and that they need to. And so forbearance and grace is something that has to distinguish the Christian's life. There are times that rather than demand, I forbear. Does that mean that I don't see that that situation should be resolved in a certain way? No, no, it's not saying that at all. It's not a compromise. It's choosing to look over the offense, to extend grace, mercy, forbearance, so that that person can resolve the issue as they mature down the road. And so that's kind of what Paul is doing here. He's saying, I could demand that you take care of me. I'm not doing it because that's going to hinder my ability to minister to you properly. And so out of all the illustrations that Paul used to show how he was laying aside his rights, this might have been one of the most personal. One of the most taxing, one of the most time-consuming. Because here is Paul. He's preaching the word to unsaved people. He's discipling believers. He's training leadership. He's working through conflicts in the church. And he's also working with his hands physically to feed himself, the people around him. Paul is laboring and laboring and laboring and laboring. He could say he's uh burning the candle at both ends, and why is he doing it that way? Because he cares for the souls of the people. He doesn't want to hurt the work he's doing. That's a powerful example. And that's how we're supposed to be with other people. And you know what? We often aren't. I say, me, all of us, we often aren't. And that's what we need to be. As Paul is demonstrating this, this is what we need to do. So how do we apply Paul's teaching? I want to look at it in two parts. One would be the big picture, which is the overarching point of his text, and then the second part is the secondary issue of support. In the big picture, ministry demands self-restraint. If someone wants to be a pastor or a missionary, they want to do the work of ministry, they have to be willing To lay aside their rights and to serve people where they are. They have to be willing to let go of certain things that maybe they have the right to demand. Why? Because that's what you do. to minister and reach out to people. If you have somebody that's lost in your life and you're praying for their salvation, you don't say, I'm going to give you one shot. If you don't listen, Ichabod, boom, shake the dust off of my feet. I'm not going to worry about you again. No, that's not how we deal with lost people. We take every opportunity that we can. We love them. We're patient with them. What about when they say nasty things and dis you know condescending things to us about Christianity? Oh, I think that's the dumbest religion in the world. You really believe that a man 2,000 years ago who was nailed to a cross rose from the grave rose from the dead? Yeah, right. And they could just go through and say all kinds of crazy stuff. And you know what? You gotta look past the insults and all that stuff and to say, I'm gonna continue to be gracious and love that person and pray for them, and maybe by God's grace one day I'm gonna see those seeds come to fruition that personal life get saved. Or maybe you have a person they're a Christian, but they they really aren't living the way they should. And it's negatively affecting your your life personally. We've got to be willing to do this. Ministry demands self-restraint. Secondly, failing to consider the full context will lead to unnecessary barriers to the gospel. We need to think about how our actions and how our words impact In a positive or negative way, the communication of truth. Speaking the truth in love. Are we putting unnecessary barriers to the communication of the gospel? We need to be careful. Thirdly, ministers must live out what they proclaim. If we tell somebody you should do this, well let's not give them an opportunity to say, look at you, you're like everybody else. You're a hypocrite. You say do this, you don't do this. Let's not do that. Inconsistency between teaching and living will undermine the message we preach. What we're saying may very well be true. What we're saying may be exactly what a person needs, but that mixed signal is something a person will latch on to, and when they latch onto it, it becomes a barrier to them embracing the truth. Lastly, consistency provides a visible model that can encourage those who want to apply what they have heard. Paul didn't just lecture his disciples. They lived with him. Everywhere he went, they went. They observed every conversation that he had. They saw what he said, they saw the way he said it, they saw how he handled situations, and I tell you, I guarantee you for the rest of their apostolic ministry, what they saw Christ do. left this incredible imprint on them, and it shaped how they ministered to other people. Then we have the secondary issue. Christians should be generous and grateful for what they've received from those who minister in the Word. Those who minister in the Word should deeply feel the weight of that duty. If somebody is actually financially supporting a pastor, they better take seriously what they're doing. They better take serious their commitments. They better take serious the communication of Scripture. They better take seriously How they navigate complicated situations. So there's a weight on both sides, those who are supporting, but those who are receiving. Christians should never view giving as a tool to leverage influence. Why did Paul refuse to receive the financial support of the church? It's because rather than them saying, I have a duty I want to show love and gratitude. They're like, if I give to you, you better follow what I'm saying. I'm going to crank down. I'm going to use that leverage. And we as Christians should never do that. That is how the world that is the way politics works. I give you some money, now you do what I want. I mean that is that is we really don't know what politicians believe many times because it's those who financially back them that are really pushing the agendas Well, that can also infiltrate into the church. And we need to be so careful. That's the way of the world, not the way of the Christian. And those who minister should never view the gifts of God's people as something that they should demand. The truth is that we have to be so careful about these. This is such a personal issue. It's such a delicate issue. It's a motive issue. Motive is huge here. It's not just what we do, it's why we do it. So may God help us to be faithful in these areas. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we reflect on the things that we've heard tonight, as we go back over these scriptures. I pray that the truths that have been communicated here will settle in our hearts. Help us to be a thankful people. Help us to be a self-sacrificing people, a forbearing people, a gracious people. I pray that you would use us in your service as we strive to the best of our ability to follow what your word teaches in these areas. May we be faithful. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.