Turn again to the book of First Corinthians, and we are now in a new chapter, First Corinthians chapter nine And uh if we were to look at chapter 9, actually uh chapters eight, nine, and ten are all a part of really one predominant theme, and then chapter nine really um is a little piece of that thing, but we're going to look this evening at half of that chapter, and we are looking at the importance of limiting rights to avoid ministry entanglement. Very interesting topic, and we're going to address some things, uh secondary issues and then some as the the primary theme of this passage of scripture. And so as we get into that you'll see exactly what we're talking about. At least I hope if I'm presenting it in a way you can follow. So 1 Corinthians chapter 9, we'll pick up and verse number 1. Here's what it says. Am I not an apostle? Am I not free? Have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? Are not ye my work in the Lord? If I be not an apostle unto others, yet doubtless I am to you. For the seal of my apostleship are ye in the Lord. Mine answer to them that do examine me is this Have we not power to eat and to drink? Have we not power to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as other apostles, and as the brethren of the Lord and Cephas? Or I only and Barnabas have not we power to forbear working? Who goeth to warfare? Who goeth a warfare any time at his own charges? Who planteth a vineyard and eateth not of the fruit thereof? Or who feedeth a flock and eateth not of the milk of the flock? See I these things as a man Or saith not the law the same also? For it is written in the law of Moses , thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. Does God take care of oxen? Does God take care for oxen, or saith he it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, this is written, that he that ploweth should plough in hope. And that he that thresheth in hope should be partaker of this hope. If we have sown unto you spiritual things, it is a great thing, or is it a great thing if we so reap of your carnal things If others be partakers of this power over you, are not we rather? Nevertheless, we have not used this power, but suffer all things lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ. Do you not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple? And they which wait at the altar are partakers of the altar. Even so hath the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel. What an interesting passage of Scripture. Now, if we were to take this passage of Scripture and not consider the context and the flow of the book of 1 Corinthians, and this would be a book that was exclusively about uh whether or not you should uh give to the church and ultimately uh supporting those who minister to you in the word. And that is clearly a significant part of this topic. But what I think is very interesting about that particular topic is that is really not the main point of what Paul is trying to communicate. What Paul is actually communicating is he is demonstrating to the church at Corinth that there is a responsibility, a duty that they have toward him. As an apostle, as a minister of the gospel, as the one who had actually led them to Christ. They have a duty or responsibility toward him. And even though that's true He chose to refuse to take any financial support from the church at Corinth. It's really interesting. But what's really interesting is not The fact that he doesn't do it, but it's why? Why he refused to take financial support from the church? It's not because Paul was independently wealthy. It's not because Paul was uh felt like he didn't uh he had a lot of time on his hands and just could go and do whatever he wanted to do. You know, there was a different reason. We're gonna see that as we get into the text. So let me summarize the passage in the following way. Ministers should faithfully demonstrate the truths they proclaim. Ministers should faithfully demonstrate the truths they proclaim. And by the way, this is not just for pastors. This is for parents. This is for moms and dads. You tell your children don't do this. It would be a really good thing if they didn't see you do it. If you say, hey, here's how you're supposed to live and then you're basically doing it completely different than what you've presented to them, recognize that not only is that sinful, it's really conflicting the message and it's ultimately going to lead to a lot of disastrous outcomes in your home life. Well that is true in every single context I could think of, and it's especially true in the church. If you have somebody who is teaching and they are preaching, But then you watch their life, you do not see that what they are saying is what they do. You're going to ask some questions. One question will be, do you actually believe it? That's a very fair question. If you're telling me to do this and you don't do it yourself, then do you really believe it? The other thing that would pop into somebody's mind is maybe you do believe it, but you just don't have the ability to do it And if you don't, as a pastor or as a teacher, well, do I have any hope of doing that as well? So these are some of the things that are going to pop into people's minds. The text we're dealing with is emphasizing how we have to faithfully teach and demonstrate by our actions a consistency with what we're teaching. So notice how it breaks down. The first part of this that I'd like us to look at is a little bit of a review, and it kind of connects what he said in chapter 8 to what he's saying in chapter 9. Paul's basic teaching on the conscience could really be summed up by this one statement in verse 13. If meat makes my brother to offend I will eat no flesh while the world stands, lest I make my brother to offend. Now when Paul says, I'm not going to eat flesh if it causes my brother to be offended, he's not talking about the fact that that this guy is going to be personally offended like somebody has wronged another person. That's not really the sense of what he's saying. But what he's actually saying is that there is a conscience issue here And when I do this, it creates a conscience difficulty for my brother in Christ. Or or if I'm trying to reach a person who's lost, it's creating We could say some kind of a barrier to the communication of the gospel. We're not saying that the gospel is without offense. It is with offense. But what he's saying is there's not going to be something in front of the gospel that's going to create an offense or a barrier to being able to communicate the gospel. And so this issue of conscience could really fall down into several different categories. The first thing we talked about was the fact that as Christians we need to be well informed. Get all the facts before you make a conclusion If meat has been offered to an idol and you don't know anything about it and there's no one with a conscience issue around it and you eat that meat, is it a sin? The answer is no, it's not a sin at all, because it's just meat. But if there are some other factors that are involved, for instance, a person says, hey, did you know that this was involved? in uh paganism or idolatry, all of a sudden that information is going to change how you're going to handle that situation. And so when he talks about issues of conscience, he says Get the facts, know the facts, have a knowledge of what you're dealing with. But the second thing that he emphasized in those verses is that when we make decisions, we need to be principled with our decisions. We don't make the decision because it's easy. We don't make, or I said we shouldn't. Maybe that's how I should put it. We shouldn't make a decision simply because, well, this is the easier path, so I'm going to take the easier path. Or this one's not going to create as many ways, so I'm going to do that. No, we should make a decision based upon what is right, what brings glory and honor to God What is consistent with a Christian worldview? And so get information, be well informed, be principled. The third was be balanced in the approach to difficult matters. And what I'm thinking of here when I say be balanced in difficult matters is that when you go into the context where you're buying your food, don't ask unnecessary questions. Hey, I got a question for you before I buy this meat. Was this meat used in idolatry? He says, don't ask that question It's actually irrelevant. You're actually going to create more problems for yourself than are needed. There's nothing wrong with the meat. It's only a problem if there's a conscience side to it. If you're unaware of the implications of what the meat's been used for, then it doesn't matter because it's not going to affect your conscience. So don't ask the question. What he's saying is, I want it to be possible for you to function in a society that's not Christian at all. It's a very pagan society. That's the world you live in. So don't go too deep into the issue. That's the idea. And then fourthly, you need to make sure that you love other people more than you love yourself. And that's really what's being communicated in verse 13. The reason that a person chooses not to eat food that is completely acceptable for them in other circumstances is because of how that action affects a brother in Christ. who is going to be harmed in their conscience by that action. Or they're consider the fact that their their Christian ministry or their Christian witness. Is going to have difficulty if they eat that food. So those are the four main issues. Be informed, be principled, be balanced, and make the decision out of love for others. So from that, we move to a second part, and that is the connection between his teaching in chapter 8 and what he's going to talk about in chapter 9. This is not a completely new topic. This is a continuation of what Paul has already said. Even though there's a chapter division, I know that. There wasn't a chapter division when Paul wrote the letter. Okay? The chapter division was put in by the editors so that we could find our verses, and so chapter and verse divisions are helpful, but those are not a part of the inspired text. And so he's just continuing on in this flow of thought. Notice what he says in verses 3 to 6, where you can kind of see this connection between those two pieces. He says, mine answer to them that do examine me is this. Have we not power to eat and to drink? Or do we not have power to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as the other apostles, as the brethren of the Lord and Cephas, or I only and Barnabas have not we power to forbear working. You say, well, what's the connection between chapter 8 and chapter 9? Well chapter 9 is going to be Paul talking about specific ways that he is personally applying the principle that he has just imposed on the church at Corinth in chapter 8. So what Paul is basically saying is that I'm telling you how to live and I'm living it myself. That's really what he's saying. That's why he's asking them these questions and saying, don't I have the right to do these things? And the answer that they should have said was, well, of course you do Well then why don't I do that? Ah, it's because I'm applying the principle of chapter eight. Because I don't want to cause the ministry that I have here at Corinth. Either within the church or outside the church, I do not want to bring in unnecessary entanglements to that ministry. That's what Paul is saying when he asks those questions. So he's addressed several specific areas that directly impacted the Corinthian church. He told them, do not associate with idolatry by going up to the pagan temples. Guess what? They really struggled with that concept. And the reason that we know that is because Paul got a lot of pushback. They were even questioning the fact that he was an apostle. That comes out in chapter 9 when he makes those statements. He's asking these questions because he knows that there are people within the church that are going, hey, you know, Paulie's telling us we can't do this. He's telling us we can't do that. He's telling us we have to handle the situation this way and we have to handle the situation that way. And I'm tired of Paul. Who gave Paul this authority? Who does Paul think that he is? Why does he think he has more authority than everybody else in the church? That's the kind of stuff that was going on within the church of Corinth. It's because Paul's telling them they got to do hard things. Paul has that authority. He's not seizing an authority that doesn't belong to him, but because of the difficulty of those commands, they're struggling. So when he says, don't go up to the pagan temple and don't eat the meat in the temple, what he's really saying is you're going to have to live a life That is quite a bit different than it was before you became a Christian. The people that you hung out with, the social activities that you were involved in, the things that were a normal part of your life, they've got to stop. now that you're a Christian. Because all of the associations that are involved in that those practices are thoroughly pagan practices. And that put them in contention with a lot of people. And Paul knew that was difficult, and so we're going to see these examples he gives. A second thing, don't ask people at a meal if the meat has been associated with idolatry. Just leave it alone. Do not ask people in the marketplace if meat has been associated with idolatry. Leave it alone. If you're told that the meat has been associated with idolatry, refrain from eating it for the sake of those around you. So those are the things that Paul has commanded the church to do. This is how they're to conduct themselves. He's addressed those ways. Now he's going to say, let me show you how I'm doing this in my own personal life. The question is, why would he do that? One would be to say I'm not a hypocrite. The second would be, if I tell you to do it and I'm doing it, you can do it too. I'll give you an example of something that's kind of, it's in a different setting, but in fact it really applies here. Think about something like parenting. There are lots and lots of people when they become Christians, they didn't grow up in Christian homes. And so they really don't know anything about raising children in a godly way. They have no direction at all. Okay? And so when they when they get saved and in fact sometimes you have people that get saved after uh they they already have children in the home and so they've raised their children a certain way and then They become a Christian and all of a sudden they're like, oh, there's things that I've been doing wrong and I don't even know how to go about doing this. And the question is, how do those parents learn how to parent? Well, some of it's just reading the Bible. Some of it's their worldview is changing, and so as their worldview is changing, how they look at their children, how they look at discipline, how they look at restraint. How they look at instruction, how they look at the hard issues, those things begin to change simply because of the issue of worldview. But there's another thing that happens. They have other Christians who are a part of the church context, older believers. And those older believers can teach them things either by example, what they watch them do. Or by instruction, what they tell them, hey, you should consider this. It was really funny. Just two days ago, I was I was out in front of my uh my house, we were shooting baskets, playing around, and I had a I had to learn something from a neighbor situation. My son Owen, he's riding his little his little bicycle and and he like Really wiped out badly. He goes down and he's crying. He's upset. And my neighbor Who uh he's he's not a grandparent yet. He wants to be a grandparent. But anyway, he my what my neighbor walks up and he walks up to Owen. He's like, hey Owen, grab my finger and squeeze really hard. So Owen, he's crying like he's really hurt badly. And Owen grabs his fingers and he squeezed as hard as he can. Stop crying. He's like, all right, I want you to I want you to bounce, bounce, bounce. Can you do that? Can you do that? And Owen's bounce, bounce, bounce. And guess what? All sudden Owen's totally fine And I'm like, hold on a second. I've been a parent for a while. I never even thought about doing a thing like that. It was so funny. So, you know, oh, and goes back. It's like it never even happened. And by he really wiped out. I mean he he went down hard. And my neighbor he's like he's like he's like if he can squeeze your hand and he's not in more pain than when he started crying and he's okay I was like, yeah, that makes good sense. If he starts squeezing you in, now he's feeling paid in these other places. You might need to go to a doctor because he probably broke something. Or if he if he's trying to go on his tippy toes and all of a sudden he's crying more, you know he's hurt. And so he said, not only is he getting distracted, you're able to assess, is he really hurt or not? You know what's funny? It never once in my entire life crossed my mind to do a thing like that. Anybody in here? You ever done something like that? He's like, I coach soccer all these years with kids, I watched him do that And you know what? That's something that's going to tuck in the back of my head. And I won't forget that. I don't think I'll forget that. But you know what's funny? When you're a young parent and you watch an older parent Do something with their kids and it's effective, you tuck it away. You're like, man, every time my kid does something crazy, the way that I respond, it gets worse. And then you watch another parent and they hail their kid and it's just like it slows it down just like that and you're like, how in the world they do that? Well they learned that somewhere. They might have learned it from their dad, they might have learned it from their mom, they might have learned it from their in-laws, they might have learned it from som Some he was discipling then But here's the whole point of that illustration. The whole point of that illustration is we learn by watching people. And it's very effective. It's very effective. And one of the ways we become better skilled parents and we handle our kids better is we learn from the people around us. That's why being around good parents is a good thing, because you learn from them. You learn from good examples. So that's what Paul's doing here. It's not just him defending himself and saying, I'm not a hypocrite. He's saying, look, I'm doing this. You can do this. Let me show you how this is done. That's really the sense of what Paul is saying here. So , moves us thirdly to the specific ways that Paul has limited his personal rights. And he's doing it for the sake of ministry. You know it's interesting. Paul doesn't have kids that he's raising. He doesn't have a wife that he loves as Christ loves the church. He doesn't have that. He's a single man and he's ministering in the church. So the question is, what are the areas that Paul has to demonstrate? Well, one of the biggest areas is how does he relate to people in the ministry context? So notice some of the things that he mentions. In verse number one, the first question he asks is this, Am I not an apostle? And am I not free? Now, it's interesting that when Paul asks that question, there are actually a couple of things that he kind of highlights in that. For instance, one of the things that he says is Have I not seen Jesus Christ? What he's saying is, I really am an apostle. I've seen the Lord Jesus Christ. Or he says, Are not you my work in the Lord? He's like How did you become a Christian? Well, we believed in the gospel. Who gave you the gospel? Oh, you did. How are you growing as a Christian? Oh, uh, because the word of God's been taught to us. Who taught you the word of God? Oh, well, you did. Now what's Paul saying? Paul's saying, hey guys, listen, I'm an apostle. You're saved because I came to Corinth and I preached the gospel to you. You're growing as a Christian. Because of the instruction that you've received. Now, Paul is not doing this, and and sometimes people in ministry do this, okay? It's almost like I can lure it over you, like, oh look, I led you to the Lord, and so you better listen to what I have to say. That's not what Paul's doing here. Don't misunderstand this. This is not Paul in a in a fleshly carnal angry way trying to uh make these people feel horrible. What he's actually doing is drawing them to kind of consider something here. You have an apostle ministering to you in the church. You have somebody who founded this church. You have somebody who gave you the gospel. You have somebody who's discipling you. And you have no respect for them at all. That's what he's saying. And you know what? That's okay. I'm going to keep loving you. I'm going to keep teaching you. I'm going to keep being an example to you. That's what Paul's actually saying here. He's saying you're not showing what would be appropriate, normal, natural respect and affection for someone who ministers to you in the Lord. That's what Paul's saying. Paul was an apostle. He had personally labored in the church's formation. They did not treat him with the level of respect and gratitude that would have been appropriate for him to receive. Though they did not treat him with appropriate respect, he loved them and ministered to them. And by the way, I don't think that, I think that Paul truly loved them. And I think that he really, it's like he's presenting something that's true, but he's he's not doing it to be a jerk about it, for lack of a better way to put it. He's saying, just realize something. I'm blessing you even though you don't appreciate it. Again, we can go to the parenting analogy, right? Sometimes when we're working with our children, especially as they start getting a little bit older and they start expressing their will a little bit more freely than they did before, we might run into some contentions with them. And in the back of our mind as a parent, we may go I remember when I was changing your diapers. If I was to write you a bill for all the things that I have bought over the course of your life. You'd be absolutely blown away by how much money I have spent to clothe you, to feed you, to keep you in a nice warm house and all those things. And you know, as a parent, you have to swallow your pride and love your kids. That's what Paul's doing here. He's saying, for the sake of ministry, I'm not hanging this over your head. I'm just going to be a faithful minister. Second thing that he mentions is this. Verse number four. He says, have we not power to eat and to drink? Now what Paul is kind of referring to here are the dietary decisions. Now we know that Paul grew up in an entirely Jewish context, and Paul was a Pharisee. So Paul grew up, and he all the way up until he became a Christian. Paul was adamantly, very rigorously committed to following the Jewish dietary customs. However , Once Paul was converted and he becomes an apostle to the Gentiles, as he's ministering in Gentile context, Paul is choosing to go into Gentile context and to eat. The gross unclean foods that the Gentiles ate. He's choosing to go into homes that his Jewish brothers and sisters in Christ would have been very uncomfortable in because they were unclean on lots of different levels. Paul is willing to go into those contexts and to do it. He's not sinning. He's not compromising. But there's no question in my mind that the Apostle Paul would have felt uncomfortable on some level personally going into these contexts. But then he'd go into a Jewish context and guess what? He would limit his rights in the gen in the Jewish context. He'd say, Do I have the right to eat the food that the Gentiles eat? Of course I do. But I'm not going to do it because I don't want to be an offense to the Jew Again, this is not Paul being a hypocrite. Paul recognizes it's okay to eat this food. It's okay to not eat this food. And so for the sake of these people's consciences, I'm going to go into here and I'm going to minister to them where they are. And for the sake of these people's consciences, I'm going to go into their homes. I'm going to minister to them where they are. I'm willing to do whatever is necessary not to create unnecessary offense to the preaching of the gospel and the ministry. So he's saying, I limit my rights in these dietary issues. He had the freedom to live outside the Jewish dietary customs, to eat meat rather than vegetables, to eat meats that had in some way been associated with idolatry But for the sake of ministry, he limited those freedoms and made personal adjustments. It's like a pastor gets invited to a vegetarian's house and there's no meat on the table. And that's okay. They're not going to complain about it. Okay, that would be a really bad example. But but but really what he's saying is this. I'm willing to do what is necessary because I want to minister. He gives a third example. This one is very interesting. Verse number five. He says, Have not we power to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as other apostles, and as the brethren of the Lord and Cephas. By the way, I'm just going to make this comment here. When he says, have we not power to lead about a sister, a wife, he's not saying a sister or a wife. He's saying a woman who I'm married to who's a Christian. That's what he's saying. In fact, a lot of the translations are gonna they're gonna say it exactly like that. Basically, a believing wife. And so what Paul's saying is this, as an apostle I absolutely have the right to get married to a Christian. By the way, Peter is married to a Christian. And he travels with his wife. By the way, the Pope did really have a wife, right? Peter, if you want to say the first Pope. I don't believe in that. But anyway Peter did have a wife. He really did have a mother-in-law. Peter's mother-in-law was dying, and Jesus healed his mother-in-law. And here Paul is actually using Peter as an example to say, look, the other apostles are married. We don't know anything about their wives. We don't know anything about their families. But what we do know is that some of them were married, and their wives traveled with them around. And Paul says, I have the right to do that. But I don't Why? Well this kind of goes back to our conversation in chapter 7 where Paul basically says, you know, for the sake of ministry, sometimes it's better not to marry. So he has the right to marry a believing woman, travel with her like the other prominent apostles who are married, but for the sake of ministry, he chose to remain single and live a life entirely devoted to the work of ministry. And then the last one that he mentions, and this is the one that he expands significantly. It's an interesting one. Verse 6, or I only and Barnabas have not we power to forbear working Now Paul is not suggesting that he's a lazy bum who doesn't want to work. That's not what he's saying. Okay. What he's basically saying, and we know this because of where he's going to go in the in the rest of this section, is he's going to say, you know I do have the right as the one who is ministering in this church to expect you to make sure that I have my financial needs met. That's what he's saying. But even though I have that right, I do not demand it when I have the right to do it. Receiving financial support. Paul had the right to fully be supported by the love gifts of the Corinthian church. He chose not to receive financial compensation for his labors. By the way, let me make this comment here. We do not know how long Paul ministered at each of the churches, but we can, if we put everything together, come to the conclusion that he more than likely spent more time at Corinth than any other church. He spent at a minimum a year and a half straight. It's kind of interesting the way that he met Aquil and Priscilla was He was he was basically making these coverings, these tents for the Isthian games, and as they're doing this work together, as he's working with his own hands, and even supporting the people that are that are a part of the ministry team with him. While he's doing that, that's how he meets them. That's probably how they were converted. That's how they became close friends. But the point that Paul's going to make is this. I could. You have a church here. This church has enough people to support me. I'm ministering in the word day by day by day. I have the right to say, hey, you need to make sure that my needs are met. But I don't do that. You say, why doesn't he do that? Part four, Paul's decision to work or to refuse. Their financial support from the church had a spiritual reason. I'm going to read it and then we're going to stop there. Because I'm going to dig into this. It's too much to get into it the rest of the time. I'll go and never have 30 minutes on this if I do that. Listen to verse number seven. He says, Who goeth out to war at any time at his own charges? Who planteth a vineyard and eateth not of the fruit thereof? Or who feedeth a flock and eateth not the milk of the flock? So I say these things as a m uh so in I the So I these things say I these things as a man, or say it not the law the same also? For it is written, in the law of Moses, thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the oxy That turned out the corn. Doth God take care for oxen? Or saith he it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes no doubt this is written, that he that ploweth, let him plough in hope, and he that Thresheth in hope should be partakers of his hope. If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap carnal things? If others be partakers of this power over you, or not we rather? Nevertheless, we have not used this power, but suffer all this, and here's the key, lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ. It's really interesting. Paul says, I have the right to expect you to meet my needs, but I don't do it because I don't want to hinder the gospel of Christ. Say, why is that? It's because of the mindset of the people. And I'll get into that, Lord, only next week. But he says, I do it so that I don't hinder the gospel message. Do you not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple, and they which wait at the altar are partakers of the altar? Even so as the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel. I'm going to give you an example of this. It's a real simple thing. It might be something you never even thought of before. You might notice that in our church we don't pass out an offering plate anymore. You ever notice that? We don't do that anymore. We have a box. And there's nothing in the Bible that says we should have a box or we should have offering plates passed. But during COVID, when we went to the box because of the whole COVID chaos, we never went back to the offering plates. And there's a part of me that that resisted going back to that, and I'll tell you why. Because we have people come and visit our church. And they see that offering plate come through, especially people who have never gone to church in their whole life. You know what the very first thing that's going to pop in their head when they see that plate go by them? They're gonna say, is this why you guys want me here? So you can get my money? It's true. It's true. And and the truth is that there's some people that when that plate goes by, the only reason they give it is 'cause they feel bad if they don't. But when that box is back there and you put that money in the box Nobody sees what you're doing. Nobody sees how much you do. And guess what? You're doing it because you have a conviction about it. Not because somebody's twisting your arm and saying, hey Look what just came by. And so it's such a small little thing. Again, it's not like the Bible says that you have to do it this way or that way But as I process the situation, especially for an unbeliever that comes and sits in our congregation, doesn't know anything about how we do things, when that plate goes by, the very first thing that pops in a lot of people's heads is. Aha. It's all about the money. And you know what? There's people on TikTok doing videos. That's what churches are all about. They want your money. They want your money. The truth is it's not about money. It's about preaching and teaching the Word of God. And those who understand what we're doing here feel compelled by conviction and a love for God and a desire to worship Him. Through their giving, they say, I'm going to give faithfully because I understand biblically that's what I'm supposed to do. Now the negative on this sometimes we don't ever talk about giving, and that becomes a problem as well, I think. But the reality is that is an area where I do think it has a potential stumbling block aspect to it for especially a non-Christian or someone who is a very immature believer. So just a little comment on that. Maybe you never thought about it. Maybe you go, huh, I see something there. And there's other churches, they pass out a plate. And our churches did it for decades. I don't think it was wrong to do that. But the truth is our culture's changed. When people come into churches, they're coming without any background. And it changes how they look at some of these practices. All right, well let's be out together for a word of prayer. And uh Lord willing, next week we're going to get into how Paul breaks down this very specific issue of how he limited his rights. He limited his right for the sake of ministry. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, thank you so much for the Word. As we think about the example of Paul, I pray that we would be purposed in our own lives. to know the Word of God, to love it and to obey it. And then as we have opportunity to communicate it to others, especially within our families, to our own children, I pray that we would be faithful examples, that when they watch our lives as parents, though we are flawed, they will see that there is a genuine commitment to walking in your ways And there is a strong desire to do what is right, and there's a good example for them to follow. And I pray that from the preaching and teaching ministry of this church down into the Sunday school classes, And then within our homes on every level, we would strive to the very best of our ability to be faithful in these areas. May you help us to do that. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.