Alright, team leaders, come on up. Actually, let me introduce people. My name is Willie. I'm from a place called the Wilds Christian Camp. I'm going to be able to hang out with you guys today, have a couple opportunities to speak as well. On the piano, right over here, we have Dr. Peter Wright. And he is so good. He is from Maranatha. And there's a bunch of guys from Maranatha here. They're gonna be doing some stuff as well. And uh we'll we'll uh give you the names of some other people. But probably the most important people you need to know today are your team leaders. Okay? So what I need I need you to tell them what your name is. Drinian Snow Say that one more time. Drinian Snow. Drinian, let's hear it for Drinian! And right over here we have Michael Apperson. Michael! Let's hear it from Michael! Alright, Michael, you got a team name picked out? Yeah, we do. The mighty Ronald McDonald. Alright, okay. The mighty Ronald McDonald strikes fear Into the heart of every child and adults. Okay. Alright, so we have the m the Ronald McDonald. I like it. I like it. All right. Drenian, what do you got? Um, the irrational cow suit. Say it one more time. The irrational cow suit. The irrational cow suit. Is that what you said? Pi and a calcit and pie is irrational. So the best idea would be an irrational calcium. I think I picked the wrong guy. Because he is way smarter than me. Alright, the irrational cow food has something to do with pie , which is an irrational number, 3. 15. So anyway. I don't understand, but we're gonna take it. Let's hear it for the irrational counsel! All right. Well g listen, Michael, we're not gonna boo today. So listen, we're all on the same team kind of. Okay, alright. So so this is what we got going on today. We're gonna have some competition and uh we'll give valuable points throughout the course of this day. And listen We'll give I throw out points like there's no tomorrow. Uh Peter, would you throw throw out a few points as well? I mean if they okay. And I'm sure Josh will as well. And listen You can do anything and we'll be like, hey, that might be worth a thousand points. And uh, because we'll do whatever we want. Okay? So uh basically that's what we're gonna do today. So we'll we'll carry that on. But for now, we're gonna go ahead and get started, Michael They su you guys can have a seat for now. I'm gonna go ahead and turn it back over to Josh. Josh. Team leaders come on up. Michael. Yeah, let's hear it. To be honest, I can't even remember. What was your team name again because it was so complicated? It's it's the irrational cowsuit. Oh yeah, yeah, that. Okay. Like I should okay, uh I see. I see. Okay. All right. The mighty I see. Let's hear it from the mighty I see. This is a little bit easier to remember. The fighting Ronald McDonald is here for the fighting Ronald McDonald's. Okay. All right. All right, we need to start uh we need to start getting some points here. Um we're gonna play a game here in just a second, but what I like to do is I like to do this little game. It's called Tic Tac Challenge at Camp, but uh here I like just to just uh do a look do a few things like that and basically what it is is you you got if you have an item you get points for that item And so what you what I'm going to call for certain items. We'll do this for a second. And I'll call for certain items. If you have that item, what you have to do is get it to your team leader. Cannot throw it You cannot throw it. Cannot throw it. Okay? You have to pass it down, get it to your team leader. They will come up here and and slap my hand. If they're the first one to slap my hand, they actually have the item. You will get a thousand points every single time. Could one of you guys keep points for me? Just get your phones out and uh Irrational Cow Su and the Ronald McDonald's. Okay. Right now, the score, as of right now. This is so good, isn't it? I mean the the interaction the score zero to zero Nobody's ahead, nobody's behind. Alright, first. Can the team leader have the item? I don't God know. I make I make rules up 'cause they already have to have it, so maybe next time. Okay? Yeah, I don't know. I'll make it up as we go I because that's what I do. So alright. And I guarantee you it's going to be very close at the end of the day. Uh because Because it will. Alright, first item I need right here, right now, is a stick of chewing gum. Stick of chewing gum, stick of chewing gun. Alright, let's see. That is chewing gum. Thank you, Big Lumbax. Alright, a thousand points for the final run of the battle. Alright, nice job. Alright, next item. We need right up here, right now. Is not and you can't use a phone. Okay? So it has that legit. A picture of a baby A picture of a baby. No, no, no, no, no. What name is the back? All right. Okay. Just remember, just remember you cannot You cannot run the item up. The team leader has to come get it from you. So that's why he had to run back and come back up. That is a picture of a baby. Very good. But that's the point for the irrational castro. What I'm gonna be. That gun right up here, right now. I need a speeding ticket. Oh well. Alright. Nobody has a speaking ticket, or at least they're not willing to admit. Alright. Okay. Alright, here we go. Next item Next item. I need right here, right now, a library card, a library card, a library card. How many actually believe this? Hartford County Public Library Adventure Await. It's a library. Alright, it is a library card. Thousand corners right here. All right Next item, right here, right now in my hand, is I'm gonna give you time on this one, okay? I'm going to give you 25 seconds. I need the oldest quarter. 25, 24, 23 , 22, 21, 20, 19 , 18, 17. Seventeen, sixteen, fifteen, fourteen, thirteen, twelve, eleven, ten, nine, eight, seven, six, Five, four, three, two, one, all right, hold on. I don't see that, okay? I can't, it's dark. What does it say? It just tells me in my ear. Nineteen eighty three to nineteen Sixty seven You gotta speak You gotta speak Sam. Is that yours? That's funny. That's funny. Sorry it didn't count, but at least funny. Sorry. Okay. Alright, so what's the score right now? What's the score? It is. 2000 for the ICs and 2000 for the Ronald. 2000 and 2000! Okay, so we're gonna play a game right now and uh this will be the last thing for you but listen You will be picking up points, okay, throughout the rest of the day as you have conversations with me, as you have conversations with Peter, okay? We will be giving and awarding points. We just have to make sure that we Make sure that we give those points to the uh scorekeepers, okay? So listen I I'm just saying we can be bribed, okay Now, I don't want money. There's different things that you could bribe us with. Just use your imaginations, okay? Just think, alright Certain thing Alright, five hundred points right over here, because he's wearing a Wilde's bracelet. Nice job. That's the kind of thing I'm talking about, okay? That's the kind of thing I'm Oh, what do you have? What do you have? Is that a Wilds bracelet? Oh that's the Wilds of New England. That's only worth two hundred and fifty points. I'm just kidding. It is two hundred and fifty points. It had to be like I mean I'm from the Wilds, North Carolina, so Alright, so there we go. Okay, there we go. Alright, so that's the kind of thing. You just come up and talk to us, you might get valuable points for your team, and that's how we're gonna progress. But we need to play a game. I need I need two people, a girl and guy from each team. Okay, so you guys pick 'em out. You guys pick 'em out. All right, come on up here. Stand on the stand right here. Alright. I just need two up there. You can you can step back. Can you step over the shoulder? Alright. This is a game we like to call The raiding game. The raiding game. Get there now. Oh, don't look, don't look, don't look. You guys don't look. Don't look. Don't look. I There we go. Okay. There you go. Alright. So this is not the dating game, okay? So you're like, oh okay, nope, this is the rating game. This is what's gonna happen, okay In just a second, I'm going to give a tie a some topics up there, okay? And you guys are going to give me a number in that Topic between one and ten, okay? One being worst, ten being best. Does that make sense? So if I said, for instance, if I said um Let's say a football team, okay? And I would I'm gonna give you a number, alright? You won't know the number, because you're gonna have to guess the number. Just hang with me, you'll get this, okay? You won't know the number. I'm going to give them a number. And I give them a they're each going to have a different topic, but suppose you all have the same topic. I say football team. And I give them the number three Okay? One being worst, ten being the best. Okay? What would you say would be a football team that would rate number three? All right, commanders. Because ten would be the best, one would be the worst. Okay, Titans, Saints, Green Bay Packers, okay? And then, so basically they're all saying, okay, a number three rated team in my mind would be this. And then I'm going to say, I'm going to come back out here and say, okay, I need two people from this side and two people from this side And who who thinks they might know the number. If you get the number, you get points for your teeth. Make sense? If you if you get it accurately. Make sense? So that's uh If I call on you, you can guess, but it we'll we'll have to see. Okay, does that make sense? Okay, I'll walk you through it as we go. Alright. So you'll be Okay, I'm going to give each one of you a different thing. Okay, so you'll be number one, number two, number three, and number four. Okay? Alright, so go ahead and put that first one up on the screen. Alright, you will be a fruit. You will be a sport to watch A color and a candy bar. Okay? Now I'm going to give them a number in those categories. Okay, I'm going to give them a number too for you to pick out something in those categories. Okay? They're not going to know the number. You're going to know the number Alright, here we go. They have the number. Alright? Something in the category of fruit that would be in that number that I gave you. Don't say the number. Grapes tennis. Peel In a milky way. Okay? Alright, who thinks they know the number? Anybody Okay? Well don't just keep it to yourself and I'm gonna raise your hand you can raise your hand, okay? Alright, what number I'll have a start over here and then I'll go over here, okay? What number do you think it is? If you get it, you get 500 points for your team No, no, they're all the same number. Number four. Okay, he says number four. Anyone over here? Seven. Okay, seven. Alright, I'm gonna take two more guesses, and I'll tell you if you're right. Somebody else over here. Yeah. Five. And one more over here. Two. Okay? The number has not been guessed yet. Okay? So I'm coming right back over here. Nine. Nine? No. The number is three. Very good. 500 points. Alright. Here we go. Next next category. Alright, here we go. Car brands. Vacation destination, cereal, flavor of Kool-Aid All right. Here we go. They have a number. You're guessing that number? Let's start down here with flavor of Kool-Aid. Fruit punch. Cheerios for serial, vacation destination, the wild Carbran. Yay! What team are you on? I'll tell you Carbrand. B and W. Okay? Let's start right here this time. Alright, what never Thank you. It was not number ten. So what are you thinking? Sorry, so it was not number ten, right over here. It was not number eight. Back over here? Right here? What'd you say? The number is seven. Now come in. But I'm going to give you one opportunity to correct this, okay? It was number seven. The wilds would only be one number. What number would that be? Twelve What team wrong? Another hundred points for this team right away here. Alright, very good. Okay. Alright. Okay. So How much how much what's the score right now? Two uh two thousand two hundred and fifty to two thousand one hundred. Two thousand two hundred and fifty to two thousand one hundred? Should I ask somebody else to keep score? But uh is it a hundred points for each time somebody wins? They got five hundred for the first one. So five hundred for each one they got they've gotten right. Okay, so in that case it's two thousand seven hundred and fifty two thousand seven hundred fifty six hundred two thousand six hundred. You guys can talk it out. We'll get it set up right. I won't ask them again. Alright. Alright, we're not gonna ask right now. We'll get it adjusted. I think I don't think that's accurate. But alright, I could be wrong there. Alright, next category. Day of the week, ice cream flavor, fast food restaurants. Pet. Okay. Thank you. All right, starting right over here, day of the week. Tuesday. Uh ice cream flavor. Vanilla. Uh fast food restaurant. McDonald's. Pets. A husky dog. Alright, a husky dog. Okay? Who did I All right. Number three is one. No, no, they're they're all the same number. So you're saying one? That's incorrect. Alright, somebody right here? Alright, yeah. Ford, that is incorrect. The number is two! Alright, one more. One more. Okay? One more. Alright, here we go. Next category. Okay, you ready? Breakfast food snack, flavor of Coke, because it's all coke because I came from the South. Okay? And a sport to play. Flavor. And a sports one. Okay? Make sense? All right. Okay. You guys had time to think? Alright, let's start right over here. Okay, Taekwondo. Flavor of Coke. You gotta pick one. I'll come back to you. Uh snack. Chips, breakfast food, waffles , Jerry , no, no You don't know. Okay, I'm gonna I'm gonna help help let you help him out. Alright, he says cherry coke. Okay. Alright, unbelievably difficult here. Okay. Uh I think I started with that team. Okay. Alright. Do you have a guess? What number? He says number ten. It is number ten! Nice job! Alright, thank you guys. You can have a seat. And uh we we will let you know. We will let you know where the score holds at the uh next time and we'll finish it off at the end with a final, final score. All right, I'm gonna turn it over to our Baron Athagans. Alright. I'm gonna ask the guys to come and sing a song, very, very serious. It's actually not very serious song. This is just kind of fun song about what it might have been like with Noah 's art It's called the animals. That's that's that's my okay. Wait a minute. Hello? Hello? Oh hi. All right. Animals and animals and animals and animals and animals and animals Yes Lord The animals are coming one by one, the old cowchoin on a caraway bun. The animals are coming two by two The elephant and the kangaroo, the animals are coming three by three, the bear and the bug and a bumblebee. Oh, the animals are coming four by four, the old hippopotamus stuck in the door The animals are coming five by five, thus the animals did arrive. Hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelujah, Hallelujah to the Lamb The animals are coming six by six, the hyena laughing at the monkey's tricks. The animals are coming seven by seven. The old fat pig says, Who's that? The animals are coming eight by eight, Noah Hollow. Shut that gate. Oh the animals are coming nine by nine. Noah hollered up. Cut that line. Oh the animals are coming ten by ten The old ark flew its whistled and and nobody knew where they was at till the old ark bumped on air rat. Hollyloo, Ollelu, Ollelu, Ollelu Hallelujah. To delight. All right, turning it back over to Where's the uh? Pastor John? No. All right. What's next? All right. What is next? We've got the oh we're next so should we go ahead and start singing? Alright, good Sam, take it away. All right. Sounds good. I gotta find the song that we're on On I believe. We're on song number three. Ah yes. Blessed be the name. Let's stand and sing Blessed Be the Name. All praise to him who breaks on my justice not for my I want to prize and chase my find a future. I do that is for yes. Some time is that speaking in its way to the And why is he on the straight first? Right, I can see that actually. Nobody told me the schedule. There's a royal banner given for display to the soldiers of the king. As an ensign fair we lifted up today, was ransomed once we sing. Marching on, Marching on, marching on, for Christ counts everything but loss, and to crown him King will toil and sing beneath the banner of the cross. Over land and sea, wherever men may dwell, make the glorious tidings known Of the crimson banner, now the storytell, while the Lord shall claim his own Marching home, marching on, marching on, marching on for a Christ counts, everything but loss And to crown him, King will toil and sing beneath the banner of the cross. And to crown him, King will toil and singneath the banner. Oh the cross The Bible commands us to become more and more like Christ every day. I think that we'll see that through the sessions today. Proverbs and um Ecclesiastes, these things of truth that draw us closer to becoming more like Christ. And I encourage you to pray this prayer, this song, O to be like thee, um, all through this day all through today. Oh, to be like the Blessed Redeemer This is my constant longing and prayer Combat the All Four Fair It's Oliver 's Treasures Jesus thy perfect likeness to be like thee Oh to be like thee Blessed redeemer, pure as thou art, come in thy sweetness, come in thy feness. Step thy own im For to be like thee full of compassion, loving, forgiving Tangering kind Helping the Has Cheering the facting Seeking the Wonder Oh to be like thee, oh to be like thee. Blessed redeemer, pure as thou art. Come in thy sweetness, come in thy fullness. Step thy no seat on my heart Oh, to be like thee while I am pleading. Pour out thy spirit , fill with thy loss, make me a temple me for thy swelling. Fit me for life and above Oh to be life the Blessed redeemer, pure as thou art, come in thy sweetness, come in thy fullness. Set thine own Oh to be like thee, oh to be like thee Or to be Oh, listen to our wondrous story, counted once among the lost. Yes, one came down from heaven's glory, saving us at awful cost. Who saved us from eternal who but God's Son upon the cross is He died for Him leave it Thou in heaven interceding, will you surrender to the Savior, to his scepter humbly bow? You too shall come to know his favor. He will save you, save you now. Who saved us from eternal but God Son upon the cross and his deed thy forgiveness? We leave it thou in heaven, intercept I need my team leaders up here. Couple minutes. All right. Alright, where the other Marinapa guy. Oh. There we are All right, can somebody who's can somebody run out and Okay good, because we just need a scoring update. All right, because uh I I looked at the score earlier and it is unbelievably close. That's crazy. Actually I don't want a scoring update because I want to keep it unbelievably close. And you don't know who's in the lead right now because points have been awarded. Have you given any points away? Not yet. Oh, he's still he's still primed for this, okay? I've given some points That's ten thousand okay there you go. Or a hundred points. Uh or five hundred or whatever. But it that could determine the race, okay? All right, so Alright, need a couple other uh May I help you, Jackson? Okay. That's a very dangerous thing to do. No, I need some items. That's what I need. I need some items right up here. All right. Uh I'm going to give you about fifteen seconds. I need the biggest shoe. Fifteen, fourteen, thirteen, twelve, eleven, ten , nine, eight, seven. Six, five, four, three, two, one. Alright, that's it. That's it. That's it. We gotta go with what we got up here. All right. This shoes is this yours You had a large foot, my friend. Size 14 right here. Man, your big feet won you uh uh 500 points. Sure, five hundred. All right Next item right up here I need it has to be legitimate and I will verify a love note A love note. Does not count. Not the Bible. Not the Bible. Not the Bible. Do I see one over here? Oh she's she's oh yep. Alright, right here. I didn't I didn't actually read it, so there you go. I think that is a love note though. Nice job. Another five hundred points right there. All right Right here, right now, I heard you've had it in the past. We need a hundred dollar bill. A hundred dollar bill. You can tap into the sponsors. That is a hundred dollar bill, thousand points, very good. Thousand points. Oh, you want it back on that sorry. Whoops. Sorry. My bad. Alright. Alright, this g this can be you can you bring the person with you, okay? I need somebody wearing something that has a college team on it, right up here. College team. There you go. Wow. Alright, let's see. Oh, Pensacola Christian College. That is a college. That is a shirt. Nice job. You gotta touch my hand. Alright. Oh, I was I was giving a thousand points for the hundred dollar bill. I was already thinking that way, so just so you know, a thousand that was a thousand for the hundred. Okay. All right, 'cause that was that was one that I wasn't sure that was gonna it was gonna come about. All right. Okay, um are you ready? We've got a game we're gonna play. Do you need these guys? No. Alright. All right, very good. Now we're gonna have the Something up in the screen. We're gonna play a quick game called Can Do It. Can you do it? Okay? So what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna have tell me your name again. Michael is gonna come up here and I'm gonna have all of you stand. Okay, in fact, do this. Everybody stand up. Michael, if you stand up right here. Okay? I'm gonna put something up on the it's not gonna work You're kidding me, right? No, it's not gonna work. Okay, alright, good. Well then I'm gonna just make these up as I go then. Okay, alright. Here's the first thing Can he sing the it's the bitsy fighter? Word for word, perfect. Yes or no? Now if you say yes and he does it, you remain standing. If you say yes and he doesn't do it, Then you sit down and you're out in chain for the rest of the game. Yes sir? Then you're out. Okay, so you want to match whether he can do it or not. Okay, don't tell them whether you can do it or not. Okay, alright? What do you think? Can he sing the Itsy Bitzy spider spider word for word perfect? Yes or no? Everybody vote, everybody vote, everybody vote. Lock in your answer. Alright, here we go. Ladies and gentlemen, the it's a busy spider. The it'sy bitsy spider went up the water's bow. Down came the rain And the washed the spider eye. Then spider. And I'm sorry. Out came the sun and driving okay, right. So if you said yes to now All right, you're out. You wanna be by the way, the last person standing will receive Mr. Willie uh where'd he go? Can I give what five hundred points for the winning winner 500. Okay. 500 points. 1,000? I can give a thousand? Thousand points. So you want to be the left one. And I'll give you a Marinath t-shirt to top it all up. Okay. You may sit down. You stand up, please. Alright? His is this. Okay? Can he hold his breath for 30 seconds? Yes or no? And he will have to go so that I know he's not breathing. Can he hold his breath for 30 seconds? What do you think Okay? Alright, lock in your answer. I'm gonna go three, two, one, and you're gonna go and you're gonna do that for thirty seconds, okay? Three, two, one, go. Five seconds, looking good. Ten seconds. Yeah, I I don't know. Oh no. Oh that's okay, that's alright, no worries, that's okay. Go on, set up if you would. Wow, we lost a lot of people there. Okay, wow, there's only two left on this side. Alright, but you can still do it. Alright. Next question. Those of you that are still standing. Okay? Can he name five books of the Bible that start with a vowel within 20 seconds? Yes or no? Five books of the Bible that start with a vowel within 20 seconds. Yes or no? Okay? Lock in your answer. Boom. Here we go. Three, two, one, go. Good. Good. Always flying. Sex, seven, good. Eight, nine, seven Oh he did it! He said no, sit down. Alright, good. Uh here we go. I guess that's right here. Certainly, someone. Okay, good. Okay? Good. The next question for you is can he name all seven contents Can you name all seven comics? Okay. Alright, lock in your answer. Alright, good. Here we go. You have twenty seconds to name all seven comics. America, South America, Africa, Asia, Europe, and Australia. And Antarctica. Ah, very good. Ah, that's good. She lost one there. Very good. Right up here. Okay. For him. Can he do five push-ups on his fingertips? Five fingertip push-ups. How many fingertips? Like twelve five? All buttons. On your fingertips. She says no. He says no. Yes. And what does she say? No. Wow. Okay. Alright, why don't you take the stage right up here Fingertip. Alright. Fingertips. There we go. Good. One. Two. Three four five. Yeah, we did it. Woo-hoo! Very good. You are our only winner at CB. for a t-shirt and a thousand points for this team. Wow. That's good. Can I do one more ride? Alright. Everybody stand back up. You're not done. All right. Here we go. Yes, sir. No. Are you no, ladies and gentlemen, hot off the press. Mr. Willie has said that I can get two thousand points. For the winner of this one. Okay, all right. Here we go. And can somebody bring me that PowerPoint? Because I need the questions that are on there, okay? Great, super. Alright, here we go. He doesn't hit you don't even have it on your desktop that you direct it to. Okay, alright, good. Then I'll pull it up over here. One of you guys grab my computer, bring it over, set on here, do it. Alright, here it is. Can he do a handstand? For five seconds. Can you do it? Oh man. Oh come on. Nobody handstand for five seconds. Alright, lock in your answer. Can you do a handstand? Five seconds. All you gotta do is five seconds. Go ahead. Give it a shot. Here we go. And, ladies and gentlemen, drum roll please Alright, here it is. Go ahead. One? Oh! That's okay. That's alright. That's alright. Okay, good. That's okay. Not a problem. Alright, your turn. Alright, I need uh Pastor Joel if you come up here. Can this guy beat Pastor Joel in a head to head race of saying the alphabet? ABC D. Can he beat him? A B C D E F G A J We're gonna have a head-to-head race. Can he beat him? Yes or no? Yes or no? Alright, lock in your ammo. I'm gonna go three, two, one. Okay. Bob, you'll definitely base come back here. Intimidation. Alright, here we go. Three, two, one, go. You gotta do this again. All I heard over here was he just went A Z. No. Guys, I didn't hear the lettuce. Okay, alright, let's try it again. You gotta hear the less. A, B, B, D E, F, T, H, N J A, L L B, T, R. Okay, here we go. Three, two, one, go! I think he did it! If you said yes, sit down. That's the don't go anywhere, please. You stand right over here. Come on over here. Now, this one is can this guy make Pastor Joel Laugh within one minute. One minute. You can do anything but touch him. Anything. Can he get Pastor Joel to laugh in one minute? Yes or no? What do you mean? Yes. Okay, a lot of yes, that's good. Alright? They don't believe in me. I know. I know, but it's gotta be a lap, okay? You gotta give it a lap. Do anything but touch him. Okay, I'm gonna give you the microphone because you can just flame it. Alright, you got one minute, go Can be laughing. Oh. Um we have one dollar. Um I But I'm gonna drop the mic. Go ahead. Oh sorry. No, not really. Same hand number. I'll start laughing after. Okay, alright. You said yes and um well oh we lost a lot of good people there. I think this is interesting. Thank you. All right. Good. All right. Next question. Are you ready? Can he name a penalty in hockey? Can he name a penalty in hockey? What do you think? Name a penalty in hockey. Alright, lock in your answer. I've got a list of penalties in hockey. Can you name one of them? There's like twelve major penalties. Can you name one? Icing is one of the penalties in hockey. If you said no, sit down. Well done. Well done. Alright. Next one. Next one. And that is can he name the four points in a tennis match? Can he name the four points in a tennis match? Yes or no? Can you name the four points in a tennis match? Alright? Wow, nobody believes. Where are my believers? No. Okay. Alright, lock in your answer. The four points in a tennis match. You don't call it zero zero, you call it what? Um ace close call advantage Um, no. Love you got love. Okay, love, love. Okay. Then there's Oh love ten five. Twenty, no? Okay. Let let's let's educate him on tennis a little bit. We have love and then fifteen, thirty , forty , And then there is obviously, you know, yeah, advantages to know I stuck. Okay, alright. Well, some of you said yes to down. Okay, not bad. Alright, we're back to push ups, man. Can you do thirty push ups? Can he do thirty push ups? Alright. Lock it in. Can you do thirty push ups, yes or no? Alright. Take the stage, lock in. Count them out for me here. And one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine. Ten, eleven, twelve, thirteen, fourteen, fifteen, sixteen, seventeen, eighteen, nineteen Twenty, twenty-one, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four, twenty-five, twenty-six, twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty Twenty-nine. Thirty four. Well done. Very good. All right. Can this man Can this man sing word for perfect all the words to twinkle twinkle little stops in the middle Gotta get every word right. Alright? Lock in your answer. Here it is. Twinkle, twinkle, little target Yeah, we were waiting. How I wonder where you are. Like a diamond Yeah. Sorry. Close. What what you are. But so if you said yes, sit down. But nice try. Good try. Good try. Alright. Last question, and here's what we'll do. We will give a hundred points for every person standing if it's not narrowed on one person. Alright? Can this man name the four ways to score in football? Can you name the four ways to score in football? Yes or no? Alright. Take your answer. And here we go. Four ways to score in football. Safety. Touchdown, extra point, field goal. Man, that was easy. Good. Alright. Do one more. Okay. This one is can he name the capital of Michigan? The capital of Michigan. Alright, lock in your answer. Can you name the capital of Michigan? Alright, good. And the capital of Michigan is? It's a tough one. High second. Oh I'm sorry, it's actually Lansing. So if you said yes, sit down. Alright, wow, look at that. Okay, we gotta give you one of these two. Alright? Can this man name the governor of Florida? Can he name the governor of Florida? Hmm. The governor of Florida Alright? Don't say it out loud. Quiet. Alright. Give me your answer. Governor Flora. Ronda Santa. Ronda Santa! Yeah. Very good. Alright. That means that this guy gets the 2,000. Boy! All right, very good. Excellent job. And are we going right into the next session? Alright, so Where's Sam? Come on up, Sam. Thank you guys, you may be seated. Well done on all that. See, I'm going to go to the middle of the city. You do always. You're always good. You're always good? Alright, sounds good. I don't have enough yet, so all right, you are always good. You see anything So I won't put this. Yeah, I found it. To see that he 's been still on the heads, and who are tight as we can. Always a little before I got an one always almost. And sounds great and you brought my ground than you are. Oh Galaxy, we're gonna wanna buy one button. When the ray still lies before me, and the wind is blowing strong, when the witnesses surround me And my strength is almost gone When the valley plunges deeper, And my shatters all my dreams Then I lift my voice to Jesus as he gives my spirit winks. God gives we go. God gives wings to fly and strength to rise above God gives we ghost When my feet begin to stumble and my dreams begin to crumble. I now support Let us run the race with patience. Let us lay each weight aside, looking only unto Jesus He will be our faithful guy. He has run the race before us He has won the victor 's crown, and he calls to every Christian, Follow me to higher ground God is wiggles God gives wings to fly and strength to rise above God gives wheels When my feet begin to stumble, and my dreams begin to crumble I don't talk all eagles winks I mounts up on echoes wings I mountain All right, I think that's all we had right? Oh, you guys want to find out who won, don't you? Who do you think one? I guess that's a A cow pie. A what? Irrational cows versus the Ronald McDonald's. Alright, where's our hold on? You haven't scored? After going through all these games, after giving away valuable points, we have a final score Of fifty eight hundred to six thousand three hundred and fifty. Fifty eight hundred to three thousand six hundred and fifty the winner of Let's Conference! Coke announcements. I'm just kidding, that's what I have to do. 5800 to 6,350 the winner is. Congrats. Congratulations, I know you're super excited, and guess what you win? Absolutely nothing. So it's the same thing you guys won. But you have bragging rights. Congratulations. Thank you for being a part. I'm going to turn it over to Brother Josh. And wonders are wonders that we want and wonder. We die for the start , the time of styles , Alrighty. Thank you so much for coming. You are dismissed.