And we're going to start out with keeping in that theme from Hebrews 11, hymn 121, both verses of faithful men. And then we'll turn over a few pages to hymn 134, greatest thy faithfulness. Let's all stand together and we'll sing both of these hymns together. I hate the touring. I want to fall for a temple I think I must be doing. Greater is thy fate for mess for thy father. I know the later Hyundai had brought my dead play Pray by fame , praise God , for me by the O alla kiinkainen tuollainen , äänyminen ukonella. Alright, we are gonna do a little competition, a game. We need to wake up, alright, get the uh the food digesting a little bit. So I have two volunteers who have come to me and they said, please, please use me and embarrass me as much as you want. That is Carson Kimmel. Where's Carson? Aye, come on down. And none other than Drini and Snow. Yeah, these guys are gonna come down And I need you to stand behind these mics and I need I need two of our Marinath guys. How about I don't I don't care, Joseph Cameron, whoever wants to come on up here And I need you guys to be my judges. This is a game. Have you ever played charades? Okay, charades, you know, you simply act out whatever the word is or whatever the phrase is, you have to act it out. So you guys are gonna listen to them. So maybe be like right here so you can listen. And as soon as your person gets the right word, you can raise your hand, okay? And um so this is it's this simple. So so Most of the time in charades, these guys will be acting, but this is reverse charades, okay? That means you guys have to act, all right? And uh whatever I put up on the screen, you're gonna act it out. You guys cannot turn around. You have to face this way. And as soon as we hear, as soon as these guys hear it, they're gonna raise their hand. Whoever the first person is is going to be the winner. Are you ready? First word, as soon as you guys see it, act it out. Go. Uh there. Right here! That's Trinian! One point for Trinian right there. Good job. Up next! Next word, here we go. Um Oh again! Two points. Over here. Next one. Are you ready? Oh um Burr, uh Burley, why are you playing uh Paris? Whooping Don 't say it! Woo! Alright. Can you make it back? Cam you still you still have a chance, I will say that. Here we go. Next one. Go Um sprinkler! Oh, one over here for Cameron! Good job! The sprinkler! That's good. Alright, next one. Okay. Did you notice where it's a great music, uh concert, um uh playing, uh stron jazz trompet uh is it a brain? Oh, right here, Dradian got it. Alright. This could be it. You have to win at least five to win, so we'll Journey and do it. Here we go. Four to one. Call them out inside the mic so that so that your uh audience has a little bit of feedback. They know what to do. Are you ready? It is. Um Thank you gifts, uh presents, Christmas We're really close, pres presents, uh wrapping present Oh! Let's give him a round of applause and you guys can take a seat, take a seat, take a seat. Good job. Now I did say round of applause, didn't I? I don't think I saw last time I checked, you know, a round a around circles are around, right? So when I say round of applause, you gotta go like this, good. If I ever say give them an applaud, that's just like A single one, just like that, okay? And uh give them a big hand. That's a big hand right there. Alright, so if you've ever been to camp, you know that one. Alright, up next. Ask the guys to join me and um we're gonna do uh a song I wrote that uh It's about a subject that's well it's pretty uh it's uh pr a close subject to my heart. Um how many of you have been to camp? Okay. All right, good. All right. Uh at the camps that are here The food is great. Yes. But it is. There are some camps that that's not the case. And I actually brought a specimen. this morning and I'd just like to sing you a song from my heart about camp food. Okay, I'm gonna try and get this out. Okay. It 's Inedible Call it food if you desire, but it's inedible. How it sets my heart on fire. It's just incredible as I force it closer to me I can feel it oozing through me with each mouthful I'm reminded that it's really Quite inedible. Edible Just how monk looking you can tell that it's inedible Oh how dreadful it can smell It's just incredible And tomorrow when the aftertaste is gone, I'll still regret it. For no matter how I try, I can't forget it. So believe me, it's inevitable. Bring the stomach humps with haste, cause it's inedible. Oh, how dreadful it can taste! It's just incredible. And tomorrow please forgive me if my state of health is dismal For it seems that I've run out of peptobysmal, so believe me, it's inedible It So I don't know how you make a transition from that to where we're going, but uh pull out your blue hymnal one more time. We're gonna get go from the ridiculous to the uh to the more sublime. Uh could you remind me what page number this one is? Uh page number is on the back of that sheet. Turn that sheet upside down. Perfect. Look at that. Oh no, I don't have that C. Well we got the words on the screen. Alright. The words are on the screen. And let's stand together, we'll sing Blessed be the name. And then we have one more hymn right after this one All praise to him who praise our speech on Jesus. I run to Christ when chase my fear and I so I through experience each and these teachings My joy sorrow I right to Christ when I and my story. He gives me to grass. Because we will go So I will please the scriptures help him on You've been sitting for a long time and brother Joe, where'd he go? He's right there. He doesn't want you to fall asleep. Did any of them fall asleep last session? No? Good job. But you've been sitting so everybody stand up. Everybody stand up. And look at somebody to your right or left and say, I'm glad you're here. Okay, try again. Try again. You you that sounds really dismal and depressing and try again. I'm s yeah, I'm so glad you're now looking at somebody else. Has to be somebody different. Look at somebody different and say, I'm so glad you're not my mom. And now look at somebody else and say, bless your heart, you can sit down. Okay, very good. I got a bunch of stuff here that um We tried to sell it, Camp, and nobody wants it, so we have to give it away. So I'm gonna give you a chance to earn it, because nothing's free except salvation. Um you're gonna get a chance to earn this. You take this here Here's the catch. Don't walk away with it just yet. The winning church. So you're kind of playing as a church. Here's the rules. I'm gonna either ask a question or ask you to bring me something. Don't mug me. I'm fragile. Um you can only win one item, okay? Mr. Fry's gonna be over there, probably on that next few over. Don't walk away just quite yet. And you once you win, you can go over there, pick what you want. The winning church group How many church groups are there here? Fifteen? Okay. The winning church group, yes. The uh The diabetes starter pack and an autographed picture of Pastor Linder sixty years ago. Okay? That's what you get for the Lindcurves Also this is this is just extra. If this is the I don't still don't have a girlfriend, I don't know why. Helper helper kit right here. You could get that if you wanted. And there's some other stuff in there too. some s uh camp related stuff. Okay, so once again you can only get one item If you need to help one of your poor helpless friends, that's okay, but you yourself personally can only win one And don't don't come take the diabetes starter pack. That's for the church. So uh leaders and so forth keep track of how many your church group got for your chance to win the diabetes starter pack. Okay, so Can I go over there now? Yeah, go away. So , first question. You know how earlier everyone in the back got to go first to eat? Well now the first shall be much closer to me to win the point. So good job, you people stand in the front. Okay. Let's see. The first Person, don't hurt me, please, and don't break the microphones. Pasha Linder 's looking at me like, oh man. The first person to bring me A Maranatha college student. Go. The first person to bring me a Maranatha college student. You are a Maranatha college student? I have my ID. She's a Maranatha college student and she brought herself. Okay, you can go right over there, go right over there. See Mr. Fry, get a prize. Wasn't that cheating? Brother Joe, was that cheating? She's a college student and she brought herself. That's that's cool. Okay. That's like getting yourself a present on Mother's Day if you're a mother, okay. Okay, uh the first person to on a piece of paper The first person to written down on a piece of paper and you have to spell it correctly to bring me that piece of paper with inscribed thereon the name of the town that Service Heart Camp is located go Write down on a piece of paper the name of the town that Servants Art Camp is located in or at It's not spelled right. It's not spelled right. That's spelled right. Okay. That's spelled right. She got it. That's close. He was close. He was close. The town is Raimi. Some people call it Rainy or something else. You've never heard of it. It's okay. Uh let's see. The first person to and you may not throw anything, by the way, you have to Give it to me. The first person to bring me a croc. Go. Right here. She got it. You got it, good job. He got it. That was a good effort though. He just put his bare feet on the floor over here. There's gonna be a foot fungus outbreak. Okay, uh the first person to bring me anything. Again, not throwing it, bring me anything I wasn't done yet, but that's pretty clever. Kids these days You must have siblings. The first person to bring me anything with the US flag on it, go. Anything with the US flag on it. Right here, you got it. That's good. He got it. He got it. Go get you some loot. Youth leaders keep track. Okay, the first person the first person to bring me and place in my hand the first person to bring me and place in my hand a missionary prayer card. Go ahead and go ahead and go ahead and see what I'm saying. Do any of you pray for your missionaries? Whoa, they're taking them off the walls. What is this even? It's a missionary prayer letter. This is a card. Evangelist? I'll give it to you. I'll give it to you very good. That was a you can you probably just should take that one. That's good thinking though. That's good thinking. Okay, the first person to bring me and it may not be on your person. In other words, you can't just fling yourself over here. Fling, flang, flung. The first person to bring me. Hey hoodie sweatshirt go. Right here, he got it right here Right here. Okay, the first person to bring me. We gotta hurry. The first person to bring me again it cannot be on your person, it has to be in my hand. The first person to bring me You might have to help each other out. Okay. The first person to bring me two two Socks with holes in them go. Two socks with holes in them. Anybody got two socks with holes in them? Anybody? They're working on it. There's one over there. I don't know if they have holes. They supposedly do though It's warm and wet. Wait , hole? There's a hole right here. I don't see a hole in that one. And a hole right here. Does anybody have any holy socks? One, two, I'll give it to this guy right here. Hey your prize is down there, bud! Your prize is down there. Although that's pretty clever. The uh Pastor Linder, the Anchor Baptist Church group is pretty shady. They're really really uh really ingenuitive and they're good at coming up with ways to to uh improvise, but it it really that's interesting. That's the second time that's happened. Okay We got time for a few more. The first only couple lines then we're almost out of time too. And then Brother Joel will be mad at me for taking his preaching time. Don't do that, kids, don't do it. Okay. The first person to bring me Backwards. Walking backwards. A youth director goes to the next one. I met the youth director, that's okay. You got it here. Yep, yep, yep. Let's see. We won't do that one or that one Or that one. Hmm. Okay, here we go. Last how many more you got over there? Uh we're gonna Does any church group have more than one? We have two. Any any any s this church group over here, what church are you? Which one? Okay. You got three. Okay, so there's there's two some twos. So this this could mean the difference of whether or not you get to take home the one and only autograph picture of Josh Linder when he was uh sixty years ago. And the diabetes starter pack Bring me exactly In change, one dollar. Go. You have to have it totally counted out and correct before you hand it to you. That's that's not change. Right here he got Right over here. Right over here. He got it, he got it. Okay. He got the I don't have a girlfriend yet, I don't know why. Help her pack. That's good job, buddy. Okay. Are you out of stuff? How many have three? We can't have ties. This group has three? Any other group have three? Three, three. You got you got a Okay, we got we I think we I think we can squeeze one more in there. This is gonna be a little more difficult, okay? And again, if you have already Uh completed a challenge, gotten a prize. You can help somebody, but you cannot personally get it. Okay? So bring me and nobody move till I say go. I want to make sure everybody understands Cheating conniving teenagers. Bring me a watch. Hang on, psh pause, don't move. Well what didn't you understand about the instructions? Bring me a watch set to six oh two PM. Six oh two PM a watch set to six oh two PM go It has to be 6. 02 PM or 602 if it's an analog watch. But I don't know how to change a watch. If it's not set to 6. 02, you missed your chance 602. Good job. He had it in my hand first. That's close. It's close. Yep, you're good. We have You better not take the pink tumbler. Don't take it. Okay, one more for a girl. I keep saying one more. That's the third time I said one more. One more. This is girls only, because I'm not gonna give a guy a pink tumbler. I won't do it. Okay? Amen for that. Now But I'm out of things on my list. Let's see. Nope, not gonna give a guy. Guys, you can help, but you may not personally receive the pink tumbler. Okay Now be careful, okay? Be be be careful. Don't don't kill anybody. Please. Don't kill anybody. And don't throw this item. And don't damage personal property. But this is guys can help, but girls, okay, you get the idea. I need, and again, nobody move till I say go. In fact, everybody put your hands on your head. None of this you won't see me. Did you know preachers in the up here they can see everything? Everything. Okay. I need a hymn book. Turned to the song. Hurry. Don't move until I say go. A hymn book turn to the song Higher Ground. I didn't say go. A hymn book turned to the song Higher Ground. You have to place it in my hand. Go. Hey, that's pretty cool. Who wants it? Don't rip the pages. Don't rip the pages. Uh oh, uh oh uh no no no no no no no no no no no Okay right there she got it right. I guess I should say good job. Okay, and any group had more than three? Okay, they get their church group gets the uh diabetes starter pack. Congratulations, good job. Thank you very much. Now you better not fall asleep on uh Brother Joe now. Music first. Thank you. These guys are good guys keeping meaning straight. Thank you. Alright, let's go ahead and stand. Hymn 69 and hymn 24. To God be the glory great things he had done so long we are that he gave us on to you and I One great brother will come to the Father through Jesus and one great thing. Great things he have taught us, great things he has done, and we are rejoice if Jesus does not put more. Some place the Lord, place the Lord, and when they die , to the power Jesus , and the brother. I can see your fingerprints upon my eyes. Always seen like that There were times when your way would make your sense while as you say You have never You are always God, you are only good. You are always God to me. Oh my eyes will my Lord. You are always only good. You see my frailty, my sin is great. And my strength is also still you say, And your mercy shelters me, you hold mine, and you hear my goal. You are always going to be good. You are always glorious. All my eyes can see no my heart. Heart we leave the more always Lord King of I can see your sympathy, I doubt myself, but I'm sure of your love. Loud and common needs maturity for our whole Ingord, you are only good. Always glory to me, no my eyes can see , no my life with me , the war always. Great singing today. You may be seated. And uh I po I hope you recognize some of these theme themes that we're singing about today I think of two songs in particular. This one we just sang, You Are Always Good. And then one we sang earlier, I Run to Christ. I think of those two songs, and it just makes me think that Like when everything else, no matter what happens in our life, especially in thinking through I Run to Christ, that whole song just plays through and it says this happens, this happens, this happens in my life. And always the answer is, I run to Christ, because we recognize as Christians that Jesus is the one who can take care of all of our burdens. He is the one that when we put our faith and our trust in him, he is the only way. Do you have a heavy burden and stand as deep within? He can take away the darkness caused by the guilt of sin. Jesus is the one. Jesus is the one. Lead you from a Lord of sin. Jesus, the wisest is the one. Give you joy and peace within. Jesus, the wisest is the one. Heaven can be yours today. So put your faith and trust in him, for Jesus is the only way Some day in the clouds of glory will see him face to face. We will praise the one who saved us and suffered in our place. Jesus is the wisest is the world, lead you from a load of sin. Jesus is the wisest is the one, give you joy and peace within. Jesus is the one. Heaven can be yours through today. So put your faith and trust in him, for Jesus is the only way. Jesus, this is the Lord, lead you from a Lord of sin. Jesus, this is the Lord, give you joy and peace within. Jesus is the one. Heaven can be yours today. So put your faith and trust in him. For Jesus is the only way So if it says fish, okay, I'll put fish up on the screen. And fish will be what you have to name. And everyone, once one of the fishes is named Fishes, fishes is named, then you cannot copy that same fish. Okay, so if someone says, you know, carp, you know, you can't copy that. You have to go to a different kind of fish all the way Down the list. Okay, it might be hard to get some fish, but let's see how we do. You ready? Alright, so for starting out first person, and if you guys are the unbiased judges You will be the ones to give the hearty whenever they uh repeat someone else's fish or whenever they take too long. Okay, so we might just go three, two, one Good good. Alright, so that's how it's gonna work. Are you ready? Here we go. Goes like this. First one. Clownfish. Clownfish. Trout. Salmon. Goldfish. Alaskan cod. Shark. Toss. Amen. Tuna. And I go all the way back to the very beginning Salmon? He said salmon right there. Alright, it's that simple, okay? Now once you repeat one, you're out, okay? You'll just go sit down and we'll all say, uh. But after you re after you go through then uh you'll be on the back list. Are you ready? Here we go for realsies this time. The next one is none other than Fast food restaurants go McDonald's Burger King Chipotle Wendy's Chick-fil-A Taco Bell Burger King White Castle Duncan In and out. In and out Wendy's. And Wendy's was already said. Say why Oh, did they do Burger King twice? Who is the second Burger King? Oh, I'm sorry. Steelers City, you're out. Well that threw it off. Alright, up next So does that mean like any kind of pop cola tonic I don't know what that means sparkling drinks. Are you ready? Pepsi. Squirt Root beer. Mountain Dew. Coca-Cola. Dr. Pepper. Sprite. Good job. Give him a round of applause. Good job. Next one is Candy. Nerds. Uh Snicker. Gun Seatle. Uh her sheet. Jolly Rancher. Baby Rose. Reese. Reese 's pieces Uh three muskets. I couldn't pol padingo. Chocolate chip cookies? Hey. Milky Way. Wait. I would have given it to you if you said Chips Ahoy, but sorry. Yeah, have a seek. It's gotta be candy. Cookies This is a fine line guys cookies not quite candy right okay next up we're starting here in the middle Board games. Board games into the microphone and screw together. Scoot down, guys. Scoot down. Everyone squish in so I don't have to go as far. Monopoly. Accidentalism. My risk. Shoots and ladders. I hate you. Have a seat, have a seat. Alright, squeeze it. Squeeze in the gaps, squeeze in the gaps. Next One. Where did I leave off? Where did I leave off? Were you are are you next? You next? All right. US president. Here we go. George Washington, Adam Jefferson. Bill Clinton. Quincy Adams. John Madison. Okay. Well just Madison. Lincoln. Bush. Obama. Which Bush? Richard Nixon. Trump. H. W. Bush. Biden. Jefferson? Jackson? Yep, I know no I do Okay. Jefferson was set, right? Alright, alright. Well wah wah wah wah Alright Brands of coffee. Brands of coffee. Are you ready? Starbucks Black Army, First Brothers, Duncan, Mr. Coffee, Zeke, McDonald's, Folters, Chick-fil-A. Chrissy Cream Wendy's Wendy's Sheet Let's Play Burger King? I I don't know. He said Burger King at the last second. Does Burger King have coffee? I don't think so. Alright, have a seat, have a seat. Do they? No. Alright, you can have a seat. Up next NFL football teams. Here we go. Chargers, huh? What? NFL football teams. NFL Football teams. Chargers. Ravens. Patriots. Steelers. Lions. Buffalo Bills. Eagles. Jets. Saints. I don't know, I don't know, I don't know. Run! Run? Run Kim! They're not a team anymore. But it was a team! Um Did I already hear the eh? You guys already get it. Alright, sorry. Sorry. This could go on a while. You ready? Cars. Really fast. Squeeze squeeze together. Here we go. Wait, car models or cars? Uh um m the make. So you can't say BMW three series, BMW five series, BMW seven series. You can't say Honda Civic Honda Accord Honda you do you gotta do make. Porsche. Uh yeah. Uh Honda. Ford. Nissan. Chevy. Tesla. Um Lamborghini. GMC. Buick. Lincoln. Pontiac. Oh shoot. Honda. Honda! It's already been said. Alright, good job, good job. Two left. This is it. Back and forth and back and forth. And the final category, ladies and gentlemen, is Cities that begin with the letter A. Are you ready? Akayukan. Annapolis Acapulco Anchorage Give him a round of applause and we have a winner. What's your name? What? Give him a round of applause! Alright, you can have a seat Well, ladies and gentlemen, I think it's time for some more music. So give it up for the Maranatha Boys. All right. That was great. Awesome, awesome, awesome. Alright, at this time we're gonna do uh uh something special. Come on up, guys. And we'll get ready to go. And uh just want to do one more thing for you before we get into our next session. Um one, two, three. One, two, three. Where is uh where's Grant? Grant, what? Grant Grant Grant. What Grant? Grant, what do you do? I was in Florida. You were in Florida, okay, yeah. Cool. All right. Okay. Can we can I make a request? Can you what? Can I make a request? Um not right now. We're kind of in the middle of something. Yeah, I know. Okay. So at this time what we'd like to do. Huh? What? I wrote a song. You wro you wrote a song? I did. You don't know music. You're like you wr what do you mean you wrote a song? Okay, I know some music. I got bored in the phone. No, they do not want to hear your song. No no, it's really e no nobody wants to hear. No, you don't want to hear his song. Yeah you want to hear his song. Well you well do you have music for this song? You have music? Look at me being on the vault. I don't even have paper done that I have next week. Wow. Um this is you gave me one note. It Okay. And it's a Christmas song. There's more than one in there. I have a really fun one. Okay, um this is and you wrote this? I did, completely original. You nobody's ever heard this before. Okay. Um this is original words and music by Grant Kirshner. Now it'd be me. Okay. And it's entitled Christmas Night. I do. I love Christmas. Okay. Okay. I'm sorry. It's really good, I promise. Okay, here it goes. Twas the night before Christmas and all through the house not a creature was stirring, not even a mouse So good. Turned out better than I thought. All the stockings were hung by the chimney with care in the hope that St. Nicholas soon would be there Wait a minute, I've heard these words before. Never before in your life. Have you heard these words before? This is um It's like Edgar Allan Poe. No, this is um but is it what? No, it's it's definitely not Yes, what's the night before Christmas? This is not yours. Oh was an and. Oh, you changed the word. Yeah. Oh all. All by myself. Okay. Well to my wandering I should appear but a miniature slate and a tiny reindeer. Now dancer, now dancer, nowcer, and fix it on Comet and Cubit and Thunder and Flex Wait a minute. I've heard this tune before. No, what is this tune? I think this is that um Yeah, it's uh uh Chinese thing. Um what's it uh um chopship yeah, chopsticks That's a natural. Apparently all the musicians these days are calling it all natural. Oh my. This is incredible He strung to his plate and his team gave a whistle and away they all threw with a down of a thistle. Just wait till I tell Dr. Brown. But I heard him his name ere he rose out of saying Merry Christmas to all and to all a good night. Thank you very much. If you'll stand with me, we'll switch gears just a little bit. We'll sing his ropes for mine and then switch to bow the knee, a few verses of each. His robes for wonderful exchange, clothed in my stage, right suffering God's rage, draped in his righteousness. I'm just in life in Christ I live, for in my place life. I came to lies with one for that Jesus. God is pain to God What 's up My life is not my own My brain is my own show Here's robes for mine because justice is a peace. Jesus is Christ and Christ the Father's My strength or then price is dark Since wait is day for destriation. I clean you twice. And for all that because he doesn't stay not a strange one. But why is it my life is not my own? My grace, my all shall be for Christ. His robes for mind such anguish God can know Christ got beloved Tam as no His core He has no wise I as though he embraced that walk my kids and walk at the gas. God is doing to God, but I love my life is not my own, my way is my own shiny. What a privilege to come into God's presence. Just to linger with the one who set me free And I lift my eyes and see his awesome glory I remember good year Knew me for him, all our joy, as you live to love him more, Alane In his hand he was the power of creation. With his voice he spoke and all things came to me. Can he hear his simple where I am? You'll be boring or adore him as you live to love him more before. Thank you, please be seated. So often when I was growing up, uh in either a Sunday school class or in a Bible class or you know, even just sitting under the preaching, um they would talk about heaven and what it's going to be like. And something that I would love to do is just Close my eyes and picture what I think heaven is going to look like. Because obviously we can't we can't fathom what that's going to be to us, what our what our human eyes can see through that. Um but this song kind of goes through uh and it and it talks about imagining what heaven is. Um and I want you to as we s as we sing it think upon the words and kind of picture in your mind what you think heaven is. I have run and heard about ever It's the place I want to be In the Bible we're told of its beauty My Lord 's preparing a place for me Can you imagine? All the peace and tranquility No more sorrow, no care, no more burdens to pass will last For all the turnity When we reach that wonderful city and the master says we see. We will live in his glory for Oh, won't you come on and go with me? Oh man Can you imagine all the peace and tranquility? No more sorrow, no care, no more burdens too last For all eternity. No more sorrow, no care No more burden to that will last for all eternality. And heaven and nature. And heaven and nature sing, and heaven heaven nature sing He rules the world with truth and grace and faith. Explanation to the glory of wonders of his heart and wonders of his love and wonders For God ever played the same for nature Joy law division was Joy Lord, triumph for what 's not. Let's go to the second first. How about Hell God and wonder if me , no one of my judgment, I am my brain with illness. I can turn on the hell they just give your reason for king. So I let not All is God, all is right , broad merge. Father and child , only so tenor and mark, so we So we he bid Staylenay Stocky. We wish you a Merry Christmas, we wish you a Merry Christmas, we wish you a Merry Christmas and a Happy New Year. Good tidings we bring from Jesus our deep. Thank you all