So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. And let's turn together to Luke chapter 1. We're looking at verses 57 down to verse 66. Again, that's Luke chapter 1, verses 57 to 66. Here's what the scriptures say. Now Elizabeth's full time came that she should be delivered, and she brought forth the son. And her neighbors and her cousins heard how the Lord had showed great mercy upon her, and they rejoiced with her It came to pass that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child and they called him Zacharias, after the name of his father His mother answered and said, No not so, but he shall be called John. They said unto her, There's none of thy kindred that's called by this name. They made signs to his father how he would have him called He asked for a writing tablet and wrote saying, His name is John, and they marveled all. His mouth was opened immediately, his tongue was loosed. And he spake and praised God. Fear came upon all that dwelt around them, and all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judea. And all they that heard laid them upon their hearts, saying, What manner of child shall this be? And the hand of the Lord was with him. Now this is a really interesting passage because it continues a lot of information about the birth of John the Baptist. And we are reminded that John the Baptist had an important role. in the ministry of the Messiah. He was going to be the front runner, the one who would prepare the way for the Messiah. And so in this passage we see that John's life is going to be a life that's ultimately going to be lived for God's glory, not his own. Let me give you a simple summary statement, and then we'll dig into a couple of the details we find here. First of all, the summary statement. John's name and the events leading up to his birth And following his birth were fulfillment of God's word and a series of remarkable events that would prepare people to look to the Messiah through his ministry. John 's birth, not just his birth, but really the events leading up to it, and what's going to happen when he's named, and then how he's going to grow up as a child. All those things are going to point people to This remarkable man's ministry, and they're going to remind him, remind themselves, they would be reminded, I'll put it that way, that John was preparing them for somebody else. Let me look at a couple of these details together with you. First of all, we see that God fulfilled his word to both Zechariah and to the nation of Israel. In verse 58 it says, Elizabeth's full time came that she should be delivered, and she brought forth a son Now, obviously that's a real simple verse. It doesn't seem to be saying a lot. But when you think about how old she was, when you think about the fact that they had not had children for all those years of marriage When you think about the fact that they had been praying and God had never answered that prayer, that's an incredibly remarkable statement. And what it really tells us is that when God said, I'm going to give you a child, he followed through with it. But what we also see is that this was more than just a significant event in the marriage of this couple, but it was a significant event in the history of Israel and in the history of redemption. Because John was going to be the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy regarding the forerunner of the Messiah. And so that little statement, she brought forth the Son, tells us that when God says he's going to do something, Even when the odds seem impossible, it doesn't seem that humanly speaking it can happen. God does it. The second thing we're going to see in the text in front of us is that his name was meant to draw attention to God's role for his life. the ministry that John was going to have. Now we don't know how long John lived. We we would have to assume that John really only lived to be about 30 or 31 years old. Because we know that John the Baptist was beheaded early in the ministry of Christ and they would have been about the same age. So John didn't live to be very old. We don't know that he had any children that ever got married. But what we do know about his life is that his life was meant to draw attention to Christ. Here's what it says in verses 58-63. And a lot of these details are very interesting. Her neighbors and cousins heard how the Lord had showed great mercy on her, and they rejoiced with her, and it came to pass on the eighth day They came to circumcise the child and they called him Zecharias after the name of his father. Now that would have been a really common thing to do in those days. It would have made sense that either he would bear the name of his dad or the name of some relative But they weren't going to name him Zecharias. And the reason wasn't because they didn't want to carry on that name, but it's because God told them through the angel that his name would be John, not Zecharias. It says that when the people asked him, well, why are you naming him this? His mother answered and said, He shall be called John. They said to her, There's none of your kindred called by his name. And they made signs to his father how he would have him called. And he asked for writing tablet and wrote, saying, His name is John. And they marveled. Now, what it's telling us is that his naming was significant. It was something that surprised them. And you might say, well, what was significant about his name? One of the things I want to remind you is that in those days a person's name often carried something symbolic about their life. Many times a person was named based upon some character trait that they had or something significant. about their childhood or about their life. And so when we think about the name John, you ask, well what does the name John mean? The name means Yahweh has been gracious. By the way, that is very symbolic of what this child represented. He represented God's grace to this couple, Zechariah and Elizabeth. He also represented God's grace to the nation of Israel, how he was going to send a prophet to prepare the way of Messiah He also showed God's grace in the sense that God is now beginning that plan of redemption in a very specific way by sending the Messiah. And so when we talk about John being the frontrunner of the Messiah and his name being Yahweh has been gracious That's exactly what he was. He represented the fact that God was pouring his grace upon this nation. By the way, Zecharias' name is significant as well. Zecharias means that God remembers. And what's so interesting is that when we go from Malachi to the opening of this book, we see that there's been several hundred years of silence in Israel. God has not spoken to his people through a prophet. And God opens the mouth of Zecharias, and Zecharias is now going to open up God speaking again through prophets. Because Zecharias is going to be the father of John the Baptist, a prophet who was like Elijah. And so his name means God remembers. And it reminds us that God remembered his covenant promises to Israel, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob. God remembered his promise of redemption. And so we see Zecharias demonstrating that God remembers what he's going to do through his people, and we see John showing us that God has been gracious to his people. And the response of those people gathered around this couple was that they marveled. They didn't understand the significance of it at the time, but what we're going to see is that as time goes on, they will understand the significance of this child's life. We then move to a third observation, and this is also a very interesting observation When God does remarkable things, we like Zecharias should testify of his glorious work. In verses 64 and 65 it tells us That Zecharias, after he writes the name he's going to be called John, God opens his mouth and he's able to speak. And by the way, it's really interesting. Many times when God was working through prophets in the Old Testament He would actually use the prophet as a sign that he was speaking, and then the message that followed that sign would be God's message to the people. In other words, him making this man Zecharias not be able to speak throughout the whole pregnancy of his wife was a sign that when he does speak, what he's going to say is significant, and it's going to be a message from God. But here's what he says. These are the first things that he says before we get into a passage the next time we come together. That's really a wonderful prophecy of the ministry of his son and the ministry of the Messiah. It says his mouth was opened immediately and his tongue loosed, and he spake and praised God. And fear came on all that dwelt around them, and all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judea Let me show you a couple of details here that should catch your attention. First of all, the first thing that he does is he speaks. And when he speaks, he praises God. It says he spoke and he praised God. In other words, he's telling people, listen, what's happened here is a remarkable thing. It's a miracle. It's significant. God's trying to get your attention. He's trying to tell you something. But when God works in a remarkable way like Zecharias, we should testify to that. That's what he does. The second thing we're going to see is that people were genuinely impacted by what he said. The fact is, for nine months this man couldn't speak. And now all of a sudden he can speak. And he's beginning to explain that this child is going to be a significant child, not just to my wife and I, that brings us joy in our old age. But he's going to be a significant child who's going to grow up and be significant in God's plan to prepare the way of the Lord. And it says this. It says, fear came on all them that dwelt around. And then the third thing that's really interesting is that this went around all over the countryside where they lived. It said all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judea. In other words, when John when John's father, Zechariah, says this is what this child's going to do, And when all the family members heard, no, he's not going to be called Zecharias, he's going to be called John. And he explains to them why, and this child is separated unto the Lord, and he's going to be a Nazarite his entire life. When he begins to talk about those things to the people, they listen, they marvel, they reflect on it, and they say, we've got to tell people about this. This is an amazing event. And so really from the time that John is growing up as a child, people already recognize That he's going to have a significant ministry, and they're already interested in what this boy man is going to have to say about the Messiah. The final observation we'll look at this morning is that John's life was never all about himself, but it was about God. And this is the thing that maybe is the most significant and interesting of all the things that we see in the passage. In verse 66 it says, All they that heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, What manner of child shall this be? And the hand of the Lord was with him. What we see is that John's life wasn't going to actually be about himself. It was going to be about pointing people to Jesus. People would gather around John, they would hear him preach, they would listen to his ministry, but at the end of his ministry, there comes a day when he baptizes Jesus, his cousin. And he says, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. And from that day people stopped following John, and they started following Christ, because John was living not for himself. But for Jesus and God's glory. And I want to read to you what the scripture says in John 3, how it records some of the details about how people responded to that taking place in John's ministry. In verse 25 he says, Then there arose between some of John's disciples and the Jews about a question about purification. And they came unto John and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom they came to John and said unto him, Rabbi, He that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou bearest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come to him. John answered and said, A man can receive nothing except it be given him from heaven. Ye yourselves bear me witness that I said I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him. That hath the bride is the bridegroom, but the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice. This my joy therefore is fulfilled. He must increase. I must decrease. Basically what's happening is John's disciples come to him and they say, hey. All of the people who are following you have left you. They're following Christ. This is wrong, isn't it? And John says, no, it's not. If you go to a wedding, you don't celebrate the bridegroom, or you don't celebrate the the groomsman, you celebrate the bridegroom and the bride. In other words, it's not the wedding party that is the center of attention in the wedding. It's the couple that's getting married. He says, I'm not the center of attention. It's not my ministry that's supposed to be prominent. My ministry is one of pointing honor and glory at people to Jesus. And so John was completely content To play that role. A role of pointing people to Christ. He says, He must increase. I must decrease. I actually rejoice in the fact that people are not following me, but they're following him. I want to remind you that John's attitude is really supposed to be our attitude. When it comes to anything in our lives, we need to recognize that we don't exist for ourselves. We exist for God and his glory. So my question this morning is this, how can we practically take this little section of Scripture and live in the light of it this morning? Let me give you three thoughts. First of all, We should live our lives like John and his parents. John's parents live to bring glory to God. The first thing Zecharias does when he can speak is he points honor to the Lord Jesus Christ, who is coming. He points honor and glory to God who has done this great work in his life, but ultimately is just using him as a tool. When John the Baptist has his ministry and people begin following Christ, what happens? He says, he must increase, I must decrease. This is the attitude that we should have. The second thing I'll say is this: our lives are not really about ourselves. We exist for God's glory, God's purposes, and we should be completely comfortable to embrace those roles. I want to encourage you this morning, be a person who's not living for your own glory, but living for the glory of God. And the truth is we should be a people who find joy and contentment and satisfaction with pointing people to Christ and not to ourselves. I hope this has been an encouragement to you today. If it has, please share that. And I hope that you have a great rest of your day. Lord willing, we will continue our study tomorrow. Bye now.