We're looking forward to our study tonight. Let's go ahead and bow for a word of prayer, and then we will uh sing a song and then get into our uh passage of scripture tonight. So let's bow for prayer, please. Lord, thank you again for how kind you are to us. Thank you for the opportunity to open up the Word of God. And I pray that as we read it, it'd really speak to our hearts. Help me to communicate this passage of scripture in a way that is very practical and helpful to each person that's here tonight. As we pray together, I pray that our hearts would be knit together. As we lift up great burdens, I pray that we would see you at work in those situations. Pray for our kids in the back as they're meeting for their truth trackers and tiny trackers for the beginning of the new term. Help them have a great time back there. And pray that you'll be with our free in that last class as well. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, hymn 99 is what we'll sing here together. A shelter in the time of storm. 99, a shelter in the time of storm. Just the first and the last. Words are rocking him we hide Shelter in the time of storm. Take your watch. Never he'll be tied, shelter in the time of storm. Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a weary land, a weary land. Oh Jesus is a rock in a weary land, a shelter in the time of storm. Oh, rock sea vital red years, here, a shelter in the time of storm. Storm We thou are however shelter in the time of storm Oh Jesus is the Lord and a we like a we We land a weary land in the rock in a weary man, a shelter in the time of store. Aye, could you Thank you, Drinian. Okay, well let's go ahead and uh turn our Bibles to the book of Matthew again. We are working our way through the Sermon on the Mount. And we have just a couple of more sections of this sermon. We are really getting close to the end of this. And so tonight we will read the entire section, verses 1 through 12. But we're going to focus in on verse number 12. And there's a reason that we're going to read that entire section is because verse 12 is still a part of this discussion. on how we are supposed to handle situations where we have confrontations with other people. How are we supposed to handle those very challenging and delicate situations? So let's look down at the words of our Lord, Matthew chapter 7, verse 1. Judge not, that ye be not judged. For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged, and with with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. Why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye? But considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye, and behold, a beam is in thine own eye Thou hypocrite first, cast out the beam out of thine own eye. Then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote from thy brother's eye. Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast out your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under feet and turn again and rend you. Ask, and it shall be given you Seek, and ye shall find. Knock, and it shall be opened unto you. For every one that asketh receiveth, and he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh it shall be opened Or what man is there whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone? Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent? If ye then being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father, which is in heaven, give good things to them that ask him? Here's the verse we're going to focus in on tonight. Therefore, all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them. For this is the law and the prophets. Now, there's a reason that I didn't just take verse twelve and read it, and that's the end of it. I mean we would have started with the word therefore, which means There's a whole lot of information leading up to this verse that is important for us to understand how to properly interpret and then move to application on verse number 12. So first of all, let's talk about the summary of what this verse in we could say the context that it's in, what this verse is teaching. And if you're familiar with this passage, it's because it's often called the Golden Rule. Do unto others as you would have them do unto you. So here's a summary of these verses, and particularly this verse we're looking at tonight. Because we are created in God's image, we have a basic awareness of God 's law written on our hearts. And we are responsible to live consistently with that principle. Let me say it again. Because we are created in God's image. We have a basic natural awareness of God's law written on our hearts, and we are responsible to live consistently with that principle. Now, there are three questions I want us to consider before we look at this passage of Scripture. We're going to kind of answer those questions as we work through the text. The first question is, what is the golden rule? So you will see that as we work our way through it. Second question is, why is it applicable? Or we could say, why would Jesus make this statement? What are the details below the surface that really make this something we need to understand? And then the third question is how do we apply this teaching of Christ? So those are the three questions. What is the golden rule? Why is it applicable? And how should we apply this teaching? In order to be able to answer those questions properly, we've got to first of all look at a couple of uh observations about the passage The first observation is this. The golden rule is not disconnected from Christ's teaching on righteousness. Now the reason that I bring this up is I want you to remember that when we see this verse, it wasn't really meant to be just looked at by itself without any other consideration about the verse. And this is sometimes when we when we memorize Scripture. Sometimes we will we'll learn a verse about this and we'll learn a verse about this and learn a verse about this. And I'm and I think it's a very helpful thing, don't get me wrong. But sometimes we learn those verses, but we disconnect them from the context that they're in, and then we don't understand those verses completely. And so I want us to make sure that we don't do that. This is simply a statement in a sermon. And there is a continuity in the sermon that Christ is teaching in Matthew 5, 6, and 7. So let's look at some of the things that he has said already in this sermon and see how they relate to this issue of righteousness. The first of the statements I want you to notice is in verse 3 of chapter 5. Here's what it says. Blessed are the poor in spirit. For theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Now, what was Jesus saying in Matthew 5. 3? He was saying that before a person can become a Christian, when he says theirs is the kingdom, uh of heaven, he's saying, these are people who are citizens of the kingdom. These are Christians. These are believers. In order for someone to be a believer They have to first be poor in spirit. This means that they have to recognize that they don't have a righteousness that God accepts. If I'm going to become a Christian, I have to begin with that humility that says, I'm a sinner, I'm unrighteous, I need a righteousness that comes from God. And I need to be forgiven of my sins, I am spiritually bankrupt. So the very first part of this sermon, the very first statement that Jesus makes in the sermon is blessed are the poor in spirit. Why? Because you're not a Christian if you don't begin with this basic understanding that it's all of the grace of God that I'm saved. It is all his work. It is all his righteousness. I am forgiven and I'm a saint because of him. That's it. Second statement is in verse 6. He says, Blessed are they that do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Now, what does this tell you? Well, these are people who do not have a righteousness, practically speaking, that they desire, and they're longing for that. They're pursuing walking in a way that's consistent with the position that they have. I think that's the sense of it. They're looking to Christ A third example, Matthew 5. 20, he says, Except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. Now what's this passage saying? Well this statement is telling us that the very best example of their time, a scribe, this is someone who Copies the Word of God, who handles the Word of God. This is a person who would have been a scholar in the scriptures, unless you're more righteous than that guy. And more righteous than the Pharisee. This is like the most careful sect of all of Judaism at the time. Unless you are better than those guys, you'll not enter the kingdom of heaven. What's he saying? Human righteousness doesn't cut it. Human righteousness isn't good enough. Now you can see this consistency. You have to be poor in spirit, to be a citizen of the kingdom. Those who long after righteousness, they recognize that they don't have it. They look to Christ. We've got to be more righteous than the Pharisees and the scribes, and there's no example save Christ himself who would cat who would fall into that category. The fourth example The prevailing culture fell short in Matthew 5, 21 to 22. And then really for the next several verses, he he lists these situations and he says that you have heard it said of old, but I say to you And you see this pattern several times. He talks about anger, he talks about lust, he talks about several different topics. Well, what's Jesus saying? He's saying that the true law is actually setting a higher standard than what the rabbis are teaching you. Again, what's his his point? Your culture is not righteous enough And then in Matthew 5. 48 he says, be therefore perfect as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. Now what is the consistent stream of this? The consistent stream is that you are not righteous enough. I am not righteous enough. I need to be saved from my sins, reconciled to God through the righteousness of Christ imputed to me. That is the point. So when we come to the golden rule, do unto others as you would have them do unto you, he's not suggesting that now man is the standard. This is in no way uh disconnecting from the rest of the float. There's a reason that he's going to say that, and we'll get to that in just a minute. That's the first observation. The second observation, this is a continuation of his teaching on an edifying kind of confrontation Now, that word therefore in verse 12 is not just linking back to the rest of the sermon, but it's also linking back to the section that he's been talking about, where he's talking about how to confronts an individual in a way that's actually productive or it's actually helpful. And so it's a continuation of that. And so if you look down in Matthew chapter 7, verse 5, he talks about how to do this the right way. It begins with First, casting the beam out of your own eye, and then you can see clearly to cast the moat out of your brother's eye. What is he saying? Don't be a hypocrite before you try to help somebody out here Look at your own life first. Deal with the issue personally so that you have the ability to see clearly and help them. Step one The second thing he says is once you've done that, you need God's wisdom so that you can address the issue the right way. And so that's where we see ask. It will be given you. Seek, you will find, knock, it shall be opened unto you. So it begins by not being a hypocrite, looking inside, dealing with your issue first, then asking God for wisdom. And then we come to this text here, Matthew 7. 12. Therefore, all things whatsoever you would have men do unto you Do ye even so to them. Now what's he saying? Put yourself in their shoes. And ask yourself this question. If I were them, how would I want somebody to come to me? That's a really good rule, is it not? Let's say that you have a person that you're you know is your boss and you're working uh in the job and uh they really didn't handle things the right way and it's clearly they didn't handle things the right way. And you have every right to go and speak to them about the issue. Before you do that, you should ask yourself the question, do I want this to be a productive conversation or not? Hopefully the answer is, of course I want it to be a productive conversation. The second question you should say, well if I was in their shoes, how would I want somebody to approach me so that I could uh I could receive it the right way That's the kind of thing that Jesus is saying here. So when he says, do unto others as you would have them do unto you, he's not going through a totally different kind of discussion. This is a part of what he's already been talking about. He's talking about how we have productive Confrontations with other people. Because by all means they're going to happen in life. And so that's the second observation. The third observation This reminds us that people have an internal sense of morality. This is a really important thing for us to consider. He says, all things whatsoever you would that men do to you. When Jesus makes that statement, he's assuming something about people. Doesn't that make sense? Like if I thought that everybody in here would want everybody to just like, you know, treat you like a jerk, I probably wouldn't say like, hey, you know, do unto others as you would have them do unto you. I assume that everybody in this room would want someone to approach them kindly, respectfully, graciously, giving you the benefit of the doubt, not rushing to a conclusion, the very worst possible scenario. You would want people to To give you the benefit of the doubt, to come to you in a gracious manner, to speak to you without it being real tense, you would want them to come to you that way. So the fact that Jesus makes a statement means he's assuming something about human nature. Everybody has expectations. And there's something universal about the kinds of expectations people have. And the question we should all ask ourselves is why is it that way? Because every person in this room, we all have different interests. We all have different personalities. Some people have Strong personalities, some people have a little bit more gentle personalities. Uh some people like working with their hands and some people like working with their brain more and some people uh like like to get into something they like to be out to the side some people love being in big areas big conversations some people like to just have private conversations lots of different kinds of personalities here But this isn't about personality. This is not about background. This is about conscience. The reason that Jesus makes this statement is because he knows in the heart of people is a conscience. And the reason that you don't like it when people lie to you Is because you have a conscience. And the reason you don't like it if somebody steals from you is because you have a conscience. And the reason that you don't like it if somebody disrespects you is because you have a conscience. And every person in this room has a conscience. And the question is, why is it that we universally understand lying is not good Killing people is not good. Stealing things is not good. Treating people disrespectfully is not good. Why do we understand this? It's because we have a conscience. And so when Jesus makes this statement, he is reminding us that everybody has this sense of right and wrong. That doesn't mean that you're Sense of right and wrong is infallible. He's not making that suggestion. It's not the, you know, the Jiminy Cricket uh always let your conscience be your guide. That's not really good advice, so I'll just be honest with you. Okay You can you can sear your conscience, you can diminish your conscience, you can have a twisted and unhealthy conscience, but we have this sense that there is right and there is wrong. Even a person who can look you in the eye and say, I don't believe in right and wrong They do. And you can prove it by stealing something from them. Okay? Or you can prove it by sucker punching them. No, don't do that. I'm just saying, as soon as you did a thing like that, they'd say, Well that was wrong. You say I thought you didn't believe them right and wrong. We do. We believe in right and wrong. And the scripture has a lot to say about this. There are two passages that come to my mind that I want to draw your attention to. The first one is if is Romans chapter 1, verse 18. Here's what it says. The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of man. And here's what it says. Hold the truth in unrighteousness. You say, what does that mean? Simplest way to put it is: people have access to the truth. And they say, nope, don't want it. Guess what? That is moral awareness. And interestingly, it says that they hold the truth in unrighteousness. They have this bent against it. There's a rebellion in the heart. He then goes on to say this that which may be known of God is manifest in them. God hath showed it unto them. The invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power in Godhead, so that they are without excuse. Now someone might say, well, well, well, Joel, does God write his name in the sky? No, he declares his glory in the sky. There's a big difference. Any person living on this planet who looks out at the creation In their heart, if they're honest with what they're looking at, there are certain conclusions that they should come to. And when they do not come to those conclusions, it's because they are unwilling. to come to those conclusions. Not because they don't have the ability to rationally see this. It's that they do not have the heart to want to see it. What is that? That's conscience. Romans 2. 14. He says, when the Gentiles which have not the law Do by nature the things contained in the law. And by the he's not suggesting that the Gentiles were like perfect people who always did right. That's not the point he's making here. He's saying there is something in the heart of a Gentile who doesn't even have the law of God, that conscience that says, this is not good, and this is. He says, they do by nature the things contained in the law, these having not the law, are a law unto themselves. And I this statement's amazing, which show the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the meanwhile accusing or else excusing them. Now, so why does Jesus say, all things whatsoever you would that men should do to you, do also unto them? It's because Jesus knows the heart of people. And he knows that people have a conscience. And he knows that people understand there is right and there is wrong. They can tell you they don't believe it. They can affirm things that God says are not true. But they understand when you press them in real-life practical situations where they have been wrong, you will find out they do believe there is moral right and wrong. And that's why Jesus says that. So observation three, it reminds us that people have an internal sense of morality. Observation four. It reminds us that God's laws are personal and practical, not arbitrary and theoretical. Again, it reminds us that God's laws are personal and practical, not arbitrary and theoretical. Now, I'm sure that there's some people in here, I should say, I know that there's some people in here, that enjoy discussing theology in sort of uh a little bit more of a theoretical sense, okay? Like you like sitting at a table and having conversation with other people that love studying the Bible And you just like to discuss certain issues because they're fascinating you, they're interesting you. Sometimes some some pastors or sometimes uh people that are in uh academic settings. They love discussing theological, philosophical types of situations. And I'm not saying that that's bad, okay? But God's law isn't theoretical And God's law is not arbitrary. And I think that sometimes we get in our minds, if God says thou shalt not, well he's just forbidding something that we all know we'd enjoy doing, but he just decided we can't do it. So he draws the line there. But that's not the way God draws the line. I mean something as very simple and basic as there is male, there is female. There is marriage, one man, one woman, covenant relationship for life, the creation of human life in the context of the covenant of marriage, that wasn't arbitrary. And what's amazing is if you observe humanity, you will see that there is no question that what is best for a child is mom, dad, Together and raise them and nurture an admonition of the Lord. You can see it. And when people tell you it's not that, they're lying to you When people tell you, oh no, that's not true, that's just arbitrary. Guess what? They are rebelling against the most basic fundamental institution that God has created. And what's amazing is if you just study this issue, if you just studied it in a purely scientific way, you would discover that God's ways are good. And that's not what makes it good. That's not what makes it true, and that's not what makes it right. But you would observe that what God does is not arbitrary. He has a purpose. He has a design for the way that he does things. And so when the law says do this, he has a reason for it. And when the law says don't do this, he has a reason for it. And so when he says, do ye even so to them, this is telling you that this is not some theoretical or arbitrary issue. Two words, action and direction. Those are the two words that should come to our minds. Action, do. He wants you to actually be active. Second word, directed, it's to them. And so the fourth observation reminds us God's laws are personal, practical, not arbitrary Interestingly, there are other passages where this concept is kind of flushed out. For instance, in Romans chapter 2, verse 11, this is right before the passage dealing with conscience. This is what he says. He says, there's no respecter of persons with God. As many as have sinned without the law shall perish without law. And the argument is Well, because they have a conscience, they violate their conscience. So even if they don't see the words, thou shalt not, they know in their heart, thou shalt not, because their consciences don't do that. Because when somebody does it to them, they say that's wrong. That's the idea. He says, as many as have sinned without law shall perish without law. As many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law. Not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers. See? Action. James chapter 1, verse 22. Be ye doers of the word, not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. So the fourth observation is that this is not an arbitrary matter. This is practical. This is personal. There's a reason for it. And then observation five. God 's law can be summarized very simply. Notice how he finishes this verse. He says, this is the law and the prophets. That's an amazing statement, isn't it? So when he says, Do unto others as you would have them do unto you, this is the law and the prophets, what he's basically saying is You should treat people the way you would want to be treated. And the reason you have such a desire is because you have a conscience, which tells you there's right and wrong, about human behavior. And by the way, the law and the prophets all point to this very simple principle. Fascinating statement, is it not? Well, what does he mean by that? Well, Scripture consistently simplifies God's expectations for people. Now I know if we go to the Old Testament law, we can find 400 and some odd specific laws in the Levitical system. I understand that. By the way, that's nothing compared to the legal system we live under today in this country, okay? But if you're to take God's instructions to people You can actually take all of those laws and you can narrow them down to two. And if you would honestly and objectively obey those two laws , All of those situations would become very clear, even if God never stated them. That's kind of an amazing thing. Just because God never directly addresses a specific issue doesn't mean that we can't know how to handle that situation. You say, well, why is that? Well, because the law is very simple. Love God and love your neighbors yourself. Interestingly, when we go to the Ten Commandments, the first half of the Ten Commandments are all of what? Love God. What's the second half of the Ten Commandments? Love your neighbor as you love yourself. What is what is not coveting? Well it's loving your neighbor. What is not killing someone? Oh it's loving your neighbor. What is not committing adultery? It's it's called loving your neighbor like your wife And your neighbor and their wife, okay? That's what we're talking about. Love God, love your neighbor as yourself. And you can see this laid out in several texts. The first one I want you to notice is Deuteronomy 6. 4. He says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. With all thy soul, with all thy might. Such an easy commandment, is it not? Yeah. Love God with all of who you are. Leviticus 19, 18. Thou shalt not avenge nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. I am the Lord. So if you want to talk about every type of human interaction, if you want to know the right thing to do, it begins with love God first. And then love your neighbor as yourself. And by the way, love God first is where it starts because you won't know what is right unless you know Him. Matthew 22, Jesus says the same thing. Verse 37. Jesus said unto them, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy mind. This is the first and the great commandment. The second is like unto it. Thou shalt love thy neighbor with thy As thyself. On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets. You mean you could summarize and simplify the whole law by saying, love God and love your neighbor as yourself? The answer is yes. And even when we go to 1 John 2, I want you to listen to this. This is a fascinating text. Listen to what it says. Whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also to walk, even as he walked. Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment which you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which you have heard from the beginning. Now what is John saying here? John is saying if you will follow Christ's example, a perfect man who loved His father, more than everything else in the world. He loved his neighbor more than he loved himself. If you follow his example, guess what? You will keep that law. That's what he's saying. So the point is you can simplify the law. The law proclaims a standard. And the prophets warned the people that they fell short of that standard. And you know what they also did? They pointed the people to the Messiah who was the only hope that they would have. So those are the observations we have on this text. The second thing I want us to look at tonight are the truths that we find here. And I'm actually not going to develop these in great detail. I want to take what we've talked about and I want to just put it in some simple statements, truths. So the first truth we find is this. Our righteousness can never meet God's perfect standard. When he says, do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Would I be so bold as to ask the question, anybody in here, did you do that today? Perfectly? The answer is no. Nobody did it. Especially if you're homeschooled, right? And you have a brother or a sister, you know, doing their work next to you, or you're sitting in a classroom, or you work somewhere where there's other people. Nobody does this. That doesn't mean we aren't called to it. We aren't commanded to do it, but we all fall short of it Even though we know in our hearts that there is a standard, and the standard comes from God, and our own conscience bears witness to that standard, we don't do it. Even as God's people, even as Christians. Guess what that tells you? If salvation is based on your performance, then you're done. Nobody has hope. And the answer is correct. Now you're getting it. Nobody has access to God through the work that they do. Nobody has access to God through their righteousness. Nobody has access to God. through the the the the tithes and the offerings, the good deeds. They don't. It says by the deeds of the law, no flesh is justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. So then what's people's hope? They need a righteousness from outside of them, and that is the righteousness of Jesus, which is unto all and upon all them that believe. There's no difference. That's what he says in Romans chapter 3. So truth number one, one, our righteousness can never meet God's perfect standard. Truth number two, his standard is simple. We must love him supremely and others as ourselves. Pretty simple, right? Take that home. Love God with all your heart, soul, mind, strength. Love your neighbor as yourself. All right. Nobody here's going to do that Perfectly. Choose number three. While people may not realize what they are saying, their conscience continually proclaims that they are created in the image of God. but also guilty before him. You ever thought about that? While people don't realize what they're saying, their conscience continually proclaims, I'm created in the image of God, but I'm also guilty before him. And I think that that is a big piece of what Jesus is saying in Matthew 7. 12. Truth number four. We must develop the discipline of putting ourselves in the place of others before we take actions. Now this is such a simple thing, but I want to encourage you, to the best of your ability, to simply follow this principle. When it comes to dealing with your siblings, I have several children here this evening and several in the back. If they will do this, it will help them with a lot of issues. I'm speaking to husbands and wives here. Some of our younger ones, you haven't figured this out yet. Some of our older ones, maybe Still haven't figured it out yet, I don't know. But before you uh come to some grand conclusion, you may want to ask yourself the question, well how would I want my spouse to uh to look at this situation if it was turned around Okay, I'm about to have a very tough conversation. Maybe I should consider them and how they would process this, or how I would process this if they came to me in the same way. Maybe you need to appeal to a supervisor, somebody you work with, a neighbor, I don't know. Lots and lots of different scenarios. Very simple, very helpful principle. Truth number five. We need to live simple practical lives. So that leads me to the third part. How do we practically apply this? I want to give you a couple of areas and kind of mention how I think that these principles can be applied in these contexts. The first example that I want to mention is the example of apologetics. Now when I say apologetics I don't mean I apologize for something I did wrong. That's not what I mean. Apologetics is a discipline of giving answers, reasons, when we have issues of our faith. Okay? So a person says, well, I don't believe that Christianity is real. All right, well, why don't you believe that? And they give you all these reasons. They say, well, let's talk about each of those reasons one at a time. Well, I don't believe the Bible is the Word of God. Okay, well why do you say that? Have you ever read it? Do you you know what are your what are your strong reasons that have made you come to this conclusion? Well I don't believe that there's a God. He doesn't exist. Okay, well tell me why you believe that. And you start getting into these discussions with them. You start asking them questions. You start answering their questions. You start going to the scriptures. This is what we're talking about when we use the term apologetics. And so there are a couple of presuppositions that I think we should take into these discussions. The first is this. Everyone knows that we live in a world with moral standards. You say, no, they don't. They tell me that they don't. They're lying. You say, how do you know that they're lying? I've dealt with a lot of people over the course of my life. I've read the scriptures They're lying to you. You say, how do you know that? Because if you do something to them that's wrong, you will find out quick that they believe there's right and wrong. Presupposition number two. An inability to see is really an unwillingness to see. Folks, when we talk about unbelief, did you know that when the Bible talks about unbelief, it doesn't talk about unbelief as something that we struggle with. It talks about unbelief as a rebellion. You know, Tao is I have trusted in something. I have I have affirmed it to be true and I'm resting in it, and now I'm getting a little shaken in this. I'm starting to listen a little more to my emotions. And I have these questions that are unanswered. And so I've affirmed something to be true and I've chosen to trust in it, but I'm getting shaken at this moment. Unbelief is different. Unbelief is, no, I will not do that. No, I will not accept that. No, I will not receive that. No, I don't believe those things that are true, those things are true. It's not an un an inability to see. It's an unwillingness to see. Interestingly, the scripture even talks about obeying the gospel. Now the the the the gospel is not a law, a series of rules that we follow. But it's a call to repent and believe. And when I say no, I am rejecting it in rebellion. That's what the Bible would say. So presupposition two is an inability to see is really an unwillingness to see. Presupposition 3. The sense of right and wrong has a source which functions as the standard. And you'll notice if you're looking on the PowerPoint back there, if I did this right. They are capitalized, source and standard. The reason for that is because God is the source and standard. The reason that you and I have the sense of right and wrong is because God put it in us. It's a part of what we are as image bearers. The animal kingdom doesn't have this sense of right and wrong. It's all about impulse. It's all about survival. We are not animals. We are humans. We are image bearers. And because we're image bearers, we have a sense of right and wrong. Doesn't mean our sense of right and wrong is infallible. Doesn't mean that we're always right in what we think is right or wrong, okay? But that principle is in us. And he's the standard. Presupposition 4 Our job is not to argue people into the faith. It's rather to ask them questions that prick their conscience, poke holes in their flawed worldview, and open the door to biblical answers as the Holy Spirit works in their hearts. Our job is not to argue people into the faith, rather to ask them questions that prick their conscience Poke holes in their flawed worldview and open the door to biblical answers as the Spirit works in the heart. You know, when Jesus taught in parables, Believe it or not, a parable was a teaching that veiled the truth. You say, well, why would you teach something and veil it? It's because the ability to see something comes with a desire to see it. If I don't want to see something, I won't see it. If I've convinced myself I won't consider the facts, guess what? People can put them in front of me all day. I'm not going to accept them because my mind is made up already So what is the parable? It is Jesus teaching in a way that poses the question. And when that person walks away, they go , they can't stop thinking about that. What is Jesus saying? He asks them this question. He makes this statement. He gives this illustration. And they go , what is he saying? And once the curiosity turns, and they go and they ask him, and he answers, it clicks. And so when we're dealing with this issue of apologetics, understanding the nature of people is going to lead us to these four presuppositions. The second area I want to mention is evangelism. Three words. Conscience, law, and gospel. Conscience. Assume that everyone has a conscience, even if it has become twisted and desensitized. You might look at an individual and you say, There's no way that person's got a conscience. They do, I promise you. They do. You say, but it's so twisted, it's so messed up. I see what they post on social media. I see what they write. I see the videos that they put out. They don't have a conscience. They do. It's become dull. It's become hardened. It's become twisted. But they still have a conscience. And so you begin with that understanding that everyone has a conscience. Two, law. Call people to examine God's standard and how far short they fall from it. You might say, well, they don't believe in the Bible. They don't believe that when the Bible says thou shalt not, that it's actually true. Who cares if they don't believe it? Tell them it anyway Tell them this is what God says. Well I don't believe in God. Okay. But if he exists, this is what he says, you might want to think about that. And you know what's interesting? When you say it, they know it's true. Why is that? They've got a conscience. Even if that conscience has gotten twisted and off-centered, they know it's true Third word is gospel. When they have come to a point of repentance, tell them the good news and say, trust Jesus. When a person's starting to feel that guilt and that weight and they understand I'm in trouble. And you see that there's a humility where there once was arrogance with pride and rebellion. Say, look at Christ. He died for your sins. He rose from the dead. He wants to forgive you and cleanse you. It's a gift. Receive it. Trust in it. Conscience, law, gospel. These are the practical applications of what we're talking about tonight. Thirdly, the issue of disputes. And this is straight out of the section that we've been dealing with. Number one, look within. Before you go to try to help somebody with a problem, you better ask the question. Am I blinded by my own sin? That's what the text tells us to do. Secondly, address that issue. Thirdly, turn to God for wisdom. If someone is steeped in pride or someone's mind is entangled with lies, you need God's wisdom to know how to approach them. You need God's wisdom and what to say to them. You need God's wisdom and how to say it to them. When to say it, how far? The questions to ask. You need God's guidance. And so you ask him. And the text tells us to do that. Fourthly, choose your battles wisely. Just because you can doesn't mean you should right now. There are some people that it's not worth getting into that issue with them. You know how many evangelism conversations become arguments about issues that are off the side? Now what do you believe about this? That's irrelevant. Let's talk about the real issue. Because that's all fruit. That's all symptom. That's outside Fourthly, give the grace that you want others to give to you. Part of wisdom is stopping and asking the question, how would I want this person to address me? I 'm going to follow that rule myself. Lastly, work towards productive, God-honoring solutions and resolutions. What I what I'm amazed by in Matthew 7 is his point is if you do this the right way, you can gain your brother. That's really the sense of it. When we go to Matthew 18, what does he say? You can gain your brother. When we go to Galatians chapter 6 , You could turn someone from an error. James, the end of the end of the book of James, same thing. You could turn a sinner from the error of his ways and save them from a multitude of sins. The fact is, God wants us to move towards productive ends. The last thing I'll mention is preaching and teaching. Hold fast to the right standard, Scripture. Understand human nature. Have a high view of Scripture. What I mean is have confidence that this book actually gets into people's hearts. Trust the Spirit to work. Be simple. Be practical. Be gracious. When we think about the text in front of us, do unto others as you would have them do unto you. That Is how we do it. Let's ask the Lord to help us to do that. Father, as we think about the text in front of us, we think about what it tells us about human nature. But it tells us about how we should respond to the people around us. I pray that you would guide us and give us wisdom and a clarity in our thinking as we try the very best of our ability to live according to this principle. Father, help us to be faithful people. If someone who's listened to this message tonight, or maybe we'll listen at another time. Does not know you as their Savior, I pray that as they have heard the things that are said in this passage, that they would understand that their greatest need is to turn to you in repentance and to trust in the finished work of Christ. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen.