Okay, well good evening. Hope that everyone's having a good week. And uh Pastor Chris and I got to go to a pastor's conference this uh week. So we drove back this afternoon and I might be a little tired, but that's okay. But I'm really looking forward to the passage w that we're going to dig into. So let's go ahead and uh bow for a word of prayer and then uh we'll Turn to our sermon text, which is Ecclesiastes chapter 12. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so grateful for your word and the opportunity this evening to open up the scriptures. And to dig into such a practical and important text of Scripture. Help me this evening to be able to communicate these truths with clarity. And I pray that the Holy Spirit would take these truths and And press them deeply on our hearts. Please open our eyes to understand the significance and the weight of these truths. And then I pray that you'll bless during our time of prayer. May it be very sweet in its fellowship. As we uphold our brothers and sisters in Christ, those who are sick, those who are serving you all around the world, as we uphold one another in prayer, I pray that you would really bless and strengthen our hearts as we see you at work in people's lives and just strengthen that bond that we have with one another in Christ. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Ecclesiastes 12 is where we are this evening. Ecclesiastes 12, and this is the last chapter in our study on the book of Ecclesiastes. Uh Lord willing tonight we'll cover this text and then uh we have one more and then uh we will be done with our study in this book. But I hope it's not uh the end of your study in the book. I hope that you'll go back over uh this very practical book and uh that the the various uh sermons and teachings have been a real help and will continue to be a help as the Lord shapes your heart and your thinking about life in a fallen world. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verse 1 says the following. Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth. While the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh. When thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. While the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain, in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble. And the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out the windows be darkened, and the doors shall be shut in the streets when the sound of the grinding is low. He shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low. Also when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fear shall be in the way. The almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail. Now when we read these verses, it's very obvious that Solomon is painting a very vivid picture of what happens to us as we age. Does it happen to us all at the same rate? Does it happen to us all at the same time? But if we live to be elderly people, what he's describing is going to be your situation and my situation. In fact, one of the things that's so important about the context of a local church where we have these diversity of seasons of life is that it gives us an opportunity to rub shoulders with people that are a lot younger than us, that are a lot older than us, people that are peers, different seasons of life. And what it does is It allows us to kind of learn from one another in those different seasons of life. So if we have uh folks that are in this season that he's going to talk about And we have the opportunity to minister to them, pray with them, bring them a meal, uh rake their leaves in the fall, cut the grass, do different things. One of the things that it does is it reminds us, this is what happens to all of us as we go through this season of life. And so the question we really should ask this evening is, well, why is he drawing our attention to what inevitably will happen to all of us if we live to be very old? The answer to that question is he wants us to live life without heavy, empty regrets. That's what God wants. God wants us to look back over the course of our lives, and none of us are going to have lived our lives perfectly. We're all going to have seasons. We look back at it, we're going to say, Boy, I really dropped the ball in that particular season. I didn't handle that situation well. But as we look at the course of our life, we'll say, you know what God, you taught me so many things, and I was able to invest my life. When you were teaching me, I was growing and I was serving you. And you are able to work through my wife. And I'm thankful for that. That's really the sense of what Solomon is trying to communicate. So with that in mind, here is a simple summary statement. And then we're going to dig into the text. Ecclesiastes 12 reminds us that if we live to be old, our bodies will decline. We will look back on the strength of our youth with regret if we have wasted those years. God obviously doesn't want us to do that. He wants us to seize the opportunities that are before us. He wants us to seize the season of life that we find ourselves in, and he wants us to live it to its fullest. So how can we do that? Well here's the first truth that we're going to find in these verses. Truth number one, wise people live a God-centered life when they are young. Now, not only when they're young, but the idea is that they start living a God-centered life when they are young. Now, what is very common in people's lives is they don't live for God when they're young. As they get older, they start seeing the consequences of those things, and God begins to work in their heart and their life. It gets their attention. Maybe they they place their faith in Christ a little bit later in life or they they go through hardship in life and all of a sudden God humbles them. They begin uh to start living for the Lord. But the the thrust of this passage Is he saying, don't do that. Now, if that's your story, then live for the Lord from here on out, okay? And we all have some degree of waste in our past. But this is really an encouragement to our young people, and this is an encouragement to our parents to really invest in our children and to really shape how they look at this issue. Wise people begin early in walking with God, begin early in living a God-centered life. And here's how he puts it in verse 1. He says, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth. While the evil days come not nigh, nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. Now, if you're not young, then you would read it remember now thy creator. Okay? But if you are young enough to be in that category of young and you haven't lived past that time, then Do it now. That's the point. That's what he's emphasizing. Wise people begin early. So let's kind of dig into this concept a little bit. First of all, I want to notice a couple of ways that this passage should be applied. The first is that it calls us to think ahead. He says, remember now. The idea is that we don't just naturally think this way. We have to be called to that. And by the way, God calls us to that in a lot of different ways. One of the best ways that God calls us to this is if we begin to develop the discipline of reading Scripture on a daily basis. As I'm reading through the Bible, the Holy Spirit's working in my heart. He's convicting me. He's drawing me to certain truths. He's using the word of God to shape and mold my heart and my life. That is the greatest way that you and I can do this. But in addition to that, we have people that God brings into our lives who are authorities who are a little bit further along in the Christian faith than we are. And those people call us to attention and they say, remember now, this is one of the reasons that the gathering of the local church is so very important. Because when we gather together, what are we doing? We are sitting under the preaching ministry of God's Word day after day after day, week after week after week. This is how God does this. Sometimes he does it through an accident Or he does this through a very low point in our lives, or through some circumstances that don't align the way that we want to, and it humbles us and it reminds us that he's in charge. The first thing that wisdom calls us to do is to think ahead. Remember now. Second thing that it calls us to do is to anticipate the brevity of our current season. And what I mean by that is the season of life that you're in now isn't forever. There's a start time and there's an end time. And you don't necessarily know how much time is in between those two things. Now, as we are moving through seasons of life, we don't even realize we're doing it sometimes. All of a sudden we look back and we're like, wow, my kids were like they were like this and now they're they're like this. Okay, I'm looking up to that. We we see that. It's kind of funny. I remember uh you know Facebook gives you these little uh memories on certain dates or something like that. And uh I remember seeing the kids that were singing um like five years ago and Some of those kids are now taller than me, but when they were standing up there five years ago, they were like little kids. I mean it's unbelievable. Yet when we're moving through seasons of life, we don't even realize it a lot of times And so he says, anticipate the fact that the season of life you're in right now, it's temporary. And here's how he puts it. He says, while the evil days come not. He's telling you that if you're in a good season of life right now, it's not going to last forever. Now that's not to discourage you. That's not to make you upset and angry. It's simply to just kind of keep in check your perspective. The third thing. Anticipate your potential future frustration. Now notice the word potential. This doesn't have to be your situation. We don't have to look back at our lives down the road and say, I wasted all these years. My twenties and thirties were trashed. My 40s and 50s, I didn't use that time. We don't have to do that. If we will take wisdom to heart at this season of life, wherever it is, we can look to this moment and say, at that moment, I began to walk the way that I ought. It's kind of interesting when you're reading through the book of Genesis and you go to Genesis 4 and 5, it talks about how obviously Cain's line was a very wicked line, and then God gives a child to Adam and Eve, and that's the child Seth. And what's interesting is it says after Seth's birth, and it says that Seth was appointed to be seed. In other words, he was going to work through Seth's line and this Very interesting to to think about, but it's it's really in some ways talking a little bit about the continuation of that promise that he made in Genesis chapter three. But it says, after the birth of Seth, in those days, then people began to call on the Lord. It's kind of interesting. Or when it talks about Enoch's life, it says at a certain point in his life, it says that Enoch began to walk with God. So even when we look at the lives of people, there are times where throughout this period of life we don't really know what happened, but at that moment they began to walk with the Lord. And that changed everything. What's the point? We need to recognize that there will be a day if we are not wise that we will look back and go, I wasted. And so he says, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. God's word calls us to live humbled, sobered lives. And there are so many scriptures that talk about this. Let me give you several examples of scriptures that emphasize, drive home this point. Proverbs chapter 1, verse 7, it says this. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. Fear God. Psalm 39, 4 says that the Lord, Lord, make me to know mine end. And the measure of my days, what it is that I may know how frail I am. He says, remind me that I'm weak. Remind me that I am dust. That's what he's saying. Psalm 90, verse 12. This is Moses writing. Teach us to number our days that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. What is Moses saying? He's saying, God, remind me that my days are limited. The seasons of life are short. I don't want to waste them. Remind me of this. James 4. This is probably one of the best texts. That really emphasizes this idea of living humbled, sobered lives. James 4. 13, he says, Go to now, ye that say today or tomorrow we will go into such a city and continue there a year and buy and sell and get gain. Whereas you know not what is uh shall be on the morrow. What is your life? It is even a vapor that appeareth for a little time and then vanisheth away. For that we ought to say, if the Lord will, we shall live and do this or that. But now ye rejoice in your boasting, all such rejoicing is evil. What's James saying? He's saying don't live life presumptuously. Don't live life as if you've got it all figured out and you know how things are going to unfold. You can't live life that way. Live life saying, if God wills, then I'll do this or then I'll do that. He says, don't be proud. The whole point of this first point is that now we humble ourselves and now we seek the Lord and now we walk with God. Because we recognize there's going to be a day that this season is gone and we're going to miss this season, and then we'll regret it. What are some basic implications here? Let me give you a couple of thoughts. Nobody here, none of us are entitled to a long life. None of us are entitled to a smooth life. And by the way, nobody's going to get a smooth life, okay? I mean, relatively speaking, but we're not entitled to long life. We're not entitled to a smooth life. Whatever God gives us has a start date and an end date. He mercifully confronts our pride so that we'll live with a soberness rather than a wasteful excess. And by the way, God has his ways. He really does. He has his ways of humbling us. It can be conversations, it can be circumstances, it can be sermons, it can be all kinds of different things. God has his ways. We will experience some degree of future joy or sorrow in proportion to how we invest and how we live our lives today. Truth number two. All people are going to lose their abilities as they age. Did you hear that? Sorry, that was a I was playing there a little bit. You just figured it out. Scott's over here. He's like, oh yeah. All people will lose their abilities as they age It's the truth. The things that you can do right now that are easy, that are simple tasks, it's going to be a day. You're going to need somebody to do them for you. Just simple things. And what's very interesting is in verses 2 to 5, he gives this description. I don't want to use the word beautiful, but he gives a very graphic, a very vivid, a very picturesque. picture, explanation of how this works. Here's what it says in verse 2. He says, while the sun and the light or the moon or the stars be not darkened, Nor the clouds return after the rain, if the day in the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble and the strongmen shall bow themselves And the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out the windows be darkened, and the doors shall be shut in the streets when the sound of the grinding is low And he shall rise up at the voice of the bird. All the daughters of music shall be brought low, also when they shall be afraid of that which is high. And fear shall be in the way, and the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail. What's very interesting is in verse number one he says, Remember now, thy creator in the days of thy youth, before the evil day comes. That's kind of the way he puts it. And in these verses, he describes what he means by the evil days. Now, that's not to say that when you get to a place where you become more dependent and less able, that that's evil in and of itself. But what he's basically saying is this when you have the ability to cut your own grass, but now you he's not saying cut your grass, but and now you're having to pay somebody else to do it because you really can't physically do that. That's hard. Or when you were used to driving yourself everywhere you went. I mean like think about how many uh sixteen year olds are just chomping at the bit to get their driver's license and to get on the road. Why is that? Because of independence. They want independence. They want to feel like they have power. Well, guess what? There comes the point where everybody's trompeted a bit to take away your driver's license because they don't think it's safe for you to drive anymore. And all of a sudden people are going and getting your groceries for you and bringing them to your house. Why? Because it's not safe for you, it's not safe for anybody around you. That's a very humbling thing. So when he talks about the evil day, here's how he describes it. The first thing that he mentions is that our eyesight will decline. Now, this doesn't happen when you're 85 or 90. This happens when you're like my age, okay? All of well, it happens younger than that too sometimes. But this is how he describes it. He says, the sun and the light and the moon and the stars are darkened, and the clouds return after the rain. Anybody have trouble driving at night when it's raining? There's some hands going up here. You know, I can't tell you how many of our seniors say, Pastor, I'd love to come out on Sunday night, but boy, when it's dark, I can't see anything. Or man, if it's raining, it's like it's dangerous, I can't see. Well, we understand what it's like when you get into a car and it's getting dark and you can't see. But what he's saying is That you get to a point in your life where you're not seeing things the way that you used to see them. And with that comes a lack of ability to do things that you used to do. Our eyesight begins to go. In fact, this goes before almost everything else does. The second thing that he mentions is that we're going to lose our physical strength. Verse number three says, in the day when the keepers When the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong man shall bow themselves, and the grasshopper shall be a burden. You know what's really amazing to me when you have some kind of a special ceremony with, let's say, NFL football players. I remember watching this recently at one of, I don't know if it was the Super Bowl or what it was, but they they were honoring some of these former NFL greats. Now, if you were to have watched these guys play in the 60s, I mean, they were tough. They were strong. They were fast. And now you will see these men that if you r some of you remember watching some of these players on the Colts. Okay, when they were the Baltimore Colts and gosh C , yeah, okay. You remember these guys, and now they walk up there to get that trophy and they got a cane. Some of them can't walk anymore. They're stooped over. They're very frail. See, these people are incredible athletes These people, if you could take who they were in the nineteen sixties and you could put them in the NFL today, they would be crushing quarterbacks. All right? They would be doing it. Because they played by a different set of rules in those days. It was just a totally different game. But now, just simple things these guys can't do them. People that were Marines, tough, tough soldiers Special forces. People that were elite in their ability, Olympians, elite athletes. And all of a sudden now these are people that can't walk. The person used to be a weightlifter and they can't even go and pick up simple things that they used to be able to do. And it happens to everybody. If you have the privilege of living old enough for this to happen, it'll happen. We lose our strength. This is an interesting one. We lose our teeth. That's genetic part of it. It's hygienic part of it. But the reality is It's gonna happen to all of us. Verse number three says the grinders cease because they are few. I mean, there it is. Your teeth fall out. Gonna have to get some dentures. The next one in verse number four he says we're going to get to the place where we won't be able to leave our homes. Verse number four says, the doors shall be shut in the streets. The idea is you're not going to leave your house. It'll be too much of a burden to just go out and get sun. Very, very simple things. People are weary and they're tired. It's a huge ordeal, a huge process. And so people don't even go out. It happens. Go lose our ability to hear. Verse number four, when the sound of the grinding is low and all the daughters of music shall be brought low. You won't be able to hear like normal. You won't be able to hear the kids. Maybe you'll like that, maybe not. Okay? All right Or you're gonna get a hearing aid and then when the kids are out, man, it's like all you hear is screaming, right? Mr. Jenny's that too so dark. Yeah. We lose our abilities to hear. We won't be able to sleep at night. Verse number four. He says, he shall rise up at the voice of the bird. Anybody wake up at two o'clock in the morning and you just cannot go back to bed? And then the sun comes up and you want to go back to bed. It's just, this is what happens to us. Verse number five, it'll become dangerous to do the things that we once used to do with relative ease. Also, when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fear shall be in the way. Some people should be afraid to get up on that ladder and go after those gutters. But the idea that he's that he's that he's giving is that things that use be able to used to be able to do them without too much trouble, they're actually dangerous. People are not just saying, can I do this for you because they want to help you? They're saying, hey, no, no, no, I'm going to do this for you because I don't want you to fall and get hurt. That's what's going on Verse number five, we're gonna lose our motivation. He says, Desire shall fail. You know, somebody when they're really young is so motivated and they're so driven. But as they get older, they start getting to the point where like Whatever, man. I don't care what happens today. It's just, it is what it is. Desire fails. We're not motivated anymore. What is Solomon describing? He is describing this humbling reality that happens to all of us. We all. Doesn't matter how strong, how smart, how how good your senses are. You and I are going to end up in this place someday. And so he says, invest now so that when you're there, you can look back over life and say, God, I've lived a rich and full and meaningful life. I'm thankful for the opportunities. I'm not perfect, but you've taught me so many things about your goodness. And I have sweet things to enjoy today as a result of wise decisions, then. That's what he's saying. Not that you get to this season of life and your life is a drudgery and a grief and a misery and it's something you look back at with tremendous regrets. This is what Solomon is trying to preserve us from. A few simple thoughts. This is not an encouragement to throw caution to the wind. You know, there might be some people who hear this and they go Well, if this is what's gonna happen, then I'm gonna throw caution to the wind and whatever happens, happens, because I I may not really want to get to this season of life. That's not what he's encouraging us to do. It's simply a reminder that we are frail humans who will one day meet our Maker. It's reminding us when we are strong and when we are sharp and when we have abilities. That we shouldn't be proud and think that's how it's going to be forever, and start lifting up ourselves as if we can do what nobody else has been able to stop from happening, and that is age and begin to deteriorate physically. Another thing that comes to mind is we need to be rubbing shoulders in this multi-generational context because it is in that that we are reminded that this is where we will be. You know, when everybody just kind of focuses in on their own little group, what ends up happening is all the kids think this is how life is forever And all the teenagers think this is how life is forever. And all the young married couples they think this is how life is forever. And all the people that have children and you know, the small kids that And those who are seniors, without that interacting, that mixing, there's a major lack of perspective that we all need very, very much. God designed for us to be mixing and interacting with one another because we are learning from one another. Every generation in the church needs the other generations. Very, very important. So that moves me to a very to my final thought. Now is the time to invest wisely. And I'm looking at this from three different areas of life. And these are gross generalizations, I understand that, but I want to kind of apply this to where you are today. The first category is to the young. Now when I say the young, we don't have any little kids in here, okay? Well, we do. We have a small, small child here, but I don't think that they're gonna be able to hear this and understand. When I say young, I'm talking about people that you haven't gotten married yet or you're young and married. You're at a season of life where you're you you've got so many years ahead of you if God gives them to you. How should you apply this text of scripture? Well, thank God you're being reminded right now. I I'm serious. Wouldn't you rather hear this now when you're 22, 24, 26, 30, than when you're 65 and 70? It's true. Hear it and thank God for that. Don't ignore the reminders that God's giving it. And you know what? God has all these different ways, and I've mentioned them before. You'll be reading the scripture, you have a conversation with someone, you might watch something on these, all of a sudden it triggers your mind. You start thinking, hmm. You read a book, you have a conversation. God has his ways of getting our attention. We need to remember our Creator now. And we need to start investing wisely now. You can't change what's gone on in the past. Nobody can. But you can learn from it. You can take this scripture and you can begin applying it now. And the fact is if you're 25 or 30 or 35 and you really did not invest wisely for the last 10, 15, or 20 years of your life. If God gives you many more years, you have a tremendous amount of time to invest your resources in His kingdom's work. So let's do that. We need to minister to our seniors. This is something that I've I've really been thinking a lot about and I'm very burdened about. This whole COVID Two I I how many years has this been going on? 2020, 2020 are we in 2022 now? Yeah, yeah, I guess we're like in the third year of this this stuff, okay? I tell you who this has really affected the most devastatingly. It's our seniors. Now, I guess we don't know how it's going to affect our young people. I mean we we haven't seen the end result of that, and it's affecting them too. But it's really affected our seniors And one of the reasons it's really affected our seniors is because it's created this isolation between them and the rest of us who feel healthy and strong enough to get about and do the things that we do. And the truth is we've got to intentionally remind ourselves, you know what, there's a generation in our church that really needs ministry. That really needs encouragement. And through that encouragement, they can teach us a lot. Just through that interaction. Not a, hey, let's sit down, let me teach you some things. The fact is when you go and you visit someone who is sick in the hospital or in a very difficult situation or you you write a letter to someone and they write a letter back to you, when you have those kinds of interactions, whether they're teaching you or not, you're learning. Very, very important. Secondly, to those who are, let's just say, in the strength of life and career. You're young, but You have your family started and you're in your career wherever. This would be like people probably like my age. I'll put myself in this category. Don't neglect your kids. Children are a blessing, but if we neglect them, we will regret it one day We need to teach our kids these truths now so that they don't follow bad patterns that we have lived through ourselves. We shouldn't neglect our seniors. We should get our kids involved in these things as much as is possible. We need to be careful not to live in the past. Inevitably, if you're in this season of life, you do have some things you regret. Okay? You can't change those things. You don't need to live in those things. Learn from them. And invest wisely now. But don't live in those things. Invest in the present now. Don't waste it. And then to those who, I'll put it like this, you're beginning to feel this reality. There may be some people on the live stream. Who are saying, you know what, I'm reading I'm I'm reading this scripture and I'm reading it and it's talking about where I'm at right now or where I feel like I'm getting in life. This doesn't encourage me very much. Well there are still some encouragements for you. My encouragement is allow that younger generation into your life. As much as we who are younger need to remember and invest in those who are older, Those who are older need to be accessible and willing to allow that interaction to take place. We need to let them help us. When we get into this season of life. And and I I know my personality and who I am and I'm very certain that when I get to this season of life, if I live to be this age, And I go through this time. I'll be one of those stubborn guys that somebody's got to sit me down and say, hey, you need to let them help you. My wife over here is going, hey man, it's true. I'm sure I'll be one of those people. We have to be willing to allow people to help us. We can't let pride get in the way. Don't see this season of life as a waste. The fact is it's a painful and hard and difficult. Every season of life is going to come with its challenges. But those challenges serve redemptive purposes in your life and the lives of the people that God allows you to interact with. Remember that sanctification is still an ongoing work in your life. Until Jesus says it's time and he takes you home, he's still working to grow you into Christ's likeness. To shape you into the image of Christ. And you know what? If you have invested wisely over the course of your life, enjoy that. You know, there are some men and women who they get to be 85 or 90 or 95 years old. And the fact is that they really did, not perfectly, but they invested very wisely over the course of many, many years. And while they are physically deteriorating, and they're not able to do the things that they used to be able to do, and they know that, and that's troubling to them. They have so many blessings that they can watch. They look on that that refrigerator and they see pictures of grandkids and sometimes great grandkids And they're children. And they look at it, and that brings sweetness to their heart. A phone call, a letter, those kinds of things. They're invaluable moments of blessing to those individuals. And I want to tell you that that can be your reality if you're investing wisely now. God wants us to invest wisely by seizing each season of life to its fullest. And that's my encouragement to all of us. No matter where you find yourselves, young, kind of in the middle. Now you're on the other side, beginning to age and beginning to feel that physical deterioration. God has something for us in these scriptures. So let's apply them by his grace. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, help us to think about these truths tonight. And I pray that wherever this scripture meets our hearts, whatever season of life we're in, whether we have deep regrets. Or we have sweet blessings that we are enjoying at this moment. Help us to apply this scripture appropriately. Father, help us to interact with one another in a way that is for each other's good. That sharpens our perspectives, that allows there to be this mutual growth. Father, we desperately need this. Help us to apply this scripture tonight. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.