Well good evening. Good to see everybody tonight. I hope that you're having a great week and uh looking forward to a great study tonight. Let's bow for a word of prayer and then we will sing a song and get into our lesson this evening. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the opportunity to gather with other other believers here in the middle of the week. I pray that you'd really bless our fellowship together as we gather for prayer. I pray that our hearts would really be knit together, that we'd be able to lift up these requests with knit hearts. And I pray that we would see you at work and The various situations that we're going to bring into your presence. Pray that as we study your word together tonight, that we would understand the significance of these truths and that I would do an effective job communicating these truths. And I pray that you'd help us to have discernment and wisdom as we think about what times are like and how to relate to the circumstances we deal with. We ask for your blessing on this time, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's take our hymn books and turn together to Hymn 14, Worthy of Praise is the song that we're singing, hymn number 14. And uh it's just two verses, so we'll be singing the first and the last verses together. Hymn 14. I heard overbulls it based to the woord it dust. My voice to the king. He brought me out of the fit of despair and brought my heart easily. Worthy of all my praise. You are worthy of all my praise. I bow at your throne and I Worship you alone, for you are worthy, worthy of praise on the last. I live sing his praise, my heart feels his one , his word is a wamp to my fee way His mercy and grace forever and his for Show me to be worthy of all my praise You are worthy of all my praise. I bow at your throne, and I worship you alone. For you are worthy, worthy of praise. Great singing. I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles. Let's turn together to 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3 and we're continuing where we left off last week. 2 Timothy 3. I'll go ahead and I'll read the entire section and then we will dig into part number 2 on living wisely in the last days. Living wisely in the last days. 2 Timothy chapter 3. Verse 1 says this. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful and holy, without natural affection, truth breakers, false accusers. Incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. From such turn away. For of this sort are they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with diverse lusts Ever learning, never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. Now, as Janice and Jambries withstood Moses, so also do these resist the truth. Men of corrupt minds reprobate concerning the faith But they shall proceed no further, for their folly shall be manifested unto all men as theirs also was. But thou hast known fully my doctrine, manner of life Purpose, faith, long suffering, charity, patience, persecutions, afflictions which came unto me at Antioch, Iconia, and Lystra. What persecutions I endured, but out of them all the Lord delivered me Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution. But evil men and seducers shall walk worse and worse, deceiving and being deceived. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned And hast been assured of knowing of whom thou hast learned them. That from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which were able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus All scripture is given by inspiration of God. It is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, for instruction, righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works Now, I know this is a very long passage of Scripture, and a lot of times when we read a text, we tend to read maybe like two verses, three verses. We tend to not read 13 verses. But I feel like the reason that I wanted to read this entire section is because this entire section is really a unit In fact, each of the pieces of this section are very important to understanding the entirety of what Paul is trying to communicate in these verses. I want to remind you again of a summary statement of the passage we're looking at. The section of the letter was meant to give Timothy a realistic All-encompassing understanding of the nature of ministering in the last days. Last week we talked about what it meant to be ministering in the last days. He's not necessarily saying that Jesus is coming tonight or tomorrow. He's simply saying this period of time from the ascension of Christ till the return of Christ, an unknown period of time, a time that Jesus could come at any moment, and so we are prepared for his coming. Those are the last days. There's nothing on the timetable that God has given prophetically that has to take place before he takes the church to be with him. That's why we use the term it's imminent. The return of Christ is imminent. Because we really do not know the day or the hour. And we are not going to see certain signs that are going to say, now I know that the rapture is going to happen. There are signs of the second coming of Christ, but not of the rapture. It's a signless event. So what he's basically saying is I want you to have a realistic understanding Of the nature of the kind of ministry you're going to have. It's very similar to what God did when he talked to Isaiah. He calls out Isaiah and he says, Isaiah, I'm sending you to a very difficult group of people A group of people that are very stubborn. They're very callous. They're hearing, but they're not hearing. They're seeing, but they're not seeing. They become dull and desensitized. And so I'm warning you, you've got to be faithful, but you're going to suffer because they're not going to embrace what you have to say. He says the same kind of thing to Jeremiah. He says the same kind of thing to Ezekiel. He says your responsibility is simply to speak the truth. To call people to conscience. And there may be that there will be some who embrace the truth, but many will not And so you need to have a realistic understanding of what it's going to be like to work in that kind of a period of time This is not something that we don't have examples in the Bible of people that are working in times like that. In fact, he's going to refer back to Moses when Moses goes to Pharaoh and he says, God says to let his people go, and he is withstood by two individuals. We'll talk about them not tonight, but on another night. But the idea is that Paul wants Timothy to understand the times that he's working with. He wants him to be sobered. He wants him to have a sense of gravity in what he's doing. He wants him to be humbled. He doesn't want Timothy to have an arrogance or a self-reliant attitude. He wants him to recognize that his ability to be faithful is going to depend on whether or not he's empowered by God. He's not going to be able to do this in his Ultimately what he's doing is he's trying to drive Timothy to this point where Timothy will recognize he has one hope. Of being faithful. And that is, he has to be a student of the scriptures. He has to be a student of God's Word. He's got to go to the Bible, and that's got to be his final authority. He's got to be convinced that this scripture is sufficient to give him everything that he needs to grow and to thrive and to be faithful before God in the last days. He needs to make sure he doesn't trim or cut the message, that he doesn't add to the message. He's got to go to the scriptures And he's got to be a man who is strengthened by the scriptures. That's his authority. That is what he is living and breathing. In fact, it's like what Jesus said. Man does not live by bread alone, but by what? By every word that presents And so basically what Paul is doing is he's saying, Timothy, I want you to understand reality. So you will go to the scriptures, and the scriptures will sustain you, and you will be a faithful minister. That is really the whole sense of this section of Scripture in front of us. And really what he's telling Timothy to do is to live wisely in the last days. That's what God wants us to do. To live wisely in the last days. So how do we do that? Well, last week we talked about the need to understand the reality of the last days. I want to remind you again of a couple of phrases that we talked about last week. The first is this. In the last days is referring to that period of time of already kind of developed this between the ascension of Christ. He talks about this in Acts, and then Christ's return when he's going to take the church to be with him. In 1 John 2, verse 18, John writes, interestingly enough, to the same church that Timothy is ministering to when Paul writes this letter. This is what he says. It is the last time. And you have heard that Antichrist shall come. Now, Antichrist is an individual that's going to have incredible power during the tribulation time period. He's going to be a world leader. He is going to dupe the nations, and the world is going to follow this individual. You could never imagine a thing like that happening, could you? I'm kidding. Okay. The reality is that we can see that it would not take much with the technology and all the things that go on in the world. For an individual to rise up who has incredible sway and the ability to gather the nations under himself, the Bible says it's going to happen. He says Antichrist is going to come. But I want you to understand something. There are many Antichrists whereby we know it's the last times. He's saying, now this is these people that I'm talking about, they're not the actual guy. But they represent the same thing that this man is going to represent at that time. The disposition, the character. The doctrines that they teach. It's all-encompassing, it's pointing us to understand that they have the spirit of that individual. And he is going to do it, but there are people today, as he writes these words, that are like that. That's why he says it's perilous times. That word perilous we saw it's only used one other time in the New Testament, and it's used in the context where he talks about a demon-possessed man who is exceeding fierce. Actually, it's two of them. And we see that really this idea of perilous means it's going to be a fierce time, it's going to be a difficult time. It's going to be very hard to be a person who stands against the grain, simply standing on truth. And is while the rest of society is pushing, you're standing. And guess what? You're going to get pushed around. And that's what he's saying. These times are going to be perilous because the reality is that the disposition of most people living is going to be what we could call a very self-destructive state. In fact, tonight we're going to talk about the qualities. of the people that he's talking about. But that's going to be the prevailing disposition of the time. It's not going to be the norm for people to be standing for God. Truth, it's going to be the norm for people to be standing against the truth and being antagonistic towards the truth. The prevailing disposition is going to make it very dangerous to be a Christian. In fact, when we read the book of Revelation, we see that during the tribulation, many of the people who hear the gospel and embrace the gospel during that time period And there are going to be huge multitudes of people who understand the gospel and trust Christ during that time. They are going to suffer immense persecution because of the prevailing thinking of the day. But I also mentioned this last week. It's going to be perilous because even though we're Christians, we get affected by our culture too. We can also drift from our moorings more than we realize because of the prevailing thought of the day. You know, it's really interesting when you study history and you study the great men and women of the past. You can look at people and you can admire incredible statements that they made, incredible stands that they took. You can admire certain aspects of their character, yet you will see blind spots that are shocking to you. You know what I'm talking about? I mean, you read the writings of people that lived in the 1500s, the 1700s, the 1800s, and you go, I see great qualities and I see stunning blind spots. How is it possible? If Christ is not returned in 500 years, I ask the question, how will people judge this generation? What will they say were our blind spots? Well, we don't know because they're blind. We're blind to them. But the point I'm trying to make is this. The prevailing thought of the day affects us. We may be coming to the same scriptures. We have the same Holy Spirit working in our hearts. But the reality is there are certain blind spots and certain predispositions we take to the Bible when we read it, and these are perilous days for those reasons. The second thing I want us to look at, and this is what we're going to really focus on tonight, is how we need to understand the spirit of the age. What I mean by the spirit of the age is what is the disposition of people living in the last days? These are the people that Timothy has to minister to. He ministered to them. It's the people we're ministering to today, frankly speaking. Here's what he says. Men will be lovers of them their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful and holy, without natural affection. and truth breakers. The list goes on. I'm going to take each one and explain what it means. There are actually 18 different We could say expressions of a root issue that he is going to address here. 18, arguably 17. But it's really interesting the way that Paul lays it out. I want to kind of say something about this before we dig into this. I talked about this earlier in our our our pastoral epistle study, but there's a certain kind of way that Paul would write at times where he would use something called a chiesm. What achaeism is is where he would have parallel ideas and he would actually present an idea here and an idea here and an idea here and he'd present maybe four, five, six, eight different ideas. And the two on the end would be parallel, and the one in the middle would really be the focal point of what he's really driving at. Does anybody remember me talking about that at some point? Okay, I see a couple of hands, okay? He does that here too. In other words, as he lists these eighteen different qualities or expressions of the spirit of the age, he actually lays out a chaism. The first two in the last two are to point us to something that is in the middle. And the first two things that he mentions are, listen carefully, lovers of them of their own selves, and the second is covetous. Now I would not normally use the Greek term here, but I think for the sake of us understanding the significance of this, I'm just going to mention this. The first word is Philotos, and the second is philargoras. Now you say, well, what is what why do you give us that? I want you to understand that those two words have a root, and the root is phila. Does does that make sense? I don't know if you ever heard that Greek term, but that term is one of the expressions of love. Okay? So in other words, these two words are talking about a kind of love. And what's very interesting is that at the end of the list He uses the term for lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. And that word is philanderas, interesting word, okay, and philosophias. Those two words are talking about someone who loves pleasure and the other one who doesn't love God as much as he loves pleasure. Now what does this tell us? This list is about affection. It is about expression of what you love. These are negative expressions of love, not godly love, but self-centered love. We're going to see that. And what's also very, very interesting is in the center of this list, we see the statement without natural affection. So he starts with talking about two kinds of love. He ends with two kinds of love. And in the center he says, these are people that do not have natural affection. Do you know what Paul's saying? All of these things are expressions of the heart that are contrary to the way that God created us to express love. So let's walk through this list, and I think as we work through it, you're going to see what he's talking about. The first one is lovers of self. The simplest way to put this is people who are self-centered It's all about them. Don't care about family. They don't care about neighbor. They don't care about what is acceptable in the eyes of God. It's all about me. Ask the question. Do you not think that that is our culture today? Lovers of It's all about me. I don't care about consequence. I don't care about how this affects other people. It's what makes me happy. It's what I want to do. It's what I believe is right. Lovers of self. The second word is the word covetous, greedy, or you could say they love stuff. They love stuff. You know, we use the term American dream. By the way, I I am thankful that I live in this nation. I've lived overseas. I've been to many different countries. And I could tell you that this country is unique and special, and the opportunities that we have in this land are unparalleled in any other society. Like we do not even begin to understand how much privilege and opportunity we have in this nation simply because we were born in this country. Or because we immigrated to this country. Whatever the situation, I want you to realize this is an amazing land of opportunity. But with that statement, the American Dream It's something we need to be very careful about. The American dream is most often viewed as financial success Success. It's about how much money I make. It's about my status. And he said these people are divine d they are they are people who love themselves and they love stuff. Okay. The third thing he mentions is boasters. The simplest way to put it is people who talk about nothing but themselves. Talk about nothing but themselves. What is social media? Like, why does social media exist? I I asked that question. So we can talk about ourselves. So we can present, you know, our day and we can we can show everybody the good stuff and just kind of keep the bad stuff to the side. We can present this view of ourselves that's not really true. But we are a society that loves to talk about self. The next word is pride. Arrogant. Do I even need to explain pride? I mean, we know what pride is. He then used another interesting word, and the word is blasphemers. I think a lot of times we don't realize what the word blasphemer means, but the idea is it's a person who tears down another with their words. Now I'm going to go back to that issue of social media for just a moment, okay? And I'm going to just say that one of the things that makes certain platforms on social media so extremely toxic And I mean toxic, I really mean that. Is that people have lost a sense of I'm talking to a person created in God's image, a real person. They have real feelings. They have real family. They have a real life. And people can shred one another. Shred one another, tearing down with words. We could tear down people with our words. It really says we don't value them Because we don't value them. Folks, this is a society that is a blaspheming society. The next phrase, disobedient to parents. This is a very interesting one to find in this list, but the idea is that the spirit of the age is not just for the age ed. Not just for the adults, the people that have come of age. But the reality is that this disposition is so much a part of the world that it goes all the way down to even our youth, our children. Today I was in the Baltimore rescue mission and one of the men raised his hand and he said, I want to ask for prayer for a friend whose son, 15 Murdered his brother, 16 with a knife, Baltimore City. She's got to go to court and she's got to sit in the courtroom and she's got to listen to her son who murdered the other son. She's got to listen to this case. And it's tearing the woman apart. Once you realize that a lot of the crimes that we're seeing in our cities, some of the most violent crimes. Some of the most atrocious murders we're seeing today are not being performed by 20 and 30 and 40-year-old men and women. We're talking about 14, 15, and 16-year-old kids. And the reality is that he's saying this spirit of the age is not just for the adults. It's affecting our kids. The next word he uses is unthankful. Might I put it this way, an attitude of entitlement. I am owed this Folks, that is the spirit of the age. It really is. One of the great things that we are seeing as a destruction in Western society is an attitude that I am owed every I'm owed everything. Entitlement. The next word is unholy. It's very interesting. Unholy as the idea of people do not have a sense of what is sacred. Now I've got to ask this question. What do you think he's getting at? Do you think he's talking about things like the sanctity of life, the sanctity of marriage? Do you think he's talking about the things like the sanctity of the things of God? The reality is when he says that this is a people that does not have a sense of He's saying that all the things that God designed that are good and that are wholesome and that are to be set apart for God's good purposes, those things are treated as common. They don't have value. They don't matter. The society we live in is a society that does not understand the sanctity of anything anymore. He talks about without natural affection. This is a really interesting one. I want you to realize that when God created us in his own image, he created us with the ability to think. We are rational creatures. We have minds that can reason. Not only did he make us with a sense of the ability to understand things reason, but he created us as beings that have emotion. Okay? And so the fact that we are rational creatures and emotional creatures, we are also creatures that understand, we could say, the morality of right and wrong. So when you take the ability to think and when you have emotion and you have the sense of morality, what is right and wrong. What that tells you is that people have a natural sense Even though we're sinners, even though we're fallen, even though we have this propensity to sin because we are sinful creatures, we still have this natural sense of the affections that God put into us. For instance, It is natural for mom to love her kids. That's natural, okay? It's natural for your kids as they grow up to start thinking, you know, I'd like to get married someday. You know, your little boys start noticeing the little girls. The little girls start notice the little boys. That's natural. That's like the way God created us. That's normal occurrence as we mature and as we grow up. It is natural when you see a person that has real needs and they're in a real position of desperation, you see that desperation, you see that need, and in your heart you start going. I need to help this person. Compassion. When he talks about people that do not have natural affection. What he's basically saying is these are people who have become so self-absorbed So self-centered. Their minds have become so twisted. Their sense of right and their sense of wrong has become so perverted that what is normal affection for people, they don't have it anymore. There is a callousness. They're not affected the way that you would expect a person, an image bearer, because the mind and the heart has been so Twisted by what? By a self-centeredness. People don't matter. It's like the story that Jesus told of the Good Samaritan. Really interesting story. Now Jesus is telling the story because this man comes to Jesus and he says, Oh, who's my neighbor? And Jesus says, Let me tell you a story about a certain man. You know, he goes and he gets beat up. He he he's on the s side of the road and he's dying and then there's a priest that comes by and there's a Levite that comes by and you know what they did? They're like, Well, I don't want anything to do with this guy. I'm gonna stay away. Without natural affection. There's no mercy, there's no compassion, there's no desire to help this individual. And then the Samaritan comes by And he completely acts different. He gets alongside this man and he takes care of him and he puts him on his donkey and he takes him to a place and he doesn't just care for him, but he says, you take care of him until he mends. And if there's anything, I will come back and I will pay it. What's Jesus saying? Jesus is saying, y'all are calloused. Y'all are hard-hearted. Y'all are just like the Levite and the Fer uh the Levite and the priest in that story. You hate the Samaritan and you would walk by the man on the street who's dying on the side of the road and you'd ignore him there. Why? Because you're self centered. And self-righteous. That's what he's saying. Spirit of the age. Truthbreakers. The idea is that you will not enter into agreement with others, and if you do, you will not keep your end of the bargain. You can't trust a person that's a truce breaker. A person that's unwilling to settle and then hold on, even if it's going to cost them something. False accusers, the idea that people throw out slanderous accusations. And when we say slanderous accusations, a false accuser is telling you something that's not true. In other words, they have no conscience. When we talk about the Ten Commandments, and he says, do not bear false witness against thy neighbor, he's basically saying, don't you dare. Present a false accusation that is a misgonna bring a miscarriage of justice and show that you don't value this individual. You don't value the truth. Yet this is the spirit of the age. I can stand a court of law of law and I can say whatever I want as long as it gets me what I want. Incontinent I guess we tend to use this word a different way than the text means here. But it means without self-control. Kind of makes sense, huh? The idea is that this is a person that cannot control their emotions Things don't go their way, guess what? They're like a toddler. They gotta throw their tantrum. They cannot control their emotions. They cannot respond appropriately to trouble and to when things don't work out the way that they want them to. Inconsonant. Fierce. The word fierce means that these are people who are brutal. Like there are times that you see something and you go, I think that's gone a little bit too far. And that's what he means. Brutality. I remember when I lived overseas, if someone would catch a thief That thief would would likely die in the street. I mean anything that could be used to kill the person that stole a watch Phone ten bucks. That person got caught, they would kill them on the streets. That's brutality. Street Justice. The fact is that there are a lot of people that have no sense of normal restraint. They don't really understand justice. And they are fierce, and they are brutal, and they do not care about the people that they hurt and the things that they destroy. He says, despises of them that are good, they hate the righteous. Traitors means that they're treacherous. Hetty means they are rash and they're reckless. High-minded is another way of saying proud, but it goes beyond just saying a person is proud. It means that the person is so proud, they're so conceited, that they are blinded by their own arrogance. They cannot see what everybody can see because pride does not allow them to see reality. Lovers of pleasure. All that people care about is doing what makes them feel good. And they love pleasure more than they love God. God's an afterthought. Kind of reminds me of the times of the Judges. If you're reading through the Bible, some of the most disturbing passages you will ever read are in the books of the Judges. You say, well, why does God choose to let us see that? He wants us to understand how bad things get when people do what is right in their own eyes. In fact, the spirit of the age could be summed up with this statement. In those days there was no king in Israel. Every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And let me tell you, that's dangerous. It's very dangerous. No fear of God, no restraint. He sums up this whole section with this simple statement. These are people that have a form of godliness but deny the power thereof. The word form has the idea that there is a semblance of truth. There appears to be some kind of righteousness. some kind of godliness, some kind of character. People present themselves that way, but the bottom line is they do not have the real thing. And the real thing is going to come out, or it's going to be exposed that you don't have the real thing when the pressure comes. In fact, this is what's so dangerous about a false gospel. It's powerless to save. It's powerless to transform. I want to move from this to ask the simple question: what is really the root problem in all these things? Like really, all of these things that we mentioned tonight, they are expressions of a problem. In other words, some people may not express the same problem in this area. They'll express it in this area. Or maybe a person will express it in this area for a time. And they'll kind of deal with that symptom and then they'll begin to express it in this way. And then for a time they stop and then they express it in this way. What is really deep down under the surface feeding these various expressions? And the answer is. People who have misplaced affection. That word love and what we love is really at the heart. I already talked about this, but this whole passage is really emphasizing the fact that when God created you in his image, he created you with the capacity to love. But you need to love the right things. And if you don't love the right one, the right things, you will not express these things in a way that honors God. Reminds me of Revelation chapter 2, where Jesus says to the church at Ephesus, the same church that Timothy He's uh working at here. He says, I have one thing against thee. Thou hast left thy first love. Repent and do the first works, or else I will come unto thee quickly and remove thy candlestick. The point of this whole list is to say these are a people whose lives have misplaced affection. People living in the last days, we could put it this way, they're going to be enslaved to their selfish passions. They're going to be ex - They're going to be We could say enslaved on an expansive level, and it's going to make things dangerous to live in. Ephesians chapter 2, it says that people walked according to the course of this world. They had their conversation in times past, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind. And that's the idea But also in Ephesians chapter 1, it talks about, or Ephesians chapter 2, it talks about how God changed them through the gospel. And so I want you to understand that when this passage talks about the spirit of the age, It also emphasizes to us what we need to be as well. We need to be the antithesis of these things. All of these expressions that are mentioned, we need to be the opposite. And you say, how can we be the opposite? The answer is simple. We have to have a transformed heart. Genuine Christianity is real, therefore, it has the power to change us fundamentally We talk about a person being regenerated. We mean that a person who's spiritually dead, when they place their faith in the finished work of Christ, they are made spiritually alive in Christ. And they now have a new nature and a new disposition and they can walk in newness of life. We talk about the Holy Spirit coming and indwelling the Christian. We're saying that the Holy Spirit begins to stir up new affections in the believer. He begins to root out those natural self-centered tendencies and that natural self-centered centered thinking and he replaces it with godly thinking, godly disposition, godly character, he begins to shape us into the image of Christ and to develop within us the mind of Christ. God chafes us through this training process of life. And the whole point is to mature us. It's to make us something in thought and in character and in disposition, something we're not by nature. Maturity, spiritual maturity really allows us to flourish as humans. You want to have good relationships? You can't do it the world's way. You can't. You can't. The ability to love people, the ability to have appropriate affections The ability to have the kind of compassion and mercy that God would have us to have toward one another, it's rooted in the fact that we are new creatures in Christ. Christ. And God is shaping us into the image of Christ and changing us. I want to remind you that even though this is the character of those in the last days, it's not the character of God's people living in the last days. And so I want to remind you of this very simple thought. God wants us to walk wisely. In verse 14, he says, continue. And the things which thou hast learned. Folks, we do not have a reason to quit. We do not have a reason to trim or to compromise. We do not have a reason to seek for another source of comfort or authority. God has given us in his word what we need. God has given us the Holy Spirit to strengthen and enable us and to shape us and to empower us to do what we need to do as Christians. God has given us his word so that we can grow and we can thrive and we can mature. And so I want to encourage you as we think about this passage of Scripture. I want to encourage you, let's be salt and light. As the scriptures put it, in the midst of a crooked and perverse generation among whom we shine as lights. God wants to use us. You do not know how beautiful the congregation that is walking with God looks in this broken There are going to be people who hate the church, but there are going to be people that are drawn to the church because they say, I want that. I don't love my husband or my wife or my kids like that. I don't love other Christians like that. I don't have that ability. I don't understand how they can have that. I want what is in that place. There will be some that fight it, and some that hate it, and some that despise it, and some that persecute it, but there'll be some that are drawn to it. So I want to encourage you, let's be a people that shine as lights in a very dark world. Let's ask the Lord to help us to flourish and to grow and to mature. So that in the midst of the challenges we face, we will be faithful. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord with this. Father, I thank you for the text in front of us. It's very sobering to think about how a self-centered disposition can express itself in so many evil And hurtful ways. Father, I pray that we would be the antithesis of these things. That we would not be lovers of pleasure and lovers of self, but we would be lovers of God. People who are growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, and people who genuinely love the people around them. Us, who are genuinely filled with the kinds of affections that you want us to have. I pray that we would be a flourishing people. A people that are light in the darkness. I pray that people would be drawn to the truth because they see the power of the gospel message, how it transforms People and that they would want that for themselves. Father, I pray that as we gather together to pray that we would have sweet fellowship one with another, and that you would work in these circumstances that we will live Lift up to you, we ask it in Christ's name, Amen