How great thou art. Hymn number thirty-eight, we'll sing all four verses. I know I get no understanding I do. Pracing Let's turn over to hymn number 134. 134. And can it be? We'll sing all four verses And can it be that I El panque le imagen. Amen. Our scripture reading will be found in the Gospel of Luke. Luke chapter 14, we'll be reading verses 7 through 14. Luke chapter 14, verses 7 through 14. The scriptures say, and he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, when he marked how they chose out the chief rooms, saying unto them, When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding. Sit not down in the highest room, lest a more honorable man than thou be bidden of him. And he that bade thee and him come and say to thee, Give this man place And thou begin with shame to take the lowest room. But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room, that when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, friend, Go up higher. Then shalt thou worship in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee. For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased, and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen. Nor thy rich neighbors, lest they also bid thee again, and recomm and a recompense be made thee. But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind And thou shalt be blessed, for they cannot recompense thee, but thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. All right, so we continue our worship through song. Let's stand and open our hymn books to hymn number 343. 343, we'll sing Springs of Living Water. We'll sing the first two verses and then we'll take a moment, greet one another. We'll come back together and sing verse 3. Springs of Living Water, all three verses This is my garden land and running. That last word, here we go. All right. last song before the preaching will be in our blue book, Complete in Thee, 192. We'll sing all four verses of Complete in Thee. We'll sing the last verse, a cappella. So quite bright by all the time. I God and God ever be And I am now being Complain me the most outfit, I crave them, I always have with my friends. And I 'll take a being by the I know that more importantly complete with me one and why I don't like it for life, I make my mind , I know I don't want to be and why There shall be when before thy war all fright and fund a several Thank you. Please be seated. Okay. I come before you are willing to Lord, I surrender to your way I art desired to bring you glory, to magnify your holy name. I give you all. Me, I give you everything. Help me to follow you and live each day, giving you all my life. Living by heart is mine, O Lord, I pray You gave your own life to by my border, and now I never can repay I'll share with I why do you have a man? Help me to follow and obey. I give you all of me. I give me a few. Help me to follow you and live each day, giving you all my life a living sacrifice. It is my heart in love, oh Lord, I may. I give you all of me, I give you everything, help me to bother you. And let me say giving you all my life, live me back with life. This is my heart divine, for Lord I pray. I give you my life, dear Lord, you dead All right, thank you so much for that. Beautiful beautiful song Our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back with some help. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 14 this morning. And we've been working our way through This book of the Bible, and this is our 80th sermon sermon in the book of Luke. So we're about two-thirds of the way there. So really enjoy digging into each of these passages. Luke 14, we're going to read verses 7 through 14 together, and then we're going to dig into this text. Here's what it says. And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden when he marked how they chose out the chief rooms. Say unto them, When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the highest room, lest a more honorable man than thou be bidden of him And he that bade thee and him come and say unto thee, Give this man's place, and thou begin with shame to take the lowest room. But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room, that when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, friend. Go up higher. Then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee. For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased. And he that humbleth himself shall be exalted. Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends Nor thy brethren, neither are thy kinsmen, nor they thy rich neighbors, lest they also bid thee again, and a recapest be made thee. But when thou makest a feast, Call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind. And thou shalt be blessed, for they cannot recompense thee. For thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. Let's take a moment and ask the Lord to help us to understand the text in front of us and many, many truths that are are at the foundation of what Jesus is saying in these verses. Father, I pray that you'd help us this morning to understand the concept of the resurrection of the just and the ordering of your kingdom. And how such practical matters as where we choose to sit or how we treat other people, how we carry ourselves in a room, how these are truly a reflection of a worldview. That either is rooted in this world is all we have, or this world is not our home. I pray that you'd help me to communicate these truths effectively this morning and work in our hearts through it, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to give you a simple summary of what we're going to address this morning, and that is this. People who anticipate the resurrection will live purposefully today. People who anticipate the resurrection will live purposefully today. God wants us to live with an anticipation of the resurrection. And in order for us to appreciate this, I want you to notice a statement that Jesus made at the end of the text that we just read. He says, thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. Let me say that again. Thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. Now that little statement at the end of Jesus' teaching is telling me that everything that he has stated in these verses as he talks to these people All of it is connected to an anticipation of the resurrection. And not just the resurrection in a general sense. But the resurrection of those who are God's children. That's what he means when he says the resurrection of the just. And so we have to keep in our minds several things at the front side of the practical things that Jesus says in these verses. How people think about themselves, how they relate to other people, it is ultimately the result of a worldview. How you think at the foundational level determines how you respond in situations. It determines how you think about other people. It determines how you relate in interpersonal situations. Theology really matters because what we believe drives what we do. What we believe drives how we respond in situations. Another way to put it is that behavior is downstream of belief. So if I believe a thing, eventually it's going to work its way out. and the way that I live. And I I think we could flip it around and say it this way. There are a lot of Christians who live like practical atheists. I don't mean that you're an atheist. I mean you could explain the gospel. You say that you believe that Christ died for your sins. He rose from the dead, you are righteous in Christ, you believe in the resurrection, you can give the information, but when it comes to the practical way you live on a day-by-day basis, Your life does not reflect such a worldview. Practical atheism. To appreciate Christ's words, we need to understand the big picture. And so I'm going to take a moment just to kind of give you a snapshot picture of what we would say is the foundation of a biblical worldview. You say, really, snapshot, it's going to be really snapshot. We start out with this simple concept. This is God's world. It's his world. We exist for his glory. If you believe that this is God's world and you exist for his glory, not your glory, that shapes how you live your life Colossians 1 16, by him were all things created that are in heaven and that are on earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones or dominions or principalities or powers. All things were created by him and for him. And he is before all things, and by him all things consist. This is what Paul is saying about Jesus. He created it and everything in it out of nothing. The Father created This world for the Son, you say, well, hold on a sec. How does that work? Well, we're talking about the triune God. God the Father created this world through the Son, for the Son, and ultimately he's going to rule his creation for all of eternity. That is what he means when he says all things were created By him and for him, and all things are held together by him. He created us people in his image and with a purpose to take care of his creation I want you to think about it this way. Some people say, well, why do I exist? Why did God make me? Or maybe they wouldn't say, why did God make me? How did I get here? And what's the purpose of life? And the simple answer is, well, God made you in his image so that he could reveal to you how good he is, so that you could enjoy that goodness in relationship And then ultimately you would grow in this everlasting relationship with a purpose and a design, and that's creation I mean, remember that God created Adam to have dominion over the world. He was supposed to take care of the creation. But something terrible happened. Through Adam, sin entered the world. And so though Adam fails to be faithful, God had a plan to graciously redeem his creation back to himself. And he did that through the second Adam. And all of Scripture is the story, or maybe a better word would be the record of the creation, the fall, the effects of the fall. And then this promise of redemption and the anticipation of those promises and then the fulfillment of those promises. Well, we are living in a period of time that is between redemption and glorification. And so during this time we live with anticipation of an eternal kingdom. You say, well, what does that have to do with the passage in front of us? It has everything to do with the passage in front of us. That is what Jesus means when he talks about the fact that you will be recompensed in the resurrection of the just. If you don't understand what Jesus means there, then everything else is just a moralistic application. It's not rooted in the gospel. It doesn't have the grand picture of Scripture and God's purposes. And so Jesus is expecting that these people would understand those very basic worldview implications. So it leads us to the first truth that we're going to look at this morning. God's kingdom is like a wedding feast. Now the passage in front of us is fascinating because Jesus is, it appears at a wedding feast, and he's observing how the people are acting in that wedding feast. And all of a sudden, he's going to give them some instructions. He's going to give them some some wisdom that they're to follow. And this wisdom is actually a part of a correct view of how the kingdom of God actually works. And Jesus actually talks about the kingdom in these terms of a wedding in lots and lots of places. Notice what he says in verse number seven. He put forth a parable to those who were bidden when he marked how they chose out the chief rooms at a wedding. What are some of those illustrations that Jesus used? I'm just going to give you a few of them. In fact, if you want to do kind of a grocery list, you could go to the book of Matthew and type in this phrase, the kingdom of heaven is like, and you will find all kinds of examples. Of Jesus using pictures that they could identify, what they could understand, that taught some truth about the kingdom of God. For instance, in Matthew 13, 31, the kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed. It grows from something very small, seeming very insignificant, into something that is mighty. Where in chapter 13, verse 33, the kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven. It grows organically. Or Matthew 13, 44, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a treasure that's hid in a field. It needs to be sought for diligently. Matthew 13, 47, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net that was cast into the sea and gathered of every kind. This is a really interesting illustration. He's saying that the kingdom of heaven is filled with all kinds of different people. Jews and Gentiles, rich and poor. People who had tremendous opportunities in life and people who lived with very few opportunities in life. God throws out this net and he brings people into his kingdom. And they're all different kinds of people. The kingdom of God is full of this diversity of people types who are redeemed through the precious blood of Christ and the resurrection. And then in Matthew 22, verse 2, he says, the kingdom of heaven is like a certain king who made a marriage for his son. Now that is an amazing illustration. He's basically talking about the kingdom of God in covenantal, relational, marriage kinds of terms. And I want you to realize that God ordered ordained marriage to be a picture of his covenant love for his people There are lots of practical reasons why marriage is between one man and one woman for life. Lots of practical reasons. We could talk about those practical reasons. I mean something as simple as having the same two people having the same children between them and all the complications that come as a result of that and the fact that there is there is trust and the fact that there is protection within those covenant bonds that are there. There are lots and lots of practical reasons that God created marriage to be between one man and and one woman and there is no other form of marriage that our world can talk about that actually is marriage. We could use the term mirage, okay? It's not the real thing. In fact, it's abominable. The reason for that is because marriage is to be a picture of God's covenant faithfulness to his people. In other words, marriage isn't just about you and your spouse and your kids. It's about God. It's about this picture that He ordained so that people would understand this concept of covenant. faithfulness, covenant love. And the Old Testament, when he talked about the nation of Israel, there lots and lots of times That God refers to the nation of Israel in these covenantal marriage terms. I'll give you just one because it's a beautiful one. Isaiah 54. Thy maker is thine husband. The Lord of hosts is his name, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel, the God of the whole earth shall be called. For the Lord hath called thee as a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, a wife of youth, when thou wouldst refuse. with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the Lord thy Redeemer. Is that not an amazing scripture? That God would refer to the nation of Israel in these very rich, beautiful, covenantal terms. Where he talks about the fact that they were a forsaken people and they were a troubled people and he drew them to himself and he made them his people, he redeemed them, and he loved them with everlasting kindness. That is the picture he chose. Or in Isaiah, or in Isaiah. Ephesians chapter 5, verse 25, he says that husbands are to love their wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. To put it very bluntly, dads When you don't love your wife like the Bible tells you to, guess what you do? You present an image to your children that gives them a completely distorted understanding of the kind of God that made them. And the kind of God that draws them to himself through the gospel, what they should see is faithfulness and love and commitment. And an enduring commitment to every season of life. He used this illustration And God's covenant love is something that is highlighted all over the Bible. There is a Hebrew term that is used, and the way that it's translated in our Bibles is generally loving-kindness, but it's actually translated. lots and lots of different ways because it's such a rich term. And one of those examples is in Psalm 36 verse 7. Listen to what it says. He says, How excellent is thy loving kindness, O God. Therefore the children of men do put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. Do you remember the story of Ruth when she, for all lack of a better way to put it, she proposed to Boash and said, Will you be the kinsman redeemer for me? And he uses this term. He says Something about the fact that you have come to be with God's people and you are resting under his wings. Say, what is that? In other words, there is a covenantal relationship where you come under the protection and the care of this individual, and he takes care of you. That is actually what marriage is supposed to be. Where a man leaves his father and his mother , he goes to his wife, the two become one, and he cares for and he nourishes and he cherishes his wife That's what the Bible says it's supposed to be. And so in Psalm 36, he says that God puts us under the shadow of his wings, and there's this beautiful picture of protection, defense. care and we are close to him. Psalm 103. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits, who forgiveth all thine iniquities. who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy wife from destruction, who crowns thee with loving kindness and tender mercies, who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the evil It's no mistake that God uses the teaching on the kingdom of God, one of those prominent illustrations he uses is that of marriage. Because It's one of the few places, when it's done right, when it's a good example, it's one of the few places in life that we really see the tender, enduring, compassionate care Between a man and his wife and covenant till death separates them. That's the point. And God wants us to get that picture in our minds. So this there are many parallels here. The fact is he initiates this covenant, he invites us into an everlasting relationship. He wants us to share, he wants to share himself with us forever. He cares about us in this relationship. It's a covenant. It's to be celebrated. So don't forget where he is giving this illustration at a marriage feast, and it's one of those illustrations that Jesus loved to use in relation to the kingdom. Second truth I want you to notice this morning. is that its structure is like the structure of a wedding feast. Now, interestingly, this might make you a little bit uncomfortable. I don't know. Sometimes we think about the fact that We in our minds we think that heaven is a place of absolute equality, but that's just not the case. It's absolutely not the case. Every single person that is in heaven for all eternity is there because they've been redeemed by the blood of Christ. They are righteous in Christ. They are alive in Christ because they've been regenerated. They are there on the basis of the same word. But we will not have the same responsibilities in the eternal state. There are some people today who sadly, tragically, think that the concept of order and that there's actually, we could say, submission, and some people who are actually in charge of the situation is somehow wrong and that's a part of the fall, but that's just not true. The fact is, even in eternity, there are going to be some people who are given responsibilities under the authority of God Himself, and they will have those responsibilities forever, and there will be people under their jurisdiction. You realize that. And verse number 10, he says this, when thou art bidden, go and sit down at the lowest rooms That when they bid thee to come, that he that bid thee to come, he may say unto thee, friend, go up higher. Their structure in the kingdom of God, I'm going to give you just a couple of examples. I could go to lots and lots of them. In fact, I'm just going to tell you that I actually took this message this week and I like trimmed out a whole bunch of stuff because it was going to be too long. Okay, it really was. We'll find out if I trimmed enough, right? So, first of all, Matthew 19, I want you to hear what he says. He says, Which of you who have followed me in the regeneration, when the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of his glory? You shall also sit on twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel and everyone that hath forsaken house or brethren or sister or father or mother or wife. or children or lands for my namesake shall receive in hundredfold and shall inherit everlasting life, but many who are first shall be last and last first. I question ask you a question If some people are ruling, then what about the other people? You ever thought about that? I mean like I mean somebody's in charge. There's a pecking order if you want to use it that way. There's going to be jurisdiction there are going to be responsibilities where people are answering to others and people are giving instructions ultimately under the authority of Christ. Or think about this statement in Revelation 2, verses 26 and 27. He says, He that overcometh and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power, that's authority. Over the nations, and he shall rule them with a rod of iron. Listen to Revelation 20, verse 4. I saw thrones, and they that sat on them, and judgment was given unto them, and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection, on such the second death hath no power. They shall be priests unto God and of Christ and shall reign with him a thousand years. Now, these particular passages, the two that I just mentioned at the end, are focusing in on what's called the millennial reign of Christ. But this is not just exclusive to the thousand-year rule. We see examples of this kind of language even speaking of our eternal state. So that leads me to a simple observation. This is why there is a judgment seat of Christ. The Bible talks about the judgment seat, the Bible talks about the great white throne, and they're not the same place. They're different. And their purposes are different. For instance, in 2 Corinthians 5. 10, he says, we, that's Paul speaking of himself, we all must appear before the judgment seat of Christ. That's not the great white throne. This is the resurrection of the just, not the unjust The righteous. We must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ, that everyone may receive the things done in his body, whether it be good or bad. In 1 Corinthians chapter 3, he puts it this way. He says, According to the grace of God, which is given unto me as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation and another buildeth thereupon. Let every man take heed how he buildeth thereon. That's a pretty interesting way to put it. He's saying God lays his foundation. Christ is the foundation. There's no other foundation. And how you build on that foundation actually has some ramifications for the future. He then goes on to say this, let every man take heed how he buildeth. Other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid, which is Christ. If any man build on this foundation gold and silver and precious stone, wood, hay, stubble, every man's work shall be manifested. The day will declare it because it shall be revealed by fire, and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, that which he hath built, he shall receive reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved, it says by fire. Now, this is not talking about whether or not you go to heaven or hell. This is talking about God's people redeemed, saved by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone. Standing before God and giving an account for how they lived their lives, for how they built on the foundation that was given to them And he says some people are going to suffer loss and others are going to get reward. And he says they'll be saved yet by fire. It's an amazing thought to think about. So what that's telling us is that even though we are under the grace of God and we are righteous in Christ and we are saints, the way we live actually matters. Not whether or not we go to heaven or hell, but what we will be doing in our eternal state. It's an amazing concept, and is a thoroughly biblical concept. And so notice what he says in verse 4. You will be blessed. Verse 15, thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. We do not select the roles that we're given in our eternal state. They are given to us by the Lord Jesus, and they're given to us appropriately based on his judgment on that day. Truth number three. God's grace calls unlikely people into his company. In verse number 13, he says this: When thou makest a feast, call the poor. And the maimed, and the lame, and the blind. Christ's instruction gives us insight into the way that he works It gives us insight into his values. And what we see in these verses is that God Himself brings the most unlikely people to himself. If you look at Matthew 22, verse 8, here's what he says. He says, similar passage of scripture, the teaching is very similar. It's almost as if he's using the same illustration, he's applying it slightly different in the Matthew text than he is. In the Luke text, but it's it's Christ's teaching on this issue of the kingdom. He says, go into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage. So those servants went out into the highways and gathered together all as many as they found, both the bad and the good, and the wedding was furnished with guests. What is he saying? He's saying that God tells his people, his servants, go out into the world and compel people to come. You know what that is? That's evangelism. That's taking the gospel to every single person you can counter. This is taking the gospel to the person who looks at you and says, God would never save me. He could never save me. I could never be a Christian. Because I know who I am and I know who I live and God would never want me in his company. And the person who goes, I don't need salvation. I don't need God. I'm good. He says, compel them all. That's rich and poor. People from every kindred and tribe and nation. People from all kinds of different backgrounds. He says, call them to come through the preaching of the gospel. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, I love this statement. You see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flood. Imagine, imagine your preacher gave himself A bunch of unwise people out here. I mean that's what Paul said. He says, not many wise. He's talking to the people at Corinth. He says, not many wise after the flesh. Not many mighty, not many noble are called God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise. He has chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things that are mighty. The base things of the world, the things which are despised, hath God chosen. Yea, and things which are not to bring to naught things that are that no flesh should glory in his presence. That's God. He calls all kinds of people from all kinds of backgrounds to himself, to the gospel. He calls without discrimination. Revelation 22. The Spirit and the Bride say, Come. Let him that heareth say, come, and let him that is athirst come, and whosoever will let him take the water of life freely. What a st Hat man. Isaiah 55, this is a text that Spurgeon preached on. I think this might have been the text that he heard when he got saved, if I remember right. It says, Ho everyone that is thirsty, come ye to the waters. He that hath no money, come and buy. You say, how does that work? Eat, come by wine and milk without money, without price. Wherefore do you spend money for that which is not bread, and your labor for that which satisfies not? How many people have nothing and they waste what little they have on things that don't satisfy? And he says, you have nothing to give God, but he invites you to come. He says, drink of this water freely. Enjoy of my table. That's what he's saying. Come unto me and hear, and your soul shall live, and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David. You know what those verses tell me? God calls all kinds of people to himself. Nobody in this room is here because we're good. Nobody in this room is here because we're noble. Nobody in this room is here because God got a great deal when he got us. We're here by the grace of God. And we're here because God and his love persistently work in our hearts. Every person's story is unique. It's a testimony to God's faithfulness and his kindness and his love and his grace. Truth number four. He calls us to follow his example. Now, I could have just taught a moralistic message this morning. I could have said, do this and do this and do this and do this and do this and don't do this and don't do this and don't do this. But that's not a Christian message. A Christian message says, here Here's who God is Here's who you are. Here's what the gospel has done. Therefore do this. There's a huge difference. And so I want you to notice how Jesus calls these people to respond based on the truth of the gospel. This teaching was given in a very specific context. Christ was observing people's interactions. He understood the heart behind why they did what they did. And he understood the theological structure that was supporting their views and their interactions. And his instructions are very simple and very pointed. Here's what they are. The first one is this. Do not seek to exalt yourself. Verse number eight. When thou art bidden of a man to a wedding, sit not down at the highest room. Can I give you a real simple illustration? If you're a kid in here and there's a dessert sitting on the table and there's like, you know, five or six different slices there, don't walk in and take the biggest one. You say, no kids in this room do that. Ah, not true. Maybe dad does that, right? Mom says, hey, hey, hey, that's dad. Don't touch that one. That's that's dad. Don't touch that one. Okay? What what are we saying there? You 're not your place. Not your place. You're not the center of the universe. I'm not the center of the universe. None of us are the center of the universe. Our lives are very short. Our time on this planet is very short. The most influential people on this planet There's an end date. You realize Donald Trump is that close to being an eternity? That close. I mean his head turned like that, and that's the difference. Why did his head turn that that way at that time? God's mercy. God's mercy mercy. That man's made a lot of money in his life. He was the president of the United States for four years. That close. None of us are going to make that much money in life. And not many people are going to know us except for the people in this room potentially. But you know what? A lot of people live like they're the center of the universe And the reason they live that way is because they got a messed-up worldview. The second thing he says is this, put others ahead of yourself. You say, well, those two things are almost like saying the same thing. Well, they kind of are. He's saying the same thing two different ways because you really try to make a point. Put others ahead of yourself. Verse 10. When thou art bidden, go sit down in the lowest room. Go find a place that's humble. And let the person that invited you say, Hey, you don't need to sit there. Come come over here. Sit down right here. Sit down right here. He says, that's the instruction. Why did he do that? Because he watched all these people, and these people, they had a pecking order. They knew who was important in their eyes and who wasn't. And they were all jockeying for position. And what's amazing about it is the people that he's talking to, more than likely, they were seeing themselves as very important because of their religious Credentials. Okay? That's what they were doing. He says, don't do that. Put others ahead of yourself. Thirdly, do not use people to get what you want. This is a really practical insight, is it not? Verse number twelve, when thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbors. And the reason for that is because he's saying basically this. In their society, if you invited somebody to your event, that became an expectation of being invited to their event. Does that make sense? And so what would you do? You would invite people that you'd like to go to their event because they're going to feel obligated to have you at their place. That's what he's saying. A very simple way to put it is you look at people as something to use to get what you want. Now why do people live their lives like that? Worldview. Worldview. Why do some Christians live this way? Because they're not living consistent with the biblical worldview that they say that they hold. The gospel that they have embraced intellectually is not shaping how they live on a daily basis. The fourth instruction he says is this, do not disregard people that cannot advance your worldly agendas. In verse 13, he says, when thou makest a feast, Call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind. Do not target people. Because you think that you can advance your agenda. I don't know if anybody in this room has ever been in a a political event. I have um been in those before, not very very many times, but I've been at political events and I am not a political person, so I just watch, you know, I just kind of see what's going on. And you know what became very apparent to me? How superficial those relationships are. I'm just telling you, man. It's really something to watch. You people shake each other's hands and they're you know talking about all these things and you're sitting there going You don't care about this person. You're just trying to use them to get leverage to do something, to get something. That's the way the political world works. That's the way the boys in junior high work when they're playing football sometimes. That's the way it works in so many contexts. Why is that? Because the human heart is the same wherever you put it. You could give that person a lot of money, you could put that person in complete poverty. You could have that person when they're a junior higher, you could have that kid when they're in college, and you could have that person when they're in their 50s. And guess what? You can watch people at a nursing home and you'll still see it. I'm serious, you'll see it. There's a pecking order at the nursing home. It's true. Why is that? It's because the hearts of people. Do not disregard people that cannot advance your worldly agendas. The simple explanation is deal with people after God's example. And you can only do that if you have a heart that's been renewed. Say, well, how do you apply this, Pastor? Well, here's my first application. Only God's children can do this. I don't mean only God's children can be nice. There's a lot of God's children that aren't very nice actually sometimes. But only God's children can follow this example in the way that Jesus expected it to be done. Listen to what the scripture says in 1 John 4, verse 7. He says, beloved, let us love one another for love is of God. Amazing statement Everyone that loveth is two things, born of God and he knows God. Did you catch that? Born of God and he knows God. That means He is alive in Christ and he's growing in communion with God. Those two things are absolutely essential to be doing what God is telling us to do here. He that loveth not knoweth not God, for God is love. That's an amazing statement. And this was manifested the love of God toward us because God sent his only begotten Son into the world that he might live through him. Go back and read this text of scripture this afternoon and let it sink into your hearts. You do not love people unless you love God first. And you do not love God unless He has loved you first. And you do not love people unless you are alive in Christ and you're growing in a knowledge of Him because it is not natural for us to love each other in this kind of a way. We are all self-centered. We are all full of ourselves, and it's the grace of God alone that changes that. 1 John 4. 12, if we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. Verse 16, God is love. He that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him. Herein is our love made perfect. We loved him because he first loved us. Go back and read that passage and ask yourself the question, can a non-Christian do that? And the answer is of course not. Then why do we as God's people not do it? God's loving actions are rooted in his goodness. Only his children who are growing in grace and the knowledge of Christ have the character to do this. Only God's children have the capacity to understand these things. Only God's children can have the will to do these things. Only those who consider life in the light of the resurrection will do this. I remind you again of that last statement in this section. You will be recompensed at the resurrection of the just. That is the key. In other words, the way that a person lives today has to be built on something. And a person whose life is built on truth Who is alive in Christ and is thinking biblically, the way they live is rooted in that reality. And a person who's not saved, they live for today because that's all they have. That's all they know. The person who is saved but not growing in the Lord, they live like someone who all they have is today. And so I leave you with this final text, 1 Corinthians 15. When this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then will be brought to pass the saying that is written, death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. Thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, based on all that I've just said, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Why do people live like that? Because of the word therefore. And here's my question. Are you living in the life of the resurrection of the just? Let's bow for prayer. There might be someone here this morning that does not know the Lord is their Savior. This is not really an evangelistic message. But if you're not certain that you are saved , I really want to encourage you. When I'm standing at that door, come by, shake my hand, say, hey, Pastor, I want to speak with you. And I will set aside a time. It could be later today. It could be right after the service. Could be this week. I'll set aside a time and we can go through the gospel together. I can show you what it says about how you can know for sure when you die you're going to heaven. If that's you, don't leave this place without getting that matter settled. There might be some Christians here that, to be very honest with you, we do not live consistent with what we say we believe. I want to encourage you, let's not be that way. Let's live like Christians. Let's live like we believe there's a resurrection of the just, like there really is a judgment seat, because there is. And we will one day stand there. Let's pray. Father, take the word and use it for your glory in our lives. Help us to take the truth and apply it very practically and very personally. If someone is struggling here, not sure of their salvation, I pray that they will reach out. Father, if somebody's struggling, they're saved, but they need some help. Help them to reach out. And Father, I pray that you would be glorified through the word as it's been given this morning. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's all pull out our hymn books and our closing, and we're going to turn to hymn 550. 550. The song we're going to sing is Channels Only. Channels Only. Please let's go ahead and stand together. We're going to sing each of these verses. For our closing hymn, five hundred and fifty channels only. We need to follow me a lot of the ladder, you know, and you can have another. Let me read another. Can I also be this master? But I mean all the life on this I only do well in the sun every day. Well, it's been good to be in the Lord's house. Glad to have each of you this morning. I know it was a really long week for a lot of people. And so if you were here every single day this week and put in a ton of hours, I'm really thankful that you came. And I hope that the Lord used his word and uh just the fellowship of the saints to really uplift you. And encourage you. There are a lot of people that are dealing with heavy burdens, heavy hearts. And so let's uplift one another in prayer as we think about the various burdens that are being carried. Scott Moore, can you please close us in prayer? And then if you're visiting with us, I hope you'll come by and greet my wife and I. Dear Lord God, we are so grateful to you for the love that you bestow upon us. And Lord, we thank we're thankful for the VBS this week. We're thankful for all those that work so hard and Bringing your word to the children. I pray the children might apply what they've learned, not just take away the fun times, but the lessons that they learned this week I pray that it might enrich their lives. I pray that we might all grow closer to you. And we thank you for the message this morning and the teaching in Sunday school for the way that you lead us and guide us through our lives. In Jesus' name. Amen.