Turn to Luke chapter 1. We're looking at verses 57 through verse 66. And uh this week I had an opportunity to uh talked to a couple of our missionaries and that was a real blessing and so uh tonight I'm gonna go ahead and give a little bit of an update on some of the uh conversations I was able to have so I hope that uh tonight during our uh our time where we give testimonies, uh that if you're here you'll be able to to to get that update. So really looking forward to that. Had a really good conversation with a couple of folks. Luke chapter 1, we're looking at verses 57 through 66. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading. Here's what the word of the Lord says. Now Elizabeth's full time came that she should be delivered. She brought forth a son. And her neighbors and her cousins heard how the Lord had showed great mercy upon her, and they rejoiced with her. Came to pass that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they called his name Zecharias after the name of his father. And his mother answered and said, Not so, but he shall be called John. They said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name. And they made a sign to his father how he would have him called. And he asked for a writing table and wrote saying, his name is John. And they marveled all. And his mouth was opened immediately and his tongue loose, and he spake and praised God. And fear came on all that dwelt around them, and all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judea And all they that heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, What manner of child shall this be? The hand of the Lord was with him. Now when we read these verses, we need to remember that this is a continuation of the explanation of the events that lead up to the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And this individual, John the Baptist, is going to be an extremely important person in the storyline in preparation for the Messiah. In fact, it's really interesting that in Luke, there is a lot talked about when it comes to this child John. It also has a lot to say about his parents. And so with that in mind, let me give you a summary statement and kind of dig into an extremely important topic, and that is we must be a people that live life for the glory of God. We need to be a people Who live our lives for the glory of God. And what we're going to see in these verses is that the individuals that are in this storyline are people that God chose and God placed to function in a very special way. And God working ultimately to bring his Savior into the world. So here's a simple summary statement of the passage. It says, the passage before us reveals both the confusion and the joy associated with the birth of John, to emphasize the significance of his life and his ministry and prep preparing the people to receive the Messiah. There was both confusion And it's very interesting as we look at these verses that the people were very confused at why they would name this child John rather than Zecharias. And then what we see at the end of the passage is that the people were asking, what is the nature of this child's life? What is unique about this child? That is really at the heart of what is talked about here in Luke chapter 1. And the reason God wants us to look at this is morning is to remind us that we are supposed to live lives that bring glory to God in the same kind of a way that these individuals willingly function in the capacity that God placed on their lives. So with that in mind, let's ask the question, how can we have such a perspective? First of all, I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that really kind of lay a foundation biblically for what we're going to see in the passage in front of us. You and I exist to bring glory and majesty to the Lord Jesus Christ. We do not exist for our own pleasure. for our own glory, for our own purposes, we exist for the glory of God. We see that the Bible is full of examples. that teach us this very principle. First of all, we see that God made us in his image. And we go to Genesis chapters 1, 2, and 3 3, we see that when God created Adam and Eve, place them in the garden, it says, in the image of God he created him, male and female created he them. When the Bible talks about capital punishment during the time of the flood, the reason that God established capital punishment is because in the image of God he created people. And you might ask the question, well, what does he mean by the image of God? Well, we are supposed to reflect the glory and the praise of our Savior. When people watch us, they should see God's character on display in our lives. And we talk about his character. We're talking about those communicable attributes, those attributes that God has that we ourselves can display as well. Yes, in a very small way, yes, imperfectly, but we are to reflect those things. To people. He's provided redemption, forgiveness, cleansing, and restoration so that we can do that. In other words, because we're sinners, we have to first of all be forgiven and cleansed from our sin. And then once we are forgiven and cleansed from our sin, God begins to change us into the image of Christ. So that as we live our lives, God begins to change display his us glory, his goodness, his love, his holiness through our lives. God is restoring what was broken and marred in the fall. And so when we talk about sanctification, one of the reasons that it is so very important that we take seriously walking with God is because this is one of the ways that God reveals his glory to others through our lives. In fact, we see a lot of passages that talk about how we are to relate to God and how he reveals his goodness through our lives. Revelation 4. 11 It says, Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power. For thou hast created all things, and listen to what it says, for thy pleasure they are and were created. He is worthy of all praise and all glory, and we exist to bring pleasure to a good God. We see another example in Psalm ninety-six verses one through four. This is a very important passage because it talks about how the world is full of people that don't know the Lord, and so God calls out a group of people, he saves them to destroy Display his glory to the nations who do not know God. Psalm 96. 1 says, O sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord, bless his name, show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen His wonders among all the people, for the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. When we talk about missions, this passage is one of those passages that I often go to because I think about how it talks about how God wants us to be a light to the world. And then I think of 1 Corinthians 10, 31. Whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Even down to the little decisions we make on a daily basis, God wants us to make choices and to live in a way that brings glory to Him, not to ourselves. Now, those principles are all throughout the scripture. We see them repeated over and over and over again. And what I want us to do is see how these are foundational to what we will see in the verses in front of us. Keep these truths in your mind as we look at the following truths from this text of Scripture. The first truth we find is this: John's life was a testimony to God's faithfulness. In other words, when we look at John's life, we're going to see that God is showing, he is proving, he is demonstrating that in fact he is a faithful God. He is fully trustworthy. We can and we must trust him explicitly. Look at what it says in verse 58. It says, now Elizabeth's full time came. Now you might say, well, Pastor, how does that talk at all about God's faithfulness? It says a lot about God's faithfulness. The fact is this was a woman who had been barren her entire marriage. This is a man and this is a woman who had been married, they had been faithful, they longed to have a child, and God never opened to her. womb and gave her a child. And now as an eld, I don't know if elderly is the right word, but as a woman that was well beyond the years of childbearing, God gives her a son. But there is more to it than just that personal level. Allow me to just take a moment and kind of show you the different levels of how God demonstrated his faithfulness Through that statement, she brought forth a son. The first is this. We see it on the redemptive level. God was faithful to his promise to send a redemptive level When we read the Old Testament, the Old Testament is more than anything else about preparing the way for us to embrace the Savior. It explains to us why we need a savior. It explains to us what the Savior is going to be like, what he's going to do, why he's the only one who's qualified. It's laying a case to point us to placing our faith in the finished work of Christ. The Old Testament is from beginning to end all about God's promise of redemption God is the Savior who calls, who justifies, and who ultimately will keep us until the day of redemption. Listen to what it says in Romans chapter 8, verses 29 through 30. It says, whom he foreknew he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. Whom he did predestinate, them he also called. Whom he called, then he also justified. Whom he justified, then he also glorified. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died. Yea, rather that is risen again, who even is at the right hand of God, also making intercession for us. Now when we go to Romans chapter 8, Paul kind of steps back and he says, God is faithful to call you, to justify you when you place your faith in Christ. To sanctify you, to conform you to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ, and to give you everything else that is a part of salvation. He will glorify you. And there is nothing That can be laid to the charge of the child of God because God saves. He is faithful. Well, the fact is that this young man's life, John. is a part of that story that brings the Savior into the world, prepares people to embrace the Savior, points people to the Savior, testifies about the Savior. John's life was meant to show us God is faithful to redeem his people. The second is on what I'd call a covenantal level. The Old Testament is full of lots and lots of covenant promises. For instance, God promised to send a Savior in Genesis chapter 3 God called out a nation. He told Abraham, I'm going to make of you a great nation. I'm going to bless all the nations of the world through you And we see that God continually gives these promises, and those promises are pointing to redemption. And so when we see the story of John the Baptist, we're not just talking about God's faithfulness to redemption. redeem people, but it's his faithfulness to the promises he made to his covenant people, the nation of Israel. Romans chapter eleven, verses one through five, and twenty-nine through thirty-four. This is a very rich passage, but I want to hit a couple of highlights. It says, I said then, hath God cast away his people? God forbid. The gifts and calling of God are without repentance. For as ye in times past hath not believed God, yet now have obtained mercy through their unbelief, even so have these also now not believed that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy. For God has concluded them all in unbelief, that they might have mer that He might have mercy upon all. O the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. For who has known the mind of the Lord, or who hath been his counselor? You say, well, Pastor, what's the point of this? The point of this is this. God promised redemption, but God also made covenant promises to a people. And when we see the story of John the Baptist, we see that God is being faithful to both of those promised storylines. But we see a third, and this is on the personal level. God was faithful in his promise to this couple. God was involved in the intricate details of their lives. He can, and he must be trusted. You know, we talked about this earlier on in this series through the book of Luke, but we saw that there are some times that a person has placed their faith in Christ And they believe that God is able, but when they get pressured in life, in very personal circumstances, they cave to that pressure. And one of the most practical things that we see here is we see the redemptive side, we see the covenant side, but we see that God is personally faithful in the lives of his people. I think of Psalm 139 verses 1 through 4. O Lord, thou hast searched me and known me. That is very personal. Thou knowest my downsettings and my uprisings, thou understandest my thoughts afar off. Very personal Thou compass my path and my lying down and art acquainted with all my ways. There is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it altogether. And I want to remind you that this story of John the Baptist's birth reminds us that God is faithful to bring redemption. God is faithful to his promises to the nation of Israel. God is faithful to work in the lives of his people in a personal and practical way. The second truth. John's name was a testimony of God's goodness. You know, one of the things that we think about when we read the Old Testament and when we read the New Testament is that the way that we name our kids and the way that they named their kids was a lot different. You know, in those days, a person's name carried tremendous significance. Why do you think Jacob was called Jacob the trickster? It's because that was the man's nature. He was known to be a tricky person. Why do you think Nabal was named the fool? Because that's exactly what the man was. In other words, when people named a child many times, that name was symbolic, significant of the kind of person that they were. were. Not Nabal, it's yeah, Nabal. I was almost Naboth. John's name was significant. Look down at what it says in verses 58 through 60. It says, Her neighbors and her cousins heard how the Lord had showed great mercy upon her. They rejoiced with her, and it came to pass on the eighth day, they came to circumcise the child, and they called him Zecharias After the name of his father, and his mother answered and said, Not so, he shall be called John. I said, there is none of thy kindred that is called by this name. They made signs to his father and how he would have him called, and he asked for a writing tablet and wrote saying, His name is John. And they marveled all. You say, Well, how is that significant? Let me tell you what Zecharias 's name means, and what John's name means, and how these are wonderful descriptions descriptions of the nature of the function that they had in God's story. Zecharias means God remembers Remembers. Remember that. Zecharias means God remembers. And I want you to think about the storyline in Israel's history of what was going on at this time. First of all, Israel was living through very dark times They had experienced the glories of David and Solomon's kingdom. They experienced the tragedy of the dividing of the kingdom when Solomon's son came to power. And he didn't have the sense to follow the wisdom of the older men and to keep the kingdom together. And Israel and Judah split apart and fell into tremendous evil and sin. God sends prophet after prophet after prophet to those peoples and they rejected it and one day God gives them over to captivity. And for seventy years the people are in Babylon singing the songs of Zion in a foreign land, and they're a broken and they're a hurting people, but God did not forget his people. He restored them. He sent them back to their land. He rebuilds Jerusalem. He rebuilds the temple. And we have the storyline of all these things that God is doing. Yes, for 400 years. There is silence in Israel. I don't mean silence like no babies cried and people didn't yell at each other. I don't mean that. I mean God didn't speak through a prophet They had the word of God. They had the scriptures, but there was no prophet like Isaiah, like Jeremiah, like Ezekiel, like Elijah, like Elisha. No prophets in Israel. It was a silent time. Quiet, dark, tragic. And here is the change of events God remembers his people. Here's a people that are under Roman occupation. 400 years of silence. And like God goes to Moses in the wilderness and he says, go back to Egypt. I'm going to take my people out of bondage. For 400 years the nation of Israel was in bondage in Egypt, and God pulled them out with a strong arm, and in the same kind of a way, God remembers his promises to his people, and through Zecharias, he's beginning to see. Speak again to the people. John 's name is even more significant though. It means Yahweh has been gracious. God remembers Yahweh has been gracious. John 's life was a testimony to God's grace. I want to remind you of the last thing penned in the Old Testament. These were the events that were written about 400 years before what we are reading today. And Malachi 4, 5-6, the last thing you'll read in your Old Testament. He says, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. He shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children and the heart of the children to their fathers. Fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse. You know it's very interesting when the Bible talks about John The forerunner of the Messiah, he says, he came and the spirit of Elijah. God had not forgotten his people. People. God had not forgotten his promises. God remembers. God is gracious. And God sends This baby at this time, because one day he will stand and prepare the way as a mighty prophet for the Messiah, pointing people to Jesus. All those who turn to Christ the Messiah as their Savior and embrace his gospel, they will be delivered from the wrath to come. There's a third truth, though, that we see in this text. And that's that the people's responses were an incredible testimony to God's worthiness. What I mean by his worthiness is he is worthy of all praise. And all glory. Look at down what it says in verses sixty-four and sixty-five. Very interesting statement. It says, His mouth was opened immediately and his tongue loosed, and he spake and did what? He praised God. And fear came on all that dwelt around them. And all these things were noised abroad throughout the hill countries of Judea. I want you to notice the response to the events that were unfolding in this passage. We see that God is demonstrated to be worthy of all praise and worship. Folks, worship is not a flippant matter. Worship is not something we should come to with a casual and calloused attitude Worship is a sacred duty. Worship is a serious matter. And what we're going to see in these verses is that there were three very distinct expressions of worship. That each of these individuals expressed. Notice the first one was Zacharias. What did he do? He praised God. What is praise? Praise is expressing the value and the worth and the greatness of God. That is exactly what this man did. He was not able to speak for months. And now he expresses with his mouth, God is worthy of all praise. Psalm 150, verses 1 through 6. Praise ye the Lord. Praise God from his sanctuary. Praise him in the firmament. Praise him for his mighty acts. Praise him according to his excellent greatness. Praise him with the sound of the trumpet. Praise him with the psaltery in the heart. Do you get the idea? Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. This is the first expression of worship to God that we see in this text of Scripture. He is expressing with his words the greatness of God. But there is a second response that we find in these verses. Very interesting. And that is that of reverence. Notice what it says next. Fear came on all that dwelt round about them. How many people come to church? With that kind of an attitude. Lots of people come to church wanting to just chout and carry on and do crazy things. But how many people come to church with a heart of Reverence. This is what it says. Fear came on all that dwelt around about them. In other words, they realize God is worthy of praise, and then they start thinking about the implications of this. And the implications of this are very sobering. In other words, when we worship God, there is a soberness that should come to our minds. We are thinking about the Creator, the Lord, the Holy One, the righteous one, the eternal judge. We're thinking about a God who's not just our buddy that we hang out with. He's our creator. Notice Psalm 96, 8 through 9. Give unto the Lord the glory due unto his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. Oh, worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness, fear before him all the earth. We see this eruption of praise, but we also see this soberness This reverence, this awe of who God is and what he's done. But there's a third response. It's very interesting. And this is the responsive reflection. It says, all these sayings were noised about throughout the hill country of Judea. Think about it this way. They didn't have Pony Express. People just talked a lot. All right, you know what I'm saying. They all talked for they had time. They didn't have the internet and all that stuff. They just started talking amongst themselves. Did you hear what happened? Y you know Zecharias? You know his wife Elizabeth? They had a child. Folks, these are people that were known. These are people that were respected. They had a lot of family members. They had a lot of connections. And all of a sudden people are discussing it. And notice what it says. They said, What manner of child shall this be? The hand of the Lord was with him. The way that they took all this at heart was not, huh, it's really interesting that this older lady has had a child who had never had a child. That was not what they were talking about. They're saying, what kind of a child is this going to be? What is the significance of this child's life? Why is God doing this at this time? There was discussion about the nature of this child's life in ministry. And you know, worship isn't just about praise, and it's not just about reverence, it's about reflection. It's about thinking about implication. It's about asking the question, how am I supposed to live in the light of these truths? What is God accomplishing in these circumstances? What is God trying to teach me in these things? It's about us having a reshaped view of God. A review shaped view of self and a reshaped view of circumstance. And so these people praised, had reverence, and they reflected. Psalm 47, 7. God is the king of all the earth. Sing ye praise with understanding. Think about what you're saying. Psalm 4, 4, stand in awe and sin not. Commune with your own hearts upon your bed and be still, Selah. And that word sila means stop and think about it. When we leave this building, we should go back to our homes and we should process the Word of God. We should ask the question, what is God saying to me today about Himself and about me and circumstance? Reflection is an extremely important part of worship. Colossians 3:6 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and in hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Worship begins with truth. Very, very important. Worship does not start with emotion. Worship starts with truth, and truth understood impacts the heart in an emotional way. And sometimes the response is one of joy and gratitude and praise. Sometimes it is one of fear. Sometimes it is one of conviction. Sometimes it is one of humility. God wants us to reflect on the truths. The final truth I want us to see this morning is this. We've got to internalize and live out these truths. The reason that we read this passage is And we reflect on these things. Isn't so we walk out and go, ah, that's really good. I'm really glad I enjoyed that. Hey, thanks, Pastor. I learned a lot today. The question we should ask is, how are we to change in light of what God is saying. How are we to respond in light of truth? These people existed to honor and praise and worship God. And guess what? So are we. Now we don't exist in the same function that these people existed in. Their lives were a part of God's story of redemption, meant to reveal God's faithfulness, goodness, and worthiness. None of us are John the Baptist or Zecharias. We're not functioning in that way specifically, but God has us placed uniquely to function as one who brings glory to him in my workplace, in my home, in my church, in my community. God wants to use us in that capacity as well. Our lives are part of God's redemptive story, not as a forerunner to the Messiah. Not as one who carries that baby, the Lord Jesus Christ, but as one who is the object of God's grace, the object of God's love. One who has been forgiven and one who has been cleansed, and one who is a work in progress, one who is an instrument in God's hands to bear this testimony to the world around us. We function to bring plays and glory to God as well. God wants us to live in a way that is consistent. And points people to him. Let me give you an example. It's very practical. 1 Peter 3, verse 15 and 16. Listen to what it says. Sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. What does that mean? The word sanctifying means to set apart something as holy. So in my heart I recognize God's authority and I live in the light of it. That's really the sense of what he's saying. Sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you. a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Having a good conscience that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, They may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. Say, what is he talking about? Let me put it in a real practical way. The people that immediately received those words were people living in a very difficult time in Rome. I don't mean in Rome the city, but in the Roman Empire. It was a time of tremendous debauchery, tremendous paganism. tremendous hardship. There were pressures that you and I cannot appreciate living in the 21st century, having the freedoms, the constitution. the right to assemble and all the things that we do in our nation that we are so grateful for, they did not have many of the liberties that you and I have today. And one of the things that was very common in their culture was that they would be forced by the pressures of society to conform to certain pagan rituals. For instance. Every year at certain times of the year, they were to do homage to the emperor as a god. Do you know why many of the Christians were thrown to the lions in the Colosseum? It was because they said, No, I will not worship Caesar as a God. They were willing to die for that. The simple statement, no, I don't worship Caesar as a god, could kill them. So while all these people in front of their homes are putting out their libation and pouring incense and all these different things, while they were sacrificing and showing their honor, their reverence, to the God, the Emperor, the Christians said, no, we won't. And that community, just a handful of people, 50, 60 people in that city, amongst thousands of people, did not participate. While everyone was going to the pagan festivals and all of the debauchery that was involved in those pagan festivals, the Christians said, we have nothing to do with these practices. And if something happened in that community, they'd say, Hey, you know why we have this problem? You know why our women aren't having children? Do you know why our enemies are getting stronger than us? Do you know why it's not raining and our fields are not thriving? So Christians. They won't participate with us. They're the problem. And all of a sudden, to be a Christian who lived distinctly was not easy. at all. And what Peter is saying is when you stand true and you do not cave and you don't pay homage to the emperor And you refuse to participate in the pagan celebrations, and they come to you and they say, why not? You say, it's because I belong to Jesus. Really? Yes. My allegiance to Christ is greater than my allegiance to the king. My allegiance to Christ is greater than my allegiance to my community My allegiance to Christ is number one, and I'm willing to pay whatever price because of my allegiance to him. And so he says, give an answer to every man that asketh you a real Reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. answer. Having a good conversation that whereas they speak evil of you as of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation There is something that should be very distinct about the way we as Christians live. The way we think, what we love, what we hate. What we affirm, what we deny, where we stand, how we stand, everything about our lives, our motivation, it is to be distinctly Christian. Matthew 5:13, he says, Ye are the salt of the earth. Verse 14, he says, Ye are the light of the world. And I love the way he puts it. He says, A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. He doesn't say that you're supposed to be a city on a hill. He says you are a city on a hill. And because you are a city on a hill, you can't hide. In other words, if you're a Christian, you are distinct whether you want to be or not. You don't have to make a point of your distinction. You are distinct. Because Christians don't think the way the world does, at least they're not supposed to What makes us fundamentally a Christian is about what's going on inside and how we live out in the light of that. And so he says, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father, which is in heaven. Because of your distinctness and because of your position in society, don't hide. Just walk with God. Folks, this passage more than anything else is to drive us to the simple conclusion that our lives were given to us so that we could display Glory to God. That's why God created Zecharias. That's why God created his wife Elizabeth. That's why God created John. And how long did John live? He lived to be a young man. He didn't live to be the age that I am right now. He was 30 years old when his head was cut off. 30, 31, something like that. In the eyes of the world, what a tragedy. What was the purpose of his life? His life was meant to glorify God. And you and I are to function however God places us for however long he puts us there in whatever season he puts us in, we are to function for the glory and praise of God. I want to encourage you, let's do that. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to help these truths to settle into our heart so that we'll respond in praise. We'll respond in reverence and will respond in a heart that reflects on how we are to walk different in light of these truths. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for the word of God that's been laid out this morning. These truths are foundational. They are fundamental to how we are to walk as Christians. I pray that every one of us would submit our hearts, our minds, our lives to the authority of Scripture. We would recognize that what we do matters. The way we walk matters. The way we think and what we love and hate, it matters. I pray that you'd help us to recognize that the function that we have been given by you is a glorious function. I pray that we would embrace it and we would we would thrive in that capacity that you've put us in. I ask these things in Christ's name. Amen