If you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we want to give you a warm welcome. And if you would uh be interested in a visit, uh take one of those visitor cards. and please put it in the offering box in the back. And what that'll do is that'll give us a way to reach out to you and uh just find out how we can be an encouragement and a blessing to you. So please take a moment to do that. The rest of you, I'd like to draw your attention to a couple of items that are in our bulletin. We have several activities that are coming up very soon and I want to just remind you of those things. First of all, before I get into those announcements, if you are uh not an usher right now And you would like to get on the rotation as an usher, and we talk about ushers, we have folks that stand in the back, also some that are involved in our welcome desk, please reach out to me so that I can make sure that I uh gets you the information that you need and I can get you on that rotation. So please do reach out to me or you can reach out to the office either way and we'll get you on that rotation Also wanted to mention that Dr. Valerie will be with us this week. And so if you're interested in meeting with him, please do reach out to the office. and we'll try to get you set up with that. We also have a meeting for our financial folks on Thursday night as we've been doing the last several years to just go through financial matters and And get his input on that. Also, I want to mention that on the 14th, uh we have, that'll be this Saturday, we have our men's donuts and Bible study in this week we're going to go ahead and we're going to move back to doing a breakfast. So for our guys, if you could uh make a note of that on your calendar, it's a really good time of fellowship. It's a good time of Bible study. It's a good time praying. together and um when we say men study we also are inviting our young men, our boys, my boys come, and Caleb is four, so he's he's a young man, depending on how you look at it. But the truth is our young men need to be shaped. And they need to be in those contexts, interacting with other men. And so I want to encourage you guys to make a note of that and come to that. Also, this Friday night, there's a an activity at the Pridents House. And this is for our teens and their parents. This is also for folks in our college and career group. There's a sign-up sheet in the back. And so if you are interested in going to that, please do sign up so they'll know how many people to prepare for. Also wanted to mention that there are a couple of retreats and Saturday activities for our juniors. That's third grade grade through sixth grade, there's going to be a rally at the Edge Camp on September the 25th. So parents make a note of that and let us know if you are planning to have your young people go to that. We'll be taking them up and we're gonna leave very early, six o'clock in the morning. It'll be a whole day event uh with sessions and also uh a lot of games and activities. They're doing something very similar on the second of October for our teen group, so that's seventh through the twelfth grade. And then also there is a ladies' retreat on October the 8th through the 9th at Camp Calvary. So please Please make a note of those things on your calendar. And if you want to get involved in them, please do sign up in those respective places. If you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn together to Psalm 113. Psalm 113, and we're looking at verses 13 through 16 for opening scripture. Actually, it might be 3 to 6. I forget. Yeah, I was I was wrong. Verses three to six. Here's what the scriptures say. From the rising of the sun until the going down of the same, the Lord's name The Lord is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens, who is likened to the Lord our God, who dwelleth on high, who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven. This morning, as we look into the Word of God, we're going to be focusing our attention on living life for the glory of God. And so that will be the sense of all the all the songs that we're going to be singing. So let's bow together and ask the Lord to bless our time and to really impress on our hearts this extremely important principle that all of life is to be lived for the glory of God. Bow for prayer. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together as a local church this morning. And I pray that this morning you would meet with us in a very special way. Pray that our hearts would be knit together in worship through Through singing, through reading the scriptures together, through sitting under the ministry of your word. I pray that as the word of God is preached, that you would convict and convince our our hearts of these truths, that we would we would bend our knee in submission to I pray that you would work in our hearts and move in our midst and that you would equip us to be effective servants in the local church and in our Father, we pray that you'd help us to to think deeply about how infinitely wise you are, how righteous and just your ways are. Father, we think about your your providence, how you work in our lives as a God who is in control. We think about how you move events and circumstances to accomplish Accomplished purposes that are even beyond our full comprehension. Father, we think about your work of redemption, Christ's death on the cross that paid the penalty for our sins. Think of the resurrection of Christ that gives us the opportunity to stand forgiven and cleansed and righteous in your presence. Father, we we praise you and glory. Father, we pray that you be with our nation. Think about our state. We think about the tumultuous events and circumstances. Circumstances that are going on around us. I pray that as we think about the things that are going on, we would we would run to you in time of need. We would stand firm. on the side of truth. I pray that we would testify to your glories and your goodness and your greatness. I pray that we would be men and women of integrity who walk as children of Lord Light who are assaults and light in this very broken world. Father, I pray that you would protect our church family, be with those who are carrying heavy burdens emotionally. Going through affliction, physical affliction and suffering, I pray that your hand would strengthen and encourage them. Father, I pray for those who are going through spiritual struggles. They are not walking with you. They are struggling in their walk with you. I pray that you would do whatever is necessary to bring them back to their senses, to bring them to repentance. To bring them to a healthy state. I pray that you would work in a very marvelous way that is beyond our ability, and we will glory in that. Father, I pray that you'd help us this morning to To be strengthened through the preaching and teaching, everything that is done, may it glorify you and strengthen your people. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Anchor Baptist Church. Those here in person and those joining us via live stream. Our guests as well. We're going to start off this morning's services with our songs. We're going to turn to page 26. Page 26, or follow along with me on the view screen. Please stand. And we're going to sing the first, the third, and the fourth of praise to the Almighty to follow along with our morning scripture. Reading. Sing out. Praise to the Lord. Praise to the Lord the Almighty. King of creation. Oh my soul praise important health and salvation All your brother. May have shall praise to the Lord with my back. With thou have me with health and with thy Often grace have been brought in, spreading the wings for a little bit. Praise the border that all that is in the door. Uh Amen. Turn back just a couple pages to page Page 20, page 20, and again to follow along with the scripture reading, praise him, praise him. Sing it out. All three of them. Praise him, praise him, Jesus are blessed every day. Sing Lord is wonderful well proclaimed. Hail him, hail him , highest archangel single. String God holds it to his own head like a step. Jesus bright children in his life carries them all the long. Praise him, praise him , tell him his exact Praise Him, praise Him, ever enjoyful God. Praise Him, praise Him, Jesus our blessed we praise For us to forgive them and die in your account In a him , oh him, Jesus the crucified Jesus who four sorrow and founded the beef and wrong. Praise him, praise him , television like Praise him, praise him, praise him, ever enjoyful, for nonetheless. Praise him, praise him, Jesus our blessed repeat. And live for those with us in a dream. Jesus, Savior, reigneth forever and Frown him, crown him, prophet and priest and king, Christ is coming. Over the world victorious power and glory unto the Lord divine. Praise him, praise him, television. Praise mess, praise him, praise him, ever enjoyable song. Okay, go ahead and have a seat for the next song We're going to turn back to page 14. 14. Worthy of praise. We're going to sing all both verses. Alright , well I think I'm looking at what we 're afraid. My voice to the king He brought me out of the fruit of despair and my My heart to be worthy of all my praise You are worthy of all my friends I bow at your throne and I worship you alone. Lord, you are worthy. Worthy of praise. I sing his praise. My heart feels his love. His word is honour to my way its mercy and grace For his arms comic closer each day. Worthy of all my prayers. You are worthy of all my prayers I bow at your throne, and I worship you alone, for you are worthy. Worthy of Amen. That's good singing this morning for our second reading of Scripture. We're going to be going to Luke chapter 1 verses 57 through 66. So if you'll read along with me, we'll read the word of the Lord Verse 57 came that she should be delivered, and she brought forth a son. The Lord had showed great mercy upon her, and they rejoiced with her. And it came to pass that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they called him Him, Zacharias, after the name of his father. And his mother answered and said, Not so, but he shall be called John. And they said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name. And they made signs to his father how he would have them have him be called And he asked for a writing table, and wrote, saying, His name is John. And they marveled all, and his mouth was opened immediately. And fear came on all that dwelt round about them, and all these sayings were noised. the hill country of Judea, and all they that heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, What manner of child this shall be, and the hand of the Lord Was with him. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. We'll go back to some couple more songs. Page 44. Oh, the special. I'm sorry. Get back in the groove. Now that is one of my favorite songs. In my heart there rings a melody. I've got quite a story behind that one. When I that was the very first song I tried to play as a uh special in my church when I was like in fifth or sixth grade, something like that, she did a much, much better job than I did. So uh not just because I was playing in Alto Saxon she He's got the flute. The flute sounds wonderful uh uh by itself in a cappella. The saxophone's okay, but uh but uh I butchered it, uh butchered it up. So anyway anyway, back to it. Uh I I meant we had a couple three more songs after the uh after the special. Uh so uh we're going to now we're going to turn to Paige 44. I hope I've got that one right. You know, folks, anybody can do this job. I'm just proving it for you. Page 44. You just gotta stand up here and flap your your arms around. Like I I I heard somebody say it's just like bouncing a basketball. And I played plenty of basketball. But page forty four? I hope that's the right one. Yes, it even Even says it on the screen. We're in C. Page 44 to God be the glory. First, second, and third. That's all three. Page 44 in the red book. Sing out. Help me out. To God be the glory Great things we have done, so will be the world that he gave us his son. In his life, an atonement for sin, and opened all life gates that all may go in Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let me all hear his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice. Jesus has done and give him the glory, great things he has done Of perfect redemption, the purchase of blood, to every believer, the promise of God La villa defender who truly believes that comment from Jesus A pardon races. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord. Let me hear His voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice. Oh come to the Father through Jesus. That son and give him the glory. Great things he has done. Great things Great things he has taught us, great things we have done, and great our rejoicing through Jesus Christ. Higher and greater will be our wonder, our transport, when Jesus we see Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the earth hear his voice. Praise the Lord, praise the Lord, let the people rejoice of God. Come to the Father, who Jesus the Son, and give him the glory, great things he has done. Amen. That's good singing. Now we're going to go to our blue book. And finally, we're going to go to page 30. Page 30 in the blue book. We're going to sing his robes for mine. All four verses. Follow along in the book or look up at the screen if you know the melody. His roles were mine, no wonder exchange. Forgive my sin, Christ suffered meet God's rage , trained in his price just as I'm justified. In Christ I live, Lord in my place he died. I cling to Christ and marvel at the cause. Jesus forsake and God. God is strange from God, but by such love, my life is not my own, my praise, my own Shall be for Christ alone. His ropes are mine. What cause I have for dread. God daunting law Christmas in my stead. All plus I stand with righteous works my mind By my Lord , I carry a step and life. I cling to Christ and marvel at because Jesus forsaken God. God is strange from God, but my success my life is not my own, my praise, my own Shall be for Christ alone Israel for mine. God justice is a peace Jesus is Christ and thus the Father's pleas. Christ make a draft once in Christ is done. His wage is paid provision wise. I claim to Christ and marble at the cause He 's not forsaken God estrange from God. But by such love, my life is not my own, my praise, my They all shall be for Christ of Stand with me on the last, please. Israel's for mine. God 's anguish one can know. Christ God beloved and as though his home He has though I accursed and left alone I am so weak , grace, and welcome. I pray to Christ and Mobile and the cause is us forsaken. God is praised for God, but price the glove my life is not my own, my praise, my own Shall be for Christ. Amen. Please be seated. Okay, well thank you for that wonderful singing. If you could let's take our Bibles and turn to the book of Luke, and we're Luke chapter one. And our children who are in junior church, you can be dismissed to the back for junior church. The rest of you would like you to turn to Luke chapter 1. We're looking at verses 57 through verse 67. And uh this week I had an opportunity to uh talk to a couple of our missionaries, and that was a real blessing, and so uh tonight I'm gonna go ahead and give a little bit of of an update on some of the uh conversations I was able to have. So I hope that uh tonight during our uh our time where we give testimonies uh that if you're here you'll be able to to to get that update so really looking forward to that had a really good conversation with a couple of folks. Luke chapter one we're looking at verses fifty seven through sixty-six and I'm gonna go ahead and begin reading Here's what the word of the Lord says. Now Elizabeth's full time came that she should be delivered. She brought forth a son. And her neighbors and her cousins heard how the Lord had showed grace Great mercy upon her, and they rejoiced with her. Came to pass that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they called his name Zecharias. after the name of his father. And his mother answered and said, Not so, but he shall be called John. They said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name And they made a sign to his father how he would have him called, and he asked for a writing table and wrote saying, His name is John. And they marvelled all. And fear came on all that dwelt around them, and all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judea. And all they that heard them laid them up in their hearts Heart saying, What manner of child shall this be? The hand of the Lord was with him. Now, when we read these verses, we need to remember that this is a continual Continuation of the explanation of the events that lead up to the birth of the Lord Jesus Christ. And this individual, John the Baptist, is going to be an extremely important person. In fact, it's really interesting that in Luke, there is a lot talked about when it comes to this child, this child, John. And also And so with that in mind, let me give you a summary statement and kind of dig into an extremely important topic, and that is we must be a people that live life with the glory of God. We need to be a people who live our lives for the glory of God. And what we're going to see in these verses is that the individuals that are in this storyline are people that God chose and God placed to function in a very special way and God working ultimately to bring his Savior into the world. So here's a simple summary statement of the passage. It says, the passage before us reveals both the confusion and the joy associated with the birth of John to emphasize the significance of his life and his ministry and prep preparing the people to receive the Messiah. There was both confusion and joy. And it's very interesting as we look at these verses that the people were very confused at why they would name this child John rather than Zecharias. And then what we see at the end of the passage Is that the people were asking, what is the nature of this child's life? What is unique about this child? That is really at the heart of what is Talked about here in Luke chapter one. And the reason God wants us to look at this this morning is to remind us that we are supposed to live lives that bring glory to God in the same kind of a way that these individuals willingly functioned in the capacity that God placed on their lives. So with that in mind, let's ask the question How can we have such a perspective? First of all, I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts that really kind of lay a foundation biblically for what we're going to see in the passage in front of us. You and I exist to bring glory and majesty to the Lord Jesus Christ. We do not exist for our own Pleasure, for our own glory, for our own purposes, we exist for the glory of God. We see that the Bible is full of examples that teach us this This very principle. First of all, we see that God made us in his image. When we go to Genesis chapters one, two and three, we see that when God created Adam and Eve, place them in the garden it says In the image of God he created him, male and female created he them. When the Bible talks about capital punishment during the time of the flood. The reason that God established capital punishment is because in the image of God he created people. And you might ask the question Question, well, what does he mean by the image of God? Well, we are supposed to reflect the glory and the praise of our Savior When people watch us, they should see God's character on display in our lives. And we talk about his character. We're talking about those characters Communicable attributes, those attributes that God has that we ourselves can display as well. Yes, in a very small way, yes, imperfectly, but we are to reflect those things. to people. He's provided redemption, forgiveness, cleansing, and restoration so that we can do that. In other words, because we're Sinners, we have to first of all be forgiven and cleansed from our sin. And then once we are forgiven and cleansed from our sin, God begins to change us into the image of God So that as we live our lives, God begins to display his glory, his goodness, his love, his holiness through Our lives. God is restoring what was broken and marred in the fall. And so when we talk about sanctification, one of the reasons that it is so Very important that we take seriously walking with God is because this is one of the ways that God reveals his glory to others through our lives. In fact, we see a lot of passages that talk about how we are to relate to God and how he reveals his goodness through our lives. Revelation 4:11. It says that our Worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power. For thou hast created all things, and listen to what it says. For thy pleasure they are and were created. He is worthy of all praise and all glory, and we exist to bring pleasure to a good God. We see another This is a very important passage because it talks about how the world is full of people that don't know the Lord, and so God calls out a group of people, he saves them Psalm ninety-six one says, Oh sing unto the Lord a new song. Sing unto the Lord all the earth. Sing unto the Lord, bless his name. Show forth his salvation from day to day. Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all the people, for the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all All gods. When we talk about missions, this passage is one of those passages that I often go to because I think about how it talks about how God wants us to be a light to the world. And then I think of First Corinthians ten thirty-one. Whether therefore you eat or drink or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. The little decisions we make on a daily basis, God wants us to make choices and to live in a way that brings glory to him Now those principles are all throughout the scripture. We see them repeated over and over and over again. And what I What I want us to do is see how these are foundational to what we will see in the verses in front of us. Keep these truths in your mind as we look at the following truths From this text of Scripture. The first truth we find is this: John's life was a testimony to God's faithfulness. In other words, when we look at John's life, we're going to see see that God is showing, He is proving, He is demonstrating that in fact He is a faithful God. He is fully trustworthy. We can and we must trust him explicitly. Look at what it says in verse fifty-eight. It says, Now Elizabeth's full time came that she should be delivered, and she brought forth a son. Now you might say, well, Pastor, how does that talk at all about God's faithfulness? It says a lot about God's faithfulness. The fact is, this was a woman who had been barren Her entire marriage. This is a man and this is a woman who'd been married. They had been faithful. They longed to have a child, and God never opened her womb. and gave her a child. And now as an el not I don't know if elderly is the right word, but as a woman that was well beyond the years of childbearing, God gives her a son. But there is more to it than just that personal level. Allow me to just take a moment and kind of show you the different levels of how God demonstrated his faithfulness. Through that statement, she brought forth a son. The first is this. We see it on the redemptive level. God was faithful to his promise to send a redeemer. When we read the Old Testament, the Old Testament is more than anything else about preparing the way for us to embrace the savior. It explains to us why we need a savior. It explains to us to us what the Savior is going to be like, what he's going to do, why he's the only one who's qualified. , It's laying a case to point us to placing our faith in the Finnish word The Old Testament is from beginning to end all about God's promise of redemption. God is the Savior Who calls, who justifies, and who ultimately will keep us until the day of redemption. Listen to what it says in Romans chapter 8, verses 29 through 30. It says, whom he foreknew he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. Called, whom he called, then he also justified. Whom he justified, then he also glorified. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died. Yea, rather that is risen again, who even is at the right hand of God also Also making intercession for us. Now we go to Romans chapter 8. Paul kind of steps back and he says, God is faithful to call you, to justify you, and you place your faith in in Christ, to sanctify you, to conform you to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ, and to give you everything else that is a part of salvation. He will glorify you. And there is nothing that can be laid to the charge of the child of God because God saves. He is faithful. Well, the fact is that this young man's life, John, is a part of that story that brings the Savior into the world, prepares people to Embrace the Savior, points people to the Savior, testifies about the Savior. John's life was meant to show us God is faithful to redeem his people. The second is on what I'd call a covenantal level. The Old Testament is full of lots and lots of covenant promises. For instance, God promised to send a Savior in Genesis. Chapter 3. God called out a nation. He told Abraham, I'm going to make of you a great nation. I'm going to bless all the nations of the world through you. And we see that God continually gives these promises Promises, and those promises are pointing to redemption. And so when we see the story of John the Baptist, we're not just talking about God's faithfulness to redeem people, but it's his faithfulness. Faithfulness to the promises he made to his covenant people, the nation of Israel. I want to hit a couple highlights. It says, I said then, hath God cast away his people? God forbid. The gifts and calling of God are without repentance. For as ye in times past hath not believed God, yet now have obtained mercy through their unbelief, even so have these also now not believed that Through your mercy, they also may obtain mercy. For God has concluded them all in unbelief that they might have mer that He might have mercy upon all. Pastor, what's the point of this? The point of this is this. God promised redemption, but God also made covenant promises to a people. And when we see the the story of John the Baptist, we see that God is being faithful to both of those promised storylines. But we see a third, and this is on the personal level. God was faithful and his promise To this couple. God was involved in the intricate details of their lives. He can, and he must be trusted. You know, we talked about this l earlier on in this series through the book of Luke, but we saw that there are some times that a person has placed their faith in Christ and they believe that God is able, but when they get pressured in life, In very personal circumstances, they cave to that pressure. And one of the most practical things that we see here is we see the redemptive Side, we see the covenant side, but we see that God is personally faithful in the lives of his people. I think of Psalm 139, verses 1 through 4. O Lord, thou hast searched me out And known me, that is very personal. Thou knowest my down sittings and my uprisings, thou understandest my thoughts afar off. Very personal Thou compass my path and my lying down are not acquainted with all my ways. There is not a word in my tongue, but lo, O Lord, thou knowest it all. Together. And I want to remind you that this story of John the Baptist's birth reminds us that God is faithful to bring redemption. God is faithful to his promises to the nation of Israel. God is faithful to work In the lives of his people in a personal and practical way. The second truth. John's name was a testimony of God's goodness. That we think about when we read the Old Testament and when we read the New Testament is that the way that we name our kids and the way that they named their kids was a lot different You know, in those days, a person's name carried tremendous significance. Why do you think Jacob was called Jacob The trickster. It's because that was the man's nature. He was known to be a tricky person. Why do you think Nabal was named the fool? Because that's exactly what the man was. In other words, when people named a child many times, that name was symbolic, significant of the kind of person. Person that they were. Not Nabal, it's yeah, Nabal. I was almost at Neb off. John's name was significant. Look down at what it says in verses fifty-eight through sixty. sixty three. It says, Her neighbors and her cousins heard how the Lord had showed great mercy upon her. They rejoiced with her, and it came to pass on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child, and they called him Zechar Zarias, after the name of his father, and his mother answered and said, Not so, he shall be called John. They said, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name They made signs to his father and how he would have him called, and he asked for a writing tablet and wrote saying, His name is John. And they marveled all. You say, Well How is that significant? Let me tell you what Zecharias's name means, and what John's name means, and how these are wonderful descriptions of the nature of the function that they had in God's story. Zecharias means God remembers. Remember that. Zecharias means God remembers. And I want you to think about the storyline in Israel's history of what was going on at this time. First of all, Israel was living through very dark times. They had experienced the glories of David and Solomon's kingdom. They experienced the tragedy of the dividing of the kingdom when Solomon's son came to power and he didn't have the sense to follow the wisdom of the old And to keep the kingdom together. And Israel and Judah split apart and fell into tremendous evil in sin. God sends prophet after prophet after prophet to those peoples and they rejected it and one day God gives them over to captivity. And for Seventy years the people are in Babylon singing the Psalms songs of Zion in a foreign land, and they're a broken and they're a hurting people, but God did not forget his people. He res Restored them. He sent them back to their land. He rebuilds Jerusalem. He rebuilds the temple. And we have the storyline of all these things that God is doing. Yes. For four hundred years there is silence in Israel. I don't mean silence like no babies cried and people didn't yell at each other. I don't Mean that. I mean, God didn't speak through a prophet. They had the word of God, they had the scriptures, but there was no prophet like Isaiah Like Jeremiah, like Ezekiel, like Elijah, like Elisha. No prophets in Israel. It was a silent time. Quiet, dark. Tragic. And here is the change of events. God remembers his people. Here's a people That are under Roman occupation, 400 years of silence. And like God goes to Moses in the wilderness and he says, Go back to Egypt. I'm going to take my people out of bondage. For 400 years the nation of Israel was in bondage in Egypt, and God pulled them out with a strong arm, and in the same kind of a way, God remembers his promises to his people and through Zecharias he's beginning to speak again to the people. John 's name is even more significant though. It means Yahweh. Has been gracious. God remembers Yahweh has been gracious. John 's life was a testimony to God's I want to remind you of the last thinned in the Old Testament. These were the events that were written about 400 years before Before what we are reading today. In Malachi 4, 5 to 6, the last thing you'll read in your Old Testament, he says, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the Coming of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. He shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite You know it's very interesting. When the Bible talks about John, the forerunner of the Messiah, he says He came in the spirit of Elijah. God had not forgotten his people. God had not forgotten his promises. God remembers. God is gracious and God sends this baby at this time because one day He will stand and prepare the way as a mighty prophet For the Messiah, pointing people to Jesus. All those who turn to Christ the Messiah as their Savior to embrace his gospel, they They will be delivered from the wrath to come. There's a third truth, though, that we see in this text. And that's that the people 's responses were an incredible testimony to God's worthiness. What I mean by his worthiness is He is worthy of all praise and all glory. Look at down what it says in verses 64 and 65. Very interesting statement. It says, His mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and he He spake and did what? He praised God. And fear came on all that dwelt around them. And all these things were noised abroad throughout the hill countries of Judea. I want you to notice the response to the events that were unfolding in this passage. We see that God is demonstrated to be worthy of all praise and worship. Folks, worship is not a flippant matter. Worship is not something we should come to with a casual and calloused attitude. Worship is a sacred duty. Worship is a serious matter. Matter. And what we're going to see in these verses is that there were three very distinct expressions of worship that each of these individuals expressed. Notice the first one Was Zacharias, what did he do? He praised God. What is praise? Praise is expressing the value and the worth and the greatness of God God. That is exactly what this man did. He was not able to speak for months, and now he expresses with his His mouth God is worthy of all praise. Psalm 150, verses 1 through 6. Praise ye the Lord. Praise God from his sanctuary. Praise him in the firmament, praise him for his mighty acts, praise him according to his excellent greatness, praise him with the sound of the trumpet, praise him with the psaltery and the harp. Do you get the idea? Let everything that hath breath praise Praise the Lord, praise ye the Lord. This is the first expression of worship to God that we see in this text of Scripture. He is expressing with his words the grace Greatness of God. But there is a second response that we find in these verses, very interesting. And that is out of reverence. Notice what it says next: fear. Came on all that dwelt round about them. How many people come to church with that kind of an attitude? Lots of people come to church wanting to just shout and carry on and do crazy things. How many people come to church with a heart of reverence? This is what it says. Fear came on all that dwelt around about them. In other words, they realize God is worthy of prayer. And then they start thinking about the implications of this. And the implications of this are very sobering. In other words, when we worship God There is a soberness that should come to our minds. We are thinking about the Creator, the Lord, the Holy One, the Righteous One, the Eternal Judge We're thinking about a God who's not just our buddy that we hang out with, he's our creator. Notice Psalm 96, 8 through 9. Give unto the Lord the glory due Do unto his name, bring an offering and come into his courts. O worship the Lord in the beauty of holiness, fear before him all the earth. We see this eruption of praise, but we also see this soberness, this reverence, this awe of who God is and what he's done. But there's a third response. It's very interesting. And this is the response of reflection. It says all these sayings were noised about throughout the hillcut. They just started talking amongst themselves. Did you hear what Happened? You know Zecharias? You know his wife Elizabeth? They had a child. Folks, these are people that were known. These are people that were respected. They had a lot of family members. They had a lot of connections. And all of a sudden, people are discussing it. And notice what it says. They said, What manner of child shall this be? B. The hand of the Lord was with him. The way that they took all this at heart was not, huh, it's really interesting that this older lady is Had a child who had never had a child. That was not what they were talking about. They're saying, what kind of a child is this gonna be? What is the significance of this child's life? Why is God doing this at this time Time there was discussion about the nature of this child's life and ministry. And you know, worship is a just about praise and it's not just about reverence, it's about reflection. It's about thinking about implication It's about asking the question: how am I supposed to live in the light of these truths? What is God accomplishing in these circumstances? What is God trying to teach me in these circumstances things. It's about us having a reshaped view of God, a review shape view of self, and a reshaped view of circumstance. And so these people praised, had reverence, and they reflected. Psalm 47:7. God is the king of all the earth. Be praised with understanding. Think about what you're saying. Psalm 44, stand in awe and sin not. Commune with your own hearts upon your bed and be sin. Still Silah. That word Silah means stop and think about it. When we leave this building, we should go back to our homes and we should process the word of God. We should ask the question: what is God saying to me today about Himself and about me and circumstance? Reflection is an extremely important Colossians 3 16. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and in hymns and spiritual songs. Singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord. Worship begins with truth. Very, very important. Worship does not start with emotion. Worship starts with truth and truth understood impacts the heart in an emotional way. And sometimes the w the the the response is one of joy Joy and gratitude and praise. Sometimes it is one of fear. Sometimes it is one of conviction. Sometimes it is one of humility God wants us to reflect on the truths. The final truth I want us to see this morning is this: we've got to internalize and live out these truths. The reason that we read this passage and we reflect on these things isn't so we walk out and go, ah, that's really good. I'm really glad I enjoyed that. Hey, thanks, Pastor. I learned a lot today. The question we should ask is, how Are we to change in light of what God is saying? How are we to respond in light of truth? These people exist to honor and praise and worship God And guess what? So are we. Now we don't exist in the same function that these people existed in. Their lives were part of God's story of redemption, meant to reveal God's faithfulness, goodness, and worthiness. None of us are John the Baptist or Zacharias. We're not functioning in that way specifically, but God has us placed uniquely to function as one who brings God glory to him in my workplace, in my home, in my church, in my community. God wants to use us in that capacity as well. Our lives are part of God's redemption. Story. Not as a forerunner to the Messiah, not as one who carries that baby, the Lord Jesus Christ, but as one who is the object of God's God's grace, the object of God's love, one who has been forgiven, and one who has been cleansed, and one who is a work in progress, one who is a An instrument in God's hands to bear this testimony to the world around us. We function to bring praise and glory to God as well. God wants us to live In a way that is consistent and points people to him. Let me give you an example. It's very practical. 1 Peter 3, verse 15 and 16. Listen to what it says. Sanctify Sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. What does that mean? The word sanctifying means to set apart something as holy. So in my heart, I recognize God's authority and I live in the light of it. That's really the sense of what he's saying. Sanctify the Lord God in your heart. And be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you, a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and Fear. Having a good conscience that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. Say, what is he talking about? Let me put it in a real practical way. The people that immediately received those words were people living in a very difficult time in Rome. I don't mean in Rome, the city, but in the Roman Empire. It was a time of tremendous debauchery, tremendous paganism, tremendous hardship. There were pressures that you and I cannot apply appreciate living in the twenty first century, having the freedoms, the constitution, the right to assemble and all the things that we do in our nation that we are so grateful for. They did not have many of the liberties that you and I I have today. And one of the things that was very common in their culture was that they would be forced by the pressures of society to conform to certain Certain pagan rituals, for instance, every year at certain times of the year, they were to do homage to the emperor as a god. Do you know why many of the Christians were thrown to the line? in the Colosseum? It was because they said, no, I will not worship Caesar as a god. They were willing to die for that. The simple statement, no, I don't worship Caesar as a God, could kill them. Could kill them. So while all these people in front of their homes are putting out their libation and pouring incense and all these different things while they were sacrificing and showing their honor, their reverence to the God, the Emperor, the Christians said, No, we won't In that community, just a handful of people, fifty, sixty people in that city, amongst thousands of people, did not participate. While everyone was going to the pagan festivals and all of the debauchery that was involved In those pagan festivals, the Christians said we have nothing to do with these practices. And if something happened in that community, they'd say, hey, you know what we have this problem? Do you know why our women aren't having children? Do you know why our enemies are getting stronger than us? Do you know why it's not raining and our fields are not thriving? It's those Christians. They won't be Participate with us. They're the problem. And all of a sudden, to be a Christian who lived distinctly was not easy at all. And what Peter is saying is: when you stand true, and you do not cave, and you don't pay homage to the emperor And you refuse to participate in the pagan celebrations, and they come to you and they say, Why not? You say, It's because I belong to Jesus. Really? Yes. My allegiance to Christ is greater than my allegiance to the king. My allegiance to Christ is greater than my allegiance to my community. My allegiance to Christ is number one, and I'm willing to pay whatever price because of my allegiance to Him. And so He says, give Give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear. Having a good conversation that whereas they speak evil of you As of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. There is something that should be very distinct about the way we as Christians live. The way we think What we love, what we hate, what we affirm, what we deny, where we stand, how we stand, everything about our lives, our motivation. It is to be distinctly Christian. Matthew 5:13, he says, ye are the salt of the earth. Verse 14, he says, ye are the light of the earth. And I love the way he puts it. He says, A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. He doesn't say that you're supposed to be a city on a hill. City on a hill. And because you are a city on a hill, you can't hide. In other words, if you're a Christian, you are distinct whether you want to be or not. You don't You don't have to make a point of your distinction. You are distinct. Because Christians don't think the way the world does, at least they're not supposed to. What makes us fundamentally a Christian is about what's going on inside and how we live out in the light of that. And so he says, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. Because of your distinctness and because of your position in society, don't hide. Just walk with God. Folks, this passage Massage more than anything else is to drive us to the simple conclusion that our lives were given to us so that we could display glory to God. That's why God God created Zecharias. That's why God created his wife Elizabeth. That's why God created John. And how long did John live? He lived to be a young man. He didn't live to be the age that I am right now. He was thirty years old. When his head was cut off. Thirty, thirty-one, something like that. In the eyes of the world, what a tragedy. What was the purpose of his life? His life was meant to glorify God And you and I are to function however God places us, for however long He puts us there, and whatever season He puts us in, we are to function for the glory and praise of God. I want to encourage you, let's do that. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to help these truths to settle into our heart so that we'll respond in praise. will respond in reverence and will respond in a heart that reflects on how we are to walk different in light of these truths. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for the word of God that's been laid out this morning. These truths are foundational. They are fundamental to how we are to walk. I pray that every one of us would submit our hearts, our minds, our lives to the authority of Scripture. We would recognize that when What we do matters. The way we walk matters. The way we think and what we love and hate, it matters. I pray that you'd help us to recognize that the function that we We have been given by you is a glorious function. I pray that we would embrace it and we would we would thrive in that capacity that you've put us in. I ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's turn in our hymn books to hymn number three hundred and ninety. And as you're turning there, I want you to think about this. The song we're going to sing is the song I Surrender All. And it may be that as you're singing that song you realize I hate to be this blunt, but what I'm singing is a lie. I'm saying I surrender all I don't. Don't sing it. Stop. Kneel before the Lord. and do business with God. Whatever God is showing you in your heart, you need to submit to Him, do it. You might Be here this morning, you're not a you're not a believer, you never trusted Christ as your Savior. If you don't know for certain that you're saved, I I ask you, please reach out to me so I can take a Bible. And show you what God has done for you so that you can be redeemed, and how He tells you to respond in repentance toward God and faith in Christ Jesus our Lord. So if you Need to do business with God as we sing this song. I want to encourage you to do it. Let's stand together. Hymn 390, I surrender all. We're going to sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses of I. Surrender all the time. All to Jesus, I surrender all to him as I survived I survived Also be my blast savior I should All to Jesus I surrender may be save We know that our Surrender all I surrender all See my vast On the fourth, here we go. Oh to Jesus I surrender. I give myself to thee Still me with my home and I love thy blessings for me I surrender all I surrender all All to be my pass executive I surrender. Amen. I hope that this this afternoon you'll think deeply about the truths of Scripture and that you'll do business with God if that's what you need to do. I'd like to ask if uh but Scott Moore if you can close us in prayer. And uh if you're visiting with us, I hope you'll uh stop by and discreet me on the way out. And I hope that you'll be able to come back tonight as we uh meet to continue our study in the book of Ecclesiastes. I'm also going to give some updates on some conversations I had with missionaries just to kind of get you up to speed with how some of them are doing. So Scott, close some prayer, please. Let's pray. Dear Lord God, we are so grateful to you for your uh beautiful blessing of a great, wonderful day and of opportunity to be out and hear your word preached. And we pray, Lord, that uh the words that we've heard today will be applied to our hearts, that we might live out the convictions that you've blessed us with. And um and helped us to uh uh believe. We pray that we might live this out in a way that is glorifying to you in Jesus' name. Amen.