Time. Well, good morning. Good to see each of you today, and I'm looking forward to just a wonderful Lord's Day. Uh, if you've been with us, you've enjoyed uh the ministry of Dr. Steve Pettit. On Friday night and then Saturday, we had a couple of sessions together. We're looking forward to our morning worship service. Also, we have a group that travels with him. They're going to be going to West Virginia after us, and you'll you'll understand why once you see our special music this morning. But I'm really looking forward to that. I think it's going to be a wonderful time of just praise and worship to the Lord. Uh we have a couple of things that we're doing different today than we've done in a while. One is we actually have bulletins again. It's been, I don't know Seven, eight months since we actually uh published a bulletin. And the reason that we're doing that is because we're gonna start normalizing our calendar And uh getting back into some of our normal routines, you'll notice that we're starting back children's Sunday school in the morning, which we've been doing in the evening, so we're gonna go back to our normal. Schedule with that starting the 20th. We're also going to begin having our children's nursery open again. So Chad is really happy about that. My wife is happy too, and other people. But uh because we're gonna be reopening the nursery, there's a very important meeting for several groups. One is our parents. So uh for our moms, I I need you to come to that meeting for those who have worked in the nursery in the past. I would like to have you guys come to that meeting. Also, those who have not worked in the nursery but are interested in that. There are several things that you need to be aware of as far as how we'll be doing that. We do have several protocols that we have to follow when we open the nursery back up. So please do come to that meeting. That meeting is going to be right after the morning service. It's going to be down here on the Oregon side And my wife will be running that, so please make sure that you come to that. Also wanted to mention that we do have our box in the back for our offerings. We do have a special love offering that is for Dr. Pettit and for the team that's here. If you'd like to participate in that, please do make sure that you make checks out to Anchor Baptist Church, but put in the memo section that that's for the love offering and we'll make sure that that gets included. That has been out there throughout the week, so I know several folks have already given to that. Also, we're just looking forward to a wonderful service, a wonderful uh opportunity to focus our attention on the Lord. I know that we have a few visitors with us this morning. If you're visiting with us for the first time or the first time in a long time, we want to say you're warmly welcome. We're so glad that you could join us. And uh our typical situation is we give you a visitor packet, and in that you'll get some information about the church. And uh if you would like that. Um that is in the back and our ushers can get that to you. One of the things that we do is not just put information in the church about the church in your hands. But it's an opportunity for us to follow up with you. It's an opportunity to visit with you, find out how we can be an encouragement to you, uh talk to you about the gospel. Maybe you don't know for sure that when you die, you're going to spend eternity with the Lord. And we want to be able to sit down with you. and explain the gospel to you. So please do make sure that you pick up one of those before you leave if possible. Brother Chris has a couple more announcements. Alright, I have to do a little bit of maneuvering with that. As Pastor said, we got a lot of activities starting back up again. As mentioned, the work workers meeting for nursery is today. We got teens inspiration tonight after the service and uh the Hutchinsons so graciously are hosting that So teens, make sure that you're in the fellowship hall tonight, immediately after the service. We also have our ladies meeting starting up again, the end of this month, uh Thursday, September 24th at 7 p. m. So, ladies, you'll be in the fellowship hall for that evening. Please join up, sign up, plan to bring something. We also, as uh Pastor mentioned, we got the nursery starting up and the Sunday school class is starting up. That's starting next week on the 20th. And then for our teens again, we have a special picnic over at Kinder Farm Park. We'll meet here at the church at noon on the 26th, and we'll walk over to Kinder Park, Lord willing, if the weather allows. If not, we'll We'll just drive over there and uh look at how nice and wetted everything is. But uh the plan is to have a picnic at Kinder Park and so um bring a snack, bring bring a meal and we'll enjoy the outdoors and fellowship and maybe uh a few games as well. Truth Trackers has started up this last week. If your kids have not already signed up, uh please have them sign up through the church website so that we can uh get their books to them. They can get started on their memory verses, their devotions. And in October. Not only do we have our missions Ephesus Month, which I hope that you're already praying for with the missionaries that are coming in, but we also have our Church Fall Work Day on Saturday the 31st. Uh if you're planning to be there, please sign up. The sign-up will be on the bulletin boards by the church office. And we also have another outreach event. See all the stuff that we got planned We have an outreach event for the first time I think that we've ever done it is a buy nothing yard sale. I don't know if you're familiar with those. But that buy nothing yard sale will be on October 17th from 10 a. m. to 3 p. m. We'll be hosting that that yard sale here in the church parking lot. And if you have any items that are in good, usable condition, things like uh kids toys, educational items, books, home decor, kitchen items that are in good use. You can bring that and give that to people who are coming in from the community to get those items for free. It's basically our free table for everyone in our community. So there's a sign-up sheet that will be posted for you to list items and to indicate that you are coming to help distribute those items. Please make sure those items are clean, sanitized, and ready to be used by our visitors. With that, we're going to go ahead and go to our opening scripture for this morning. So please turn in your Bibles to Psalm 143 or look up on the screen if that's easier. Psalm 143, let's stand as we begin by reading God's word together. Psalm 143, verse 8 says, Cause me to hear thy loving kindness in the morning, for in thee do I trust. Cause me to know the way wherein I should walk, for I lift up my soul unto thee. Deliver me, O Lord, from mine enemies. I flee unto thee. To hide me. Teach me to do thy will. For thou art my God. Thy spirit is good. Lead me into the land of uprightness. Quicken me, O Lord, for thy name's sake. For thy righteousness' sake, bring my soul out of trouble. This morning we will be focusing on the theme of worshiping our God. By resting in his righteous, tender care. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Father, thank you so much for the privilege it is to be in your house and again to be able to be together as a body, as a congregation, to worship you and to build each other up in fellowship. I thank you for our visitors who are here today who have traveled a great distance to to be a blessing. And I pray, Lord, that we can bless each other through the fellowship through Christ. Be with the words, the word as it's preached this morning. May it be a blessing to our hearts and uh help it to edify us in a way that only you know needs to be done. We ask all this in Christ's precious holy name. Amen. What an observant congregation. You remain standing as we begin our song services. I wasn't able to be here last uh Friday night when uh Dr. Pettit was speaking, but uh my family was one of the families that was here when you came the last time. Did we ever figure out what year it was No. It was sometime around 2003, 2004. That was the time frame. And I was so disappointed because after either the morning or the evening service, they had a little jam session And I forgot to bring my saxophone. Now sorry, saxophones don't necessarily go with with the bluegrass, but anyway, I was I was new to the congregation and I didn't know they were going to have one. But it was uh it was I remember that very distinctly. And so uh it was uh it was a good time. But now we'll take our hymnals and begin our song service this morning. Turn to page 26. Page 26. Praise to the Lord, the Almighty. Sing out Praise to the Lord, the Almighty, the King of Creation. Oh my soul, praise him for he is thy health. Salvation. All year here now to his temple. Praise to the Lord who with marvelous thy And with loving and guided and stay thee. How often Hath he not brought thee relief, spreading his wings for to send me Praise to the Lord, O let 's. All that is in me are gorgeous, all that life and death come now that praises me for him. Let me a man sound from his people again. Alright, let me just since you'll turn back to page 26 or 12, 12. We were already on page 26 Now all hail the power of Jesus. Sing out. All hail the power of Jesus. That angels prostrate for bring forth the royal diagram and crown him. Bring forth the royal diamond. To him on the chest and crown him. To him all my chest he has bride and crown him. All that work yonder 's sacred room, we at his feet make all We 'll join the ever blessing for employee. Him will join me everlasting and crown him. Amen. Remain standing for the reading of a scripture this morning. This scripture reading will come from Psalm 90. Psalm 90, we're going to sing verses 1 through 17 or the entire psalm. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting till everlasting, thou art God Thou turnest man to destruction and sayest, Return, ye children of men, for a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday, when it is past, and as a watch in the night. Thou carriest them away as with a flood, they are as asleep. In the morning they are like grass which groweth up. In the morning it flourisheth and groweth up. In the evening it is cut down and withereth For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled. Oops. Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins, in the light of thy countenance for all thy days are passed away in thy wrath, we spend our years as a tale that is told. The days of our years are three score years and ten, and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years Yet it is their strength, labor, and sorrow, for it is soon cut off, and we fly away. Who knoweth the power of thine anger? Even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom. Return, O Lord, how long? And let it repent thee concerning thy servants O satisfy us early with thy mercy, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children. And let the beauty of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish thou the work of our hands upon us. Yea, the work of our hands establish thou it. May the Lord add his blessings to the reading of his word. Please be seated. Ah, we have a special Well, good morning. It is uh a blessing to be here at Anchor Baptist Church. It's been our my privilege to be here since Friday night. Preaching Friday night for service and then a couple of times yesterday morning and then here this morning in the Lord's house. We have a group that has come up with us from Bob Jones University of students And let me introduce them. We've been actually traveling together as a group for about three years now. And so this is Madison and her sister Mariah Skillman. And uh the sisters are from Cottonwood, California. They're both seniors, and so they're going to be graduating this year. We will sorely miss them. And then we have Carson and Grace Aaron, brother and sister, and they are from Quitman, Arkansas. And then Mr. Caleb Rollins, who is from Shelby, North Carolina. And so we we traveled together and uh our this particular style is bluegrass style. How many have ever heard of bluegrass? Okay And so we we we enjoy this. This would be very similar to the time that I was in your church a number of years ago. And we'd like to do a wonderful song entitled The Greater God's Love. Da biegen The burden, the heavier the heartache, the deeper the greater God's love shine, the lower the The wider the river, the higher the mountains you climb, the greater God's love will shine, the more love you need. The more he will give, the weaker you are, the stronger he is. In your darkest hour, that's when you will find. The greater God's love will shine. Then you got troubles. And when you are hurting, just open your heart to his life. The greater wants love The bigger the burden, the heavier the heartache, the deeper the lones, the greater God's life shines. The more love you need, the more he will give. The weaker you are, the stronger he is. In your darkest hour, that's when you will. The greater gods of the shine the greater gods of shine That music's very familiar to me. My wife and I grew up just north of the Ozark Mountains And if you know where Branson, Missouri is, if you ever heard of it, it's the Nashville of the West, I guess. So, but uh But uh grew up around that music quite a bit. And so uh very good. Okay, to continue our songs we're gonna turn to page 391 in the hymnal. Page 391 And we're going to sing I Am Resolved No Longer to Linger. Sing out I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world's delight. Things that are higher, things that are nobler, these have allured my I will hasten to him, hasten so glad and free Jesus, greatest, highest. I will come to thee. I am resolved to follow the Savior. Each day, heat what he saith. Do what he will he is the living way. I will extend to him essence of blood and free. Jesus , greatest, highest, I will come to thee on the last I am resolved to enter the kingdom, leaving the paths of sin. Friends may oppose me, foes may beset me, still will I enter. I will extend to him , extend some glad and free Jesus , greatest, highest. I will come do the chorus again. I will hasten to him. Jesus Christ. Greatest highest I will come to thee. Amen. You're sounding very good this morning. Now we're going to go to our blue book, and that will be in page 24, 24 out of the blue book. New little book that we've got from the wilds. We're going to sing you are always good. Always. Please stand with me on this one. Looking back, I can see your fingerprints up on my life Always seeking my best. There were times when your way would make no sense, but as you said. You have never left. You are always good. You are only good. You were always good to me. Though my eyes can't see , how my heart believes, you are always a good Working in, I can see my frailty, my sin is good, and my strength is so small. Still you stay and your mercy shall be. There's new Michael and you hear my call You are always good, you are always good, you are always good. To me, though my eyes can see, how my hearts make. You are always a neighbor looking up, I can see your sympathy, I can't wise But I sure love your love. Lavish grace was born out of a race account For our home above You are always good, you are always good, you are always good to me. Now my eyes can't see , though my heart beat me. You are always a good. Amen. Please be seated. But we'd like to do one more song this morning and uh this This is one of the great, great themes of the Bible, and that is Jesus Christ, God's Son, became a lamb for us. who was sacrificed for our sin, and whose blood was shed so that we could have everlasting life. And so before the message this morning, we'd like to do the song. Sacred Lamb Oh sacred lame you knew my name You knew my hold and you knew my frame. You knew what I could never You went where I could never go. Your side was pierced, and your heart was torn. A crown of doorhead door And with those names there in your hands carried every Of mortal man one day hill To come and take us home He'll come for the cause his own In with my eyes I'll finally see this Sacred land that lives in me, oh sacred land thou say Good lane. You died a ball, and you took life. To make me clean and wide a stone. To Calvary You had to go. You come a single home. Just to save my soul Oh sacred just to save my Oh sac Well, aren't you so thankful that God sent his Savior into the world so that we could be forgiven and cleansed and redeemed? That's something to be so thankful for. Well, we we are so grateful that this week we've been able to have uh Dr. Steve Pettit with us, and uh he has been a tremendous blessing. The Lord has used him. And uh used uh the preaching of his word to challenge and encourage our hearts. Uh for our children, ages two to six, you can be dismissed the back. I almost forgot that. But um Dr. Pettit, thank you so much for coming and uh just ministering to us through the word. And I I'm sure that this morning you'll be challenged and encouraged in God's word. And how would you like, would you like any of this mood or I'd have a hard time preaching with that right next to me. Okay, all right. We'll move them back here. All right. Thank you, Pastor. Well, thank you so very much. Um I just want to publicly say what a blessing it's been to be here at the church Over the last few days, uh, I enjoyed uh uh fellowshipping with your pastor, and we had never met before. And uh we have lots of things in common. Um we have he has a lot of connections to the state of South Carolina. Uh his name is French Porsche, my name is French Petit. And uh we both have roots with the French Huguenots, and they were the persecuted church of France who was driven out. under the Edict of Knots or the revocation thereof, I should say. And then the only unfortunate thing about your pastor is he is a fan of the wrong football team. He is a fan of Clemson University, and we know that there's only one university in South Carolina, and that's the University of No, it's Bob Jones University, to be honest with you So uh but we've had a wonderful wonderful time and I'd like to say one other thing if you don't mind this morning. Caleb, would you stand in the back? This is Caleb Green, and Caleb is one of our student ambassadors And we have a table out in the lobby of the church, and I would like every young person in the 7th through 12th grade to stop by the table and fill out a very simple little information card. And to sweeten the deal, we're going to give away some free t-shirts today. And this is the way that we get prospects for Bob Jones University. because we go to churches that are like-minded where there'd be young people who'd be very interested in the school. And this way we have you in our database, we can send you our information. And then also on the table we have a number of books that are available for sale. And these are are actually the discipleship series that I preach in chapel this semester. We're doing this one called Live Worthy of the Gospel. This is excellent for personal study or for small groups, discipleship groups, or Sunday school classes. Caleb, one other question. Do we have the CD on the table? Is that back there? Okay. When I traveled to your church a number of years ago, brother, thank you for letting us know when. I didn't couldn't remember the timing of it. We were I was in the ministry of evangelism for almost 30 years. We did many, many recordings, and the final recording we did was the best of 20 years. And so this the we're the only ones that are out on the road selling it So if you're interested, that CD will be available this morning after the service. Well, I'm going to ask you to take your Bibles and turn with me, please, this morning to the book of Psalms. Psalm chapter 90. Psalm 90. Our brother read the psalm this morning, so I'll not take time to read it, but we will take time to look at this psalm. The great saint Augustine said that he read the Psalms every day because it constantly oriented his heart back to God, both spiritually. Someone has said that the reading of the book of Psalms is like standing at the burning bush, God speaking out directly to you When our hearts are heavy or burdened or broken or we're in need of encouragement, what book do we turn to for comfort? It's always the book of Psalms And this morning we are looking at Psalm chapter 90, and the title of my message is Living with an Eternal Perspective. It's very clear that this psalm was written by a very specific man. Notice it says Psalm 90, and then underneath it you probably have a subscription It says this, a prayer of Moses, the man of God. What does that tell me? It tells me obviously the one who wrote this psalm was Moses. Now that's unique because out of the 150 Psalms that are available that we have, Moses only wrote one. And not only did he write this psalm, but this means that this is the oldest of all the psalms that have been written, because Moses lived 400 years before King David. And so this is not only the oldest, but this would be the first of all psalms that have been written. And notice in the title of Psalm 90, Moses is called something. It says the prayer of Moses and what follows. The man of God. Six other times in the Old Testament, Moses is called the man of God. Why? Because he was the mediator who stood between God and the children of Israel. And what did he do in that position? He interceded for them in prayer and he prayed for, he invoked the blessing of God on the people of God. So therefore, Psalm 90 is called a prayer of Moses, the man of God. This is what he prayed for the people of God as they were in the wilderness wandering. And in Psalm 90 specifically, he is praying something that he wants the children of Israel to learn. Have you ever prayed for somebody to get it? How many have ever prayed for your children? Did you ever pray, oh Lord, help them get it? He is praying for the people of Israel to get it. And what does he want them to understand? He wants them to understand a very important life lesson. And what is that lesson? Well, it was something that Moses learned through the experiences of life. Have you ever noticed that most of us learn through the experience of the school of hard knocks? How many have ever gone through hard times? Raise your hand. Come on now. Get your hands up there, team. All of you And you learn things. You learn things that you wouldn't learn any other way. And the children of Israel had wandered in the wilderness for 40 years. They had come out with great victory as they came across the Red Sea and delivered from the bondage of Pharaoh and the Egyptians with the full intention of getting into the land Of milk and honey in the land of God's promise. But what happened? For forty years they never got into the land and they wandered. That means they walked around in circles, and it was a perpetual death march. And why is that? It was because of their own personal disobedience and unbelief. So the lesson that Moses learned during this wandering wilderness time is what he wanted the children of Israel to learn. Because he really wasn't writing for his day, he was writing for our day. And wise is the person who listens and they learn from others. And the psalm was written for this purpose, and that is to learn to live life purposefully in the light of eternity. Jonathan Edwards said it this way, he prayed, Lord, stamp eternity on my eyeballs. Help me to see life from an eternal perspective. For he has given us an eternal perspective on this very temporary life. And so in this Psalm, Moses sets forth three simple but yet profound truths about living with an eternal perspective. And may God bless this to our hearts. Hearts. May the Lord speak to our hearts today as we are living this temporary life in light of eternity. So what were those profound truths? Number one, the first thing is he learned is that God is Eternal. Would you note verse 1, Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting Thou art God. The psalm begins with three unfathomable truths. Number one, God existed in eternity past. Number two, God created all that exists in the world present. And number three, God will continue to exist Long after this world is gone, before the mountains were brought forth, or even thou hast formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God What did he learn? Only God is eternally constant. And by way of contrast. Moses and the children of Israel lived in a permanent state of flux. Have you ever asked yourself the question, when are things going to settle down? When are things gonna get stable again Do we have to live in a perpetual state of constant instability? Well, the children of Israel for 40 years did nothing but pack up their tents, move, and attend a lot of funerals. By the way, I went to Bob Jones University six years ago to be the president. And I'll be honest with you, I've never seen so many people die in all my life. Because we're connected to a university and not one local church. We're connected to scores and scores of churches and scores and scores of people. And I remember when I went there, I thought I'm gonna go to all the funerals when I come here. You know what? I can't keep up with them Almost every single week. And one thing that is permanent is everything is not permanent. During this time of instability, Moses stated one thing though, that the only thing that gave him a sense of permanence. And stability. And if I could say it this way: the feeling at home was the presence of God dwelling among them. For in their state of flux, God stayed with them. Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations. Where do you feel at home? In an ever-changing world, the only way we'll ever feel at rest is when we live with a sense of The presence of God. The most precious thing that you have in your life is the Lord Himself. And in life, we're not going to have that all the time, but in the Lord we are. Every morning I wake up. I make a pot of coffee and I sit down and I read my Bible. That's the highest point of joy in my day. Sometimes it goes downhill real fast. And you know what I've learned? I've learned if I read my Bible every day with a prayerful heart to hear God's voice. What do I live with? I live with the sense of the presence of God in a world that is constantly in flux. And this is what Moses learned. And this is a lesson that you and I have to learn in life That God is eternal, and we feel most at home when we're with our God. But then there's a second lesson that he wanted the people to learn. And not only is God eternal, but number two, he wants us to all understand that we are temporal. You, sir, you, ma'am, are not permanent. Moses portrays the sobering reality of the brevity and the frailty of our own existence. For notice what he says, first of all, that our destiny is humble. Verse 3: Thou turnest man to destruction. Some have suggested that the background for Psalm 90 comes from the events of Numbers 20. And in Numbers 20, there were three life-changing events that took place in the life of Moses in very quick order and by the way do you know life can be fair fairly stable and then you hear it 2020 how many of you are looking forward to 2020 being over with yeah I sat down this morning. I sat down this morning and wrote out all the things that have happened in 2020 in my own personal life. And events come in our life and show us how temporal life is. And in number chapter 20, three things happen. Number one, Moses ' sister Miriam died. Number two, Moses ' brother Aaron died. And number three, Moses sinned against God by striking, striking the rock so that he could not enter into the promised land and he would eventually die. And Moses learned something that we all have to understand, and that is that we are under the judgment of God for our sin. The wages of sin is death. We're all going to face death. Rich or poor, famous or obscure, intellectual or illiterate, humanitarian or criminal, all of us end up decomposing six feet under the ground. Genesis says it this way, for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return. Someone said our original composition was dirt. Our final destination is dirt. And the best description about our lives is that we are dirt. And the scripture is teaching us that our destiny is humble. But then, secondly, it's teaching us that our lifespan Is brief. Psalm 94 verse 4, for a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday, and when it is passed, and as a watch in the night. Moses contrasts God's perspective on time with the human viewpoint on time. And everything in God's eyes is smaller in size and shorter in time. For example, God sees the population of the nations, and what does he call them? In Isaiah 40, 15, the behold, the nations are as a drop in a bucket. And similarly, in God's eyes, a thousand years are like one day that has already passed us by. You know, when you're young, time moves slow, especially when you're in English class. But in reality, time moves at warp speed. I've lived long enough to observe how people get older. I look down and I see these. These young students, 21 years old, they think they're so old. And I'm already imagining what they're going to look like in about 30 years. I'll leave it at that. But you're young. Only once. And time moves quickly. And what do we realize? We realize that in the temporal brief nature of life, our lifespan is so short. And then thirdly, he says our death is swift. Life always ends suddenly. Always. You didn't expect it. No matter how old somebody gets when they die, it's always a surprise, it's always a shock, and it's always sad. And m Moses uses three natural images to depict how quickly death comes to us. Notice what he says in verse 5, thou carriest them away as with a flood. He says death is like a sudden. flood. Now we're not used to floods that much where we live here. I mean we have big rivers and we'll get some floods, but in Israel A flood is incredibly dangerous. Do you know why? Because the floods come in the desert. Because there are no really , except for the Jordan River, there are no rivers in Egypt, and in Israel, excuse me. And when the rain falls, it falls on top of the mountains, and the water gushes down the mountains in dry valleys called wadis. And every year in the land of Israel, people get killed in flash floods because they're walking in the wadi and they don't see it coming. The last time I was in Israel was in 2018. And right before I got there on April 26th. Nine Israeli teenagers who were hiking in a wadi in a pre arm pre-army prep program were washed away suddenly in a flood and they were killed. Death It's like a sudden flood. Then notice he says death is also like a dream. He says in verse 5, you carry them away as with a flood. They are as a sleep. What does he mean by asleep? It's like life is like a dream when you are asleep. While you're sleeping, you have dreams. And have you ever had a dream where you feel like it's just so real? And you're right there in the middle of it, and we're engaged in the fantasy of it until suddenly we wake up and we realize it was only a dream. And the crazy thing is that though the dream seems so real to you at the time when we wake up, we can't even remember it. Life is like a dream. People are born, people live, people die, and people don't remember that you ever lived and and totally forget who you are. And if you're not sure that's true, who are your great-grandparents? Because once you get past grandma and brothers and sisters and a few aunts and uncles, it all gets kind of messy and you don't remember it all. Life is like a dream. And then he says, life is like grass. Notice he says, in the morning they are like grass. It grows up. In the morning it flourishes and grows up. In the evening it is cut down and withereth. When this was written, it was written of course in in in the picture of the Middle East. And during the winter rains, a very light covering of grass quickly pops up on the Judean hills. I've seen it many times. It's really very, very beautiful. However, the lifespan of grass in Israel is very short. Because when the Middle Eastern sun hits the grass, it quickly withers away under the heat. It only comes for a short period of time. What does the Bible say? It says that we are like grass in the morning that withers away in the evening. Spurgeon said it this way: here is the history of grass. Sown, grown, blown, mown, and gone. And the history of man is not much more. We are like grass. And what is what is Moses saying to us? He's speaking of the temporal nature of life, and he is saying that our death is so swift. And then fourthly, he says our judgment is just. You know, it's hard for people to believe this, so let me say it clearly, because it's hard for people to believe, but we all get what we deserve. One of these days you're going to hear, hey, did you hear about Steve Pettitt? He died. And you know what the response is? Well, he deserved it. The wages of sin is death. The soul that sinneth shall surely die. The Jewish people received firsthand experience of God's just judgment in the wilderness. An entire generation was buried in the desert sand. Why? Because of their sin. And you know what Moses learned? Nobody gets away with sin. He says in verse 7, we are consumed by thine anger and by thy wrath we are troubled. He says, You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your countenance, for all our days are passed away in thy wrath. We spend our years as a tale that is told. The Lord did not forget the Israelites' sin. Fact is, he actually tells us what they were in a list in 1 Corinthians. 10 by the Apostle Paul who writes and he speaks of idolatry and rebellion and immorality and complaining. Yes, God knows the secret complaints of our life. They were daily reminded of God's judgment for what they had done. They were well aware that they were under a death sentence. Their lives were spent as a sigh with a sense of sadness and with a sense of emptiness. Last evening I was going over to your pastor's home. He was kind enough to pick me up. We drove over to his house. We were having a conversation. A conversation. And I get a text. And I pull out my phone, and it's my sister who's texting me. My mother went into the hospital on Thursday, this Thursday, in ER. And she texted me yesterday and she says, mama has acute leukemia, and there's nothing the doctors can do. And so tomorrow I'm going to fly to Denver, Colorado, hopefully, to see my mother before she passes away. Life is very brief. Psalm 90 says, the days of our years are three scores and ten, and if by reason of strength they be four scores, scores of twenty years. Three score and ten? That's 70. How long do people live today? 70? 80? I had an 80-year-old lady tell me one time, can I give you a piece of advice? I said, yes, ma'am, she was my pastor's wife. She said, whatever you do, make sure you do it before you turn 80. I thought that's pretty good advice. I thought, not so sure I'm gonna make a datey The days of your years are 70 years, and if by reason of strength you make it to 80, but our lifespan is brief. We have enough strength to work for a few years, we get old And we fly away. Why is this? Because of God's righteous judgment upon us. The wages of sin is death. And so these verses are teaching us that time is not a commodity to waste. You don't have a guarantee of tomorrow. We only have so much time. Once it's gone, you can't get it back. Therefore, we must live in a light in the light of eternity. This is what Moses is wanting us to learn. We must take the opportunities at hand. The time of salvation from sin is today. Behold, now is the favorable time. When is it the best time to become a Christian? Not tomorrow. Not next week. Why? Boast not of a tomorrow, for you don't know what a day may bring forth. The best time to be saved is right now I was saved Easter Sunday, 1975, listening to a preacher over the radio and he called upon people to respond, and I accepted to Jesus as my Savior, friend, you have no confidence that you'll wake up tomorrow. Today is the day. Come and be saved now. But let me also say that today is the day to devote and dedicate your life to God. Now is the time. When I was a student in college, I went to a military school in South Carolina called the Citadel When I would walk to my class every day, I would walk past the chapel and etched in granite were the word words from Ecclesiastes 12, 1 over the entranceway into the chapel. And it were these words, remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth. And at the age of 19 years old, I not only got saved, but I dedicated my life to God. I surrendered my life to God. And I'll tell you, surrendering your life to God at 19 years old is not something that is necessarily easy. to do. There's a struggle. There are tension points. There are things I have to trust God with. But I dedicated my life to God at that that age, 25 years later I went back to my college reunion. I was 46 years old. And I remember walking around the campus thinking about the time that I dedicated my life to God when I was 19. 19 years old and 25 years had already flown by. And do you know what? Two years ago I went to my 40th reunion. And in just a few years, I'm going to be going, if I'm still living, to my 45th reunion. And when is the best time to devote your life to God? It's not when you get old, it's when you're young. Devote your life to God now. Or if you're young in the faith, devote your life to God now. Take stock of your time and devote yourself to follow the Lord and to serve God. You don't have enough time to waste. You have no guarantee of tomorrow. Here's what Moses is saying. Life is brief. Our time is temporal. Now is the day to serve the Lord. And that leads me to the third and final lesson that he wanted the people of God to learn. And that is not only is God eternal and life is temporal, but prayer is absolutely essential. In verse 3, God calls man to return to him. In verse 13, the psalmist calls on God to return to man. Our necessary response to the brevity of life is to cry out to God in prayer, Oh Lord! And this is what Moses did in the last five verses of this psalm. He devoted himself to prayer. And what did he pray for? Number one, he prayed for God's mercy. God's people had suffered for a long time under God's chastening hand. Moses wondered aloud, how long would this continue? But God had made a covenant with his people, with Abraham and with David. A covenant backed by his own faithfulness and love. And so Moses prayed for God to come back to his people. Most of us live with the desire for things to change and get better and move forward and have forgiveness, and that is an appropriate prayer. God, have mercy on me. God, don't forget me. Prayer is fundamental. It is essential for our life. But in this world of technology and tech information that robs our thoughts, they steal us away from our God. A few years ago I was preaching in a camp up in the state of Pennsylvania. I had an early flight out on a Saturday morning. And it was dark when I was picked up and when I got to the airport it was dark and I had my bag and got my bag and got in line and I opened up my bag to find my cell phone and I looked all over for it and I couldn't find it It had slipped out of my bag on the floor in the back of the van. And I got on the plane without a cell phone. And I didn't even know what to think about. You understand what I'm saying? You got me, Caleb? And you know what I had to do on that flight? Pray. Prayer is fundamental to your life. But not only are we to pray for mercy, but we're to pray for joy. Verse 15, make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us. And for as many years as we have seen evil, restore to us, he is saying, the joy of your salvation. Lord, restore my fellowship. God is most glorified when we are most satisfied in Him. Joy finds its satisfaction in the Lord. May we pray that we find joy and satisfaction in the Lord. This brings glory to our God. And then finally, pray not only for mercy and joy, but pray for blessing. He says in verse 16, let your work be shown to your servants, your glorious power to the children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish thou the work of our hands upon us. Yeah, establish thou the work of our hands. How many of you want God to bless you? Raise your hand. I want God to bless me. I'm expecting all of you who want God to bless you. Don't you want a bless how many of you want a birthday present? Same thing. It's a blessing. The wilderness was a hard place. However, God did something in them. that changed them forever. God created within them a desire to be in the place of the blessing of God. They want to be where God can bless When you get in the shower, you get under the water. You want to be in the place I want to be in the place where God is blessing. This desire seen in Moses, this prayer for God to do his work and to manifest. His glory. In the end, this is a prayer that we should all pray. God, fulfill your will for your own glory through my life. And Moses finishes the prayer for God's favor, the beauty of the Lord to be upon you. Throughout my life, I've met probably more pastors than the average person. Every pastor is unique. Your pastor has some unique things about him that I will remember. And they're all good. And there's a pastor down in South Florida I met. I thought there's not another one like him in captivity. And he was a very unusual man. But he was he's all he's always a blessing And he was a giver. He loved to give. He said to me one day, he said, I want to buy you the nicest pair of shoes you've ever owned. I said, okay. He said, what kind of shoes you wear? Well, I don't remember. I was young at the time. I said, uh, you know, I'll be a preacher. How about wingtips? You remember wingtips? So he bought me a pair of Florsheim Imperial wingtips. I wore them till I wore the soles out. I resold them and I wore the soles out the second time and then I decided to put them up in my hall of fame of shoes. And every time I'm with that pastor, I remember how he blessed me. Life is short, but God invites us to seek his blessing. The Lord bless you and keep you. The Lord make his face shine upon you and be gracious unto you. The Lord lift up his countenance upon you and give you peace. That's the prayer I prayed for all four of my children every time they would leave or go out from our presence. And may the Lord help us in these seasons to seek his joy, his mercy, and his blessing. Would you bow your heads with me as we pray Father, we thank you this morning for your precious word that's been given to us. We thank you for the Psalm of Moses. Lord, help us to live with an eternal perspective. That you are eternal, that life is temporal, and that prayer is essential. Help us, Lord, to live our lives completely devoted, dedicated to you, because we have no assurance of tomorrow And Lord, in the light of your judgment, we will all stand and give an account for our life. Help us to live our lives for you and for your glory. In Jesus' name, amen. Before we sing our closing hymn, I'd like to ask you to just bow your heads and close your eyes for a moment. And the truth is that In a year like 2020, where we've dealt with so much truly unexpected after a message that really calls us to think about how short and Really, how fleeting our lives are, it would be completely inappropriate for me not to say, do you know the Lord is your Savior? Are you ready to meet God? I'm not suggesting you will today, but then again, you don't know. None of us has a guarantee of tomorrow. And we need to be prepared to meet the Lord. And that's why Christ came, to die for our sins, so that we could be ready to meet him. Is there a person here this morning that would say, Pastor? I'm not ready to meet the Lord. I don't know for certain if I died today that I would spend eternity with him. I'm I'm actually very troubled about that, and I need to talk to somebody so that I can know for certain from the Bible what God says. Has been done for me so that I can respond and be saved. Is there anyone here that would quietly raise your hand and say, Pastor, that's me? I don't know for certain that I'm saved. And I need to talk to somebody this morning. I'm going to give you a moment. Make sure you raise that high enough so that I can see it. I will not call you out. I will just make a note of that and then try to meet with you. Anyone at all If you haven't raised your hand but you needed to, I want you to know that you can always reach out to me personally. You can send me a text message, you can send me an email. After the service, you can stop by and say, Pastor, can I meet with you this week? I would be delighted to sit down with you and take a Bible and show you how you can be saved. There was a second thing that was really emphasized in this message And that was when we've trusted Christ as our Savior, we need to give our lives to Him when we're young. The truth is, by the time we realize we should have done it, we don't have a whole lot of life to give Him. And so we should be sobered by that reality. Is there anyone that would say, Pastor, I I need to recommit? My life to the Lord, to living faithfully and fully for his honor and glory. I have been living for temporal things. I'm just throwing away the years God gives me. And I want that to change. I want that to change today. And I want to diligently pursue his glory in my life. Is there anyone that one that would say, that's me, Pastor? Lots of hands raised. Praise the Lord for that. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and commit those commitments to the Lord. And then let's sing together the song I Surrender All. And let's sing it with a heart that really means it. Let's bow together. Father, I thank you for the work that you've done in our hearts this week. Each message has been exactly what we needed. You have ministered to our souls. You have convicted us deeply Yet you have also brought alongside of us the encouragement that we need and the answers that we need from the Bible. We are so grateful that we come to a God of grace. A God who extends this grace to the work of Christ. A God who calls us to repentance and faith, and a God who calls us to a holy walk. I pray that you'll be with those who are uncertain of their soul. I pray that you would convict them deeply and that they would be restless until they come face to face with the gospel. And place their faith in what Christ has done for them on that cross and his resurrection. Father, I pray for those who've raised their hand this morning about Their need to commit their lives fully to you in the days that you give them. I pray that you'd help each hand that was raised and each heart that said, That's me. I pray that they would be fully committed to your honor and glory in their life with the days that you give them. Father, help them to be consumed with pleasing you and honoring you. Help their lives to be an expression of love and gratitude as they glory in your grace and the gospel. I pray that as we sing this song, I surrender all, that would really be the intent of our souls as we sing it. We thank you for this time in your word and for your blessings upon it. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Let's stand together, please. We'll be singing it's hymn 390, if you have a hymn book. I know a few folks bring theirs. If you don't have one, look up at the screen. We'll sing the first, third, and the fourth verses together of I surrender all. And I want to encourage you. Really sing it with that being the reality of your soul. Let's sing it together All to Jesus I surrender all to him I freely give I will ever love and trust it in its presence daily live. I surrender all I surrender all to thee my blast and savior I surrender all to Jesus. I surrender, make me save your holy thine. Let me feel the Holy Spirit. To me, know that thou art mine. I surrender all I surrender all to thee, my Plas and save your I surrender. Oh sing it on the last All to Jesus I surrender, Lord, I give myself to thee. Fill me with thy love and power. Let thy passing fall on me. I surrender oh I surrender all All to thee, my pass and Savior, I surrender Well, hasn't it been good to be in the Lord's house today? Truly has been a blessing. Um I wanna I wanna have Dr. Pettit and the uh the music group, if you guys could head to the back and actually stand outside That'll give people an opportunity to go and to greet you and just be an encouragement to you. In our closing prayer, let's remember to pray for Dr. Pettit's family. Uh especially with his sister who is in Colorado right now with his mom. Their families are going to be coming together. Let's really pray that God will give them wisdom and grace. and minister to their family in what is a difficult time. And also I want to remind you, those who need to be at the meeting for our nursery reopen, please make sure that you're there for that. And also we hope to see you tonight as we continue in our Sunday evening service. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. And I'd like to ask if Billy, could you please come up and close us in prayer? Sorry, he's in all the way in the very back. Make sure that you uh go by and greet the students, greet Dr. Pettit, and uh just just share with them how much of a blessing they've been. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you so much for this time that we can have in your house. Thank you for the real ministry that it was this morning, both in music and in the preaching. I thank you that they were able to visit. I pray that we would uh remember uh currently to redeem that time that we have, Lord, as we are not guaranteed it, that we would continue to look towards you and honor and glorify you and everything that we say and do as we go forth from here. In Jesus' name, amen.