Well I'd like to invite you to turn with me in your Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 3. And this evening we will be looking at verses 18 down to verse five of chapter four and I kind of mentioned this the last time we were in this text that the the kind of the uh theme that's there actually spans the two chapters and so the chapter division is in a little bit awkward position um as far as the themes go or the flow of thought And I just just to remind you, the chapter divisions are not inspired. It's the text that's inspired. But when we talk about chapter divisions, sometimes those chapter divisions are super helpful and sometimes they're not. And this would be one of those situations where the place where they put the division uh kind of almost breaks a flow of thought. And so let's go ahead. And begin reading in verse 18, and then we're going to read through the chapter to verse 5. Here's what it says. Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise. For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness And again the Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain. Therefore let no man glory in men, for all things are yours. Whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or of the world or life or death or things present or things to come, all are yours, and you're Christ's, and Christ is God's. Let a man to account of us as the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God. Moreover, it is required in stewards that a man be found faithful. But With me, it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you, or of man's judgment. Yea, I judge not my own self, for I know nothing by myself, yet am I not hereby justified. But he that judgeth me is the Lord. Therefore, judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts. And then shall every man have praise of God. Now, this evening what we're going to look at is a very simple topic, and that is living with a healthy view of ourselves. And when we look at this section, there are going to be two different ways that Paul is going to talk about how we need to be thinking. The first half of this section is how we view ourselves, and then the second half of the section is dealing with how we view other people. And we've got to remind ourselves that in the backdrop of this topic that Paul is addressing, which really is wisdom, he's kind of contrasting two kinds of wisdom. So we have godly wisdom, we have worldly wisdom. He's contrasting those two things. Worldly wisdom is going to give you a certain view of self and a certain view of others, and godly wisdom is going to give you a contrary view of self and others to what worldly wisdom has. So that's really what we're looking at here. It's not just about how I view myself, but the foundation for that, what is causing me to think this way about myself and other people. So I'm going to kind of introduce it this way. The section divides into two parts. that reinforce what has been previously stated in the letter. So Paul is not introducing something in the letter that hasn't already been addressed. In fact, what it's really showing you is that Paul is repeating some themes because repetition is the key to learning. And so he wants the people to understand what the problem is that he's trying to address. So he's kind of reinforcing that. He's going back over themes that he's just mentioned and he's applying them again. The theme has been overwhelmingly focused on values, wisdom, the value we ascribe to something, what we believe it's worth. That is really at the heart of what he's saying. And so, as I mentioned earlier, there's two kinds of wisdom. There's also two kinds of values. There's worldliness and there's godliness. There's how the world looks at what is wise. and what is valuable and how the godly view, the Christian view, God-centered view, if you want to put it that way, how they look at wisdom and values. And our values shape everything about our lives. Think about it like this. What you prioritize. The reason that you're here tonight, right now, is because you have prioritized the gathering of the body on a very cold night, nevertheless, okay, on a very cold night, you have prioritized being here in the local church over something else. Okay? Whatever it is. You have made the priority to be here. Or on Sunday, when you are here or when you're not, then you have prioritized something above another thing. So when we look at the the decisions that we make in our lives, we say, this is important, but this is more important. So I'm going to put it right here. Or this is important, but this is less important. And so we make those judgment calls based on some kind of values. The things that shape the decisions that we make, the things that motivate us. Why do people do the things that they do? Why are they driven, motivated to do that? Some people they'll get up really early in the morning and they'll go to the gym. While everyone else is sleeping. Some people get up really early in the morning and they go running while everyone else is sleeping Some people, when they go uh out to eat, they eat the trashiest food you can imagine, and others, they eat very, very healthy foods. Some people when they go to the grocery store it's all processed. Everything's processed. And there's other people they go they won't buy anything processed if they possibly can. It's all natural fruits and veggies and all that kind of stuff. Why do people make those decisions? What's motivating them? Values. Values are motivating them. Some people it's the value of the product. So what does it cost? Okay? So I'm comparing these two things. Why I buy one thing over another The things that we are willing to make sacrifices over, these are the things that are shaped by values. And so this passage of scripture is all about what you think is most important. The first half, how we view ourselves. Second half, how we view others. So this evening, we're going to look at part one, a healthy view of ourselves. So the first truth that we find in the text is this: we must guard our hearts against self-deception. I I kind of asked myself this question, how do you know if you're self-deceived? You ever think about that? I mean that's kind of the problem, right? I believe that what I'm thinking is correct. But in fact, I'm not thinking the right thing. How can I get out of this position where I have deceived myself? Look down in verse 18, he says this. Let no man deceive himself. That reminds us that everybody is susceptible to this issue of being self-deceived. And there's a reason for that. It's because we are made of flesh. And because we are made of flesh, our minds are prone to embracing lies. Not just the lies that other people tell us, but lies that we tell ourselves. Even Christians are susceptible to being deceived by self. And I want to go through a couple of scriptures so that we can kind of see why that is, but the hope that we have as believers. So if you're not a believer, your values are entirely guided by a fleshly disposition. But if you're a Christian, you have the ability to look at things in a totally different way. So first of all, I want to mention this promise we find in the scriptures. Ezekiel chapter 11, verse 19. I love this text. He says, I will give them one heart. I will put a new spirit within you. I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them a heart of flesh. that they might walk in my statutes. That's a wonderful passage of scripture. And if we kind of step back and we look at the context of it, we have a time in Israel's history where they're very callous, they're very hardened. And so here's Ezekiel who's saying, God promises that there's going to be a day that he's going to take the people who are so hardened and so stubborn and so self-willed and so destructive in their way of life. And he's going to take those hardened hearts and he's going to give them a new heart. And it's going to be a tender heart It's a heart that is going to be moldable in the hands of God, a heart that desires to walk in God's ways rather than fighting God's ways. And you know what he's talking about? He's talking about what happens in people when they get saved. He's talking about what happens when a person becomes a new creature in Christ. And so that leads me to my second statement here, and that is 2 Corinthians 5. 17. He says, if any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. And so we have this promise in the Old Testament about the nation of Israel. Then we have this New Testament text. That talks about what happens when a person places their faith in Christ. They become a new creature. And who they were in the past is not who they are now. They're a different person. But there's a third passage I think is so important for us to recognize. And that is the reality of this situation. Promise, I give you a new heart. Fulfillment, old things pass away, all things have become new. But this is how it works out in the practical day-to-day lives. The reality is Romans chapter 6. Verses 11 through 13. And listen to what it says. It says, reckon you also yourselves to be dead unto sin. but alive unto God through Christ Jesus our Lord. Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies. That ye should obey it in the lust thereof, neither yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God. As, and here's the important statement, as those that are alive from the dead and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. Now here's what's important for us to notice about Romans 6. Romans 6 in no way contradicts the Ezekiel passage and the 2 Corinthians passage. Because we see it right there in the text. You are to yield yourself unto God as those who are alive, because that is true about you. But what it also shows you is that in the practical day-to-day side of your life, though you are a new creature in Christ, though you have the capacity to walk different than you once did , That doesn't mean that you automatically do it. You have to choose day in and day out, moment by moment, to live as the person you are. You have to choose to live consistent with your position. You are to live consistent with the new disposition that you have in your heart. You've got to make the choice. Nobody can make it for you. You have the capacity to do it. You have the encouragement to do it. You have the motivation to do it. You're called to it, but you've got to make the choice. That's why we see words like That means you have to calculate this is true. God says it's true. I believe it's true. I'm going to act like it's true. He says you're not to let sin reign in your mortal bodies. That means that there is a submission side to this. You're not to obey the lust thereof. You see the submission side to this. Do not yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but rather yield it to God. You see, a submission side to this. So Even though we are new creatures in Christ, and even though we have new hearts, we still live in a fallen body. And we still have the capacity to sin. And you know what that means? We have the capacity to be self-deceived. That's what it means. So just because we're Christians doesn't mean that we now get this pass. And we're no longer going to deal with this issue of self-deception. That's why Paul writes to believers in this text, he says, do not let any man deceive himself. What's the central problem? Two words, indwelling sin. Indwelling sin is the central problem. We must choose to put off the old way. Ephesians 4. 22. Put off concerning the former conversation. The old man which is corrupt. according to the deceitful lust and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Put off, put on. We must uproot the old way of thinking and replace it with new thinking. Romans 12, 2. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed through the renewing of your mind. I've used this illustration many times, so maybe if This is something you've heard. I'm sorry. All right. But I think it's a great illustration. When I was in college, our house was just was was totally flooded by a hurricane. In fact, I think we had something like three and a half, four feet of water in the house. And and it it ruined everything in the house. It it ruined the carpets, it ruined all the furniture, it totaled my parents' cars, it it destroyed my baseball card collection. I had ten thousand baseball cards. Believe it or not, I had three hundred Nolan Ryan 's and in a box. I I was I was like uh a little bit crazy about collecting Nolan Ryan baseball cards. I I had when he was on the Mets and when he was on the Astros and was on the Angels and when he was on the Rangers. And uh and I just I collected tons and tons of those cards. Derek Jeter. Nope, we've got some Yankee haters here, but I was all about Derek Jeter and A-Rod and all those guys. All those cards destroyed. Had all this like memorabilia from high school sports. I had trophies that I had gotten and totally destroyed in the flood. And I remember my friend Brent and I came after the storm, and when we got to the house, my dad was just dragging stuff out of the house. And there's this massive pile. of nasty carpet and baseball cards and all kinds of stuff, right? And we had to go in it, we pulled everything out of the house. We had to gut it down all the way to the studs. We had to let it dry out. We had to spray it w uh we we didn't want it to get mildew because in Florida, I mean that humidity is terrible. So we had we had to spray it with bleach and all kinds of stuff And the fact is you cannot rebuild that house until you pull all the garbage out. You just can't do it. I mean you can do it, but you'll get to do it twice. Because you'll ruin everything. You've got to get it out. And so the idea is that we as God's people have to uproot all those old ideas. And that worldly wisdom. And we've got to get rid of it. And we've got to replace it with what is true. And so you know what the Word of God does? It confronts the lies. And it confronts the ideas that are false, and it allows us to notice what is wrong, to uproot it, and then we put what is right in its place. And so we see this contrast between godly wisdom and worldly wisdom. And we've got to make a choice. And that's why he says, do not deceive yourselves. We have to be honest about indwelling sin. 1 John 1. 8. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. We must recognize that our default mentality is wrong. 1 Corinthians 3. 18, he says, if any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool that he may be wise. In other words, if you think you've got it figured out with worldly wisdom, your wisdom, the natural inclination that we all have, that default mentality, it's wrong. It's got to be replaced by a wisdom that is completely contrary to it. And so I give you this summary. If we're careless to regularly put to death our fleshly passions, we will live in self-deception. And I tell you it's so true. And you you can you could see it in your own lives sometimes. You could see it in the lives of people that you love who are Christians. But when people allow sinful passions to take root in their hearts, And they allow those things to be unchecked, you know what it does? It destroys how they think. Completely destroys it. And and you can you can see how that sin, how it affects their judgment. And how they process things in the world. And so we cannot be careless about this issue. So truth number one, do not allow yourself to be self-deceived. Truth number two. We must embrace the right standard of judgment. Verse 19, for the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. The wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. And it's really interesting. In this passage, Paul is very specific. about how worldly wisdom is foolishness with God. He gives two examples. And interestingly, these are quotes from the Old Testament. One of the quotes is from the time of Job. In fact, I think both of them might be from Job. I'd have to go look at the cross-reference again. But the two statements are this. Four, it is written He taketh the wise in their own craftiness, and two, again the Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise that they are vain. Now, what is he drawing attention to? What are the areas where worldly wisdom is foolishness to God? First is this. The world schemes and they're never going to prevail. The world schemes and they're never going to prevail. People think they can outsmart God. I hate to say it, but it's true. People think that they can get away with evil and God's never going to hold them accountable. They think that they can chart a course that is completely contradictory to what God says is right and what God says is wrong. And they think they can blow off what God says and they can do it themselves. And you know what? They're wrong. That calculation is wrong. And what does he say? It is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness. The world schemes, but they will not prevail. That's what he's saying. Secondly, he emphasizes that the world's thoughts are very empty. And that's what it means when he says That they are vain. It's vanity. It's like the wind. It's like the book of Ecclesiastes. He says, vanity of vanities, all is vanity. He looks at all the different things in the world. He goes, it's emptiness. Well, God says that the world's wisdom is that. It is emptiness. And so we should not want the world's wisdom. The world thinks too much of itself. I'll say it like this. When we think too much of ourselves, we think like the world. For instance, the world miscalculates how skillful it is. I mean go back to that verse. It says, he takes the wise in their own craftiness. Here are people that say, I can outmaneuver God. It's like I'm playing chess with God and I'm going to win. I'm going to put him in checkbait. And God says, What are you talking about? Let me take you into your own game. We can't do it. They miscalculate on how skillful they are. They miscalculate their strength, what they're able to do. They miscalculate the true value of things. They ultimately make decisions based on these tragic miscalculations. You know, when you study history and you see a war, you know, the story of warfare, one of the things that you see is you have these two sides, and they they are enemies, they're rivals. And they move through history together as rivals, and as long as they both don't think it's worth it to take the other guy out, they maintain peace. But as soon as one side starts getting in their head, you know what? I think that we can take our opponents And it's not just that they think they can take them, but they think that it's worth it to do it, and they think they can do it quickly. And they think it'll be painless. And so what happens is There will be a calculation on one side that if I do this, I'm going to get away with it. And you know what ends up happening? The terrible loss of life. People's lives just thrown away needlessly. Why? Because of miscalculations between those who are ruling and these two different nations. And one says I can make this move and they're not going to counter it. I can make this move, they're not going to do anything about it. I can make this move, it won't matter. Miscalculation is how people end up in war. And when you miscalculate when it comes to how you deal with God, there are eternal consequences And so that's the point. Do not embrace the wrong standard. I think of some of these verses, Romans 5. 10. He says, we were the enemies of God. We were reconciled to God. But that word enemy should stand in our minds. People believe that they can outwit God. Or Romans 8. 7, it says that the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. That word enmity is a very strong word. It's like this at war with God. This one's very explicit. Psalm 2, verses 1 and 2. Why do the heathen rage and the people imagine a vain thing? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. This is a prophetic passage that's talking about what's going to happen at the end of the world. And you're going to have these massive armies that are going to gather together and they believe that they're going to triumph over the Lord Jesus Christ. And you know what? They're wrong. But they're going to be convinced. They're boiling with anger against God. They set themselves against him. They're making their calculations. That's how the world's wisdom works. And so if we fail to continually be in the Word of God and allow it to shape our thinking and passions, we're going to make decisions from the wrong standard. And if we make decisions based on the wrong standard, that miscalculation can be fatal. Third truth. We must reverence the right judge. Look down in verse 21. He says, let no man glory in men Now, not that the other things were not practical, but out of all three of the truths that we're going to look at tonight, I think this one might be one of the most practical of all of them I mean, we understand we should not be self-deceived. We understand that it's folly to miscalculate with God because we have embraced the wrong standard. But reverencing the wrong judge, that's a huge problem. And this is very interesting how he puts it. Let therefore let no man glory in men. And then if you look in these verses, there's this long list of statements that he makes. Look down in verse 21. He says The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise are vain, let no man glory in men, for all things are yours, whether Paul or Apollos or Cephas or of the world or of life or of death or of things present or things to come, all are yours and your Christ's and Christ is God's. Now, when you read that, you I mean when I first read that and started thinking about it, I was like, I I don't know that I understand what Paul's saying yet I mean, he, for instance, in this verse twice he makes the statement, all things are yours. I'm like, what does that mean? You may not realize this, but he's actually making a statement that was a very common statement in Corinthian society And that statement was kind of like a proverbial statement. It was kind of like the wisdom of the Stoics that lived at that time in Greece. And so that all things are yours is kind of like, it's almost like the idiomatic expression that we used to say, you know, pick yourself up by your own bootstraps, the idea is You know, you're a self-made person, you don't need anybody, you are a self-contained individual. That's kind of the idea. The stoic mindset was by being disciplined. by not giving in to your emotions, not giving in to your fears, by having a hard, rugged work ethic, then you could get to this place where it doesn't matter what you deal with in life. You're strong enough yourself to deal with those things. You don't need anybody. You're your own guy. By the way, that's a very American mindset, is it not? And I I I think that that resilience is one of the things that I think makes people very successful in life. It also, huh? They make great soldiers and they die in battle. And they die in battle. The bottom line is that kind of resilience is something that the world really values. But that is not a biblical value. Kind of interesting to notice. So look, he's going to give you these examples that are, we could say, wrong values, and we could see how they correspond practically. So let me work our way through this. Don't get your sense of value and purpose in anything or anything other, anyone or anything other than God Himself. The first example that he gives is this. Let no man glory in men. This is how I put it. Do not glory in remarkable people. Now again, I think studying history is a really good thing. I think when we read through the Bible and we see the remarkable stories, I think about Joseph's forgiveness. I think about Daniel's courage. Shadrach, Meshach, Abendigo, the fact that they were willing to tell the king, hey Our God is able to deliver us, and even if he doesn't, we're not going to bow to your idol. Okay? I mean that's pretty impressive. But here's the fact. Our identity and our glorying cannot be in people. Because no matter who the person is, they will let you down. You read stories about David, and we've had sermons on Sunday nights where David is a hero. He's an incredible example. You want to be like David. And we've had other examples of sermons that have been preached from this pulpit on a Sunday night where you say, don't you dare be like David, because if you're like David, you're an unjust man. You're to experience all kinds of horrific consequences for those terrible choices. So what's his point? Do not find your identity in some hero And you say, that's who I want to be like. That's the person I want to be. Be very careful. Be very careful. And you know, in Corinthian society, this is super common. People would say that's the guy that I'm associated with. Why were they saying some of you say I'm of Paul? And some of you say I'm of Apollos, and some of you say I'm of why they say that? Well, because they were hero worshippers. They worship the emperor as the God. That's what they did. And so what does Paul say? Be careful. That's not godly wisdom. That's worldly wisdom. The second example he gives is interesting. Whether Paul or Apollos Eciphas, now he's getting very specific. He's not talking about just the fact that we have heroes in the we could say the secular sense. Like you look at a great general in history, or you look at a great president in history, or you look at a a great leader from, you know, years and years gone by. We're now talking about Biblical examples, Paul, Apollos, Peter. These are heroes of the faith. It's like when we go to the book of Hebrews and we go to Hebrews chapter 11. He says, these are the people that They walk by faith and they experience God's blessings. And so we can look at those people and we can say, those are my heroes. That's who I identify with. I'm a Paul. I'm a Peter. I'm one of those guys. And you know what he says? Be careful. Even though they're good men, even though they were spiritually minded people, they're flawed people. Do not make your heroes men. Even good men. Learn from examples. Be inspired to some degree, but do not allow that to become your sense of identity and glory. Third example. Do not glory in history's greatest civilizations. He says, or of the world. Now, I want us to think about it this way. For a thousand years, the Roman Empire ruled the world. Pretty crazy to think about. I mean like I don't know if we're going to get there. The Ottomans ruled for a thousand years too. You think about Alexander the Great and what he conquered. And you start thinking about some of the great civilizations in human history. And one of the things that you'll see is that through the struggles that civilizations endured There came a point where they reached their pinnacle , and they became very proud and very self-absorbed because their identity was rooted in that civilization. And I'll put it like this. I love America and I'm thankful to be an American. I'm a patriotic American But it is worldly to make that your identity. It really is. We have to be so very careful. The fact is when we study American history, there's some great examples and there's some pretty tragic ones There's some things that honestly they're there are stains in their blocks at times. And there's no there's no civilization that that has hit it right every time. Even the best examples, the glorious times and certain times in nations' histories, they're still dark. And so we have to be very careful. Our identity should not be our heroes. Even those spiritual heroes. Sometimes people say, oh, missionaries, they're my heroes. They're people just like you and me. Pastors. They're my heroes. Evangelist church players. Hey, I'm thankful for what God does through people like that. But they're flawed people. So we have to be so very cautious. He gives a fourth example. Or of life You say, what is that? Don't glory in the good things of life. You might say, like the American dream. I mean, I don't want to live a hard life. Do you? I mean I I'd like to live a a a peaceful life. I'd like to live a life where uh my needs are met and and it's not like I'm struggling to survive and take care of my children and those kinds of things. But the fact is that's not our identity. That's not what we live for. And so he says, be careful. He gives a fruit example. This one's very interesting. And some of us might go, well, how in the world is this? Or of not just life, but of death. You know, the truth is that there are some societies and there are periods in history, especially when a civilization has struggled. Like let's say when you have defended your nation. Like let's take ourselves back. We went down to Mount Vernon on Monday. That was pretty pretty inspirational. And we watched the video of George Washington and and the story of Valley Forge. Going across into Trenton. I mean, it's a pretty pretty incredible story. And the fact is, if you were living in that time There were people that made incredible sacrifices to preserve the lives of their fellow countrymen. To preserve the lives of their wife, their children, their siblings, their brothers, their father, their mother. They laid their life on the line, and we would say their death was heroic. I was reading a story about uh World War II uh this past week. And I was reading the story of this guy, Iwo Jima, who personally rescued 75 people. He was unarmed. It's an incredible story. Really happened. And so when you think about these people's lives, there's a lot of amazing things for us to learn from that. But we have to be so careful that that doesn't become the identity. I want to be that hero. I want to be the one that dies the hero in the story. Everybody reveres me and remembers me. We've got to be so careful about this. Our identity cannot be in the things that people in this world glory in. He gives another example. Do not glory in anything that you are currently enjoying or things present. The fact is that the things that we enjoy at this season of our lives I mean, they're gifts from God. It's not like we're entitled to them. It's his kind hand that gives us those things. He says, don't make that your identity. Or things to come. Don't glory in anything that you're anticipating in the future. You know how many people they're like, I I I can I can remember at times in my life where I'm like, okay, I have this financial goal. I want to buy my first car And it was a it was a 1995 Too in a Tacoma pickup truck. It was incredible. 3,500 bucks I paid for that thing. And I remember like planning out how I'm gonna save the money to go buy that truck. And what I didn't realize was, oh, and you gotta also like put gas in it and you also gotta pay for your insurance and uh You might have to change the oil and put new tires on it because you know it was a 95 T at a Tacoma. And when you bought it it needed new tires. And, you know So you're planning and you've got all these things in place and you're like man when I can when I can go on that lot and I can write that check and I get that key and I turn that thing on and I drive it like oh I've arrived You know how many people are identities like something coming down the road? Like how do you know you're gonna get there? How do you know that things are gonna fall the way that you want them to? You expect them to? Again, don't glory in those things Do not glory in your self-sufficiency. All things are yours. Now, again, the reason that these things are mentioned is not to say that there isn't perhaps a correct way to look at each of these things. Don't let that be your glory. Don't let that be your identity. Don't let that be the thing that you live for and that motivates you more than anything else, because if that's it, you are no different than the lost people in this society all around us. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. It all starts with God. Our life needs to be life lives need to be lived for his glory. A high view of God, Proverbs nine ten. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, the knowledge of the holy is understanding. A healthy view of self. I say through the grace given unto me to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think. A healthy view of others. The fear of man brings a snare. Don't be afraid of other people. So how do we take this and how do we apply it? Because I know we've talked about a lot of concepts. I feel like the last part is it has a lot of practical already that's come out, but I want to put this all together in a way that I hope can be helpful to you. And you can take it home and say, okay, I know what I need to do and I know what I don't need to do. So I'm going to put it into two categories. First of all, negatively, don't, and then secondly, positively, do. So negatively, we cannot afford to allow our identity or sense of purpose to be rooted in anything above who and what we are in Christ. The thing that should define you as a person and me as a person more than anything else is how much money we make. How cool life is right now, what sacrifices we have made, who our heroes are, who knows us, who loves us. who admires us, what we purpose to do, what we used to do, how much we can lift, whatever. That cannot be our identity. Secondly, this worldly lie is fatal. And here's what will happen if we do this. And you know what a midlife crisis is? Some of you are like, yeah, I do know what a midlife crisis is. A midlife crisis is when people put all their eggs in certain baskets and life's starting to show them that that basket isn't full anymore. It's like when a person, their life is all about how much money they make and all of a sudden they start realizing their earning potential isn't what they thought it was going to be. Or like somebody who's an athlete when they were younger. And all of a sudden they're they're not running, they're not lifting, they're not playing sports anymore, they don't have people applauding them, they're not winning awards They're getting surgeries. Their shoulder, their knee, their hip. They're gaining weight. They can't run anymore. They can't do the things that they used to do. People that were so attractive when they were younger, and you know what? They're not anymore. People that thought when I get married, it's gonna be the greatest thing that ever happens, and they find out that marriage is hard work. I can't wait till I have those kids. And now you're like, I'm pulling my hair out. My hair is turning gray. Because kids are tough to deal with sometimes. And kids are like, uh-huh, and so are parents. But what's the point? All of a sudden those expectations that we had begin to fall short. And we don't know how to deal with that. And all of a sudden we like start looking for other things that can fill those voids. And we should stop and realize that the problem is that our values are off. And so while this will lead to seasons of joy, that'll be a false joy. It's going to lead to seasons of pride. It's also going to lead to a misplaced sense of security. And later on, when those things start to fall short, you know what it's going to do? It's going to lead to disillusionment, and sometimes people they loathe themselves. Because they think about who they were, but they're not that anymore. They think about what they purpose to do, and it's not gonna happen. And it's starting to hit them. I'm not gonna get to do that thing I thought I was gonna do. I'm not gonna be able to achieve something that I thought I was going to get to. I did achieve that and it's not as good as I thought it was going to be. Like why was Tom Brady still playing football at 44? I mean what did he have to prove? I'll tell you what it was. It's called worldly values. I mean it really is. Because there's going to be a day he's he's going to be like anybody else's age. It's just the truth. And it happens to everybody. It will plant seeds of discontentment. And you know what it ultimately is? It's really a form of idolatry. It's taken the good stuff of this world that God's given us, the opportunities. And it's making that the center of our joy and the center of our focus. And you know what God's going to do? He's going to knock the idols out. Because he loves us. He doesn't want us to be idolaters. And so in his own time, in his own way, he's going to target those things that we put in the place of him. So let's not do that. Positive. On the opposite, glory in Christ and what he's done. Glory in his grace that has brought you to himself. Glory in who you are in him. You know what's amazing? God loves us no matter how many teeth we have. He loves us no matter how little or how much hair we have. Pastor Josh. He loves us when our hair goes gray. He loves us when we can't run a fast mile anymore. He loves us when we're sitting in a wheelchair. He loves us when we're not as strong and as active and sharp as we used to be. Because God's love for us isn't something we earn. It's not something that we have to prove ourselves to get. He loves us because he's good. And the fact is, all the stuff that we latch onto in the place of God, all of those things in eternity aren't really going to matter. They're just not. And so there's so much we need to keep in our minds here, so much about perspective. We need to glory in his goodness that gives us every good and perfect gift, not the things that he gives us. His goodness that gave them. We need to glory in the greatness of our future inheritance with the saints. And so you know what this passage of scripture is, it's saying, hey, there's really like two ways to live in this world. You can put all your weight in godly wisdom. And you know what? You're going to have challenges. You're going to have ups and downs. You're going to have disappointments. There are going to be things that you thought you were going to do. They don't end up happening. There'll be things that you were purposing to do. They fall short. But that's not going to cause you to be disillusioned and bitter and angry and think that you're worthless. You know what that's going to do? It's just going to drive you back to what really matters. Or you can live with worldly wisdom, and like the rest of the world, you're going to end up chasing a lot of empty holes. And when you do that, it's going to be a long, hard road until you finally turn to the Lord and let Him deal with your heart. So may the Lord help us to apply the text this evening. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you so much for your word and these concepts. And all of us struggle in these areas. I struggle in these areas. I pray that you give us victory. Help us to think biblically. Help us to find the center of our joy and delight in the things that really matter. Help us to find our greatest sense of peace and security in you and what we have in Christ. Not in the things of this world, not in circumstance, not in what we hope will happen or what we think won't happen, what we wish would happen. Father, help our joy to be rooted entirely in you. Help us to live truly God-centered lives. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen.