Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh yesterday we did a bonus episode and this morning we're also going to do a bonus episode. Um and what we're going to be doing is we're going to look at the last portion of 1 Corinthians chapter 15, uh which kind of takes everything that we've talked about over the last several weeks and dealing with the resurrection. And we're going to look at some of the practical daily implications of those things. And so I hope that this will be an extremely encouraging and practical and helpful passage of scripture that we're going to look at. So if you have your Bible, I want to invite you to take it, and let's turn together to 1 Corinthians 15, and we're going to read verses 51 through 58. Here's what the text says. Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, Then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know, your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Now if you can remember back over the last several weeks we've been talking about the resurrection and there were issues going on in in Corinth in the church at Corinth, and the Apostle Paul had to address the issue that uh that was going on in relation to the resurrection. There were some people who were denying that there was going to be a literal physical resurrection of the saints. And so the Apostle Paul takes an entire chapter of that letter and he digs into the topic of the resurrection and he says, Jesus Christ literally physically died, he literally, physically rose from the dead, and because he literally died and rose from the dead You, as a believer, are going to have a literal resurrection to life. And so at the end of this passage, he mentions something Very important. That's what we call the rapture. In verses fifty-one to fifty-three, he says, I show you a mystery. This is not something that had been fully revealed before he writes this. He says, We'll not all sleep Speaking of death, but we shall all be changed. He's speaking of the glorified body. In a moment, the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible. And we shall be changed. This corruptible must put on immortality. What Paul is saying is not every single believer is going to physically die. But they will all enter into glory with a glorified body. And the way that's going to happen is when he raptures the saints to be with him. Those believers who do not experience death are going to basically receive a glorified body at that time period. And so because this is true, there are certain qualities that should be distinctive of the believer. And that's where the Apostle Paul is driving. He doesn't want them to just, he doesn't want to just answer the question Are the saints going to be resurrected? Are they going to have a glorified body? But he wants to address the question, since it's true, then why does it matter today? That's really what he's saying. And so let's look at those qualities one by one, and hopefully this will be very helpful to you. The first quality that he mentions is that God's people should be a people who live without a fear of death. Verses fifty-five and fifty-six he says, O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The strength of sin is death, and the strength of sin uh the sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. We know that death is a reality that all of us are going to face. And when we have a friend or someone that we love very dearly passes away, we have a lot of questions that we ask. And one of the questions we might ask is why is this person gone so soon? Or why was this person taken in this particular way? Or why do I feel this emptiness and this loneliness? And what do we do with this? How do I process these very difficult feelings that I'm encountering? How much time do I have left? What's going to happen to me? How am I going to be taken out of this world? How are the people going to process this who I leave behind? All these questions come up to us. And so we know that when a person dies, when they pass into eternity, the people that are left experience a lot of pain and suffering. So you might be asked the question, well Since that's true, then how can the Apostle Paul actually say, Where is your stain? Well the point that he's going to make is that though we do sorrow as Christians , the way that we saw as Christian Christians should be distinctly different from the way that the world around us processes death. And the reason for that is that we recognize that death is not the end. Death is a temporary time of separation for the believer, but we're going to be reunited with other believers. And so in 1 Thessalonians he says that we sorrow, but not as those who do not have hope. And so what he he does is he asks the question, where is your sting and where is your victory? And the answer is the sting is temporary. And this death is not a triumph. uh of of death and sin over us, but in fact we have because of Christ, we are going to actually conquer death and sin ourselves because of our union with Christ. That's what he's saying. And so the summary of this is basically that as Christians, we do not have to fear death. For ourselves, for others, we recognize that death is not the end. The second truth that we're going to see is that as God's people, not only should we not fear death, but we should have a continual disposition of gratitude or thankfulness to God. In verse 57, he says, thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. He connects back to the resurrection, back to the gospel, back to Christ's triumph over sin and death. He connects that back to the fact that we need to be a grateful people. We are not entitled to the blessings that we enjoy as Christians. They were given to us by the grace of God. It's because of grace, not because we've earned it, not because of merit, that we should be a thankful, redeemed people. Now, I think this is important for us to notice. Unbelievers, non-Christians, recognize that gratitude is a good quality They recognize that ingratitude is a poor quality. They understand that it's not good. And they understand on the horizontal level that we should be grateful to one another. But the question we should ask is, who should we ultimately be grateful to? And the answer to that question is God. Well, the unbeliever understands that gratitude is a good quality because they are a moral creature, just like a believer is the moral creature. And they have a conscience just like we have a conscience. The unbeliever does not have a basis for this gratitude like the believer has. And so the question is, who do they show the gratitude to ultimately? And why should they show it to this person ultimately? And what do they do with mixed circumstances where there's both good and there's bad? Are they still supposed to be grateful in those circumstances Well, the Bible, in what Christ has done for us, gives us a basis and gives us an object in all circumstances to be a grateful people. And so what does the text say? It says, thanks be to God. Which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. There's the object. God is the object. There is the basis for that gratitude. It's the work that Christ has accomplished. for us. Thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Because we are a redeemed people, we're to be a grateful people. And so we've seen the issue of gratitude. We've seen the issue of living without a fear of death. And the third is that we should be a people who live a purpose-filled life. Some people have this impression that, well, if I focus on eternity, then I won't be any good in this world. If I focus on spiritual realities, then I'm not going to be very effective in these physical realities. Notice what he says in verse 58. Therefore, so based on everything that he's saying, the thing that he's going to state here at the end, the practical thing, how we're supposed to live And the light of the resurrection is all connected back. This is implication. This is application. He says, therefore, because the resurrection is true, because you're going to enter into eternity with a glorified body, because of that. My beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Notice what he's saying. The purpose of the gospel is not to diminish the value of this world that we live in. It's to show us that there is a value on that side of eternity, and there is a value on this side of eternity We shouldn't walk away from the study wishing that we were dead and with the Lord and not having to deal with the frustrations and the difficulties of this life. There's actually this tension that we're supposed to feel as believers. In fact, the Apostle Paul actually expresses this in Philippians chapter 1. He says, for me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Well what 's Paul saying? There's value to living on this side of eternity, and there's value on living for that side of eternity. There is a tension that I feel. I want to live For Christ, and I know that to die is gain. That's what he's saying. But then he kind of breaks down into what the value of this world is. He says If we live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor, yet what I shall choose I want not. I'm in a strait betwixt two, desiring to be with Christ, which is far better, nevertheless For you , it's nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. So Paul is basically saying, because God has given me a role and a function in this fallen world I recognize the value of that. And so, yes, there's a sense in which being with the Lord is better, but there's also a sense in which doing what he's called me to do now is what I'm supposed to focus on. That's what he's saying. So when we look at the resurrection, we shouldn't walk away and say, well, I just want to be dead and not deal with this world. We should say, I want to be faithful because there's a sure eternity coming. But God is not taking me to be a part of that quite yet. He has something for me to do now. There are some experiences that he wants me to to enjoy. There are lessons that he wants to teach me that are are are connected to this side of eternity. There are ministries he wants me to be involved in. There is service that he desires for me to do. There is a role that God has given me to play in this world. Either I'm a man or I'm a woman or I'm a husband or I'm a wife or I'm a son or I'm a daughter I'm a parent I I'm a pastor, I have I have roles, I have responsibilities, I'm I'm a worker, I'm a person who runs a business. God has a different role for all of us. And so Our job is to be faithful in that role until he says, well done, good and faithful servant, now enter into the joy of the Lord. That's the idea behind it. And so what is the practical flowing out of thinking on eternity and the gospel and primarily the resurrection Well, number one, it's the word steadfast. Steadfast means it's going to keep me motivated when I get weary. And every one of us gets weary. There are certain things that we're involved in in life that maybe they're fun at the start, maybe they're exciting or early on, but it becomes work, it becomes worrisome and tiring. You know, you have a child, you love your child. Your whole life is wrapped around that child in many ways. Or children, okay? But the fact is having a child or having children is exhausting. It's tiring work. And so there are times that we get weary and worn down, and he says, be steadfast. Don't quit. Don't fall by the wayside. When you're growing weary, then stand strong. Then he says Be unmovable. The idea is that it keeps us grounded when we're shaken. Sometimes a person asks you a question, or sometimes you get some news that you were not anticipating. It could be a financial difficulty that you encounter. It could be a relational challenge. It could be so many different issues. And all of a sudden, that thing that comes, it begins to shake you. And you don't feel like you can stand on firm footing anymore. And what does the scripture tell us? Because of the gospel, because of what Christ has done for us, we can be steadfast and unmovable, not shaken. And the third thing he mentions is always abounding in the work of the Lord. The idea is that we feel compelled, we're motivated, to invest the resources that God has given us diligently in eternally significant endeavors. And so I recognize the value of what I'm doing. As a pastor, I recognize the value of investing in people's lives. As a husband I recognize the value of investing in my wife and helping her grow and and in developing a stronger, more vibrant relationship. With my children, I recognize the need to invest in their lives. When it comes to just my daily la labors, I recognize that there is there is significance not just in the moment, but there's eternal significance in those things because of what I have in Christ. And so he says, always abounding in the work of the Lord. And then he reminds us that our life actually matters when it's with work. God's God's glory in the eternal kingdom. Your labor is not in vain in the Lord. So I want to encourage you with that this week. These truths are very practical. We all recognize That we need to live life with confidence, not in terror about death. We all recognize that we need to be people that have thankful spirits and live with gratitude in our hearts. We all recognize that we need to live a life with purpose and resolve and stability and strength. The question is how? It's because of what Christ has done for us. You say, well, Joel, what's the practical implication? Well the the practical implication is we should ask ourselves some questions. Are we afraid of death? The answer is either yes or no. Are we genuinely grateful? Again, it's a yes or no question. Am I living my life with a sense of purpose, well grounded on the solid foundation of what Christ has done for me? If the answer is no to those things, then what I need to do is I need to get back to the gospel. It might be that the answer is no because you don't understand the gospel. Your life is not being built on the gospel because you've never taken that first step of placing your faith alone in the finished work of Christ. And so my encouragement to you this morning is turn to Christ, place your faith in his finished work. There is no other place that you can turn I don't know about you, but our study through this passage of Scripture, 1 Corinthians 15, and dealing with the resurrection, has been really practical, really helpful. I hope it's been encouraging to you I hope that you have a great rest of your week. And I know that we're going into the weekend, so if this is something that's been an encouragement to you, share it over the weekend. Tell someone about it. Or maybe the study that we did yesterday morning or any of these studies. Share them with others, tell them about what we're doing so that it can be an encouragement to them. If it's been an encouragement to you, share that and uh just give us some feedback. Hope you have a great weekend and Lord willing we will see many of you on Sunday and uh have a have have a blessed day by now