Take your Bibles, please. Let's turn together to the book of Ephesians. We're in Ephesians chapter 3 today, and I know that we took a little bit of a break from our Ephesians study because we were uh looking at Palm Sunday reflections and then um looking at the resurrection of Christ and also thinking about the cross. And so today we're going back into our Ephesians series and as we dig into this I want to kind of remind you What we talked about was several different weeks ago now. In Ephesians chapter 3, Paul is coming to the end of the section that deals with most of the doctrine. And then he's going to move in chapter four into the practice. And the practice is how are we to live knowing who we are and what God has done for us? All of that is going to come together. So chapter three is perhaps a hinge between these two portions of the book. The first half focusing on position and the second half focusing on practice. And if you remember back, when we were looking at this passage a few weeks ago, Paul takes a little bit of a detour from the movement that he's going through in this letter. And in chapter 3, verse 1, he says, For this cause I Paul, the prisoner, Jesus Christ for you Gentiles. And then he goes into this diversion, and then he comes back in verse number 14, and he says, For this cause I bow my knee. The whole point is to say this. Paul wants to communicate to the church how he is praying for them. And if you were to think about the way that we tend to pray, it says a lot about what we value. It says a lot about what we think is most important to us. And when we look at this prayer, we see what Paul values in the church. Something that we should all value as well. So let's look in our Bibles at this text, bow for prayer, and then dig into the content. Here's what it says. Ephesians chapter 3 verse 14. For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named, that he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breath And the lengths, and the depths, and the height, and to know the love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that ye may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us. Unto him, be glory in the church. By Jesus Christ throughout all ages, world without amen. World without end, amen. Do you get the idea that the Apostle Paul was someone that loved the superlative? He did. Perhaps we should love it a little more as well. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to really bless this time that we're going to spend in his word. Our Father, I thank you so much for this time we have already spent together as a body. These wonderful hymns that we've been able to sing and praise to you. The wonderful hymns we've been able to listen to as we've had special prepared selections to point us to reflect on your faithfulness and your goodness. And how you never ever promise and fail to deliver. But you are a God who is worthy of all praise. And all honor and all glory. Father, I pray that this morning, as we read this text and as we reflect on this prayer from Paul, that our hearts would be stirred. That we would recognize what you are doing in us, and that we would desire that you would do it more, more abundantly. And that we would be burdened that you would do this work in the lives of every person that we have opportunity to come in contact with. May today be a day of encouragement in your word, biblical instruction, worship and praise. And we ask this in Christ's name. I'm summarizing the text in the following way. God's people should long for spiritual maturity and embrace his work in that process. I'm going to ask you a question. I don't want you to answer it out loud. But the question is, do you need to grow? I could have said, do you need to grow up? Don't know that I want to do that. Do you need to grow? Do you need to mature? You know, all of us would get a little bit uncomfortable if we said, no, I don't need to do that, but to be totally frank about it, many of us, the way that we think about the Christian life, we actually act as if we believe. We believe we've figured it out. We believe that we've arrived. We believe that we've gotten at this place where We've reached this plateau and now we're need now we're at where we need to be and the rest of the Christian life is just coasting. Someone opens up a text of scripture and the truth is if you've listened to people preach for forty or fifty years of your life You've heard almost every passage you can imagine expounded at some point, maybe sometimes, many times, and it's really easy for us to get to this this this place where in our minds we go, you know what, I'm good I know that already. I don't need to hear this again. The truth is that Paul never reached such a place. And Paul never believed that the people that he was ministering to would reach such a place. He believed that though the position that we enjoy in Christ is 100% solid and we don't change in the position at all, I'm not going to be more righteous than tomorrow or more righteous in 20 years than I am today. I'm as righteous as Christ because I'm united to him. That's the end of the story. If we want to talk about this issue of holiness and the fact that we are set apart to God, I'm never going to be more set apart to God than I am today. I am holy and I am righteous in him. I am forgiven in him. But if you want to talk about how much I understand of my position, that's something that's always changing. If you want to talk about how much we actually reflect or bear the evidence of the position that we have, that is always changing. And when we talk about this issue of growth, growth has several components to it. For instance, things don't grow if they're not alive We know that. Some of you go, yeah, I'm a gardener and I realize that everything I touch dies and so I don't garden it anymore. I let other people do that. I'm so glad we have farmers because I would starve if I had to grow my own food Hey, take another shot at this sprint. It's gonna be a beautiful sprint, right? Not only does it take life, but it takes time. You say that's the one that gets me I gotta take care of the plant. I gotta water it. I gotta do all this stuff. I gotta prune it. I gotta spray its leaves if it starts getting the fungus. I gotta decide what isn't gonna kill me, but it's gonna kill the bad stuff, you know, that kind of stuff. Takes time. It takes experience. We have to actually pass through situations in life. And as we pass through those situations in life, guess what? We grow I was thinking about this the other day. I took one of my boys to a batting cage and we're in there and and it's like pitch after pitch after pitch. I think I threw about 150 to 200 pitches to my son in the times that I was there. And the thing that a apart from my arm being sore afterwards, the thing that really stood out to me was, you know, if you want to be good at hitting a baseball, you gotta sit in a cage And you've got to take cut after cut after cut so that you don't even think about it. It's 100% reaction. It's 100% muscle memory. When the ball is in a certain place, your body does a certain thing and you drive through that ball and you do it over and over and over and over and over again. You see, growth takes experience. You don't walk on the field having not taken practice over and over and over again and do well. It's just not how it works. But there's another side too. It's called response. How we respond to the circumstances we encounter. How you respond to your coach. You know, some people are very athletic, but they never get good because they're not teachable. And the coach says, I'd rather take this guy that's The truth is that when you when you look at just raw talent and skill, it's not quite to the same level as the other person, but they are willing to do everything they're told. They're going to do every drill to the best of their ability. They're not going to complain. They're not going to get all upset when I tell them, hey, you need to change your hand position or something like that. They're going to listen to me because they know I'm coached. They're not and they're going to actually improve. And by the way, it's not just in the athletic world. It's not just if you're trying to grow plants. This is how life works. We grow through a process with components. And the reason that Paul prays the way that he does is because he understands the process that God uses to mature his people. So Paul's prayer is going to touch each of those components as he talks about his great burden for the church that he's writing to. So let's go ahead and work our way through this text and hopefully get a little bit of Paul's heart, because this is the heart of Christ for our people. First thing that we see in the text is this, the object of the prayer that Paul has. And in this little statement, we see that when a person prays, they pray to the Father. You know how many times when we pray, we say, dear Jesus. You know what's funny? We don't really see that in Scripture. Dear Father. We see this over and over and over again. We are Trinitarians, okay? When we're praying to Jesus, we're not praying to the Father. We're praying to God, but we're praying to the Father. What I love about this text. is that Paul is going to address the role of each individual person in the Godhead. How the Father and how the Son and how the Spirit work together to cause you and to me to grow. Notice what he says in verses 14 through 16. He says, For this cause I bow my knee unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. that he would grant unto you according to the riches of his glory to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. Now let's kind of break this down a little bit and try to see what Paul is saying. First thing that really stands out to me is that we need a desire to actually grow spiritually. I mean, Paul is burdened about that. That's one of the most natural things that shows you a person is truly a believer. They want to grow. They want to learn. They want to know about God. If someone says, I'm a Christian, but they have absolutely no desire to grow, I pause and I go, something's off. Something's wrong. These people needed to grow, and Paul wanted them to grow. And growth comes through a process. So let's look at some of the different aspects of this. The first thing that we notice is that dead men do not grow. Verses 1 through 10 of chapter 2 give us a lot of information that shows us that in fact the reason that Paul prays is because he knows he's praying for people who are spiritually alive. He's praying for people who can grow because if they were not alive in Christ, they wouldn't have that capacity. He'd be praying for their conversion. He'd be praying for them to repent and believe. He's praying for their growth because they're alive. For instance, in verse 1, he says, you he has quickened who were dead. and trespasses and sins. You're not anymore, but you used to be. Verse number two, in times past, you walked according to the course of this world. You don't now because you're a new creature in Christ, but you once did. Verse number three, we all had our conversation in the past, fulfilling the lusts of our flesh and the desires of the flesh. But now we're alive in Christ and there's something, there's this new principle working in us, and it's pressing us and it's moving us and it's driving us. That's changed. Verse number five, when you were dead in sins, he has quickened us together with Christ. Verse 7, in ages to come, he might show the exceeding riches. of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. He's saying this isn't just about like right now. It's about forever. And then in verse 10, we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works. We start with this very simple thought. Because we're alive, we can grow. Very, very important. If you're in this room this morning, or you're following on the live stream and you do not know the gospel, you never place your faith in Christ, there's never been this moment where you have been struck with the weight of your sin, and that God is holy and righteous and he cannot accept you. But he has made it possible for you to be redeemed to him through the death of Christ on the cross and his triumph over death in the resurrection. And you've understood that is your only hope, and you've turned to Christ and you've placed your faith in Christ unless you've done that. The whole rest of the message cannot be properly applied to you unless you've believed on Christ. Christ. It's impossible. Your need is to repent and believe. But for the vast majority of us, maybe everybody here, maybe everybody listening, I don't know. This passage applies because we bear the image of Christ and we are new creatures in Christ. Second thing we see is that growth comes through cultivation. He says that he would grant unto you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might. Notice, he is doing something. Third fact we see is that the Father works in our lives to shape us. I think of James chapter 1, verses 4 to 5. He says, let or allow, permit patience to have her perfect work. Why? So that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. So when when Paul gets down on his knees and he prays for the church, he prays to the Father because he believes the Father has to shape the maturing process of this individual. All of these individuals. They've actually got to be shaped by his hands. For instance, John 15, I'm the true vine. My father is the husbandman. Every branch in me that beareth not fruit, he takes it away. Every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit. Anybody in here ever tried to grow grapes? We grow a lot of grapes at our house. Our whole our whole back fence is lined with grapes. And every year I always you know watch YouTube videos to know when I'm supposed to do this because I don't want to do it at the wrong time. But I go out there and I cut off tons of grapes and tons of growth. I mean you cut it back so that there's like a little nub. You got these lines that kind of give you the structure of your vine. And then you have all these little burrs, and then from these burrs comes all this new life. In fact, it's just starting to come now. This week. It's really going to come because it's going to get warm. And what's really interesting is as each of those little birds puts out those new shoots, you're going to see growth. And as it grows, you're going to see these little clusters And each of those little clusters are actually going to be flowers. And then those flowers are going to be what produces hopefully lots and lots of grapes. But over the course of the whole summer, I'm going to have to go back out there and I'm going to have to prune and I'm going to have to cut back so that this vine doesn't get all kinds of nasty little mildews and stuff like that. There's a lot of cultivation work that goes on. So there's some branches I cut them off because that growth needs to go. And there's some branches as they're growing I prune them back over and over and over again And guess what? That's what people do when they cultivate. Jesus used that as an illustration to say that's what God does in your life He wants you to be fruitful, just like if you're a farmer, if you're cultivating grapes, you want those fruits to grow. You want them to be lush, you want them to be juicy, you don't want the plant to get diseased. And so you go and you care for it over and over and over again. You know what that tells you? Somebody that understands the process has to do the work. Sometimes when we don't understand the process, we mess it up. But God doesn't do that. In other words, our lives are in a process of bearing fruit. And the Father is personally working on us so that we're fruitful Hebrews 12, 5. Listen to what it says. He says, Do not despise the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him, whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons. No chastening for the present time seemeth to be joyous. But grievous, nevertheless, afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Now here's what's different about a person and a plant. When you cut back that plant, it doesn't yell at you. It doesn't cry. Now it might it might it might put out a lot of juice, okay, depending on where you cut it, but it it doesn't rebel against you. But when you discipline a person, they respond. And you know what would happen if we never trained our children? If we never told them, hey, what you want to do is wrong and I'm not going to let you do it. If we always just gave them what they wanted over and over and over and over again. You know what your child would become? An adult with zero self-control. An adult who couldn't work a job. An adult who couldn't get along with a spouse An adult who wouldn't be able to parent, an adult who could not be corrected, an adult who would not thrive. Why? Because we have to be restrained. We have to be taught. We actually have to be dealt with sometimes a bit firmly. And what does he say? He says, do not despise the chastening of God, whom he loves. He rebukes. You know what this tells me? This tells me that sometimes in the process that is necessary for us to grow, we get upset at God. We don't like what he takes away. We don't like the direction that he pushes us. We don't like how he stops us. We don't like how he confronts us. You know why some people don't grow? It's because they resist God in the process. And so this first part of the prayer, when he prays to the Father, he's saying, do your work. And he's not only saying to the Father, do your work, he's saying, and please soften the hearts of your people so they respond to you right in it. Maybe right now you find yourself in a place like that. Circumstances are pressing on you, and it's so easy for us to look at the immediate pain and frustration of the moment, and sometimes we even get upset at God. Don't do it. Step back and allow the Word of God to minister to your soul and realize there's a God in heaven. He loves me. He's permitting what I'm encountering. He has a purpose in it. I've got to submit to him in the process. and let him do the work. Second thing that we see is this, the confidence of the prayer that Paul is praying. And what we see in these verses is not only is he praying to the Father, But he's praying to the Father with something strengthening his confidence, and that is confidence in the Spirit. Verse number 16, he says. to be strengthened with might by his spirit in the inner man. So when you and I grow, we grow because first of all, we're alive And God the Father is working providentially in our lives. There are times he causes us to pass through difficulties. He permits us to pass through difficulties. Sometimes he brings us through smooth territory. Sometimes we experience rich blessings. Sometimes hard circumstances. But God is working through all of those things. to bring to pass what he wants in our lives, to bring us to maturity, completeness, wholeness. But how does the Father do it? That kind of focuses on the outside working on a person. What's going on inside the person? Well, that's where the Holy Spirit comes into play. The first thing we see is that the Spirit who indwells us works in our hearts to stimulate growth and to cultivate fruitfulness. Maybe I could use this as an illustration. I don't, it's probably an imperfect illustration, I'm sure, so please don't take it too far. But not only do you have to prune the plants. But you gotta water the plants. And you gotta make sure that you give it the right amount of nutrition. And so there are times that you take that uh that nutrient-rich fertilizer and you put it and dress it along the base of that plant and as that water soaks in, what does it do? It gives vitality to that plant. And all of a sudden it starts to really pop. You know what I'm talking about? And you're like, wow, it looks really beautiful So it's not just the sun that's making it grow, and it's not just the water that's making it grow, but it's the nutrients in the soil that's making that plant grow. The Spirit of God who indwells us works inside of us to stir up and to stimulate growth so that we are fruitful. That's what he means when he says to be strengthened with might in the inner man. I love that word strengthen. In fact, the term that's used, there are two other, actually there are a lot of other passages where This term is used, but two of them really stand out. And they're the the way that John the Baptist is is talked about in Luke chapter 1 and the way that Christ is talked about in Luke chapter 2. In Luke 180 it says the child grew And he waxed strong. He waxed strong in spirit. He was filled with wisdom. And the grace of God was upon him. Have you ever watched your kids grow? Like we have this little chart on the wall in our kitchen. And there's like tons of marks. And when you have six kids And you and you you do marks every six months or a year. Like there's a lot of marks on there. We've lived in a house eight years, okay? So we have all these little marks on this wall. And you're like, wow, that's where he was like six months ago and that's where he is now. Or that's where he was a year ago, that's where he is now. And and all of a sudden you look at that kid and you're like Wow, that kid's really growing. Like the arms are stretching, the legs are stretching, starting to get a little bit of, you know, guns right there. Starting to get strong. That's kind of neat to see that. That's what that's normal. That's what happens when people grow up. Their bodies change, they mature, they develop, they get strong. As he talks about John the Baptist, he waxed strong in spirit. He matured. Christ, Luke 2, 40. The child grew and he waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. Can you think about the, I mean, what an amazing thing. Christ grew. He increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. And so there's that word, strengthen, to act strong. The Spirit of God who indwells us begins to strengthen us from within It's like you're going through a very difficult time and you feel so weighed down and you open up your Bible and you're reading it in the morning and as you're reading it that truth begins to really do something inside of you. And as you read it, it prods you, it pokes you, it encourages you, it comforts you, it motivates you. As you listen to a sermon and it's laid before you, it's not just, oh, it's some emotional appeal, but the Spirit of God who indwells the person Takes that truth and he begins to stir up our hearts internally and we say, I can do this. I need to do this. I've not been doing this. I've got to start doing this. He begins to work in us. He strengthens us. The Spirit does that from within. John 14, 17. I love this statement He says, the Spirit of truth, who the world cannot receive, dwelleth with you and shall be in you. You know what's amazing about that verse? It shows you that before the cross, the disciples had the Spirit's presence, but not inside. He was with them, but not in them. And there's a difference between the disciple and the world, but he says, when the Spirit comes, he will be in you. The Spirit of God works in us. So why does Paul pray with such confidence? He says, I pray to the Father because I know he cares about his children. He's going to actively work in their life. And I know that the Spirit of God who indwells them is going to change them. What an awesome thought. He does it through Scripture. James 1. Receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls. You know how graft works? All these like agriculture, it must be on my brain at the moment. It's because I was in Wisconsin and it was like so cold and dead. And then I came back here and I'm like, wow, there's like life popping everywhere. But a graft is you have this tree and you have this young and tender plant and and you cut a portion and you You slide it in there, and then you bind it, and as you bind it, guess what happens? Eventually, those two pieces grow together and they become one tree. And as they're united as one tree, all of the nutrients come from the soil through that initial plant, and then it puts out the fruit of whatever was grafted in. And the word of God does that in our lives. As the word of God is implanted into our souls, God uses the word to become a part of our life, and he changes us and he causes us to become fruitful. The engrafted word able to save your soul. 2 Corinthians 3. 18, we all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. There is that picture again. Ephesians 6. 17, the sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. So the Spirit of God doesn't just do this through some random process, he does it through Scripture. Put it very simple. If you neglect the word, you take away what the Spirit uses. By the way, he could do what he wants. That chastening thing, then the Father's going to get our attention, all right? He's going to use circumstances to drive us back to his word. But the word of God is what the Spirit uses to change us. And so when we pray, we've got to take this responsibility seriously. Trust the Father to listen and work. Trust the Spirit to work through the Word. Get into the Bible, because that's what He promises to you. Third thing I want you to notice is the focus of this prayer. We are shaped into the image of Christ. Look at verses 17, 18, and 19. He says, I pray that Christ may dwell in your heart by faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may be able to comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and depth and height. and to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. Now there's a lot to unpackage in those verses. But let me break it down to you this way. The first thing that we see that really stands out. is that it is the love of God that nourishes and stabilizes the soul so that we grow and change. . . And that's what he means when he says You being rooted in love and you being grounded in love. I do not believe that what Paul is saying is, I pray that you will be rooted in love. Or I pray that you will be grounded in love. I think he's saying you are. You are rooted in love. You are grounded in love. And because that is true, you have a nourishing of soul. You have a source that can change you. You have stability rather than instability. And so he starts with reminding them who they are and what they have because of how God has worked in their life. But the second thing that we see is that spiritual maturity has several components. For instance, a reshaping of the character. That's what he means when he says By the way, at the end of that little section, he says, so that you might be filled with all the fullness of God. What is Paul saying there? He's saying, you who are a Christian. You who are planted in Christ, you who have the Spirit, who the Father is working in your life, shaping you as a person. Your goal, his goal, is that your life bears the marks of Christ. That's what he wants people to see in us. That's what he wants people to see when things don't go the way that we want them to. That's what he wants to see when things are disappointing and frustrating. When somebody comes after us, when we have a difficult series of circumstances. That's what he wants us to see when life's going smooth and we are tempted to be very proud and very entitled and very self-centered. He wants our lives to bear the marks of our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so he says that Christ would dwell in your hearts. His character being formed in us, the spirit influencing us and touching every single area of the life. That's what he's talking about. There is a second component that he mentions, and that is not about what we are becoming as much as what we are comprehending. And this is very important. A dynamic comprehension of God's love, he says, so that ye might be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breath And the lengths, and the depths, and the heights. Again, Paul loves his superlatives. He says the love of God is something that is beyond our full ability to comprehend. But I'm praying. That your knowledge of his love will just grow deeper and broader and higher and wider day by day. I want you to understand how much he loves you. I want you to understand how good he is. I want you to understand the benevolence of God. I want that to fully grip your soul, and you'll never arrive where you've got it all figured out, but it just keeps growing with time. You know how many Christians do not believe that God loves them? A lot. And you say, why is that? Is it because God doesn't love them? Of course not. God does love them. I mean, if someone would send their son to die for your sins, they love you. If someone would bring the gospel to you through so many different means, they love you. If someone would be patient with us through all the times that we have stumbled and we have been very difficult as his children, he loves us. God's love is an absolute constant. The problem isn't whether or not he loves us, it's whether or not we comprehend it. Whether we grasp it. it, whether we really believe it. And so he says, I'm praying that you will comprehend with all the safes, the breadth, length, depth, and height. You know what that tells me? That tells me that we can vacillate. There can be an ebb and a flow in our comprehension of the love of God. There can be a growth, or there can be an attrition of our comprehension of the love of God for us. And part of spiritual maturity is understanding how much God loves us. And that warming our souls, that giving us encouragement. But then he comes to a third component, and this is different, but connected to the one we just mentioned, and that is a vibrant experiential sense of God's love. It's not just that I could sit down and I could tell you about it. It's that I have felt it. I've experienced it. Have you ever passed through a situation in your life? And usually this happens during very difficult times when you finally get that that respite afterwards This is usually how it goes. Maybe it's because you you have you have done something very, very serious as a Christian. You have stumbled in the Christian life. You have felt the weight of that. You have felt the misery of that. And then God in his mercy has brought you back to a correct understanding. There's been a humbling in your heart. And now you're at a position where you're thinking properly about God. And he's used circumstances. He's used people, He's used your word, His Word, all different things. And in those seasons, we experience a very rich and warming sense of God's love unlike any other time in our lives. I've experienced this. Or maybe you go through a series of circumstances and when you stop and you reflect on it, you realize only God could have done this. Only God could have done this. And the more you think about it, the more that truth begins to really get into your soul. And you feel this overwhelming sense. Of affection for God and affection for God. That is what spiritual maturity brings. Not just ahead knowledge, but an experience He says, so that we would know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge. I think about in Romans chapter 8, where he talks about the Spirit. bearing witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. I mean, one of the ways God does that is we read the Bible and we see what God promises and we say, okay. God's word is clear. If we'll confess with our mouth the Lord Jesus, believe in our heart that God's raised him from the dead, we'll be saved. With the heart you believe unto righteousness, with the mouth, confession is made into salvation. I'm saved. The word of God tells me that But there's also a sense where when the truth hits your soul and you respond from the heart emotionally to it, guess what? It grips you. It grips you deeply. It's an overwhelming sense of how good God is. And that's what Paul's getting at He wants his church family to have that. And you know what? We should want that. We should want that for our kids. We should want that for other people that attend our church. We should want that for people that don't know the Lord yet, but need to come under the ministry of the gospel and be brought to the Lord, place their faith in Christ, and understand how good He is. Experiential love. And the fourth, which is very much connected to the first, is a complete transformation of identity That ye might be filled with all the fullness of God. What does God want? He wants his children to have one ultimate identity. And you know what that is? I'm a child of God. All the things that the world says should be our identity, they don't matter. They really don't. The number one thing that should identify a Christian is that he is a sinner saved by grace. I belong to him. I am his child. Everything else pales in comparison to that. That is our identity. And so what is spiritual maturity? It's a person that what he cares about most is who he is in Christ. Other people's opinions really aren't that big a deal. What the world says we need to be doesn't really matter. It's who am I in Christ. That's what matters. The fourth thing we see in these verses is the end of the prayer, and that is it is all about bringing glory to God. And again, Paul's superlatives, verses 20 through 21. Now unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh on us. Unto him be glory in the church by Christ. Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen. Woo, that's something right there, isn't it? That's what our prayer is supposed to end with. It's about Him. You know where most of our prayers end? God help me to be comfortable. It's true. Don't let me experience pain in life. Make my life easy. How about get the glory, whatever that means. Whatever that takes. And by the way, I I don't want anybody to go through heartache in life. I don't want to go through heartache myself. I don't want my kids to go through heartache But I'm not sovereign and neither are you. I don't have infinite wisdom, neither do you. Sometimes God has to permit the difficulties of life to produce something that is. Beautiful. And we've got to be willing to embrace what he's doing. The first thing we see here is that God's redemptive purpose for us is far bigger than we can comprehend. in our short-sighted, limited perspective. Verse 20, unto him that is able to do exceedingly abundantly above all that we ask or think. He's saying, you ask me to do something, I can do a lot more than you're asking. That's what he's saying. Secondly, the transformation that is addressed in these verses is all about God working. It's by his power, not ours. Nobody grows by their own power. Now, I'm not suggesting we don't have responsibility. We need to read the Bible. We need to be gathered with the church. We need to be submitting to God through circumstances. We have a will that needs to submit to God. But we don't grow by our own power. As we surrender to Him, as we put the Word in our hearts, He takes the Word, He takes that response, and He uses it to accomplish His purposes. It's according to the power that worketh in us. Fact number three, as God transforms our lives, he gets all the the glory. It's unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus through all ages, world without end. Amen. Folks, this is the way we should pray. I'm not saying we shouldn't pray some of the other ways we pray, praying for people's physical issues, for for the spiritual issues in people's lives that we we know about, uh that that people would be able to handle the difficult circumstances of life. I I think we absolutely need to pray for those things. And our prayer sheet is filled with those kinds of things. But we shouldn't pray only for those things. In fact, I don't even think we should pray first for those things. When we pray for people who are struggling with physical issues, don't just pray for the physical healing. Pray for it, but say, God. Strengthen my brother. Strengthen my sister. Help them to grow. Help them to mature. Teach them of your goodness in the midst of these circumstances. Help them to rise above those things. Not to stumble in those things. And as we pray for the development of their maturity, pray for the physical healing as well. Far too often we focus on only one thing, and not both. How do we apply this text? Let me give you some simple thoughts in closing. The first application of this is this: we need a longing for maturity. Ask God to give you a deeper hunger to know Him and grow in Him. We opened up the service with Psalm 119. It says, Open my eyes to behold wondrous things out of thy law. That's where we should start every day. God, I'm about to open your holy word. I'm about to read the Bible. I am tired. I am easily distracted. I'm coming to this text with a bias in my mind already. I need to hear from you. I need you to speak to me. I need you to work in me. I need you to feed my soul. I want you to take the word and cultivate in me a deep passion to know you and love you and grow in you. We need to have that. Get back to the basics of the Christian life. You know, it's so easy for us to argue about theological controversies that the church has never been able to resolve. And while we argue, we ignore what we all know to be true. So true. We ignore the basics. And you know the basics are what we need more than anything else in life. We need to take time to reflect on Christ and what He has done for us. What I mean is, we need to preach the gospel to ourselves every single day. We need to think about the cross, not just on Good Friday. Or Resurrection Sunday or Palm Sunday, or the weeks leading up to this. No, we need to think about the cross and the triumph over death every day. We need to think about what Christ has done for us. We need to prioritize time in his word. You know, if I don't eat breakfast in the morning, I'm like a pathetic wimp. It's the truth. I feel so lethargic. I feel so weak. I have to eat. Because if I don't eat in the morning, I don't have that vitality and that strength. It's not even about coffee, it's about food. And guess what? We can go day after day after day not reading the Bible, and we understand we don't understand why, spiritually speaking, we are so deficient. We are so weak. It's because we don't get into the Word. Second thing. We need to understand what He's doing. The foremost goal of the Christian life is to shape us into the image of Christ. Lots of young people say, I want to know what God's will is for my life. Well, number one, he wants you to be like Jesus. He wants you to get saved, and then he wants you to be like Jesus. And then he starts working in our lives in specific ways about what we're going to do as he's making us like Jesus. And as he's going to work in the lives of other people. But our foremost desire should be to grow to look more like Christ. In that process, he wants to reveal himself to us in a very practical way. It's not just some sterile and calloused process, but he wants us to know him in the midst of that process. You know what really causes friends to be close? Going through heartache together. Going through difficulty. Bearing burdens together, working through difficulties together. Those things bond individuals. And guess what? As we go through life, God endears us to Him. as he builds us through the difficulties of life. As we grow, he works through us for his glory. Third application. We need to understand how he's doing it. He uses all circumstances to shape us. The Spirit who indwells us uses the word to strengthen us and to shape us from within. We need to understand that because that's what he uses. And we need to embrace what he's doing. Growth only happens when we respond properly to him. Pain can make us bitter and disillusioned, or it can make us strong and compassionate. You realize that? Two people, same circumstances, one is bitter. One is angry. One is disillusioned. One wants nothing to do with God. And one is strong. And wise and compassionate, and an incredible instrument in the hands of God to work in the lives of people. What's the difference? Not circumstance. God. The choices they make, the way they think about their father. Don't accept a victim's mentality. Grow and learn and rise above your circumstances. with the strength that God provides. This is so critical. And so I close with Romans chapter 8, verses 28 and 29, because I think Paul summarizes it perfectly here. We know all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose, whom he did foreknow, he did predestinate to be conformed to the end image of his of the son. That's what Paul's saying. May God help us to live like we believe that text is true. Let's bow for prayer. Father in heaven, you know the burdens that we carry. And I pray that as we carry those burdens, we would grow in you. Grow in our knowledge. Grow in our affection. Grow in our maturity. Father, help us not to be resistant to you in this process. Help us not to be angry at you when you rebuke us, when you chasten us. But Father, help us to realize that's the hand of a loving God. Who knows exactly what we need in the moment to make us what we need to be. Lord, help us to have such a deep burden for our own growth and the growth of those around us. Pass this in Christ name, amen