Let's all turn together to the book of Luke, and we are in Luke chapter 20 this morning. In fact, uh last week we stopped uh for a moment to focus in on the Psalms and then We've got to kind of remember that we're picking up in the middle of a thought that we looked at two weeks ago from Luke chapter 20. And so I'm going to go ahead and pick up in verse 46. We'll be down to chapter 21, verse 6 And then we'll pause and spend some time asking the Lord to help us to really understand these truths that are in front of us this morning. Scripture says, beware of the scribes. which desire to walk in long robes and love greetings in the markets and the highest feasts in the synagogues and the chief rooms at feast. Which devour widows' houses and for a show make long prayers, the same shall receive greater damnation. And he looked up and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury. And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites. And he said, Of a truth, I say unto you, that this poor widow has cast in more than they all. For all these have of their abundance cast in unto the offering of God, but she of her penury Hath cast in all the living that she had. And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, he said As for these things which ye behold, the day will come, and the which there shall not be left one stone upon another that shall not be thrown down Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Our Father, as we look at this passage, I pray that you'd help us to land firmly on a biblical path as we look at this issue of the widow's might. Father, help us to recognize how this passage lays out a correct understanding of the issue of giving. And I pray that as we dig into this text and we think about all of the details that are going on around this offering and how people looked at it and how Christ addressed it, I pray that you would use all the things that are presented this morning to shape our thinking so that we might be more aligned with biblical Christ-honored thinking. Father, I pray that you'd help us to worship you in spirit and in truth as we reflect on your word this morning. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a very interesting passage because if you're to go and read many, many commentaries and how people would look at this passage, you're going to fall into two basic categories of looking at the text. There would be a group of people that would say this passage of scripture is all about showing you a great example of sacrifice. And so if you were to look at those commentators and look at the things that they would say, it would all be emphasizing the greatness of this woman's gift because she sacrificed everything for the sake of giving to God. There's also another side that would look at this passage of Scripture and they would say, it is true that what the woman gave was very sacrificial But that gift was in the context of a lot more information. In fact, if we look at what Jesus said leading up to this interaction We look at what Jesus said after this interaction, what we would see is that in fact the tone of this portion of Scripture is extremely negative. And it is negative because it is demonstrating what happens when people who embrace religious practice that is not sound, that is not scriptural, how they can be very easily abused. or how they can use that system of religious practice to puff themselves up in pride. I actually would fall into the second category in how I look at the text. In fact, we're going to try to cut the corner between two very important concepts. And I use this illustration many, many years ago when I was learning how to drive. I can remember the first time that I got behind the wheel and it was actually my mother who was riding in the passenger seat alongside of me. And I can remember gripping that steering wheel and I was feeling this This tension of emotion. One was, I was so excited to actually have my hands on the wheel and I'm driving this thing down the road. I also had uh my mother melting next to me in the driver's seat, and some of you know what it's like to be in that situation. And then I also had this fear and trepidation. And I remember that I was driving down this road, it was a country road, and I was looking at the edge of that road, and my whole focus was on making sure I didn't drive off the road. Guess what I did? I did not drive off the road. Instead I drove in the other lane. Okay? And the whole idea is that as you're driving down this road, your focus can't be on not driving off the road because if that's your focus then you're going to drive into the other lane. Your focus has to be look in front of you and drive straight down the lane that you're supposed to stay in. In fact, there are a lot of biblical concepts that I think would fall into this category. What will happen is we will look at the abuse of a thing And that becomes our focal point, and as a reaction against that, we drive on the other side of the road and we end up in a crash on that side. And when we talk about this issue of giving, there are two lines that we have to stay between. And I hope that what is said this morning will help you to see a biblical understanding of this concept. So I first of all want to give you a summary statement of the text in front of us. It is impossible for dead religion to produce a healthy view of giving because giving is a grace. That flows from life-giving Christ-centered doctrine. This is not just true about giving. This is true about every single expression of worship. This is true about how you sing. This is true about the preaching and teaching of the Word of God. This is about how we give. This is about how we show kindness to other people, the way that we treat other people, every single matter of worship and obedience to God is to be something that flows out of a proper understanding of who we are in Christ, our relationship to God through the death and resurrection of Christ, And as new creatures in Christ who are thinking right about God and right about ourselves, what flows out of that is a healthy expression of worship. In other words, worship is not in any way about feeling good about ourselves. It's not about how much we can accomplish through what we've done. It's not about getting the attention of other people. Worship is about expressing to God that you love him in a way that he says to do it. That's what worship is. And so when we talk about the topic in front of us, that would apply very, very clearly in the text that we are seeing. And so what we see in this passage is people in a context that is not Christ-centered. It is not biblical in its thinking. And I want to kind of lay that out a little bit in just a couple of minutes. As we work through this passage, I think what you will see is that the text drives us to see that God wants us to give from a healthy view of Him. And that's the way that we should live the Christian life. So how do we do this? Well, let's work our way through this passage of Scripture and hopefully stay in the lines and drive down the center of our lanes. The first thing I want you to notice is the context of the passage in front of us. And I mentioned this two weeks ago when we dealt with this passage. Sometimes we look at a chapter division. That chapter division kind of uh breaks a thought that is going on. And so we read chapter 20 and then we we uh go throughout our day and then we pick up chapter 21 and it's almost as if we don't see that there's this connection between what is stated in 20 and 21. There's this continuous thought. Notice what it says in verses 46 and 47. This is the context. He says, beware of the scribes. Which desire to walk in long robes and love greetings in the marketplace and the highest feats in the synagogue, the chief rooms at feast. And this statement is really important. which devour widows' houses, and for a show make long prayers, the same shall receive greater damnation. Did you catch that They devour widows' houses and for a show make long prayers. In other words, what they do is they abuse the most vulnerable, and the question is, how do they do it? Do they just steal their land? Do they just steal their money? Well it's uh it actually is a form of theft. It really is. It's through the kind of teaching that the people are under. Or people use their religious practice to prop themselves up and to draw attention to themselves, and then ultimately what happens is everybody pats them on the back because, boy, the way that you pray is so godly. And the way that you give is so sacrificial. And the way that you do this and the way that you do that, what an amazing example. And God says, so it's not It's filthiness. Because you're taking truth and you're twisting it and you're using it for unsavory purposes. He talks about a warning, beware of the scribes. He describes what you see when these men do their work and those who follow their teaching. He talks about desiring to walk in long robes, religious pomp and circumstance. They love greetings in the marketplace, this hyper-spiritual greeting that people will hear and see. They love the highest seats of the synagogue, honors in religious contexts. They love the chief rooms of the feast, honors and social settings. They devour widows' houses. They love money and they're covetous and they're using power. and coercion to get that money. For a show, they make long prayers. They're using worship in a hypocritical way. And then they speak of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts. They're impressed with the facilities that they build and that they worship in. Now the truth is we could sit down and we could really pick that apart. But all of this is a very simple way of saying this. When it's wrong at the foundation. Everything above it falls apart. When it's wrong at the root, everything downstream from that dries up. There'll be no fruitfulness. There'll be no vibrancy. What you see will have a problem because it's at the root. It's at the foundation where the problem lies. And that's why he gives the warning. And then gives a promise. And we tend to think of promises very positively, but this one's not so positive. The same shall receive greater damnation. And we know that God judges all, but do you realize that the condemnation of some will be even greater in proportion than others. I'm not here to explain how that works because the Bible doesn't lay out all of those details, but it clearly states that these people will have a greater level of liability and condemnation because of their access to truth, the way that they've twisted the truth, the way that they've used the truth to prop themselves up. And ultimately, how it is affected and how it has been very detrimental in the lives of people. False teaching is extremely dangerous. And he mentions this. And then we see the doctor in action. He looked up, and he saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury, and he saw a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites And what does Jesus see? He sees self-promotion through those that had means and exploitation of that one which did not. That's the context. Second thing I want you to notice this morning is the contrast that is laid out in the text in front of us. Now, in order for us to kind of appreciate what's going on, it's helpful for us to understand the practice of Old Testament giving. And what we are looking at here is not something that was commanded in Scripture. It was something that happened after the temple was built by Zerubbabel, and for a series of hundreds and hundreds of years, about 500 years of time. The temple was taken care of, and then in the first century, those who were in power came in league with the Romans, and ultimately they took the temple that was being used properly. And they abused proper practice of the temple, and they built on that temple. I'd like to comment on exactly what's going on here. The gifts that were being given were free will offerings given to the Sadducees. who administrated the temple. Now we know some things about the Sadducees because we were here just a couple of weeks ago talking about the fact that these are people who rejected the resurrection. They did not believe that when a person died there was anything that happened after this. And by the way, if you don't believe in the resurrection, that shapes a lot about how you live. It shapes what you see as valuable. It shapes how you influence the time that you live. There's a lot of practical downstream things that come from a rejection of the resurrection. And so these people, the Sadducees, administrated the temple. Herod the Great, for 80 years was leading this transformation, he didn't do it for all of the 80 years, okay? But he is leading this transformation of Zerobival's temple that had actually been built by Persian money 500 years earlier when the Diaspora which was taken into Babylon and then ultimately the Babylonians are conquered by the Medo-Persians and then they're sent back to the land and they rebuild Jerusalem and they rebuild the temple. Zerubbabel was the one who built that temple. It's the same temple, but it doesn't look like the same temple. Because for 80 years they have built been building this massive series of additions and there's a tremendous amount of money and the question is why did they care? Well because there was a lot of pride associated with this This is one of those seven wonders of the world kind of places. When you came to Jerusalem, there's this massive temple. And so the temple was not thought of in terms of sacrifice and pointing to the Messiah as much as it was nationalistic pride. Look what we have built. We have this amazing facility that people go up to. And you even see it come out in this text. What does it say? Some spoke of the temple, verse 5, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts. And Jesus says, well, it ain't gonna be there much longer. So enjoy it while you have it because this is not going to last forever. The Sadducees were the aristocrats of their society. They worked masterfully with the Romans, maintaining tight control over their own people. And this alliance led to all kinds of corruption. That is why Jesus goes into the temple during the Passover week and he takes those tables and he overthrows them and he casts out the money changers and he says, You have made My father 's house again of faves. This is supposed to be a house of prayer for all nations, and you have corrupted it. What does that show you? All of the people that are associated with the control of the temple, with few exceptions, are part of this corrupt system. And this alliance, in fact, was something that the people worked very hard to do the very best of their ability to control You know what the irony is? Six years after this temple project was finished, the Romans came in and completely destroyed it. 80 years of building and all this impressive gloating over what they had, and six years later it was gone. Nothing left. You say, why do you say that? That's what this woman is giving toward. This is what she's giving everything she has toward. A temple that when it's completed will be completely destroyed. A temple that is being managed by people who don't even believe in the resurrection. Being managed by people who are maintaining their power and they are using a system that is built on the truth but a twisting of the truth, she is being crushed by that system. And that is what Jesus means when he says they devour widows' houses, because that's what they were doing. But I think for sake of perspective, it's also very helpful to understand what the people were actually biblically supposed to do when it came to giving. Now I'm not going to give you this long explanation of all this. I just want you to get a basic sense of what they were supposed to do. And I really want to drive at the why. What was the purpose of them giving? Because there are certain principles and timeless truths that are being illustrated in the way that the people were to give. I think it's important to remember that Old Testament Israel was a part of a theocracy. So we talk about giving in the Old Testament, like the Levitical tithe. It was a religious tithe, but it was not just a religious tithe. There was also a governmental side of this because there was a an obligation to God. Okay? Or when we talk about the fact that there was a cancellation of debts We think about our court systems and how legal disputes are handled when people file for bankruptcy or something like that. There would have been instruction given in the Levitical system for how to handle these issues. And so there were three basic tithes that the people were responsible to give toward. The first was the Levitical tithe, and every year they were to set aside 10% of what they made, and it was given to God, but ultimately to benefit the Levites who had no land and no ability to take care of themselves except for the priesthood. There was a second tithe that was involved, and this was a setting aside of goods, another tenth for festive occasions. In fact, they had storehouses And these storehouses were places where they would take all of these goods. It would be grain, it would be whatever they grow, dried, and they would put it in these storehouses. And the purpose of putting it in the storehouse was so that when the community came together for those festive occasions that were all throughout the Jewish calendar, nobody would have Nothing. They would all have what they needed. In fact, they would gather together and it'd be a very festive occasion. It wouldn't be like someone goes, I don't have any money to host people for this event. You have given, you have set aside 10% of all that you've made, and it's been put into this storehouse, and everybody in the community is going to have the opportunity to use what is there for these festifications. Every third year, they took an additional tithe. And this was for charitable tithe And those who were fatherless and strangers and widows, those who had come to be a part of God's people, but did not have access to the land because they were not of Jewish background. They simply came because they believed in Israel's God, but they were destitute. They had no way to protect themselves. They had no way to take care of themselves, no way to have a proper income like the average Jewish family. These people were cared for by that tithe every third year. You say, I didn't know that. Well, it's all there. Every seventh year, this would uh kill some of you. Might kill me too. I don't know. You had to cancel the debts that were owed to you. Now if you were one who is uh quick to go into debt, then you get freedom every seven years and nobody wants to uh wants to give you a loan in the last two or three years of this chunk of time. But there was a reason for this. It was because God wanted the people to be a free people. Everyone that had a massive piece of property and they would would farm that piece of property. They were required by law to leave unharvested the outer portions of the field. Why did they do this? It was to provide a noble way to meet the needs of the truly destitute. So we talk about how much people had to give to God. It was a lot. But there's addition to that as well. We could talk about when your firstborn was born. There would be offerings that you would give at that time. Or whenever you brought in your harvest, the first fruits would be given to God. There were freeable offerings that expressed gratitude and a love for God. There were the sin offerings, which provided a constant reminder that God is holy, we are not, we have sinned against a holy and righteous God, and we need a redeemer who is going to bring us to God. And so they had to go to their flocks and they had to bring animals from their flocks. And they had to put their hands on those animals and they remind the f the of the fact that I have sinned and my guilt is transferred to this animal and this animal will die and this animal sh will shed its blood and that blood will be shed sprinkled at the altar and it will be burned completely. And what did it do? It reminded them over and over and over again that we serve a holy God who punishes sin. We can't just come into his presence without sacrifice. And it points to the Lord Jesus Christ. There are even peace offerings which were slightly different than a sin offering which symbolized communion with God and his people who were redeemed. Now, what is the point of this? The reason I tell you of this is simply to say this. If you were a stingy person living at this time, you were not obeying God in these areas. It's that simple. And by the way, there are many times in the Old Testament where God literally called out the people because the laws were being disregarded. The poor, the destitute, the needy were being ignored. The priesthood was either abusing the people or they were starving. There were a lot of times that the people were not doing what God said to do. But here's the basic purpose of these offerings. Everything belongs to God. Every blessing comes from Him. Every time people gave those offerings, you know what it reminded them of? This was God's before it was mine. The reason that I can is because of his good hand on me. The Levites who served the people were to be supported by their offerings. Imagine if your local Levite was a poor preacher and you're like, I still gotta give this to the guy. What in the world? But they still had to do that. That was their legal obligation. Everyone needed a regular pattern of rest from work where they would corporately celebrate God's goodness. I tell you what, this probably would be good for all of us, wouldn't it? Seven days, six of them you rest. There's some people, seven days they rest, right? Six days you work and you work hard, and the seventh day you rest and you enjoy God. And then throughout that season you would have these times where they would set aside time to feast, that's a good one, to rest, to gather as a community to worship God and to remember something about their history that pointed to the Messiah. This is the purpose of these offerings. The community needed to be cared there are people within the community that needed to be cared for who were vulnerable and destitute, and but it was to be done in a way that did not diminish their dignity or incentivize laziness. That's a really good right there. There's some people who say I'm going to help anybody. And the others that are like, just give, give, give, give, give. They're booth rock. And God's plan was perfect. In other words, the people who were destitute, their needs were met, but they had to work for it. They had to go out in those fields and they had to glean those fields. God took care of people that were needy. They were to live lives of humble dependence on God, and they needed to continually see pictures that pointed them to Christ. And here's the sad reality: they didn't do it well And guess what? Most of us don't either. So when we're looking at this passage of scripture, we need to realize this is an Old Testament context where the people had those duties And this offering that's being examined is in fact one that falls outside of those categories. But let's go back to the text and look at this contrast for a second. What do we see in these verses? We see that false doctrine in action creates a lot of problems in practice. These Sadducees who rejected the resurrection lived for temporal things. Does that surprise anybody? They spoke of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts. Nobody should be surprised that that's where they would have landed. Those who were very rich were motivated to promote themselves by the use of their money. They saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury. We know from the Sermon on the Mount various ways that people would promote themselves through giving. And thirdly, this motivated the truly destitute to be willing to give everything to contribute to their system. He also saw a certain poor widow casting in two mites And he said, she of her penury has cast in all the living that she had. Let's look at a third thing here, and that is Christ's comment on what he sees. What did Jesus say? Well look down in your Bibles at verses 3 to 4. It says this. This poor widow hath cast in more than they all. How did the people respond to that? What are you talking about, Jesus? Did you not see all the money those people put into that offering? Did you not see those two little Copper coins that are almost worthless in our society? You believe she has given in more than them? And he says, uh-huh, I sure do. Why is that? This shocking statement was given because the amount of money that she gave was so small. It was a fraction of a day's wage. In fact, if you were to look back at what the actual value of it was, it was anywhere between a 30 second and a 64th of a day's wage. I'll put that in modern terms for you. It's like going to the gas station I'm not sure which candy bar we're talking about here. But basically buying a candy bar that costs you three dollars. You know the one that used to cut uh cost you ten cents when you were a kid, Mr. Jenny? Or when I was a kid it was thirty-five cents or whatever it was. Yeah, that candy bar that's now like three dollars. That was basically the amount of money that she was throwing into that treasury. And the people were like, what's the big deal? Why did Jesus say what he said? Verse 4. He explains, he says, All these have of their abundance cast into uh cast in unto the offering of God, but she out of her penure, her absolute absolute destitution She's cast in all the living that she had. What does Jesus mean by that? A couple things. True value is not found in the quantity of the gift. If you're a billionaire and you throw $10,000 at somebody, it's a lot of money for them. It isn't anything for you. Just a blip on the radar. If you're a kid cutting grass and you're making 10 bucks and you give eight, that's a big deal to you. Hopefully you're making more than 10. What's the point? It's not about the quantity of the gift that God is looking at. It's not about the visibility of the gift. God sees everything. In fact, the best gifts are the ones that nobody sees. That's the whole point that Christ makes when he's teaching on the Sermon on the Mount. He says, do not let your right hand know what your left hand is doing. He's talking about how we see the gifts that we give. He says, don't stand out on the street corner and say, hey everybody, look what I'm about to do and call attention to yourself. He says, give secretly and think nothing of it. That's what he's saying Why is that? Well, because if you're giving to God, he's the only one that should care. Not you, and not the person next to you. He doesn't need anything. It's not like God is sitting back there going, I really hope that this person will give me something today I mean come on. He created everything. He owns everything. Everything is sustained by God. He doesn't need your money. He doesn't need my money. He doesn't need those things. He can use anything he wants to use. To accomplish his purposes. We get to be a part of what he's doing when we avail ourselves and we say, I'm going to go ahead and do what I can do in your service. And he says, you get an opportunity to do what I'm doing, to be a part of what I'm doing. He doesn't need us. He could use anybody. How do I know that? Because think of all the generations of church history that have come and gone. Is still here. Why is that? Well, because God just keeps doing his work. As one generation comes, and then they go, and the next generation comes, and then they go, and the next generation comes, and then they go, God just keeps doing his Work Because that's how he is. He's bigger than our little moments in history. He's not impressed with any of us. God doesn't look back and go, wow, that was a good sermon. That was a good one right there. Wow, that was a really good gift you just gave. I am quite impressed. He isn't. He's not impressed, folks. The only reason that we're accepted is because of God's grace. The only reason we're accepted is because of his cross. Not ours. His. His resurrection, not our resurrection. His sacrifice, not our sacrifice, his righteousness, not our righteousness. It's by grace that we are saved and grace alone. And so when God says I love you, it's not because we earned it. And when God says I accept you, it's not because we've earned it. It's because he is benevolent. Everything we give starts with him. And see the implication of what he's saying here is the object matters. It's got to be God alone. The proportion matters. The relationship between what we have and what we are giving actually matters quite a bit. The true motivation matters. Our heart motive is what's really important. And the truth is that this is true of any form of worship. Objects, proportion, motive, they matter. We can trick everybody that's around us But God. And so as we look at this passage, the timeless truth is a simple one. We need to be careful about how we look at this issue. We need to be careful that we don't go off the road on this side and we don't go off the road on that side. In other words, we we need to be careful that we get to the point that we don't get to the point where we say, you know, giving doesn't matter, I'm not going to do it Or on the other side, where we coerce, we manipulate. The reality is this is an area of true worship that comes from people who love Jesus That's really what it is. And so we have to be so very, very cautious. It needs to be we need to be cautious about how we teach about the issue. We need to be cautious about how we practice the issue. We need to be careful about all of these things. Why? Well, because Jesus wouldn't have said all these things if we didn't need it. If our hearts weren't prone to wander and to promote self and to take advantage of opportunities that are in front of us. If it wasn't for those things, we wouldn't need this. But all those things are true about us. And so I'm reminded of what is written in 1 Timothy 6. 3. He says, If any man teach otherwise and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, into the doctrine which is according to godliness, he's proud. Knowing nothing, doting about questions and strife of words, destitute of the truth, and this is the statement that really should stand in our minds. Supposing that gain is godliness. You say, what does that mean? People say, well, I know I'm godly because look at all the stuff I got. I know I'm godly because all the stuff I gave. I know I'm godly, and so I can expect I'm gonna give Get all this stuff. And guess what? A lot of Christianity today, and I use that word very loosely, a lot of Christianity today falls into that category. The reason that I know God's good with me is because look at everything I got. Hey, if you give this, then you're gonna get back more. And so what do people do? I think I'd like to give this a try and see what happens. And that's what prosperity theology is. It's a cancer in the church. And so he says, godliness with contentment is great gain. From such withdraw yourself. He says, We brought nothing into this world, it is certain we can carry nothing out, having food and raiment, let us therewith this be. There's a lot more there, but we'll keep moving. And then I see what Peter says in 2 Peter chapter 2. This is like the last stuff he says before he knows he's going to die. He says this. There were false prophets among the people, even so shall there be false teachers among you Many shall follow their pernicious ways, by reason of whom the truth shall be evil spoken of. And through covetousness they will with feigned words make merchandise of you. What's he saying? He's saying a person that can pick up a Bible and has a heart of greed can take this book and can communicate it to you in a way That puts you on a guilt trip, that basically forces you and coerces you and manipulates you to do something that is very self-serving to them, but is not a true expression of worship to God. He says, be very, very careful. This goes back to that discussion two weeks ago about crisis religion. You know what crisis religion is? It is a cathedral built on fluff. It looks really good on the outside, but there is nothing of true value at the heart and foundation. And so that is what we are looking at here. Part four, giving in a godly way. How are we supposed to give? I'm going to give you one example that I think really captures it well. And this is the text we read at the beginning of the service. Listen to what it says. 1 Corinthians 29, verse 9. By the way, this was the first temple when it was built. This is really interesting. How did they get all those materials for that first temple? The answer is God's people gave. And here's how they did it. Listen to what it says. 1 Chronicles 29, 9. Then the people rejoiced for that they offered willingly, because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the Lord. And David the king also rejoiced with great joy. Wherefore David blessed the Lord greatly before the congregation. And David said, I love this passage. Blessed be the Lord, God of Israel, our Father, forever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power and the glory and the victory and the majesty. Hey David, tell me what you really think about God. Okay, hold on a second. All that is in heaven and earth is yours. Thine is the kingdom, and thou art exalted as head above all. Okay, Dad, tell me what you think. Both riches and honor come from you, and you reign over all. In thine hand is power and might, and in thine hand it is to make great and to give strength unto all. So, David, why are you saying this? God, thank you. We thank thee and praise thy glorious name. Who am I and what is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort. For all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee. I don't think you'll find a better text inscription. That describes what real giving, worshipful to God looks like. And that right there. Why is that? Because it starts with how have you God. I see his greatness, I see his power, I see his majesty, I see his sovereignty. And when I see this God, the next question I ask myself is this. Who am I? And the answer is nothing apart from the grace of God. Our value is because we're made in his image Every good and perfect gift that we have comes from his good hand. Every blessing we have in Christ is through his sacrifice. It's all from him. And so when we get to this place where we have a big view of God and a healthy view of self, then we're in a position to give the way we're supposed to. It is coupled with an accurate via self. Who am I? What is my people that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? All things come from thee. Of thine own have we given thee It was motivated from the heart. The people rejoiced in that they offered willingly, with perfect heart, they offered willingly to God. We say, well, how much should they give? It doesn't say. Doesn't say. Why is that? Because that's not the point. The point is why? Why do you give Why don't you give? Why do you give this amount versus that amount? Why do you give in that way? Why don't you give in that way? Motive is huge. God 's people will be generous when they have a right view of God. I think of 2 Corinthians 9 in the New Testament, every man according as he purposed in his heart Heart, so let him give not grudgingly or of necessity. God loveth a cheerful giver. The problem with what we are looking at in Luke 20 and 21 Is that the core doctrine of the system that these people were giving to was dead? And the result of a dead religion is a worthless show. or spiritual abuses. And so if we're going to not have that, we've got to get back to the source. It's that simple. So the question is, how do we apply the text? Let me give you four questions that I hope you will think about today. The first question is this, do you give? The second is to whom do you give? Maybe we should say, are you giving for yourself? Are you giving for the show? To whom do you give? How do you give? Why do you give? You know it's funny? I never asked, how much do you give? I said, do you? To whom? How? Why? That's what it's all about. And so I give you these final thoughts of exhortation. First is this we've got to get back to scripture to get a big view of God. God. One of the reasons that we as Christians are very, very deficient in our worship, and this would be all expressions of worship, because our view of God is deficient. It is smaller. It's not what it needs to be. We've got to get back to the scripture and have an accurate view of ourselves. There are a lot of Christians that are super self-absorbed. In fact, what really feeds that ego is what they do in the church, sadly, but truthfully. A lot of pastors are egomaniacs. That's just the honest truth. Truth. A lot of people that go into areas of service are serving themselves. And the fact is, we need a right view of God, and we now we need a right view of ourselves, and we need to purpose to live humbly, generously. And invest wisely in eternity. A regular part of our worship to God should be given back to Him in proportion to how He has blessed us. And so may God help us to do that. Let's bow down together for a word of prayer. Father in heaven, as we think about the text, I pray that this example would grip our souls. That we would see how evil self-promotion through religious worship and sacrifice is such Such an evil thing, even detrimental to the cause of Christ before the world. May we be sobered by that, and may we be very diligent to maintain our right thinking in these areas. Father, help us to have a big view of you. Help us to delight in you. I pray that you would be the center of our joy and affection. That we would realize more thoroughly after this text has been laid before us how blessed we are, how good your hand has been upon us, how unworthy we are of every grace that you have given us. Father, help us to be filled with praise and humility and joy. And then Father, help us to very honestly before you purpose in our hearts. What would be right before you to give in proportion to how you have blessed us? May we all be faithful in that private yet important duty. We pray that as we have given to you even this day, that we as a church would use these gifts very faithfully and wisely in the investment. Eternity. I pray that we would never give in a way that is to promote self or to the detriment of others, but in fact we would do this in a way that pleases and honors you. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen.