Please take your Bible with me and turn to First John. First John chapter two is where we'll look in our text this in the text this evening. Trust that you had a wonderful day. And I don't know about you, but maybe it was a busy day, a tiring day, a stressful day. I hope your hearts can be settled and encouraged and we can all just be still and know that the Lord is in control, that our eternal debt, our sin debt is paid. And that that would lift our spirits on a Thursday night in Millersville, Maryland. What a joy to think about that this evening Well, we began our meetings last night by giving our attention to the account of Mary and Martha and uh the the emphasis there of taking heed to the word of God, being a disciple of Jesus Christ. Sitting at his feet and hearing his word. And by way of transition, I just want to give you a verse that is often misquoted, that is misunderstood. In the book of Psalms that says this, or the book of Proverbs, excuse me, Proverbs 29, where there is no vision The people perish. And a lot of times people will take that verse and they'll say, well, we just got to have really good vision for the future, right? 2020 vision. And that's not the vision that Solomon is talking about there. He's talking about revelation. He's talking about the word from the Lord. Where there is no revelation, where there is no vision, like the prophets of old received, the people perish. Literally, they go unrestrained. They go their own way. They go in the direction that they are naturally bent towards. And we know from the scriptures that that direction is not a positive one. It's not a godly direction. All have sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. There is none that doeth good, the Bible says. There is none righteous. No, not one. So apart from the Word of God, our natural way, our natural bent is anti-God. That's why we need the Word of God and the Spirit of God and salvation. To direct our attention and to direct our steps. I say all of that to say 1 John is all about guiding and directing those steps by doing one simple thing. Boosting and bolstering our confidence in our salvation. He writes in the text, I'm writing these things to you so that you may know that you have eternal life. I don't know if you've ever talked to somebody like this, but being in a camp ministry setting, we talk to young people very often where they're struggling with, am I really a believer? How can I know that I know that I know that I know the Lord? And I just want to say to you tonight, you can be in that place spiritually. You can have unshakable confidence. And it's not confidence in yourself, it's confidence in what Jesus has done for you, like we sang about a moment ago. But what John does and his writing to this church is he lays out a variety of tests. Ways to examine our lives to see whether we are really in the faith. There are a lot of people today who say, I'm a Christian. You're aware of this, I'm sure. Who say, I know Christ. But you look at their lifestyle and you look at what they claim and what they profess and you look at their doctrine, and they, according to 1 John, are not true believers. Because they don't confess Christ Jesus as Lord as the Messiah. Because they are all over the place in their relation to sin. And we know from the book of Romans, Paul says, Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? And he says, There, may it never be, God forbid. And so he lays out these tests to help us in our confidence with our salvation. And that really leads us into what we're going to look at tonight in verse 15 of 1 John chapter 2. Notice this first phrase This first command in verse 15, love not the world. Would you say those four words together with me out loud tonight? Ready together? Love not the world. The Christian's relationship to what he described here as the world Really reflects whether or not he really knows the Lord. And the explicit command in verse 15 is very simple. It's elementary. But it's so, so important. Don't love the world. Get out of the world. Our love as Christians ought to be totally different than that of the world. And we're going to examine this tonight in this very simple statement as we endeavor in our Christian walk To love the world less and to love Christ more. You remember what Paul said that when you are in Christ, you are become a new what? A new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. So if you're here tonight and you know Jesus Christ as your personal savior, You are in this process. You are in this race of life where you are being sanctified and being made more like the like the Lord Jesus Christ. And we should expect our loves to be changing. We should expect what we love to be growing towards Christ. So as we give attention to this command tonight, I want you to think in your own life. about your loves. Isn't it true that in life there are so many things that we could love? I love my wife Alright, that's a good thing, I hope. Right? It's a very good thing. I love to eat. Anybody else love to eat? Okay. This is something I love to do. I love sports. Any other sports fans out there? Alright, sports are a wonderful thing. A lot of people love their hobbies, they love their job, they love all sorts of things, but here is in 1 John 2 a type of love that God hates, as one preacher put it. Love that God hates. I want you to notice, first of all, with me, as we look at this text, the explicit command. We're going to talk tonight about getting out of the world. And we have to begin here in the first four words that we just read a moment ago in verse 15. This is crystal clear. We can't argue with this explicit command. People want to get around this and try to explain it away in the 21st century Christianity here in America. Well, John and Paul and James, they didn't really know the kind of world we're living in. So we can't really adhere to this command, but I'm just here to tell you tonight, folks, this is a very simple command, and it still applies to God's people. Don't love the world. We can't make excuses for this. We can't we can't look at this command and say, well, it's just an option or uh it's just kind of well, I hope the pastor doesn't love the world. No, this is for every single one of us an explicit command. Now it's really important then that we understand. What does these words mean? What does love and the world really mean? Because we know from other texts and scriptures, I mean, God so loved the world, right? And of course, that is not the same reference that we're reading here in 1 John chapter 2. So we need to understand that this word world is the word cosmos. It really refers to the life of human society as organized under the power of evil. And Paul writes about this in Ephesians 6, the principalities, the powers of this age that are not necessarily seen. But they are seen in in the effects of that realm. I mean we could all sit here for a long time tonight and talk about the philosophies of the world and the self-focus of the world and even the powers the literal government powers and rich powers that be in this world that are not on the Lord's side. They are against the Lord. And specifically here, we're talking about this temporal realm. Worldliness, we might say. That is the love of money, that is the love of self, that is the love of pleasure, that is the love of the temporal things. And it is a love for those things that we are commanded to not have. This word love is the word for brotherly love. Phileto. For that kindred spirit, that affection that you might have for maybe in a friendship. So here's the love that God hates. A love, an affection for The temporal realm as organized under the power of evil. This would be, in other places in scriptures we know, the love of something like money. The love of self, like we read about in Revelation chapter 3. Love for wealth. Love for things. And folks, I don't think we need to spend much time illustrating this because we have many examples around us Of people who do not know the Lord. And may I just say, you look at this command and you ask yourselves the question, what does it mean to love the world? Open your eyes to the world around you. What does the world love? What does the world value? What does the world price? We're commanded against that sort of love. We're commanded, don't love the world. And this is elementary, but it's an important place to start because this is the explicit command. We're even commanded of this in Romans 12 and Verse 2. Remember when Paul gets off of that wonderful treatise on the gospel, explaining the riches of the grace of God. And in verse 1 of chapter 12, he makes this transition because you know the Lord. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the basis, on the basis of the mercies of God. That you give your lives of living sacrifice holy and acceptable unto God. All right, Paul, what does that mean? Verse 2, don't be conformed to this world. So this is an explicit command, but I want to continue down through verse 15 and notice not only the explicit command, But, number two, the exclusive condition. The exclusive condition. This is a love that God hates. And notice what he says in verse 15, love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. And then there's this conditional statement that's made here. And I would encourage you, if you're in the habit of underlining or highlighting in your Bible, underline or circle that word if. If any man love the world, if he loves the world, like this command is commanding us against, the love of the Father is not in him. Remember, this is what 1 John is all about. How can we know that we know the Lord? How can we know that we have been saved, that we've been redeemed? And here's what John says. You can know in part whether you do in fact know the Lord by what you love. And if any man, he says here, loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Alright, so this is a salvation principle. And I just want to begin here by saying that these two types of love, the love of Christ and the love of the world, the love for God. That he describes in this text and the love of the world are diametrically opposed to one another. In this sense of verse 15, they cannot coexist in a person. You cannot have it both ways. They are opposed. They are at odds with one another. And this love of the world that is habitual, that is patterned, that is prioritized, like we talked about last night, where it's all about the pleasure and what can I get? How can I feed my flesh? How can I love myself? That type of attitude, that type of behavior, that type of love, year after year after year after year. You show me that type of a person, and according to 1 John 2 and verse 15, you're showing me a person who does not have the love of God in him. You're showing me a person that is not saved. That is not just to say, well, change your loves and you must be saved. Of course, it's the grace of God that changes us. But one part of that change is the change of our loves, folks. And even as Christians, we know this, those of us who have been saved, and we know that we know that we know the Lord Isn't it true that we can take a principle like this from this portion of Scripture and recognize that it is our natural propensity to slip back into this love? To begin to love again the things that God hates. And that's why a week like this, these meetings, are so so crucial and can be so helpful for us. To evaluate our loves, to have things brought to our attention. in our music and in our dress and in our language and in our entertainment choices, all of these things. Okay, am I, as a believer, loving something that God hates Because these two types of love are not compatible. They are at odds with one another. And this is an exclusive condition that he gives. You can't love the world and love God. You remember what Jesus said in Matthew 6, verse 29, I believe it is. Double-minded man, he talks about, person who loves money, who loves wealth, and says he loves God. You can't be that way. You can't serve two masters, Jesus says. That's a wonderful cross-reference to this verse, these loves that are diametrically opposed. I want you to think with me tonight. of an illustration to help us really cement this principle, this truth in our minds with these opposing loves. Just a couple days ago, we were down in Virginia and we went to uh the Manassas Battlefield. Have any of you ever been to the Manassas Battlefield? Really cool. You know, you're in Manassas, Virginia area, and you know, in the the busy city and the traffic, and all of a sudden you're like two miles out of town and then you're you're in this wide open field, rolling hills, it's absolutely beautiful. The Battle of Bull Run uh was fought right there. And so we got to walk around the battlefield and they have set up out there actually the two lines uh of cannons on the two opposing sides of the field and really really cool to kind of see get a visual uh and they have kind of stonewall jackson a big old monument of stonewall jackson out there leading the way And really neat place. If you've never been there, I'd encourage you to go. But think of a battlefield like that. Where on one side you have all these cannons and all these artilleries, and on the other side you have the very same type of setup. Two opposing sides at war with one another, right? Think of how foolish and how silly it would be For some soldier to walk out onto that battlefield and in half of his uniform dress up in one side of the battlefield and in another half of his uniform dress up like the other side. And he were to walk into the middle and be like, guys, I'm for both sides. Don't shoot me. I'm going for you and I'm going for you guys. It's a win-win. How foolish. And yet many of us in our Christian lives we can tend to do the very same thing. Where we'll put on the uniform of the world and we'll walk out onto the battlefield and we'll claim and we'll love the world side and at the very same moment will claim love for Jesus Christ. And that's why James writes in James chapter 4 and he says, my friends, Friendship with the world is enmity with God. If you're a friend of the world, you're an enemy of God. To declare love for the world is to declare war on God. And watch this, to declare love for God is to declare war on this world. So my question for you tonight is this. Who have you declared war against? I mean, could we come to your home And find a father, a mother, a son, a daughter, a high school student doing war with the world. Or would we find an individual Who is too lazy, too apathetic , too callous to put up a fight, to put on the armor of God, to stand against the world to say no to the philosophies of the world. We see this explicit command, we see this exclusive condition. You can't love both sides. And it would do us well tonight to really give consideration and careful thought to who we love. So this explicit command, don't love the world, the exclusive condition, and then notice third, the evil course. You notice he said this in verse 15. Don't love the world. And then he says, neither the things that are in the world. Now that's pretty vague wording in some sense, but he really clarifies that for us in verse 16. When he says, for all that is in the world, and then goes on to explain what that all is, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. These are the loves that are not of the Father, but they're of the world. So this really helps us to grow in our understanding, to help us evaluate in our own lives, okay, what is it, what is the love that God hates? And he explains this by first of all calling out the lust of the flesh. This is appetite for pleasure. This is a word for cravings. Something we want. We know the word appetite, right? You get a little hungry, a little grumbles in your belly, and you have a little appetite. You need some food. It's the cravings that we have. That's the idea of this statement, the lust of the flesh. I mean, this is not just like a passive thing. This is an active thing. This is what I want. And it's what I want in my flesh. I mean, folks, you don't have to look very far around in the w in the world around you to see this principle, to see this course of the world in full effect. People want sexual pleasure. People want money. People want alleviation from their pain. And so they'll take the drugs and they'll take the alcohol and they'll shoot themselves up with the needles. They'll do all of this thing because they love themselves. They want something. They're craving for something. And they're looking for something to satisfy them. This is the appetite for pleasure. And then he says this, the lust of the eyes. Not only the appetite for pleasure, but the attraction to possessions. The attraction to possessions. You know, this is really what he says here, the lust of the eyes. This is so, I believe, so prevalent in the American church today. Because we'll come to a service like this and, you know, I'm glad you're here. It's a wonderful thing. But isn't it true? We can so often fall into the materialistic mindset of the 21st century American. Well, how big is your house? What kind of car do you drive? Which iPhone do you own? For the teenager sometimes, do you have the latest video game? Do your friends think you're cool because you've got all the newest fashion? And literally, we will spend our lives and our hours and moment after moment after moment just trying to get more. More stuff. More money. More money for more stuff. And listen, it could be that you're here tonight and things have a hold of your love. Now listen, it's not wrong to possess things, okay? We need money to live, we need food to eat, and we need money to buy food And we need good jobs so we can have money to take care of ourselves and our family. So we're not saying all possessions are wrong. We're talking, folks, about the love of these possessions. What has raptured your heart? What has caught the attention of your eye? Is it pleasure? Is it possessions or is it, like he says third of all in verse 16, the pride of life, arrogance in performance? Self self-uh boasting. Man, I'm on top of life. I have this position and I have this much wealth. We are consumed with ourselves. One writer wrote of this text that this is ambition and thirst after honor and applause. It's the pat on the back we want others to give us. It's the pat on the back we give ourselves in conversation often. Remember what Jeremiah wrote in Jeremiah 17, that our hearts are deceitful and desperately wicked. And what I'm saying to you tonight is that this type of love is a love that God hates. And this is the evil course. This is the way of the world. And folks, the reality is this is the way of the natural man. So in some sense, we can't just sit here tonight and say, Well, I'm saved. So this is not going to be an issue for me, folks. Praise the Lord for the Spirit of God and the Word of God to have full power and full reign in our life. But in our flesh, this is who we are, apart from Christ. This is what the Apostle Paul talks about in Romans, the spirit warring against the flesh. And there's a war taking place in us tonight for our loves. Don't love the world. This is an explicit command. If you love the world, you don't have the love of the Father, the exclusive condition. This is the way of the world. This is all that is in the world. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, the pride of life. This is the evil course that we ought to put up against our own lives and evaluate whether this is the course that we are on as well. And I don't want you to notice finally tonight. What the Bible says in verse 17, because this this is so powerful. He says, and the world passeth away. And the lust thereof. But he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Now I don't know if you've heard this phrase, oftentimes when new movies or maybe new books or new recordings come out, and you have somebody that comes to you and they've seen the movie or they've read the book and you haven't seen it or read it yet, and they come up to you and they say, I gotta tell you all about this really cool thing. We call that a spoiler alert, you know? Here's a spoiler alert in verse 17. And it's a spoiler alert I sure am thankful for because he gives to us the eternal consequence of this love. The eternal consequence. Here's the news. You love the world. You love the pride of life. You go after the lusting of your eyes. Here's the end of that course in verse 17. It is fading, it is fleeting, it's all going to burn. It's passing away. It's on a collision course with the very wrath of Almighty God. It's passing away. And so is the lust thereof. Now, folks, this ought to sound the alarm in our lives tonight. Are you a person who is loving something that God hates? That very thing that God hates, that you love, is on a collision course with with destruction. Literally, it's in the process of of decay and passing away. This is really a death term that he's using here. It's fading, it's fleeting. It's not going to last. I mean, think of what Solomon wrote in Ecclesiastes to the young man. You may spend your whole entire life working and toiling for something that is Going to end up right here. It's going to pass away. It's going to fade. And this is why the Apostle Paul says in 2 Corinthians chapter 4 that we don't live for and look for the things that are temporal. Because the things that are temporal The things that we see are temporal. The things that we don't see, those are the things that are eternal. This is why Jesus said, seek my kingdom. And all these things, talking about the necessities of life, talking about the raiment, the clothing that we wear, the water that we drink, and the food that we eat, all of these things are going to be added unto you. I'm going to take care of you. It's our responsibility to seek his kingdom first. Because the reality is that when we love the things of this world, we are loving something that is fading. Something that is passing away. And then the alternative to that in verse 17 is: he that doeth the will of God abideth how long? Forever. This is a salvation verse, once again, with clear implications for those of us who know Jesus Christ as our personal Savior. These are the people that pass away, the people that love the world to the extreme, to the end that there is no love that will rival that love. They are going to pass away. The lusts are going to pass away. But the person that knows the Lord, that is seeking the Lord, the person that is saved by the grace of God, that is the person that will abide forever. Now folks, as believers tonight, we ought to give our consideration to this and really evaluate our lives. Are we in love with something that God hates? Again in James, James chapter 4, he uses graphic imagery to describe this type of person. You adulterers and adulteresses. And then he says, Know you not that friendship with the world is enmity with God. Therefore, whoever will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. But that first statement: yes, you are the enemy of God, you are contrary to God, you are adulteresses. That's how the Bible describes the people who love the world and say they love God. Now there's a variety of ways we could go in application to this, but here's the truth. The Spirit of God knows you better than anybody else at this room. But I would just offer a few suggestions to you as you consider your own life and your your loves. And really consequential to not just your own life, but also the sphere of influence that the Lord has given to you. Could I just say to you dads in here tonight? The responsibility that you have to lead your home is to carry out these principles, to know the dangers of this type of love. It saddens my heart to see teenager after teenager after teenager after teenager come to Southland Christian Camp and absolutely be in love with the filth of this world. And then to think, where are the parents? Where is the dad who is helping this child know that he shouldn't be hanging out with these friends? That he shouldn't be using this vulgar language, that he shouldn't be watching this filth, that he shouldn't have access, unfiltered access to all of the internet in the privacy of his own room. Where are the leaders in the home who will step up and say, son, daughter, friendship with the world is enmity with God? I want to help you love God and love the world less. Where are the moms who will step up and point out in their children's lives and even in their husbands' lives areas where, hey, your love is not conforming to this standard? I mean, where are the teenagers? Where are the young people who will say, I know it's cool to go this way, and I know it's cool to have this possession and to be attracted to this. I know it's really popular to to really run after fame and and run after money and just go to college to get the best degree I possibly can so I can be the absolutely most successful in all the world. And and and we're tying ourselves as young people down to the things and the cares of this world in our early years. The clear teaching of Scripture is to come out from among them and be ye separate. It ought to concern you, young person, if your lifestyle and your life and your choices mirror those of the world. Your loves mere those of the world. And so this could be in specific areas like our language, a big one, our entertainment choices. Listen, the movies that we allow into our home, the TV shows that we allow into our home , the world has pipeline access into every one of our hearts. Via the cell phone, via the iPad, via the TV, and none of those things in their place are wrong. But what I'm helping I'm trying to communicate to you tonight is we ought to be careful. The world has an agenda. The world is after us. And if we're not vigilant, if we're not sober, like Peter talks about. The devil is going to eat us like a roaring lion with those means. So I just want to call to your attention tonight. Wake up. The world is after us. Our flesh is not our friend. And this is this is the eternal consequence. Destruction. Or the abiding with God forever. My friend, tonight, who are you in love with? Are you in love with the world? The enemy of God, are you in love with the Lord? Are is your primary love, the Lord Jesus Christ, and all other loves declining, but your love for Him excelling? Would you bow your heads and close your eyes tonight? This is straightforward truth from 1 John chapter 2. We really, as believers, need to wrestle with these verses. in the implications and effects that they have on our life and our lifestyle and our choices and specifically what we love. Maybe you're here tonight and you don't you don't know the Lord, and the Bible is describing you in these verses as a person who is in love with the world. To the degree that that love is overwhelming, and it is the love above all other loves. I realize you could be in this church tonight with a Bible in your lap. Playing the part, saying you love the Lord and you love his church, all the while being so in love with and raptured by The cares of this life. And according to Jesus, you can't love both. And so the call to you Tonight, as an unbeliever, one who is so in love with the world, is to leave that love, to set that love aside, to put it in Bible terms, repent. And place your faith and trust in Jesus Christ and Jesus Christ alone for your salvation. Don't love the world. The world's passing away. It's on a collision course. But the person who knows the Lord and who the Lord knows, that is the person. who 's truly saved, who has their loves rearranged. But really the call comes to us tonight as Christians as well for us to evaluate what we love. Who we're battling, who we've declared war on in our homes, in our personal lives. In our relationships with others, where do you stand in this battle? Where would we find you on the battlefield? And for those areas of our life where we're cuddled up with the world, in love with the world, the call to us tonight is to repent of that as well. And renew our love for the Lord Jesus Christ. We'll have a word of prayer, and then you can just remain seated as we respond and do business with the Lord tonight. Lord, we thank you for these verses and the clear-cut command of Scripture. We can't walk out of this building tonight thinking that it's okay to love the world. Lord, would you work in our hearts? Would you set, like the Apostle Paul said in Colossians, set our affection on things above. And not on things that are here on the earth. Lord, we know intellectually the truth that all the things that are here, that are seen, that are temporal, are passing away, they're going to fade. We're going to slip out of e into eternity one day and they're all it's all going to be lost. It's all going to be forgotten. But oh how our flesh Loves those things. Loves that pleasure. Loves that satisfaction. May you, by your grace, help us in identifying those loves tonight and then help us in severing those loves, leaving it all on the altar. And loving you first and foremost above all things. Work in this time of response, I pray that you would renew our hearts Help us as we recommit ourselves to hating the world and loving you. We pray all these things for your glory's sake. In Jesus' name. Amen.