Let's turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 8. And the passage in front of us is a very interesting passage. We are dealing with issues of conscience I do want to say though that when we talk about this passage, it's not just issues of conscience that are a part of this. In fact, um one of the things that I think we should really take away from this passage of Scripture is the kind of challenges that first century Christians would have experienced when they were converted in a completely pagan society. And so I hope that we can draw some of those things out tonight as we keep working our way through the passage. So It's dealing with issues of conscience, dealing with issues of Christian liberty, and of course, making sure that the way that we relate to other Christians and even the way that we relate to unbelievers is always in genuine love. So let's go ahead and pick up in verse number one. We'll read through this passage. I'll remind you of a couple of details from last week and then we'll keep working our way through the passage. It says this. Now As touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up But charity edifieth. If any man think that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. But if any man love God, the same is known of him. As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one. But though there be them that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, as there be gods many and lords many, but to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in him And one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him. How be it? There is not in every man that knowledge Some have some with conscience of of an idol, unto this hour, eat it as a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled. But meat commendeth us not to God, for neither if we eat are we any better, neither if we eat not are we any worse. But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak For, if any man see thee, which hast knowledge, sit at meat in the idol temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to an idol? And through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died. But when ye sin so against the brethren and wound their weak conscience, You sin against Christ. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth lest I make my brother to offend. Now, if you remember last week we we mentioned that in this passage there are three primary concerns that the Apostle Paul has for the church. And in fact, I didn't really get into this too much last week, but there are actually two different basic approaches to how to interpret this passage of scripture. I actually would say that I fall into a blended view of these two viewpoints. One being that this is entirely an issue dealing with conscience. In other words Just like we go to the book of Romans and he talks about the fact that there were people that had the ability, anyone could eat meat that was not kosher because the Levitical law was no longer In effect, um, it was okay to eat shrimp and pork and shellfish and all those things. However, some people came from a Jewish background. Because they came from a Jewish background, even though it was permissible for them to eat food that was forbidden under the Old Testament, their conscience was bothered by this. And so Paul is explaining to them how to navigate those conflicts that would arise when you have a person who has uh we could say not a fully informed conscience or maybe they know in their head what is uh permissible and not but they're still struggling in their conscience to actually do those things. So there's a lot of similarities between the Romans passage and this 1 Corinthians passage. However, there's an additional factor to this passage that makes it slightly different. It's not just dealing with conscience. It's dealing with something that's also a little bit different. And that is, it was actually wrong for people to go into a pagan temple. and eat meat as a part of idol worship. And so it's not just that we're dealing with issues of conscience. That's clearly a part of the text. But there's also a side where you have people that are pressured to involve themselves in activities that as Christians were not something that they should participate in. And so there was even a little bit of pushback in the church at Corinth, probably against what Paul was saying. In fact, it would it'd be kind of similar if you really want to get down to it. where you have people that are like, you're telling me that I can't go to somebody's birthday party and be involved in some of the pagan festivities that are part of that birthday party. How in the world can I function in this society? Okay, that's really what they're saying. Or you mean if it's a a person's wedding or Some other activity that I I'm strictly forbidden to be involved in anything that involves idols. Everything in our city involves idolatry. The Apostle Paul is like If you are involving yourself in any way in idol worship, that's sin, okay? And they gave all of these reasons that It wasn't a big deal and Paul actually addresses those things. Some of the statements that Paul's making in the section are likely the very objections that the church at Corinth is putting in writing to the Apostle Paul. And what they're saying is true on some level, but it is being misused. And that is that is the point. So we have to recognize it's not just an issue of conscience. That's a huge part of this. But there is also some pushback from the church at Corinth about some of Paul's very straight, and we could say Very difficult teaching that he is having to give to these people. And if they're really going to live distinct from the world, it means it's going to put them in some very challenging situations with God. with family, with co-workers, perhaps where they work in the city, if they were involved in the political world, there were going to be certain things that they were expected to do. And many of the people that were in the church at Corinth were very prominent members of Corinthian society. And so it put them in some tough places, and I don't want us to overlook and miss that part. So here were the three primary concerns that Paul addresses. The first one, which is what we dealt with last week, was what makes an action actually evil. And so we worked our way through that. Uh I'm going to kind of give you some of the reminders there. Well today we're going to pick up on what is the basis for our acceptance with God. And then more than likely we're also going to get into a bit of how do we relate to others on this issue of conscience. So as a reminder from last week, the question, how do we know if something is evil? We start by asking ourselves a lot of questions to get the information we need to make the decision. And I mentioned this last week. Before we make a judgment about an issue, we have to get all the facts. Now, that doesn't mean that we have to know everything that there is to know about the issue in order to make an informed decision. But what it does mean is that we need the primary fact so that we can make an informed decision. And that's very, very important. Before we rush to judgment Either for a thing or against a thing. Before emotionally we're all in or we're all against, and we all, when we get a little bit of information on an issue, we tend to respond emotionally. Paul says, don't do that. Get all the facts before you make a judgment. That's just good advice in every area of life, okay? But Here's what he says. Remember, there are limitations that you have because of the cultural attitudes around you. We know that we all have knowledge. Now when when Paul makes that statement, he is saying something that is true. They understand the dynamics of idolatry and idol worship and all those things. They have knowledge. But the reason he's bringing this up more than likely is because this is being pushed back at him and they're saying, We have enough information to do what we want to do, so don't tell us we can or can't in these areas. That's really what he's saying. Now why does he raise the issue? Because their culture was affecting them. They were feeling pressure. And because they felt that pressure, it was pushing them in a direction that really was potentially compromised. The second thing is he mentions the danger of the limit of personal pride. He says, knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. And one of the things that Paul is getting at here is that we sometimes are more enamored with being right than doing right. You understand what I mean by that? We're all about planting our stake or our flag in the ground and saying, look what I believe. And it's like, who cares what you believe if you don't actually take action on it? Or who cares what you believe if you take action on it, but you do it in a very inappropriate way. And so he emphasizes the fact that pride is going to be very detrimental in this issue. The third thing that he mentions is the limit of imperfect data. He says in verse 2, if any man thinks that he knows anything, he knoweth nothing as he ought to know. And so he's basically saying, when you go to make those decisions, recognize you don't have all the facts. And you may actually not consider some things that are very, very important. So the second thing we looked at there was that we need to look at the facts of the case. I'm not going to go through all of these again, but he emphasizes how to look properly at this issue of idolatry. Idols do not have power. There is only one true God. Though there is only one true God, their society was filled with the worship of false gods through idols. And by the way, it's important to recognize they weren't really worshiping the idol. They were worshiping demons through the idols. Okay? That's something that is very, very important for us to recognize. And we talk about traditional religions around the world, and this could be African traditional religions. You could talk about uh original Native American uh traditional religions. You can talk about traditional religions that were up in Europe. I mean you go to any part of the world out out in Asia. One of the things that you will often see Is that there was a desire to use the deceased to get the influence of a God or the gods, lesser gods, in all of those contexts. That's what they were doing. And so I I don't know if you remember when John Summers was here, but he talked about the fact that people were very concerned about their ancestors. And so There would be a time during the year that people would come together, they would remember their ancestors, they would pour libations to their ancestors, and the question is why'd they do that? Well, because their ancestors are in another realm than they are, and they can make life bad for them or good for them because of their access to the lesser gods or the one true God. And so the reason that there is a desire to appease their ancestors who are dead is because they're trying to use that leverage with a lesser God or the one true God. And uh so it's just important for us to recognize this. Even when you talk about people praying to the saints, I mean that's idolatry, folks. That's the exact same thing. That is people trying to use The saints, okay, just like people would have used their ancestors in another culture to get the pressure on Jesus or Mary or Mary to put pressure on Jesus or something like that. So just understand this is not just something that was like, oh, in the first century this is the way that it was. This is a problem even today. So he emphasizes all of these issues. Then he goes on to say this fact number five. Some people did not understand these facts fully, and those who ate the meat without a clear conscience. were obviously damaging their conscience by their action. So all of that was a part of our discussion last week. What was Paul saying? Meat technically is just meat. It's not morally right, it's not morally wrong. But The meat being used in evil practices and having evil associations with it is now something that I should not participate in because it's going to affect the people who are watching what I do. So let's move on from that to concern number two. And I think this one is a very, very important one for us to think about on this issue of conscience and difficult matters. The question is, what is the basis of our acceptance with God? And by the way, this isn't just like conscience issues on these delicate issues. I think Christians just in general often struggle with this. And I know that we can answer the question theologically. All of us would say, okay, if I believe the gospel is I'm saved by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. I place my faith in the finished work of Christ, his death, his resurrection. My sins are forgiven 100% through his work, not my work. I am righteous in him, not myself. Then I can answer the question theologically, I am accepted by God one hundred percent because of what He did for me, not what I do for Him All right? We know that, right? But then the question is, in our real life practice, do we actually live like that's true? That's a huge thing. As soon as we struggle with a doubt in our mind, as soon as we struggle with temptation, maybe we've sinned and we feel like I've confessed this sin 455 times, okay? And and we and we struggle in our minds with these kinds of things, then we start asking the question, well, am I really accepted by God? Well, guess what? Well I know theologically it's grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone, his death, his resurrection, his righteousness. That's it. Practically, guess what? I put on the lens of I earn acceptance with God by what I do or what I choose not to do. And that's a problem Because all of a sudden now I am not acting as if I believe what I actually do believe. And on issues of conscience, this is huge because it can go in one of two different directions. On the one side, I believe I'm accepted by God because I draw the perfect line, I get it right every single time, and I'm the only person that's got it right. Because everybody else around me, they're wrong, but I got it right, and it's it's a pride issue. That's a huge problem. Or we realize how much we fall short and we just like beat ourselves over the head every single time there's one of these delicate issues And we can never feel like God actually accepts us because we go to the other side and we just feel like complete misery. Isn't it amazing how you could fall on either side of the ditch there? So it's important that we hammer out this and it's in the text. So look down in verse number eight stated negatively. He says, meat commendeth us not to God. For neither if we eat meat are we better, neither if we eat not are we the worse. Now don't misunderstand this. He is not saying it doesn't matter at all what you do. That's not what he's saying. What he is saying is Where you draw the line here and how perfectly you cut it is not ultimately is not the basis of our acceptance with God. And this is a principle that we've constantly got to keep in the back of our minds. In fact, this is something I I even get I I could say I even feel the pressure of this as a pastor. And one of the reasons the reasons that I say that is because the the way that the culture of our church is shaped either promotes an attitude, and I'm not saying that it's being taught directly, but I mean it can promote an attitude that that the reason God accepts me is because I do this and I do this and I do this. and I do this. Or I don't do this and I don't do this and I don't do this and I don't do this. Or I'm in this role and that's a very public role and so that must be why God accep That's got to be cut out of the mentality of a church culture. We've got to be so careful about it Not to say we shouldn't be active, not to say we shouldn't have a burden to serve, but that is not what makes us a good or bad Christian. Makes us an accepted Christian or an unaccepted Christian. Very, very important. So stated negatively. Then we want to state it positively. And by the way, a lot of truths are like this. If you really want to understand it, you see what it's not, and then you see what it is. And once you see what it's not, you see what it is, and you put them together, you go, okay, I get it now. A lot of the proverbs are stated this way Verse number six, to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and I love this statement, and we in him. And one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him. Now that is a really important statement. Notice what it says. We in him. He is emphasizing that our acceptance is about our union with Christ. The fact that we have been grafted into him And now we belong to him and we are in him. We are alive in him. Everything that Christ did for us on the cross is applied to us because we have been united with him. That's what he's saying. It's all about our union with Christ We in him, one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things. So, what does this tell you? Everything that we have as a Christian comes from Christ. Comes from him. That's why in Ephesians 2. 9 it says it's by grace we're saved through faith, not of ourselves. The gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. And so the negative side is it's not through all these things, the positive is it's our union with Christ. His work did it all. Our position, our acceptance, all of those things are entirely rooted in him. And this is such an important truth. If I want to live a healthy Christian life, I've got to live that Christian life with this fundamental comfort in my heart that I'm a Christian because of all of that God has done for me. And I have everything that he has given me because of what he did for me. And so now I'm free to serve him out of love. Not I'm doing this because I'm trying to get something or I'm trying to squeeze something or I'm trying to leverage something. No, no, no, no, no. I'm doing Purely out of love and gratitude And that is the most vibrant and the most effective way for a person to serve. And so he states it both positively and negatively. And that's a really important thing for us to be reminded of when we're talking about an issue like conscience or an issue that's very, very complicated. So, how would I summarize what Paul's saying here? Where someone draws the line does not change their position in Christ Now, got to say something else here. This position is all about Christ, what he did for us, his finished work. It's all about being in him. But Even though this is true and this liberates our thinking, this should not cause us to be careless or to say, you know, it really doesn't matter at all. It's like going back to Romans chapter 6. So if you if you read through Romans 5 and you get it clearly that salvation is all through grace, it's all about what Christ did for me, it's entirely rooted in him. Then the question is, well, if that's true, then does it mean it doesn't matter how I live? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? And what's really interesting about that question is it shows you that the person who asked the question understands what Paul's saying. It also shows you that their understanding of what he's saying has a massive deficiency. And so the massive deficiency is that this does not motivate you to live a carelessness, but at the same time it reminds you that it's all grace. It's all what we have in him. So we see this balance. The balance is my acceptance is in Christ, his finished work. I'm liberated in my mind, but on the other side, I'm not careless in my attitude towards conscience. I'm not emboldened to be presumptuous in sin and sin against this grace that I've received. It should not give us the impression that there's no objective standard. There is an objective standard. If you were to ask Paul, is it wrong to be involved in idolatry? And say, of course it's wrong to be involved in idolatry. So there is an objective standard here. It should free us from enslavement to a perfectionistic legalism where we have to get everything 100% perfect or we fall apart. It should also free us from the pride or the helplessness that flows from this attitude that I can never measure up. And so we see that this second piece, the second question, is very, very important. How are we accepted by God? Now let's get into the meat and the potatoes of how to actually do this practically. And so the third concern is how do we relate to others in areas of conscience? And there are a lot of principles. That are going to be laid out in these verses. And so we're just going to work through them one at a time. And uh we're not going to probably finish them all tonight because I think that there were seven or eight of them, if I remember. Let me look. Yes, there are seven of them. You see a perfect number right there. Okay. All right, so let's work through them one by one. The first is this. Principle number one, we need to love people when it comes to issues of conscience. Now interestingly, when we go to the Romans passage, and I know that this the context is slightly different, but you'll remember that one of the things that Paul emphasizes is let's say that you have a brother. that has a conscience issue about eating meat that is totally permissible. Don't put it on yourself to say, I'm going to make sure that my brother decides to do what he is free to do. And so I'm going to invite him to my house and I'm going to put in front of him pork. And I'm going to say, have this barbecue sandwich with me. He's like, is that a is that a pork barbecue sandwich? Well of course it is. I don't know if I feel very comfortable. You're at my house, right? Eat what's in front of you, right? So you're forcing the issue He says, don't do that. Don't put that person in a situation that is going to violate their conscience Love them. Verse number nine, take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. What does he mean by a stumbling block? This person is going along their Christian life. Like all of us, we are uh we are imperfect people, but We're making progress, we're growing, and we're maturing, and we're moving along. And then somebody decides, I'm going to just put something in front of your path and see how you respond to it. And what does it do? It puts us on the ground. He says, don't do that to people. It's like an older brother who watches his little sibling going, bing. No older brother would ever do that, would they? Yes they would. They have done that many times. Don't do that in the Christian life That shows a lack of love for that person, a lack of value for them. And so the point that he's making is you have to consider the implications of your actions. And not just how it relates to what is right before God, but how it affects the people around you. You know, this is extremely important when we think about our kids. There might be certain things that we go, you know, I think I can make an argument that it's totally okay for me to do this thing. But I have a little kid that is growing and maturing and and they can't fully make sense of this whole issue. And so I'm going to have to meet them where they are and I'm going to have to work through this issue with them. Or, in fact, really what ends up happening a lot of times is you draw the line here and then they see other people around you that aren't exactly doing things exactly how you are and they're like, hey dad. Is this person a pagan because they do this or that? And you're like, uh no, I don't think I'd say that. And then we're like, let's let's talk through the issue a little bit and let's work through the issue. So we need to be in the teaching mode when it comes to kids. But the truth is we can't be in the teaching mode necessarily with everybody. And so we have to consider how those actions affect other people, less matured Christians, people that come from a different background. maybe than we do. We need to be very, very cautious about that. Secondly, just because you technically can do something does not mean you technically should do something. Nobody tells me that I have to go to bed before 2 a. m. in my house. That's because I'm tired at 9. 30. Just because I can doesn't mean that I should, right? And this is such a such a true thing. You know, the greatest fun in life is not not pushing every single boundary that we potentially could But the reality is that there are times that we should go, you know, I think the line's probably over there, but I have absolutely no need to go stand by that line. I'm going to just leave that there. And the question is why am I doing that? Well, ultimately because I care about other people who do not have a clear conscience, or that could be something that causes them to stumble. And so I want to be very cautious. You should love your neighbor enough to not do things that are that you know can cause them to stumble. I'm going to give you an example that I can appreciate personally because as being a missionary in another culture, I understand what it's like to go into another context and have certain practices that this is not a right or wrong thing. But it is an offense thing if I don't follow the practices that are around me. I remember when uh when the first time I went and visited Ghana And it was after you know we had decided that we believe the Lord wanted us to go and we were going to set up our housing situation. So I flew over And I met with Micah and uh we're going to these different places. I think we looked at like three houses and one was uh I'm glad we didn't take that one because It was kind of like in a in a kind of a bush area and uh we probably would have gotten robbed a lot uh living in that particular location and then There was another one that was uh not completed, but we are assured that it was going to be complete. That's the one we took, by the way. And when we when we came to Gone, it was, you know, like The last little details getting put in, like, you know, toilet don't flush and things like that. Um So that probably wasn't the greatest uh decision either, but we still did that. But I remember one of the houses that we came up to. I walk up and you know I I'm coming to Ghana because I want to give people the gospel and I I want to see the church established, I want to see it grow, and I'm here because I'm excited about serving the Lord and Yeah, I just walk up and there are these two gentlemen sitting over here on the side and and I'm talking to Micah and I'm talking to this other guy and all of a sudden these two guys stand up and they yelled at me and they walked away. And I'm like Whoa. Did I say or do something that made them upset? And uh I was like, um, what happened? And the guy that was helping us find the houses we were going to rent said, oh well you you disgraced them. And I was like, what? I disgraced them? He's like, yes. When you walked up, you didn't greet them. I was like Like, hey, how you doing? I didn't do that. He's like, he's like, no, no. You need to say, good evening, sir. Please, how are you? How is your family? And I was like, I don't even know it. He's like, doesn't matter. You gotta do that. You disgraced him. He's probably not gonna let you rent his house. And I was like, that's crazy. I didn't tell him that, but in my head, and I guarantee you I told Micah that we we were driving back what's going on here Well well here's here's the simple fact. If you want to minister to people in a culture where that is what you have to do And you better get over your pride and you better start doing that. It's just that simple. And so you have to learn these very simple, basic cultural customs. And the issue that it really comes down to is why do you learn those things? Why do you put yourself under these unstated, goofy little rules that people have in their society? Well, because you love them and you don't want to create an unnecessary offense so that you can give them the gospel But guess what? We have them in our society too. We absolutely do. And so if you're from the north and you go down south, or you're from the south and you go up north, or you know One particular church culture versus another, there are unstated rules, you don't know them necessarily, and you cross those lines and you just cut off your opportunity to minister to somebody. There's generational gaps. That's a real big one. It really is. What is acceptable and what is not for someone who say like 70 or 80 or 90, or somebody who's say fifty to sixty, or somebody who's like thirty to forty or thirty and below, there's a lot of different expectations. And so if we want to minister to people and we truly love them, Then we have to learn how to communicate, how to not create unnecessary offenses, and out of love for them, we set aside our rights, and then we do what we need to do in ministry. And so that principle actually really is hammered out here in this verse number nine. Take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. And some people might say, Well, I'm just glad God didn't call me to be a missionary or a pastor and I don't have to worry about that. Guys I might keep you from dating a girl someday. If you're not careful, you may go and uh make some mom or dad really upset, and there goes your chances. And so the bottom line is it's not just about being a pastor, being a missionary, going into other cultures, working in a business context. With other cultures. No, the truth is that when it comes to the Christian life, we have to learn how to limit our rights so that we can minister effectively to other people. I'm going to stop on that one because the next one involves a bit of development. And so I want to leave on that note. This principle is very, very important. And I'll say this, when people are willing to set aside their rights, perceived rights, maybe that's the way I'll put it, so that they will genuinely minister to other Christians. Then God can really bless that labor. And if you want to minister to Christians, guess what? You're going to minister to a lot of hurting people. You really are. And guess what? Hurting people, you have to be patient with them. Or if you're the hurting person, people gotta be patient with you. Or sometimes we're not the hurting person, but we end up being the hurting person at different times. And so we have to be willing. To patiently work with one another in these areas. May God help us to do that. Let's bow together for prayer. Commit this time to the Lord Father, I thank you for your word. Thank you for the various concepts that we've worked through tonight. Lord, help us to be a people. Who are willing out of a genuine love for others to navigate some of those challenging situations. Whether it's ministering to someone who's older than us, someone who's younger than us, someone who's from a different culture than we are, someone who's a brand new Christian, whatever the situation. Help us to have wisdom and help us to have the heart that is willing to meet people where they are and minister to them. So I pray that you'd help that to really cement into our hearts and help us to apply it. We ask all this in Christ's name, amen.