So let's turn together to the book of 1 Corinthians again tonight. And we are in 1 Corinthians chapter 8. And we took several weeks to uh kind of develop uh the topic of the conscience and that was really basically an introduction to what we're going to look at tonight. And so we're going to read the entire section, Romans chapter, or 1 Corinthians chapter 8. And then we're going to just kind of work our way through the details, what exactly is here, why Paul said that, and then hopefully move to some what I think are very, very practical applications. So 1 Corinthians chapter eight verse number one now as touching things offered unto idols we know that we all have knowledge knowledge puffeth up but But if any man love God, the same is known of him As concerning, therefore, the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one. For though there be uh many called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as there be gods many and lords many But to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things and we are in Him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by Him. How be it, there is not in every man that knowledge, for some with conscience of an idol unto this hour eat it as a thing offered unto an idol. And their conscience being weak is defiled, but meat commendeth us not to God, for neither if we eat are we any better, neither if we are uh if we eat not are we any worse. But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. For if any man see thee, which hath knowledge, sit at meet in an idol's temple, Shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols? And through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish for whom Christ died? But when ye sin so against the brethren and wound their weak conscience, ye sin against Christ. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will not, I will eat no meat. while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. Now this is a very lengthy passage of Scripture. And I would say that a lot of the material when we read it, we go, what's he getting into here? Meat offered into idols is obviously something we aren't dealing with in our church context at least. Not to my knowledge, I don't know of a a situation like this. So how in the world can you take this passage of scripture and how can it be applicable and practical and helpful to us? as we sit here in the 21st century in modern day America. Well the fact is this if we go into this passage of scripture and we consider the specific situation that Paul is addressing. And then we'll look at the way that he lays out how to think about issues of conscience. In fact, it is just as pertinent today as it was thousands of years ago when it was written. And so this is a very, very helpful passage of Scripture. So we're going to dig into it tonight. First thing I want to do is kind of remind you where we've been over the last several weeks. We've been dealing with the issue of the conscience. We've asked four questions. The first one was, what is the conscience? And we talk about the conscience. That is that moral sense that we have within us where we understand that there is right. There is wrong. We are answerable to God. And our conscience is something that, uh, because we are created in the image of God, it is a part of us. And you can run from your conscience, you can twist your conscience, you can suppress your conscience, but you cannot escape the fact that in fact you have a conscience. And so we talked a little bit about how the conscience works, and then from that we got into the question of, is it an infallible guide? And the answer is no, it's not While it is true that the conscience gives us a sense of right and wrong, it's also true that the conscience is affected by things around us. So what I was taught as a child, my culture Obviously, what we want to shape our conscience more than anything is the Bible, but our conscience is affected by the things going on around us and how we relate properly or how we relate to it, whether in a healthy way or in an unhealthy way. So we know it's not an infallible guide. And then the last thing we addressed was how do we actually have a healthy conscience? And really it's about growth into Christ's likeness. It's about having a renewed mind by the scriptures, getting into our heart and us growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. So that's where we've been over the last several weeks. Don't forget those things, but as we start working our way into this, let's look at the specific details of how Paul addresses the issue. Second thing I want to mention, introduction. Is that this passage of Scripture, Roman, or 1 Corinthians chapter 8, and then also it really goes all the way into chapter 10 because we're going to talk a little bit about chapter 10 as well. This is kind of dealing with the same topic of conscience. But the primary issue that's being discussed here is meat that has been offered to idols. Is that meat defiled because of the way that it's been handled or not? But then there's another passage of scripture that gives us a lot of the same kinds of instruction, but it's dealing with a different topic. And that is in Romans chapter 13, all the way to Romans 15. Now, I just want to just kind of pause and make this observation. In the book of Romans, chapters 13, 14, and 15 are almost entirely dedicated to this one topic. And then when we look at 1 Corinthians, we have all of chapter 8 and a good chunk of chapter 10. And really from 8 to 10, that entire section is kind of dealing with the same basic topic. Do you get the idea it might be an important issue? I mean, there are a lot of issues that people squabble about, and the truth is the Bible doesn't say a whole lot about some of those issues. But this issue, there's a lot of time that is dedicated to it because it is so practical and so personal, and it really affects us if we don't think correctly about it. So there are three concerns that we're going to address from this passage. The first question, or first concern that we're going to address, is what makes something evil? What makes something evil? Second question, I don't know if we'll get into this tonight or not, but the second question is what is the basis for how a person is accepted before God? This is actually a really huge question. Because when we get to this issue of conscience, one of the reasons that people really get bogged down on the issue of conscience is because sometimes a part of that is Does God really accept me or not? Does God love me or not? Am I really a Christian or not? Am I a good Christian or not? A lot of those kinds of things are built into these issues of question, uh issues of conscience because If our conscience is bothered, then the first thing we do is we say, I must not be in a good place with God. That'll be the first thing that happens. So we'll address that concern. And then the third concern is how should we relate to other people when it comes to issues of conscience. And this is where we're going to get really, really practical. So those are the three things we're going to address from this text. Let's go into the first one first. Concern number one, what makes an action evil? Now, this is a very practical question. And I think if we were to stop and just step back, we would realize that that question and how we answer it goes into lots and lots of areas. For instance. Some of us are prone to overthinking issues. Anybody like that? I'm not asking you to raise your hand. Should I raise my hand or not? You know, now I'm starting to overthink the issue, right? It's kind of like proving the point. So some of us we overthink things. I always want to do the right thing. And that's a good desire. We should want to always do the right thing. But we can take a thing and we can break it down so far that now we lose sight of the big picture and we have a problem Our conscience, if we begin to overthink issues and we really dig too far into them, we can become crippled by that. It's like when you take a kid to the candy store and you're like, all right. Which candy do you want? And one kid's like, I want all of them, you know. And the other kid's like, I want that one right there. And they take it and they're ready to go get it paid for. And then you have another child, they're like, well, I'd like that one. Oh, I really like this one and then and then and then ten minutes later you're like, All right, dad's gonna pick it for you Okay? Different personalities. The one child they make up their mind immediately, the other child, unless you kind of tell 'em what to do, they just They can't seem to do it. Well, that kind of falls into all of life. We see the pros and the cons everywhere. We break down every single little thing, and we can be crippled with fear. We can't make decisions. And this passage of scripture is going to be super helpful for us on this. Here's another question. Should we feel morally responsible for areas like, example, I was down in D. C. today at an event. And uh, oh, the traffic was horrible. Going in, coming out. Ugh. I'm glad I don't do that every day. I'd be an angry person. But uh yes, no I wouldn't. I'd I'd I'd learn how to deal with it, I'm sure. But uh But think about your government Maybe don't think too much about it. Do you think that maybe our government uses some of our tax money for things that are truly evil? Do you think so? Yes, they do. So here's the question. Are you like responsible for that because you pay your taxes? Well the answer is no. I mean you're supposed to pay your taxes. I mean look at the the the book of Romans where he says, you know, to render to all their dues, tribute to them, tribute to do, custom to, custom, fear to him, fear, honor to him, honor. He's talking about Nero in Rome. They had duties. So Christians could pay their taxes in Rome and not be morally responsible for the horrible things done by the Roman government. And God said the right thing to do is Pay your taxes. Honor those responsibilities that you have. But you're not guilty for the things that they do. Yet there's some people that go, banned. I don't know if I can do this in good conscience because, or I don't know if I could give money to this person at this institution because I don't know what they're going to do with that money. You ever thought something like that? Should an employer feel morally responsible for the really bad decisions that the people that work for them make with the money that they earn? I remember working uh construction and uh we got paid on Mondays. You know what we got paid on Mondays? Because when people got paid on Fridays, they didn't come back on Monday and they blew their whole check on Friday night. I didn't do that. 'Cause I got paid on Monday. No 'cause I was very responsible with my use of money. But but but the question is should should should an employer somebody who's done their work should they feel a little bit like, man, when I pay them, I know they're gonna take this and they're gonna use it. it for evil. Think about something like voting. Can we in good conscience vote when we realize that there is nobody that's 100% aligned with every single thing that we believe? Should we feel morally responsible when we have, say, a homeless person who says, I'm hungry, and uh, will you give me some money? Those are some really tough issues. Should I help them out? Well, if I help them out, am I helping them out to go buy something that they shouldn't because they're actually feeding an addiction? That's part of the reason that they're in this particular situation that they're in. The reason I bring up these issues is because these are all issues that come down to issues of conscience. And how we think through those issues needs to be biblical. And there may be certain scenarios where we say, I'm going to do the right thing and I'm doing it because I know this principle states this here, but there's a whole lot of other things that I don't necessarily have all figured out in my head. And that's That's okay. So how does Paul approach the issue that's in front of him? The way that he does it is he begins with saying you need to be fully informed. about the decisions that you're about to make, but realize that being fully informed is not absolutely informed. Informed. Do you understand what I mean by that? Just because you're fully informed doesn't mean you're absolutely informed. That means you don't have all the answers. In fact, we we we see that the very first thing that he does in this passage is he talks about the limitations that we have. For instance, in verse 1, he says, we know that we all have knowledge. Now what's kind of interesting about that statement Is that that statement is probably a reference to a Corinthian slogan that was being used in the church. And there are several examples of this throughout the book of First Corinthians, where Paul will quote things like meat for the belly and bellies for meat. Do you remember that one? or you know the body is gonna be destroyed. And so what he's basically saying is within the church there are certain statements that are being made. Some of them are a result of the culture and some of them are Christianizing some of the statements that are being made in their society. And so it seems that Paul is actually making a statement like that. He says, we know we all have knowledge. The reason that he makes that statement is because he is indicating that worldly thinking is affecting this church on some level on this issue. And we know it was affecting them on lots and lots of other issues, but he's emphasizing the fact that we have limitations on some of the issues we address simply because of our cultural baggage. He's indicating we need to tread humbly and acknowledge that this is an area of limitation. So before he ever gets into the topic of conscience, he reminds them You have limitations. Second thing he does is he mentions the limitation of personal pride. He says, knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. You say, well, why does he start there? I think it's actually a very practical thing when you stop and think about it. What kinds of things do Christians tend to argue about more than anything else? The conscience issues. I mean, it's just the truth. If you have a bunch of junior high boys and they're all gonna sit down at uh around a table and they're gonna talk about biblical issues. What are they gonna argue about? They're gonna they're gonna they're not gonna argue about the things that are like clear cut cut black and white. You know exactly what the Bible says about it. It'll be all these secondary little issues, and there's a lot of back and forth about it. Or when I was in Bible college, I remember all the guys we'd get out of ministerial seminar on Tuesdays and Thursdays And we sit there and we'd eat pizza and we'd all like argue about all this stuff that was like totally secondary. Maybe even go beyond secondary. And so the reason that he brings this up is because we have a tendency to get a very competitive attitude about areas of controversy. It's true. Not only that, we become more focused on being right than doing right. Do you know what I mean? Like all of a sudden It's not about doing the right thing, about I take the right stand on the issue. And it's like, well, just because you can articulate the right viewpoint doesn't mean you're actually doing the right thing. And that can become an issue of pride. Or our identity can become rooted in our positions rather than our position in Christ. And so the first thing he does is he reminds him, you have limitations of culture, and you have limitations of that tendency to pride. We get into these issues of conscience. We have to be so cautious that we don't get competitive, that we aren't all about, it's about me being right, not about doing right, or look at my positions as opposed to my position in Christ. And the third limitation that he mentions is that we have imperfect data to deal with. Verse number two. He says, if any man think that he knoweth anything, it's fascinating what he says. He knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. Isn't that an amazing statement? If a person thinks that he knows anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. What does that mean? He means when you think you got it all figured out, you need to realize you still don't have all the details. So all of this is a caution at the beginning of this discussion. Recognize you have baggage potentially. Recognize that pride is going to be a massive temptation. Recognize you don't have all the information. You have limitations to how much information you have. We often lack all the information we need to make an informed decision. Or sometimes we lack the ability to process all the information we have. Or we lack the ability to properly prioritize those conclusions. We often make decisions on impulse rather than calculation. So the very first thing he does is says, be cautious on issues of conscience. The second thing that Paul does is he says, gather all the facts before you make a judgment. Now this is such an important principle for us to understand in life. Have you ever had a situation where somebody tells you that, you know, this is something that's happened and this is their perspective on the issue, and you hear that, and you just you immediately have a judgment on that issue. But the truth is, you don't know if they've given you all the information. You really don't. You don't know if there's another side. You don't know if they've skewed that in any way. Now it's possible that they're giving you the facts exactly as they are. But when someone gives you information, you have to pause and you have to in your mind have the self-control to say I gotta get the whole story before I decide how to look at this issue. And we think about Proverbs. He says that it is folly to a person to answer a matter before he hears the matter. So we've got to be so very, very careful. Christians are not supposed to be reactionary. Whatever I emotionally feel I'm going to say it, I'm going to do it. No, Christians are supposed to be a people who methodically look at the facts, say this is what God says. This is what's going on. Here's how I look at it as I put these two things together. We're supposed to be discerning. We're supposed to be thinking through the issue. We're supposed to move forward. with a clear mind. So in verse number four he says, concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered unto and sacrificed unto idols, here is all the stuff you need to remember as you make this decision. So, let's move through the facts one at a time. The first fact we see is this: an idol has no power. An idol has no power. An idol is a block of wood. An idol is a stone. An idol is a picture. An idol does not have the ability to do anything. In fact, in many, many portions of the world there are people that have idols in their homes. They have idols in shrines. In fact, when we when we lived overseas and we were missionaries, in the city that we lived in. There were shrines all over the city, and in those shrines there were there were idols. There were places where people put sacrifices for lack of a better way to put it, or offerings that were given. And people really believed that there was power to be lost or gained based on those actions. But the very first thing that Paul says in verse 4 is, we know an idol is nothing in the world. It's a block of wood. It's a stone. It's an image. It has no power. You say, why does that matter? Well, this is going to inform how he looks at the issue. of meat that has been offered to an idol. If meat has been offered to a block of wood and it's a nothing, then does it really matter if it's been offered to a block of wood? The answer is no, no, it really doesn't matter. This is a calculation, understanding if the meat has been defiled or if it's okay to eat the meat. The second factor is this: there is only one true God. Verse number four, there is none other God but one. Now this is a fascinating thing for us to think about, but in the ancient world, the Romans viewed Christians as atheists. The reason they viewed them as atheists is because they didn't believe in the gods. They were not polytheistic. They believed in one God and in their mind they're like, well, y'all are a bunch of atheists because you you don't believe in thousands of gods or hundreds of gods. You believe in one God, so you're totally different than the rest of us. The truth is they lived in a world where everybody believed that the bad things that happened were a direct result. of gods who were influencing what was going on. If someone's wife couldn't have a child or financially the person was struggling or maybe they lost their job or they were hoping to get a job or They didn't have enough rain or their crops got decimated by some kind of plague. There was sickness in the community. There was a military that came against them and there were their financial pressures. No matter what the situation was They believed that the good and the bad was controlled by deities. And so what does he say? There is no other God but one. There is one God. Well, that's going to shape their understanding of the situation. Fact number three, though there's only one true God, their society was filled with the worship Of false gods through idols. Now, this is kind of an interesting thing that maybe we don't wrap our minds around very much. The idol did not have power. But you do realize that when people worship idols, they're often worshiping demons through the idols. You realize that? It's true. In fact, you read through the Old Testament and you'll you notice this carefully. It'll talk about the idols have ears but they can't hear, they have eyes, but they can't see, they have mouths, but they can't speak. But there are also passages in the Old Testament that talk about the people offering their children to demons. What do they say? They worshipped demons through the idols. And so one of the things that we have to recognize here is that while it is true that the idol is nothing It is also true, potentially, that there is the worship of the demonic realm through idols And so sometimes when people did offer those sacrifices and did pay those things, there were things that happened as a direct result of that, not because of the idol. But because of the demonic activity that was going on behind the scenes. Now this is very foreign to our minds. But the truth is if you lived in a culture where that was going on, it wouldn't be foreign to your mind. It was certainly not foreign to the minds of the people that were here. And the reality is that the Bible actually talks a lot about these issues. And so notice the statement in verse number 5. He says, Though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or on earth, as there be gods many and lords many. What he's acknowledging is that there are these, we could say, they're demons is ultimately what they are. They're not gods, but they're viewed as gods. They do have power. They do have influence. And so he's reminding them that there is one God who is greater than all those things. Fact number four, they served the one true God, who is the source of all things, and they were united to Him through Christ. Now, this is a really important detail that we're going to come back to a little bit later in this teaching. And verse 6 he says this, but to us there is but one God, the Father, and notice the next statement, of whom are all things. You know what that means? This God, the one true God, made everything. By him were all things made in heaven and in earth. Visible and invisible, whether it be thrones, dominions, principalities, and powers, all things are made by him, and all things are made for him. There is one God of whom are all things. And then the next statement is very interesting. And we in him. You say, what does that mean? He's talking about the fact that we are united with Christ. In fact, in Romans chapter 6, he talks about how we are baptized into Christ, and he's talking about our spiritual union with Christ. He's not talking about water baptism in that passage. That is a misunderstanding sometimes people have of that. When he talks about being baptized into Christ, he says that it's the Spirit who unites us to Christ. And so he's talking about that spiritual union. In fact, the picture that is used is something of being grafted in. Okay? That's actually the illustration that's used in other passages. Scripture. But he's saying one God, and this God we are related to by union. We are united to him, grafted into him, and there's one Lord Jesus Christ by whom are all things we by him. So what's the emphasis there? The emphasis is that the one true God, we belong to Him Now, all of these things are building a case for how Paul is going to tell the people to look at this issue. Number five. Some people did not yet understand these facts fully. Verse number seven, how be it, there is not in every man that knowledge. Now, when Paul makes that statement, he could be talking about a couple of different scenarios. For instance, he could be talking about their polytheistic neighbors who did not understand these facts. So they're worshiping all these little gods, they're going to the temple shrines, they're involved in all the different things that are part of a polytheistic society. And he's saying, they don't know there's one true God and only one true God, and you are united to him through Christ, and he made everything. In their mind, there's all these other gods. That factors into how they look at everything in life. Or he could be talking secondly about immature Christians who did not yet understand these facts. Now, these are not polytheists. They believe there's one true God. They believe they're united to Christ. Through his death and resurrection, they place their faith in Christ. They believe that. But there is still a sense where the old world view is still very much a part of their thinking. They're very fearful. They're very superstitious. Again, I go back to a missions context. There'd be many people, they place their faith in Christ. And their understanding of the gospel is very, very clear. But I will tell you, as soon as something bad was going on in their life and people started coming to them and saying, hey, you know what? It's possible, it's possible that this is a spiritual issue. And they go, hm. Your pastor can't help you in this county. I know who can help you Come with me. Let's go talk to this guy. Let's get this issue resolved. And that person will be very they feel extremely compelled to go and do that. And you say, but hold on a second. That person has trusted Christ as their savior. They're a believer. How could they do that? Well, guess what? Their worldview is still very much unshaped. And so this is a very immature person. They're still a Christian. Don't get me wrong. But they're still getting drawn. They're still very fearful. It's like the believer who's truly saved. They place their faith in Christ, but they they they deal with doubts about salvation. I mean You can be a genuine believer. You're going to heaven when you die. But because of various things, it begins to cause you to struggle. It's the same kind of situation. Just different, just a different fact pattern, same kind of situation. And then some Christians understood these facts intellectually, but they had still not become freed in conscience by the information. If you had a conversation with them about it, they could tell you the facts. They could tell you they believe it, but there's still something inside of them that struggles with these issues. And here's the simple fact about the church and about the Christian life. You will never get over the fact that there will always be those various levels in every church congregation. Doesn't matter how strong the preaching and teaching is. Doesn't matter how long someone has a church has been in a location. When you get people that are getting saved and they're young Christians or people are coming from different backgrounds with lots and lots of baggage, you are always going to have that mix in the church context. Fact number six. Those who ate the meat without a clear conscience were actively damaging their conscience by their action. Verse 8. Some with conscience of the idol unto this hour eat it as a thing offered unto an idol, their conscience being weak is defiled. See, what does he mean by that? Well, those who worshipped idols were further reinforcing wrong thinking when they saw a Christian do this. And those who were Christians but not thinking clearly about the issue were deadening their conscience by that action. It's sort of like this. Here's this believer, they go to the market, they buy the meat, they know it's offered to an idol, and they they say they don't believe in this, but somebody's going, well, I know, I know what you know what what what's happening with that meeting I know the situation and and so in their minds they're like they're a Christian they're okay with it I'm okay with it must not be a big deal. In fact we're gonna address this a little bit later But he's saying, be careful how your actions are going to reinforce wrong positions in people's minds. Gotta be careful. Or two You feel very conflicted in your heart about it, but you can do it anyway. And you feel miserable about it after you do it, but you do it anyway. This is what he's addressing So these six facts are going to help inform how you make the decision. How would I summarize what Paul's doing here? Paul is saying that meat is neither morally evil or good because all it is is meat. Meat does not become morally evil because it's previously used in evil practice. Eating the meat after it's been previously used And an evil practice was not condoning or participating in that evil practice. Some Christians in the Corinthian church could eat the meat with a clear conscience, and others could not Those who could eat meat with a clear conscience according to scripture were technically correct. And those who could not were technically deficient in their thinking on the issue. Did you catch that? So the people that ate the meat were actually the stronger people, assuming they could do it with a clear conscience. And those who said, no, I can't eat the meat, were actually the weaker believers in that scenario. And the believer who had a compromise conscience but ate it anyway, they're not the strong believer, they're the compromised believer. And you say, well, hold on a second. It's the same chunk of meat for three different people. How could it be three different things? Because it's all about what's going on inside the heart of the person. Because the meat itself is irrelevant. The meat's neither good nor bad. It's the attitude, the thinking, the heart, the conscience of the person who is taking the action. That's what ultimately makes it a right or wrong thing. We've got to acknowledge the reality that some Christians who love Christ cannot make this distinction in their minds. We've got to consider how our actions could potentially compromise other another our Christian witness. What makes an action evil is a blend of the action and the intent behind the action. And so that first concern, I'm going to stop here because that's a lot to process. But I would summarize it by saying this: before you make a judgment about conscience issues, number one, be very humble in your heart. And number two, get all the facts. You gotta do that. You gotta be humble in your approach. You got to get all the facts. Concern number two, what we'll deal with, Lord willing next week is what's the basis for our acceptance with God? Because this is a huge part of what Paul is going to say in this text. And the answer very simply is that the basis of our acceptance with God is our position in Christ. And so we're going to dig into that, Lord willing, tomorrow. Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to process these things. And to be well prepared to deal with them in a godly way. Lord, I thank you for your word. I think about this text. There's so much information to digest here. But really, the implications are very simple. Help us to be humble when we approach these issues of conscience and help us to get all the facts before we make a judgment. Father, I pray that when our conscience is bothered, we would not violate it and damage it, but I pray that rather we would do what is right. You'd help us to grow in these areas, help us to think about others in these areas, help us to be strong, wise, godly Christians. Father, please bless our time of prayer together in the next few minutes. May you be truly glorified. May our fellowship together be sweet. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.