Let's turn together to 1 Corinthians chapter 8. And we've been working our way through this passage of Scripture, and we're really getting into the heart of the practical issues that we deal with on this issue of conscience. And so the title of the study we've been doing is Love, Liberty, and the Conscience. And so let's begin reading in verse 1 as we look at this passage again tonight. It says, now, as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth it up, but charity edifieth. And if any man think that he knoweth anything, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know. But if any man love God, the same is known of him. As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one. For though there be some that are called gods, whether in heaven or earth, as there be God's many and Lord's many, but to us there is but one God. And Father, of whom are all things, and we in him, and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him. Howbeit, there is not in every man that knowledge. For some with conscience of the idol unto this hour eat it as a thing offered unto an idol, and their conscience being weak is defiled But meat commendeth us not to God, for neither if we eat are we any better, neither if we eat not are we any worse. But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stombling block to them that are weak For if any man see thee, which hast knowledge, sit at me in an idle temple, shall not the conscience of him that is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols? And though, and through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, of whom Christ died. But when ye sin so against the brethren and wound their their weak conscience, ye sin against Christ. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will not I will eat no meat while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. Now, as we've been working our way through the passage We came to a third concern, and that concern is how do we relate to other people on this issue of conscience? And there are several principles that we're going to lay out. In fact, tonight we may very well get through all of them. We'll see But we just got through the first one last week, and that is the principle that we are to relate to other Christians, and not just Christians, but also the world around us. We 're to relate in love. And we see this in verse number nine. He says, take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumbling block to them that are weak. So when we think about issues of conscience, we need to ask the question, am I relating to other Christians or to unbelievers in genuine love? In other words, I'm considering the implications of my actions. Why? Because I love that other Christian. Or I love this person that I desire to see them become a Christian. I'm trying to witness to this person. I'm trying to lead them to Christ. Or maybe this is a very young Christian and I'm trying to help them grow. I'm discipling them. I'm considering how those actions are going to affect them. And just because something is technically permissible does not mean that I have to do it We should love our neighbor enough to be willing to lay aside our rights in certain areas so that we can minister to them or so that we will not cause them to stumble. So that was the first principle that we talked about last week. Second, or the last principle we talked about last week. So principle number two. We need to think before we take any action. Now we look at the next couple of verses, verses 10 through 13, and notice what it says. If any man see thee, which hath knowledge, sit at meat in the idol's temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols And through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died. But when you sin so against thy brother and wound their conscience, you sin against Christ. Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend. Now we need to step back and go, hold on a second, what in the world is the Apostle Paul talking about in this situation? He talks about somebody sitting to eat meat in an idol's temple. One of the things that we have to do sometimes when we look at a passage of Scripture is we have to go back into the setting and ask the question, what was the practice of the time that Paul has in his mind and that he is ultimately addressing? Because if we just reach that reach read this these verses and we have no historic context, it's going to be hard for us to put this together in our minds. And so what basically he's saying here Is that one of the central places in the cities of the ancient world were pagan temples. And those pagan temples served lots and lots of different functions. Now, obviously the most obvious of the pagan uh temple practices would have been people went into those temples. specifically so that they could be involved in pagan worship. And the pagan worship that went on in those days was in fact extremely immoral, extremely evil. And so when he's talking about this scenario, I don't think that that's actually the scenario that he's talking about. A person that says, well, I know that a uh an idol is nothing, and so I can go into the temple, it doesn't matter at all. I don't think that's exactly what he's saying. Because there were other practices that would have also been associated with pagan temples. For instance, when people had special family activities. Maybe it could be similar to like what we would consider our anniversary or our birthday or some kind of celebration in the community. Many times people would go up to the temple, not just for what we would think of as the pagan rituals, but for social events that would also involve elements of pagan sacrifice or worship. For instance, in every city there were times that people were supposed to pay homage to the emperor, or pay homage to people who were rulers in the city, or pay homage to some of the gods, I put that in quotes. And so what they would do as part of the festivities of the community, they would be expected to give sacrifices, to pour libation, uh, to pinch incense, to do different things. And so when Christians said we want nothing to do with paganism at all, we have a very distinctive religious practice. It has nothing to do with this. It was easy for them to do it when it came to going into the church congregation or maybe in their own personal household if all members of their household were genuine believers and were trying to live a distinct life But what do you do when you have a family where the husband is an unbeliever and the wife is a believer, or vice versa, or maybe the parents are unbelievers, but The children are believers, or one of the children is a believer, but not the other. Or maybe someone is actually a servant in a household. They have no ability to get out of there Legally they are bound and the person who is that they are answerable to and that they are serving day in and day out is an idol worshiper. Now you can see there's lots and lots of different scenarios where a person might say Now I have a conflict with dad. I have a conflict with my mom. I have a conflict with my uncle. I have a conflict with my brother. I have a conflict with The guy that I answer to every single day. I have a conflict with people that are in the high levels of society. And so all of a sudden, this issue of conscience is really going to press people I'll give you a modern-day equivalent. Let's say that you have a family member with a same-sex wedding going on. Or someone that says something like, My pronouns are, and I demand that you use my personal pronouns, and uh they go a lot of you might even have to deal with this at work, okay? Those are the kinds of scenarios that would actually would be very equivalent. Okay? Now we're talking about our modern current situation where somebody says, hey, you you work in my office, I'm inviting you to my wedding, and you're like, well, I don't really feel very comfortable with this. Boy, I don't believe this is a real wedding in a biblical sense, but I can go and just be supportive and be kind to this person, not make an issue with them. I don't believe in it, but I'll just be quiet about it That is really the equivalent of what we're talking about here. And so he's saying you have a person who could in their mind rationalize going into that temple. And they say an idol is nothing. I'm just going to someone's birthday party. I'm just going to this festive occasion. I don't believe in the idols. I'm just trying to go along to get along and not make waves with anybody. That's the kind of situation we're talking about. Notice what he says. If any man see thee which hath knowledge sit at me at an idol's temple. Shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered idols? So you go into the temple and you say, I don't believe in the idols, they're fake I'm a Christian and they say, Well, you're a Christian, you're okay with this. I guess it's fine. What's the big deal? You know what's going on? You are actually emboldening an individual to be involved in a pagan practice by your presence. Now, it's easy to talk about them, them, but we have these problems today. And I don't think it's going to get easier as time goes on. It's just the honest truth. And so when we talk about issues of conscience, we have to recognize that before we take an action We need to ask the question, what are the true ramifications? What am I communicating by being willing to participate in this function, this activity? You do not want your actions to reinforce wrong, sinful patterns of thought. You do not want your actions to embolden sinful actions on the part of others. You need to consider the big picture before you act because you care about others' spiritual well-being. And someone might say, well, the most loving thing to do is to not make waves. Unless what they're doing is evil and wrong, then is the most loving thing to do to not make waves or to just speak the truth in a kind and gracious manner. And to say this is my personal conviction, and it's my personal conviction because of what the scripture says. And so I cannot in good conscience participate in this particular activity. It's not me being personally against you. It's just that I have a higher allegiance, and that allegiance is Christ. That's all that it is. Now it's easy for me to say this. It's a very difficult thing to be in such positions. But that's what Paul's getting at. And do you understand why the church at Corinth had such an issue with Paul? Because he was telling them stuff like this. They're like, you don't know what it's gonna cost me in my community. I'm a public official. You need to tell me I can't go up into the temple and just do this or do that. I'm gonna lose my job. I'm gonna lose my position. I'm gonna lose all my friends, I'm gonna lose my social status. And that's why Paul had such a conflict with these people. And Paul wasn't saying these things because he was an arnery guy who just wanted to life make life miserable for them. It's because he wanted the church to be holy and distinct. And so that second principle is very, very important. We have to consider the big picture. We have to think before we act. Principle number three. On the other side, we have to be so very cautious that we don't overanalyze the situation. Now, the the the situation that he just talked about in those verses that we just read, he's now going to address a different topic, and that is in chapter ten. So if you go from chapter eight to chapter ten, in the whole big picture there's One basic thought about how to deal with these issues where paganism was affecting the Christian. Even the Lord's table, nonetheless, in chapter 11. But in chapter 10, he's addressing something that's a little bit different. And you can see how the conscience issue is coming to bear here. Here's what he says. Verse 25. Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, that eat, asking no question for conscience' sake. For the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. If any of them that believe not bid you to a feast, and you be disposed to go Whatsoever is set before you, eat asking no question for conscience' sake. Now, a couple things that we want to break down here. The first is this. You are personally going to the meat market and you're buying food for your family. There is a very high probability If you're living in ancient Corinth or Athens or Rome or one of those places that when you go and you buy the meat in the market, there has been some kind of pagan Ritual that's been associated with that meat in some way. Very, very possible. Now it could be that you're getting the discount meat that's been used in the temple and that's why it's so cheap. Okay? That could be one of the things that's going on But one of the things that could be going on is you really don't know what this person has done when it comes to their interaction with that meat. And if you step back and you ask the question Is it meat or is there something mystical about it? He says it's just meat. There's nothing sinful about eating the meat. But when you go into that marketplace , He says don't go looking to ask a bunch of questions about the memes. In other words, don't go to the guy and say, hey, I know that you're a pagan, I'm a Christian, you worship all these idols. I'm sure you did not in any way use that meat in some kind of pagan ritual. Am I correct on that? He's like, well of course you'd be wrong about that, because everybody does that. So he says, don't go to the people and ask them questions. Just ask them the price, buy the meat, and eat it. It's okay. It's not a big deal. But then he makes a slight change. He says, you are asking no questions. Why? For conscience' sake. You don't want to put yourself in a conflicted position. He then goes to a second scenario, which would be slightly different than the temple scenario. You're invited to a feast, not at the temple, but a feast at someone's home. And they bring the food out and they put it before you. Again, do not ask them anything about the food. Was this offered to an idol? Was this used in the temple? Or anything like that? He said, just ask. Deal with it as me. What's his point? Don't overthink the issue. Don't unnecessarily draw attention to details that are unknown and unnecessary to consider. There are certain things in life that if you don't know the background of it, it doesn't really matter at all. In fact, I'm going to give you an example that affects Christians in the church, and that would be on the issue of music. Okay? Hopefully I'm not gonna get myself into trouble here. There are lots of songs that if you don't know anything about the person who wrote the music, where they use it, the theological background, and all you did was just analyze the music for the sake of music There'd be nothing wrong with it at all. And you could sing it, you could enjoy it, you could listen to it, and everything's good with that. But then Sometimes you find out that the guy that wrote it's still an atheist, and you're like, oh, I don't know if you want to use that song anymore. Or you find out that they have a very sketchy theological background or Th they they were involved in some kind of scandal and all of a sudden that song there's absolutely nothing wrong with the song. It's totally fine. You can use it, no big deal. All of a sudden now that extra a bit of information uh it really troubles your conscience. And you say, I don't want to use that. Or this is also true about books. Okay? You you have you have a book in the library, you have a book in the bookstore. And uh you've even read the book, you've been benefited by the book, you've given it to people, you've enjoyed it, they've enjoyed it, and then that particular author kind of goes off the rails, and then all of a sudden you're like, I don't think I can give that book to anybody anymore because If they go look up this person online, they're gonna find out they don't believe anything they read in that book anymore. And now it's a conflict. So what's really interesting about the book is If you were to just take it and read it and you knew nothing about the author, nothing about the background, nothing about where this person has been, and all you did was judge it based on the content of what was in it, there would be Zero wrong with it. Not to say it would be an infallible resource. I don't mean that. But it'd be fine to use it. But as soon as you become aware of that extra information, guess what? Now you have a conscience issue. Now you you hand that book to somebody and and they're gonna be like Do you know that author? Do you do you know where they're at on this and that? You're like, um, no, I didn't know much about that. Well yeah, and they start telling you stuff say, you know what Never mind. I'll give you another resource that I think it's going to be just as helpful to you that it won't have that other that other complication with it. The point though that Paul is making is this. You don't need to go and do all the investigations. If the content's good, enjoy it. But once you become aware of the problem, then you need to make a correction. That's the idea that he's getting into. So don't ask unnecessary questions that will make it impossible. to properly function in your society. And especially for people in those days, it was a big deal. Now, for me as a pastor, if I'm going to give a book to somebody or a resource, like Uh it's it's something I've got to think about it quite a bit more than maybe everybody else in this room because when I'm giving something out, somebody might be like, is that an endorsement? Is that an endorsement of this and this over here? But like, oh no, only this right here And then people don't always have the ability to make make sense of that. So you have to be very careful. Or just know that when you walk into a pastor's library, you might see some books on the shelf and go. Is that where you're at theological like no, it's a good resource, but I wouldn't give it to you, but I could use it. There's there's benefit and there's value to it, okay? I'm I'm chewing on the meat and spitting out the bones, okay? But but the whole point is that this comes into this issue of conscience again. Principle number four. Once you know there's a problem, then limit your involvement. Verse 18, but if any man say unto you, this is offered in sacrifice unto idols, eat not. Notice the next statement. For his sake. He didn't say don't eat it because it's sinful. He said don't eat it for his sake. You know what that's telling me? The actual eating of the meat doesn't matter. But it does matter now because it's an issue of conscience. It is for the sake of that individual's conscience. And so he says, for the sake of conscience, the earth is the Lord's, the fullness thereof. Conscience I say, not thine own. but of the other. So as a pastor, if I choose not to give a book to somebody that actually could really benefit them if all they read was chapter four, and the reason I do that, that I don't hand them that book, Or that something comes up and I take it out of the bookstore, whatever. The reason for that is ultimately because my desire is not to be a stumbling block to them through the use of that particular resource This is actually very good for our children as well. We need to be very cautious about what we bring into our homes. Or sometimes, you know, mom and dad read books and they don't think about the fact that They're 15-year-olds gonna go pick up that book and read it too. Okay? And then when they read it, they're like, oh, I don't know if they really have the discernment to read that like I do. That doesn't mean they're never going to be able to read it, but maybe at that stage in life, a 12-year-old, 14-year-old, whatever, okay? We have to make those judgment calls, but the idea is this, we need to be very, very cautious about what we do and how it affects less matured people than we are. So there's no issue in eating the meat until it's been raised. Once it's been raised, the right response is to limit liberty. Do not allow yourself to unnecessarily be conflicted over the situation So principle four, limit your involvement once the difficulty arises. Principle five, do not misunderstand the reason that you are making an adjustment. Now this is important. Paul is not saying that when you ate the meat and you didn't know all the ramifications that you were sinning. He's not saying that. He's saying there's nothing wrong with the meat, you can eat it. There's nothing wrong with the song, you can sing it. There's nothing wrong with the book, you can read it. But once the issue is risen, and now you realize there's an issue of conscience, it could be your conscience or someone else's conscience, That's when you have to make the judgment call to step back and say, okay, now I'm going to limit my use. And so he says it this way in 29. Why is my liberty judged of another man's conscience? If I by grace be a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that which I give thanks? What he's actually saying there is this. Is it really right that I have to limit myself because other people aren't strong enough or discerning enough to understand the issue the right way? Guess what? We do this all the time in life. We do it all the time in life. We limit our freedoms and we take jobs. We limit our freedoms when we get married. We limit our freedoms when we have children. We limit our freedoms in so many different areas. Why? Because we have to do that in order for us to function properly within those relationship contexts. And so the idea is this. It's not so much about you being held captive by another person who isn't thinking clearly. It's more that you love this person more than your own liberty. And your own rights. That's really what he's saying. It's almost like going back to that analogy of the missionary. When a missionary goes into a foreign context, There are things they have to be willing to lay aside, and they don't lay those things aside because they're wrong. They lay those things aside because those practices are going to limit their ability to minister the word. They're going to create contentions that are unnecessary So remember that the adjustment is not being made because you were wrong. Rather, it was being made to limit offense for the sake of ministry. And this is a principle that should go into lots and lots of areas of life. We should love the people around us more than we love our own. Demands about self and what we want to do. We've got to be so cautious about this. Principle six: make your decision based on what brings glory to God Not what makes you the most happy at the time. Now I'm not suggesting we should be miserable. Don't get me wrong here, okay? I'm not suggesting. We have an option that makes me happy and one that makes me miserable. I know I have to go with the misery one. No, no, that's not what I'm suggesting here. What I am suggesting is this. When you have a difference between what is right And what is easy but wrong, you gotta go with what's right. That's the point. And so we see this in verse 31. Whether you eat Or drink, or whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Can we truly, with an honest heart, be able to say, I can do this to the glory of God? That's a pretty good question. That's a question that should guide us in so many areas. And so the ultimate factor is not what's easy, what makes me feel Not what makes the person around me happy, what brings glory to God. That's what I need to do. And then principle seven. Know the context that you're in, and adjust appropriately for the good of the people around you. And this is interesting how he kind of closes this little section out in verse 32. He says, give none offense, neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the church of God. Very interesting statement. He said, understand the Jewish context that you are in if you're ministering in a Jewish context, and I mean Remember, first century you have Jews and Gentiles in all these cities. A lot of times the church was mixed with both Jews and Gentiles, and there were massive cultural differences between these people and the church. And so if you're relating to a person from a Jewish background and you're a Gentile and there are lots and lots of things that you practiced when you were a kid and were a part of your family life culture and the things that you ate, just remember if you're gonna have A Jewish brother or sister in Christ come eat in your house, you better think about what you're going to give them. Why? Because you don't want to bring unnecessary offense. Understand the Jewish context. Avoid unnecessary offenses. But then we have the other side He doesn't just go exclusively to one group. Oh, if you're a Gentile, you have to bend for the Jew. He does the exact same thing to the Jewish context. You're going into a Gentile person's home, you better recognize the context you're walking into. In other words, he's explaining that both sides have to be equally loving and equally deferential toward one another. He's not favoring one group over the other. He's saying you're saved the same way, you're a part of the same body, you have different cultural backgrounds, know each other's settings, and show love and grace to one another. That's what he's saying. Understand the dynamics of the local church and adjust to promote unity and godly edifying. You know, every single church has a personality. It has a culture. Hopefully it's healthy, right? But the truth is that within the church setting, you know, w we have so many different personality types and so many different backgrounds. And that is good. That's the way it's supposed to be But when I'm working and interacting with people within the church context, I need to know some things about their background. Why? Because I love them. I want to build bridges. I want to have a strong relationship. I don't want to create unnecessary offenses. Those are the things that we have to do one with another And so it's very, very important that we do that. In fact, it's a really healthy and good thing when we get to interact with people that are from really different backgrounds because you know what it does? It forces us to think through why do I do what I do? Why don't I do what I don't do? Why is this such a big deal to me? Why am I unwilling to Maybe make a little adjustment here for my brother's sake or my sister's sake. It's a very good thing. God uses it in our lives. So we've covered a lot of ground over the last several weeks. How do we kind of pull it all together with some applications? Here's some final thoughts I want to give you. The first is this. We need to know the people that we are interacting with. You know, a lot of times people say, well, I just uh I just don't understand why people don't understand me Okay, well, they might be saying the same thing about you. You ever thought about that? It goes both ways. We need to think about the people that we're interacting with, and we need to figure out ways to build bridges and to build relationships. Out of love for one another, we need to avoid putting each other in situations where our con consciences will be conflicted I think that you can go too far in this. This is not about being a people pleaser. This is about genuinely caring that a person is not put in a situation where their conscience is being compromised. Why do we do it out of love? Third, this does not mean that we personally are obligated to follow everyone else's viewpoint in our personal lives. However, in social and corporate contexts, we need to lovingly show deference. Not everybody in our church has the same rules and expectations of their children on lots of different levels. And that's totally fine. There's nothing wrong with that. That doesn't mean that we're all equally doing it well. Okay. We've got different areas where we struggle, and we've got different areas where we're strong. But the fact that I can be deferential to someone doesn't mean I have to do it that way in my own personal life. But as it relates to them in those contexts, I do need to limit myself. We need to understand the concept personally and we need to communicate it to our kids. One of the things that we have to be so cautious about as Christians. Is that we do not develop this elitist attitude, especially with our kids, where they can't interact with anybody. There's a big problem when we as parents get into a place like that. Where everybody's wrong but us. We can't do that. And so when it comes to issues of conscience, we have to learn how to talk through issues with our children. Teach them how to develop real discernment. You may find out as your uh kids get older and they go out on their own, they might develop some different convictions than you do. Okay It's going to happen to me. It happened to my parents in certain areas. It's going to happen to all of us. None of us have everything figured out perfectly. But the bottom line is we have to talk to our kids about these things. We have to help them to develop a healthy biblical conscience. We have to teach them how to relate properly to other people. So we have to be very careful about this elitist attitude. We don't want them to develop the perception that there's inconsistency or hypocrisy. So let's say that you have a scenario where you tell your kids, this is the way we do it, and this is what we expect, and then you go to somebody else's house and you you kind of like make an adjustment and they go, hold on a second. Dad, are you being a hypocrite? Well, if you don't explain to them why you made the adjustment, that's what they're gonna think. Okay? But if you explain it to them and you say, this is the reason we made the adjustment. This is an issue of conscience for this particular family or this particular person. And that's not a bad thing. It's got something to do with their background. I can appreciate w the way that they look at this particular issue. So we are making this adjustment out of love for them and it's not us being better or them being better. It's about us loving them and wanting to build a bridge and do what's right. You have those kinds of conversations because if you don't, then your children are going to develop this mentality. Mom and dad are hypocrites. Mom and dad are people pleasers. Mom and dad are bending the rules because they're going to somebody's house. Nope, that's not what you need to do. You explain to them those situations so that they can process it and develop discernment themselves. We cannot teach these matters without having a lot of conversations. And we will have many opportunities to do this over the course of our lives with our kids. I love what it says in Deuteronomy 6. That you're supposed to love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your strength, and you're to diligently teach those things to your children. And then he says, when you get up , When you go down, when you're walking in the way, when you're basically what he's saying is this you live life with your kids And you talk to them about what's going on, and if you do that, guess what? You're giving them the information they need, the tools that they need to develop good discernment. good, solid, strong biblical convictions and values, and you are preparing them to navigate life in a very wise and healthy way. God can bless Christians who have different convictions and different levels of maturity. And I think it's really helpful when we can figure that out. The last thing I want to mention is this from this passage. The thing that should give us the greatest sense of security and identity is not where we draw the line, but our union with Christ. And so may all these things be tools that God uses to help us in these areas. These are not easy issues. These are challenging issues, and I know that But God can give us the wisdom to navigate these issues well. Let's bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to really help us with these things. Father, as we think about your word, as we think about issues of conscience, as we think about how to relate to others around us, give us discernment, especially when it comes to raising our families Or when it comes to relating to other Christians who draw the line tighter than we do or draw the line looser than we do. Help us to communicate the why and help it to be a truly biblical and consistent approach to why. I pray that our children would develop a good, strong sense of biblical values. May they be guided by principle. May they have a healthy conscience. Pray that you'd give us wisdom in these areas. Help us to prioritize a love for our brothers and sisters in Christ, a desire to advance the gospel, and a desire for your glory above all else. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.