Welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection. My intention yesterday was to record and I just had a lot of things come up in the morning, so wasn't able to do that. But if you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn to Luke chapter 6 again, and we are looking at verses 31 through 36 together. Again, that's Luke chapter 6, verses 31 through 36. Let's see what the scripture tells us. He says, And as ye would that men should do unto you, do ye also to them likewise. For if ye love them which love you, what think have ye? Sinners also love those that love them, and if ye do good to them, which do good to you, what think have ye? For sinners also do even the same. If ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what think have ye? For sinners also lend to sinners to receive as much gain. But love ye your enemies, do good and lend hoping for nothing again. And your reward shall be great, and ye shall be called the children of the highest. For he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil. Be therefore merciful, even as your father also is merciful. Now, when we look at this passage of Scripture, we see, again, as we've seen with all of the statements in the Sermon on the Mount, a very practical yet very challenging portion of Scripture. And so this passage is dealing with how we are to relate to people who are not just our friends, our family, loving towards us, but people who are who are our enemies. The Bible teaches that we're not just to love our neighbor who's good to us, but we're also to love our neighbor who is our enemy. And so we see that laid out in this text in front of us. So let me give you a simple summary statement, and from that we will look at several important observations about this topic. Here's a summary. God calls us as Christians to a higher standard than the natural interaction we regularly see around us in the people who are not believers. Now when I use the term Christian, obviously when when Jesus is teaching this, he's teaching this before the cross. And so the word Christian would not have been used. He's using it as a sense of believers. But obviously, if we're going to apply this in our current context, we're talking about believers, Christians. God calls us to a higher standard than what we see in the world around us. So let's kind of dig into that concept and see exactly what the text teaches us. about how we're to relate to our neighbors, particularly those who are not kind to us. The first fact or the first observation we find in this text is that we are to treat people to the same standard we expect them to treat us. Notice what he says in verse 31. As ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise. Now this is a baseline starting point. This is not the final thing Jesus will say about this issue of interacting with other people. But this is a common sense baseline. If you believe that people shouldn't lie to you, then don't lie to them. If you believe that people should treat you with respect and dignity, then you should treat them with respect and dignity. If you believe that people should treat you with justice and kindness, then you need to treat people with justice and kindness. We should not expect people to treat us at a higher level than we are willing to treat them. We need to recognize that the way we expect people to relate to us is the baseline for how we should relate to them. Now that's not the final statement. That's simply the baseline. You say, well why does Jesus appeal to this, commonly called the golden rule? Well, first of all, it's because it's rooted in the concept that we have a moral conscience. The fact that we are created in God's image means that we have a moral awareness. And because we have a moral awareness or a moral sense, that means that we conclude that there are certain things that are sinful or wrong. Maybe we don't use those terms. But we believe that they're a violation of our rights. If we were to go into a more secular worldview, we expect certain people to relate to us a certain way. We see that because we are moral creatures. We have a conscience. And so Jesus is saying, if you are aware that something is wrong because it's wrong for it to be done to you, then why would you do it to others In other words, don't violate your consciousness of what is morally right and wrong. A second thing we see is that we want people to be honest with us in a practical sense. We want them to respect our property, don't steal from me. We want them to follow through with their commitments. In other words, if you say you're going to do something, I expect you to do it. I want to be willing to trust your word We want to give we want people to give us the benefit of the doubt. When they see something that they think is going on and we know that's not really the whole picture, that's just an assumption of us. We want people to assume the best of us Well then we should do the same to them. We want people to treat us with dignity, so we should treat others with dignity. That's what Jesus is saying. The golden rule. This tells us that we are all morally aware. And because we are morally aware, we are morally responsible. But Jesus goes beyond this statement that we commonly call the golden rule. Like I said, this is the baseline The second observation that we're going to see is that we're called to a higher standard. If you're a Christian, if you're a child of God , God actually calls you to a higher standard than just this golden rule, do unto others as you would have them do unto you. Now, why is that? It's because you stand in a position that is established by grace alone. You have been declared righteous You've been forgiven. You've been cleansed. You are the recipient of God's mercy and patience and long-suffering care. And because you have been forgiven and God has dealt with you in such patience and according to such grace, you are responsible because of the position that you have in Christ. to relate to people differently than the way that people in the world generally relate to one another. And by the way, not only are you responsible But the fact is that you have the capability, because you're a new creature in Christ, and old things have passed away, and all things have become new. You can actually live according to the principles that are being laid out in the text in front of us. So notice what he says in verses 32 to 35. He says, if ye love them which love you, what think have ye? For sinners also love those that love them. He said, you know, if if you have compassion in your heart to people who are compassionate towards you and you love the people that love you back, he said, what's the big deal? If you didn't do that, then we would see you as a very evil person, a very vindictive person, a very harsh and cruel person So the fact that you are kind to someone who's kind to you and loves someone that loves you, that really doesn't show anything commendable. That's just natural. That's normal. Even people who are not Christians, who don't have a moral ethic guided by the Bible, are guided by that principle. I'm supposed to treat people the way that they treat me if they're good to me. He says, if ye do good to them that do good to you, what thank have ye? For sinners also do even the same. If ye lend to them which of whom you hope to receive, what thank have ye? In other words, if you're going to give to somebody, bar they borrow from you, and you know that they can pay you back, it's a well who what's the big deal? It's a lot different when you are lending to somebody who you know probably cannot pay you back. The reason that they've come to you is because they don't have the means to take care of themselves in this particular situation. And so you know that the likelihood of them being unable to pay you back is extremely high. He said, if if you lend to people that can pay you back, guess what? You're a businessman. You might even make money off of it because you expect them to pay you back a little more in interest. But if you're a person who's willing to lend to someone who has nothing, well guess what? That's different. He then goes on to say this. He says Love ye your enemies, do good, and lend hoping nothing again. So Jesus is calling us to a much higher standard than simply the golden rule. We are masters. Let me say this again. We are masters of excusing ourselves from following what we know conscientiously to be true and right. We are masters of creating exceptions to the rules to avoid uncomfortable scenarios. In fact, we see an example of this in Mark chapter 7. The religious leaders did not want to take care of their aging parents. And so you know what these people did? They dedicated some of their stuff to God so that they could excuse their obedience to God in honoring their elderly parents. It's very similar to what Saul did. God told him to utterly destroy the Amalekites. And Samuel comes and he says, Have you obeyed the Lord? Saul says, I've obeyed the Lord in everything. And he says, well then what's this bleeding of sheep that I hear? Oh, well the people kept those so we could sacrifice them to God. And what does Samuel say? Sacrifice is not as important as obedience. To hearken is not as important as the fat of rams. So he basically says, obey God. Don't excuse yourself. Don't dedicate to God something that He's told you that He doesn't need or doesn't want, so that you can avoid doing something that He says is right in another scenario. In Mark 7, he says it this way, laying aside the commandments of God, ye hold the traditions of men. Ye reject the commandments of God, that ye may keep your own traditions, making the word of God of none effect through your traditions, which you've delivered, and many such like things do ye. So Jesus is saying, I hold you to a higher standard. Don 't excuse because of the uncomfortable nature of the situation you may find yourself in. Jesus calls us to an excuse less ethic. Not where we're making exceptions to the rules, but we are simply doing what is right, even when it is uncomfortable. In Colossians 3, listen carefully to the way that Christ is Christ's teaching is applied in the context of the local church by the Apostle Paul. He says, put on therefore as the elect of God, holy and beloved What's that referring to? Their position. Elect, God's children. Holy means they are called saints. Beloved means that God has set his affections on them. As people who are in a position, as saints, beloved by God, his called-out people, the church, you are to put on. Bows of mercies. That's a deep-rooted affection for people in times of difficulty. That's deep-rooted compassion. Kindness. Humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering. Notice next what he says, forbearing one another, forgiving one another. You know, so many times we write off other people and say, oh, that person is a toxic person. That person wears me down. That person takes a lot of my energy from me. They give me negative vibes. I don't want to deal with that person. We are very quick to write off people that we don't want to deal with. And the reality is, as a brother or sister in Christ, we need to be patient with those individuals. Even if they are being stubborn and difficult, we need to be patient with them. We need to genuinely love them. That's what Paul is saying in this passage. He's really applying the ethic that Christ is establishing here in the Sermon on the Mount. He says, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye. What's he doing? He's appealing to the fact that because you're a forgiven person, then you are responsible to forgive. He says, above all these things, put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. You know, the height of spiritual maturity is learning how to love people. By this all men will know that you are my disciples if you what? If you love one another. So by this compassion and this loving response to people who are very difficult and frustrating to deal with That is how we can demonstrate, not that we're trying to prove anything, but that we demonstrate that in fact we are maturing in the faith. And then he says, let the peace of God rule in your hearts. In other words, the way that God has dealt with you as a Christian, someone who is a sinner, who is a rebel against God, how he has been patient with you, you are to be the same with other people. So what we see is that God holds us to a higher standard. But then I want to move to a third observation. There are really two great outcomes. that come from the statement that he's talking about here when we do what's right, even when it's difficult. In verses 35 and 36 he says, Love your enemies, do good, lend hoping for nothing again, and your reward shall be great. And ye shall be the children of the highest. For he is kind to the unthankful and to the evil. But ye be therefore merciful, even as your father is merciful. Jesus is making two very simple statements. The first is, God will appropriately reward you for doing what's right when it's difficult. You say, well, how is he going to do it? I don't know. He doesn't say But my question is, do you trust that God will do right in a situation that you're encountering? Do you trust that God's response to you will be appropriate? will be righteous, will be consistent with his good character. We don't really need an answer as to how he's going to bless us and how he's going to reward us. We simply need to know that even in difficult situations He expects us to do what's right, and when we do what's right, he will appropriately reward us for the obedience that we give him in difficult times. The second thing that he states is that people will recognize your position as a child of God because of the character that they see demonstrate in your life. We see another passage that kind of gives us this same concept. In Matthew 5. 9, also in the Sermon on the Mount, when he talks about the peacemakers, he says, Blessed are the peacemakers, they shall be called the children of God. Now by making peace with other people. Or we become God's children by loving our enemies and doing good and keeping the law. That's not that you live. It's just like what James says in James.