Please take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter 1, and our text is going to be verses 12 to 14. Philippians 1, 12 to 14. Before we read the text, I want you to just kind of think about for a minute how you would have felt if you were one of the Philippian Christians. Now you had a deep affection for Paul. When you thought about Paul, he was almost like a father to you. Maybe he personally led you to the Lord. Maybe he's not the one who personally led you to Christ, but he definitely served as a tremendous influence on your growth in the early days of your walk with the Lord. You saw him as an incredible giant. His knowledge of the Word of God was something that you couldn't even comprehend. He knew the Old Testament so well. He was so conversant with those texts. He had the ability to answer questions and go to text and just lay it out in front of you. And you thought about what a great man. You thought about his testimony. You thought about how the Apostle Paul had once been a great skeptic. He was antagonistic to the Christian faith. He had taken Christians and thrown them into prison. He had actually been there consenting to Stephen's death of first martyr. He was probably among those who were discussing crucifying Christ when Christ ultimately went to the cross. He was a part of the Sanhedrin. This man is passionate about preaching Christ wherever he goes. You don't know of a harder worker, a more knowledgeable individual, a more godly and humble man than the Apostle Paul. And he's in prison. And not only is he in prison, but he's in prison for no just and valid reason. And you ask yourself, why in the world would God allow such a godly individual? Such a strong individual, such a faithful individual, such a knowledgeable individual, to be so unjustly treated. Why would God not allow this man, the Apostle Paul, to be free? Why couldn't he put somebody in prison who doesn't have that ability to go about and spread the gospel? Why does God do that? How is Paul holding up? Are they treating him justly while he's in prison? Is he in good health? Is he in good spirits? Does he have people around him who are encouraging him in the Lord? We come every Sunday and we meet together as a body of believers, but Paul's in prison. Can you get an idea of how these people felt about Paul? How would you have felt if he was the man that led you to Christ? Well, Paul understands exactly what these people are feeling. And so this is what Paul writes in the beginning of his epistle. We've moved down through the first 12 verses. Now we pick up in verse 12, and here's what he writes. But I would have you understand, brethren, that the things which have happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. So that my bonds in Christ are manifested in all the palace and in all other places, and many of the brethren in Christ, waxing confident , by my bonds are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Paul understood that these Philippian believers We're having trouble in their hearts about what Paul was dealing with. They were struggling with why God would allow such a godly individual. To be treated so unjustly, to experience such hardship, to be facing imprisonment, and really the possibility of being killed for his faith. They they really struggled with that. And for this reason, Paul gives them several encouragements that were holding him as he was sitting in the prison. He leaves out several reasons that they should glory in God in spite of these difficult circumstances. And so that is why Paul writes this little section. He wants us to understand that God wants us to focus our minds on the redeeming elements that are in the midst of our greatest struggles. There is a way that Paul wanted to think for himself, and there's a way that Paul wanted these Christians to think as they were thinking and meditating on what he was experiencing. And so he wants them to understand that. In order for us to understand what Paul is trying to communicate, I want to take this passage and examine a couple of little sections. The first thing I want to do is I want to ask some important questions. That I think would pop into our minds as we meditate on this text. These questions are things that I think are very, very appropriate in other areas that we may face. And so I want to ask the question and answer the question with a scripture or two. The first question is this, did Paul glory In everything that he experienced in that prison? Was Paul happy for the rats? Was Paul happy that he was facing injustice? Was Paul happy about the evil that he was very obviously experiencing in the prison? It's kind of an interesting question. Clearly, the Bible tells us that we are to rejoice in all circumstances, but the question is, is rejoicing in a circumstance the same as rejoicing because of that circumstance? That very thing that is evil we say is good, do we really do that? Well, I want to answer it with this statement in Philippians chapter 1, verse 15. Paul makes this statement. Some preach Christ of envy and strife. Do you think that Paul was happy about the motive of those individuals? Did he rejoice in that? What do you think? No. There's no way that he was happy or pleased that these individuals were doing something that was clearly wrong. We don't rejoice in evil. We don't look at something that is bad and say, oh, that's good. That's not what the Bible teaches. And we'll say a little bit more about that later on. A second question comes to my mind. Did Paul know that his circumstances were going to improve? It's kind of an interesting question. You know, there were times that God spoke directly to Paul, and Paul as a prophet received instruction. God certainly had the ability to do that. But did he do that in this circumstance? When we look in chapter 1, verse 20, listen to what he says. According to my earnest expectation and my hope, in nothing I shall be ashamed, he writes, But in all boldness as always, now Christ will be manifested in my body, whether by life Or by death. Now, why does Paul make that statement? Because that was the reality he faced. He was really going to go and stand before a judge who was not a just individual, who could very easily be bribed by the citizens of that city. And he knew that there was a very good possibility that he could be released, but there was an equally good possibility that he could be condemned. The truth is, God never told him. Paul, you're going back to Philippi. You're going to get to spend time with your brothers and sisters in Christ. You're going to get to encourage them in the Lord. As we read the letter, we're going to see that that's his desire. He's hoping, he's praying, but he doesn't know because God never tells him. The third question. Did God answer all of Paul's questions? Kind of an interesting thought. 2 Corinthians chapter 12, verse 9, we have another passage where Paul is talking about something that he went to God about. And he said, God, please remove this thing from me. And what does God say to him? My grace is sufficient for thee. My strength is made perfect in weakness. God didn't lay out all the reasons why Paul was experiencing those things. He didn't answer every question. Think about Job. When Job went through all of his suffering, this is something that has stood out to me many, many times. I ask myself, Did God ever lay out to Job, here is the real reason behind why I've allowed you to experience everything that you've experienced? I don't see any evidence that he ever did that. I don't see it. Now maybe he did, but we don't know. The reality is that there are many, many times that God's Children suffered and went through affliction and went through difficulty, and God never lays out to them all the reasons why. There may be times that he gives them a piece here or a piece there, but he never lays it all out. He doesn't answer all of the questions for Paul, and truthfully, he doesn't always answer them for us either. A fourth question. Did Paul have absolute clarity in his heart and mind in the midst of these circumstances? Listen to what he says in verse 22. If I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor. What I shall choose, I want not. He basically says, I'm not sure which one which one of these two options is better for you and for me. I don't know. He says in verse 24, I am in a strait betwixt two. One of the things that we see throughout Paul's epistles is that there were times that Paul did not have absolute clarity about how to look at situations. There were times there was turmoil in his heart. There were times that he worried about individuals, that he worried about churches, that he didn't know how God was going to work in that set of circumstances. And the fact is that even godly individuals can go through seasons where several things happen. They face real difficult circumstances. genuine evil that is forced at them. And they ask the question, should I glory in that? They have situations that they're in and they don't know if God is going to ever remove them from that situation, if they're ever going to have victory over those things, if they're ever going to experience an end on this side of eternity to what they are going through. There are times that God doesn't answer all of the questions for us. And the questions keep coming into our mind, one after another, and the burden of those questions is very heavy. And there are times in the midst of our circumstances that we vacillate between how to look at something. And we go through a lot of internal turmoil. I think of this fifth question, why did Paul write the statement? It's very simple. He understood that these Christians were in conflict in their hearts. He says, I want you to know. I want you to understand. I would ye should understand something. He says, I know that in your heart you are having turmoil. And so I want to clear this matter to the best of my ability for your benefit. That is why he wrote it He understood that these Christians needed a perspective that went beyond their immediate circumstances and went to the eternal. In Philippians 1 10 he says, This I pray, that ye may approve things that are excellent. And when Paul prays that for the church, I think that he also believed That if God answers that prayer, the way they look at my situation will change. They will have a different value than they have right now. So I wanted to begin with those questions because I think that those questions are some things I want to address later in the message. And they're things that I think are very practical. God doesn't always tell us why we deal with what we deal with. We do experience real hardship and real evil. And God doesn't just say bury your hand and head in the sand and act as if this is not really the case. God doesn't always tell us you're going to experience deliverance from that particular thing. You may have to go through it year after year after year. But God has a perspective for us to have. And Paul is going to present that here. We move to section two, and I want you to see what Paul does. He mentions three redemptive elements to the suffering that he's experiencing. Fact one, Paul gloried in the truth that the gospel was spreading in spite of his imprisonment. Look down at verse number 12. He says, the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel. Do you see what he's saying? He's not saying that in spite of me being imprisoned, God is still spreading the gospel. Now that was true. You know, Paul was the greatest evangelist of his generation, was he not? He was the greatest church planter in church history. He was the foremost apostle, specifically to the Gentiles. And in spite of him being imprisoned, the gospel continued to spread out. But that's not what Paul's saying. He is saying the things that happened to me have fallen out rather to the furtherance of the gospel. In other words, me going to prison has actually been a catless To the gospel going to places that formerly it hadn't gone. Do you see the difference in what he's saying? In other words, he is recognizing that there is a redemptive element to the very suffering that he is going through. Paul had a passion to spread the gospel. Paul loved seeing God work in people's lives through his ministry. Paul's ability to preach the gospel and move around freely had been hindered, but God still continued to do what he was doing. Because of this fact, he says there's a redemptive element in what I'm dealing with There's a second fact that he mentions, and I want to mention that quickly. Paul gloried in the truth that the gospel was preached in the least likely places. Philippians 1. 13, he says this, my bonds in Christ are manifested, catch this, in all the palace. And in all other places. Let me read that again. My bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places. I remember the story of when Christ goes and stands before, I believe it was uh, was it Agrippa? No, King Herod. I'm trying to remember. I have to go. When Christ was betrayed by Judas, there were three individuals that he stood before. One of those individuals had heard a lot about Jesus, and he was really excited to meet Jesus. I think of the story when Christ was going to stand before Felix and Festus. It's a really interesting story. These individuals, these very powerful men, they sat down in private quarters and they discussed A lot the case of Paul. And there was a very it was intriguing to them. And they're like, we've heard a lot about Paul, we know about his history, we know about where he's gone, and we want to hear from this guy. And so because of intrigue, they called Paul and they wanted him to stand in front of them, and basically he expounds the gospel. What Paul is saying Is that because I'm in prison for the cause of the gospel, there are a lot of very powerful people that are discussing me. Okay? You get what's going on? They're discussing my case. They're sitting down and going, how in the world is this Jewish guy, he is the brightest scholar of his generation, if you will. How is it that he has turned against Judaism, all the power that he had, all the prestige that he had, all the the the the the things that came with that position? How is it that he's turned from that and he's now embraced following this Jewish carpenter who he crucified and they claim is risen from the dead and he's going around preaching this gospel message all over the known Roman Empire. How is it that this individual went from being a persecutor of the church To now being the one who is presenting and proclaiming the gospel. You get what's going on? They don't understand it. It doesn't make any sense to them. And so Paul says, my situation is being discussed amongst these people. And because of that, I'm standing in front of very powerful people. And having the opportunity to expound the gospel to people that I would never under any other circumstances meet. I remember when I was traveling as a youth evangelist when I was in college We used to go to certain communities and especially I remember we were in we were in South Florida and we were passing out literature for our vacation Bible school. And we always had this discussion, this debate. Some of the communities that we wanted to go into were private gated communities You know what I'm saying? Like you came up to the gate and there was an armed guard who was there, or maybe he wasn't armed, but he was a guard. He had to punch punch a code and then you know the people who lived in there or their guests they could come in. But you know, an average person just couldn't do that. It was a gated community. And I remember we would have these discussions like, this is terrible. We can't go into these places and how dare they keep us from going into their community And we need to preach Christ in these communities and we would say, man, if we got a chance, we're just gonna go in there and we're gonna do it no matter what they say. That was sort of the attitude. Now by the way, I'm not still that persuasion, in case you're wondering. But I was very much of that persuasion when I was, you know, 21 years old, or 19, or whatever it was, okay? And then I remember we would go into these apartment complexes and they'd say, you know, no soliciting and you have to get permission from the office and we'd be like, forget that, man. We're preaching Christ. We're just gonna go in there, we're gonna do it. You know, and then somebody would come to us and be like Um I hate to say this, but these people called and they're complaining and you need to leave and if you don't leave we'll call a police officer and this and that and Well, you know, some Christians have this attitude, I'm just gonna do it anyway. I'm gonna be persecuted for righteousness' sake. And we would have this discussion, how will those people come to know the gospel? It's a valid question. Well imagine if you're a Christian living in the first century going, how are some of these Roman guards going to hear the gospel? How is the governor going to hear the gospel? How are public officials going to hear the gospel? How are these powerful, influential people who make decisions that really affect our lives? How are they going to hear the gospel? And you know what God says? I'm going to put Paul in prison, and that's how they'll hear it. Kind of an interesting solution, isn't it? It's not one you'd pick for yourself, but in Paul's perspective, he gloried in the fact that that was how God chose to take the gospel to those people. The truth is that God loves people in gated communities and he loves people who live in apartment complexes and he loves people in places that you think the gospel can't penetrate. And he has his ways of getting the gospel into those places through means that you would never contemplate on your own. I think of the 1040 region. And I know this is a discussion that we had a lot when we were in college, when we were in seminary, when we were talking about missions, we would talk a lot about the 1040 window. And one of the things that I guess kind of occurred to me after living overseas and being a missionary is that there's a reason that missionaries from the United States aren't in those places. Because you can't just go into a country if you want to. You can't just say, Oh, I'm a missionary. I'm going to preach the gospel in Saudi Arabia. You can't do things like that. The truth is that the approach has to be different. The fact that you're in that country doesn't mean you'll continue to have the freedom to stay in that country The fact that you are a white American living in a gated community makes you a tremendous target. And it makes it very difficult for people that you minister to to be able to be discipled under your ministry. These are things that can appear to be insurmountable to God's people. The older you get and the more you learn about Missions in these other parts of the world, the more you say, is it possible? But let me tell you something. God has ways of getting the gospel in those places. I think about Micah. Micah just wrote a book for ESL. I don't know. Did anybody see that? I think it was on Facebook. He posted. I'm like, Micah has an Amazon Kindle book? What in the world? That's not right. He does. He wrote this book to help give the gospel to to refugees learning English. You know, as much as it makes some people uncomfortable, the world is coming to this country from all other regions. And with it are coming people who you could not go into their living room and sit down with them if you were in their home country. But they will come and sit in yours because they want to learn English Paul says, My bonds in Christ are manifested in all the palace and in all other places. And the fact is that Paul rejoiced and gloried, not in the fact that he had been treated unfairly or unjustly But he gloried in the fact that God used him to take the gospel to the most unlikely places. There was a third truth that I wanted to mention tonight, and that is found in verse 14. Paul gloried in the fact that God encouraged others. Through his situation. In verse 14, he says, Many of the brethren in the Lord waxing confident by my bonds. Are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Notice carefully what he says. Many of my brethren wax confident Buy my bonds. He doesn't say in spite of my bonds. He's saying the fact that I'm in prison And the fact that I'm suffering is once again the catlass through which God is strengthening other Christians. You know, whether we realize it or not, people watch us. They watch how we respond in circumstances. And when they watch, sometimes they say , How? This morning when we were in our Sunday school, I I didn't get to spend the time on this particular verse that I wanted to. But it talks about giving an answer to everyone who asks of the hope that lies within you, in meekness and in fear And the idea is in 1 Peter, when he talks it when he when he writes that particular passage, it was 1 Peter 3, I believe. I had chap uh chapter 1, but I was wrong. Chapter 3 There's a reason that those people are asking a question. It's because they live close to you. They're watching you. They're listening to you. And they're watching how you respond to circumstances. They mock you and they say, Why aren't you being a part of this and this and this? Why are you so different? Why are you so weird? Why are you that church person? Why are you involved in this group? of people who are so troublesome in our communities. That was the way they were thinking. Why don't you come to our festivals? Why don't you worship our gods? Why don't you give homage to the emperor and all the other things that came with it? They mocked them. They hated them. But there was a day that they asked them questions. Why? Because though they mocked them and despised them, they recognized by the way they lived their lives there was something that they had that they did not have. When Paul suffered, these other Christians were deeply moved and affected and challenged by Paul's suffering. Suffering. It wasn't just Paul's preaching that moved those individuals. It wasn't just his teaching of doctrine and theology. It wasn't just his knowledge. It was the fact that he was the real deal. When they rubbed shoulders with him, they couldn't say anything, but this is a great man. Look at how God has graced and strengthened him. Look what he's experiencing them. If Paul can do this, we can do this What Paul is preaching, he believes. He's living it out. It's possible. That is what's going on. In Philippians chapter 1, verse 7, he says I have you in my heart, and as much as both in my bonds and the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you are partakers of my grace. I preached on that a couple weeks ago. I don't remember the exact week. But that was one of the things that Paul expressed to them. You are bold to speak because you are partakers of my grace. As I have experienced God's grace in my circumstance, you have been a participant in that because you have seen it You have taught to me, you have written to me, I have written to you. That communication has strengthened you. It is a means through which God is strengthening you in your daily walk. And Romans 8, I I constantly go back to this chapter. I believe it's one of the greatest chapters in the Bible. I hope that you go to Romans 8 and you read it and you study it and you memorize it and you get it deep in your soul. Because it is one of the greatest chapters in all the Bible. In Romans 8:15, he writes: All things are for your sake, that the abundant grace might through the thanksgiving of many redound unto the glory of God. For which cause we faint not, though our outward man perishes, yet the inward man is renewed day by day, our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more and exceeding eternal weight of glory While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. The things which are seen are temporal, the things which are not seen are eternal. You can't digest that passage in ten minutes. Think about that passage for days. The abundant grace might redound to the glory of God. Our outward man is perishing, yet our inward man is renewed day after day. Our light affliction is working for us a far more and exceeding weight of glory. We don't look at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. And the things that are not seen are eternal. That is a powerful passage. We as Christians don't stick our heads in the sand at suffering. We see it, it is real, it is in the world. We recognize evil and we call it evil, but we have something in the midst of circumstances That allows us to glory. It's not in the evil and it's not in the pain, but it's in the process that God is accomplishing. It's in the weight of glory that will come as we persevere and as we continue to be faithful. It's the joy that we experience as we depend upon the daily grace of God. And Paul says, God is glorified. And his people are encouraged and strengthened by my circumstances. We cannot live the Christian life effectively in our own strength When we try, we fail. Because Paul knew that he gloried in the fact that God has used his suffering as a means or a channel to pour out his daily grace in the lives of these Christians. Sometimes we ask the question: why do Christians suffer? And I cannot give you all the answers, but I can tell you this: this is one of the reasons. One of the reasons that when we get on our bed of affliction, God allows it. Because He wants us in those circumstances to be a means through which God pours grace into the lives of His people. He wants to strengthen other Christians. He wants them to have hope. And so what does he do? He allows us to suffer and he strengthens us in the midst of that. And he removes our grasp from the temporal and he pushes our gaze to the eternal. And as he strengthens us, he allows those with whom we come in contact. To be strengthened through that as well. We don't glory in the pain, but we glory in what God accomplishes through the pain. We don't glory in evil, but we glory in the fact that God gives us grace in the face of evil and he strengthens us through it. The third and final section I want to mention is our response to truth. This is really important. We need to be practical about this. Not that what I said isn't practical. I actually think it's really practical. But here's the response. There's a difference between giving thanks in every circumstance and giving thanks for every detail of those circumstances. There's a difference God wants us to give thanks in all circumstances. But that doesn't cause us to ignore the fact that there is evil in pain. We can marvel at the good hand of God as He's able to accomplish amazing things in spite of evil. And the healing that he brings and the grace that he pours into our lives, what he accomplishes in our hearts and the hearts of those around us. Two. Our comfort in suffering is not in the confidence that it will end, or in the way that it will end, or in anything related to that. But in the governance of God, the daily grace that He provides to sustain us, the gracious work that He accomplishes in us and others through those circumstances. 3. God will not answer all of our questions. You know, as much as I hate to state that, it's true. You know, I remember when I was a kid sitting down with my Bible and conscientiously thinking this. I will figure out everything in this book. I'm gonna figure out the answer to every single question. And I set out to do that, and it was a very short-lived and a very humbling process. You know, the more you study the Bible, the more you realize how deficient you are. How much your biases come into play and how much our blind spots are really tough to recognize. And how much we don't know. God doesn't answer all of our questions. He wants us to be willing to trust him with the unknowns. That's a really important thing. He doesn't answer all the questions. He wants us to trust him with the unknowns. The fourth thing: don't be weary that you're in the conflict. The finest saints in our Bibles experienced deep internal conflicts throughout seasons of their life, but they were able to be sustained by God's gracious hand. Have you ever felt embarrassed reading some of the Psalms? I have. Have you ever felt embarrassed when you felt like expressing what David expressed? I have. Yet God not only allowed us to see that, but he ordained that we see those things. Because he wants us to understand that there were others who were weary in the conflict at times as well. They were great men and women. They walked with God. God used them. They were faithful. But they had deep valleys. There'll be days that we go through deep valleys too. We shouldn't be weary because of the conflict. And lastly, let's let God shape our perspective by turning our eyes from temporal to eternal. When Christians suffer, it's real. But they don't suffer without a purpose in the hand of God. As we come to this text, I really hope that you will let Paul minister to you too. He said, I want you to know something, brethren. I would that you understand the way you're thinking about me and my circumstances is wrong And he might say the same thing to us too. Might God give us the courage and the strength and the discipline. To dig into his word and heed his encouragement to these believers. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer this evening. Father, I'm convinced that this text is in the Bible so that we will understand that suffering is real Pain is something that we will all go through. There is not a person in this room who will escape a bed of affliction. Physical affliction, internal emotional affliction , betrayal Persecution, hardship, injustice. We will face these things. We live in a fallen world. But we're reminded by this text that there's a way to think about those things. And I pray that you'll help us to be instructed and encouraged and helped by this text. Father, I plead with you, comfort the feeble heart this evening. Instruct those who have not yet passed through those valleys of affliction. May we have a rich theological perspective so that when we face these things, we might do it in a godly way. Father, thank you for those saints in our midst who in their moments of affliction are very faithful and very strong. And very Christ-centered in how you use them to strengthen us like you used Paul to strengthen these saints. Father, I thank you for the marvelous ways that you bring the gospel to the most unlikely individuals. Father, help us to be submitted to you as you might use us in so many different means. We pray for your blessing on this congregation and may you work through this text. We commit to you the Vacation Bible School that's coming up this week. May you just bless us with a wonderful week. May many souls be touched by the gospel, and may you get much glory and may you bring much joy to your people through this week We praise you and ask that you would be exalted in our lives this week in Christ's name. Amen