All right, you can go ahead and turn to that first workshop session. Um as we're it is Page, no page number. It's the one that says workshop notes session one and my name is is right there. So that's where you're gonna want to go. Let's pray and ask God to help us. I want this to be a very practical time. Um I was ladies, could you sit down, please? Just kidding. Um I want this to be a very practical time and uh probably hopefully I'll give you an opportunity for some some questions, something like that as well. I want you to, as we walk through this material, I want us to really think. I want us to walk out these doors with a better understanding of what uh knowing uh God's will looks like You know , that's gonna be a very difficult thing because people have battled for this for years. I don't think we have to battle. I really don't. I think God gives us a plan, and uh we're gonna be talking about that plan. So let's pray and ask God to help us uh this afternoon. Father, we thank you again for your word. And uh we we know that you have given us in this life everything we need uh for life and for godliness. You've le you've you've not left left anything lacking And uh Father, that being said, we know that you have given us the resources to to make decisions, to do things that please you. And I pray that you would help us to think clearly through this process in Jesus' name We pray. Amen. Uh I don't know about you, but uh growing up, and uh some of you are still still growing up, but um some of you have grown up, but um Making decisions is a really hard thing. You 're like, okay, oh well, what am I gonna do? And honestly, it fits very well into the thought of ministry uh in a as far as a topic for for this lip conference because um Really, that's a big question as you're getting your age, especially, especially around junior age, senior age, you're like, okay, what does God want? What does God want from me in the area of ministry? And it's important for us to understand that God has a desire and He doesn't want us questioning it Okay? You need to know that. You know, I think a lot of times we see um people are like those those squirrels on a road. You ever how many of you drive How many of you have come close to hitting squirrel? How many of you have hit squirrels? Yeah, you know it's a very difficult thing not to hit a squirrel because they run out and then they're very indecisive Right? We should have probably been more decisive so you ran out, but they get out there and like and uh you know, I guess the point is like, well, you know what, you're probably gonna die. And uh Uh God doesn't want us to be like sh the squirrels. There's a lot of uh proverbiable flat people on the road to decision making in this life Because we get out there and we're like, okay, what what are we gonna do? What what should I do? Should I go this way? Should I go this way? I I don't believe God wants us to be that way. I believe God has a plan I believe God has a solution for this, and I believe the solution is found obviously in his word. Now, it is important for us to understand this. When we're thinking about now, you you know what we're talking about. We're talking about uh God's will, right? Um and that's real that uh that really is uh what we're the making decisions in God's will. And you and when we think about this, the what comes to our mind most of the time is, okay, well well, you know, who am I gonna marry Um, where am I gonna go to college? Uh who am I gonna marry? Um, you know, what what kind of job am I gonna have? You know, who am I gonna marry? And those are the questions that you have And you want to know what's God's will. I really do believe based from this from what we're going to look at today, we can know God's will. Now, I might not know at the age of 16 what the name of my wife is, okay? Chances are none of you are. But that's not the point. The point is you know you can be in God's will. Because when you're in and kind of let you understand a little bit of thought, when you're in God's will at every point of your life, guess what's going to happen when you're in God's will at the big areas of your life? You're gonna be there. You're gonna be in God's will. I kind of use these steps at the wild in an illustration. You're like, no, not the steps. I hate those things. Steps aren't that bad, especially when you ride a motorcycle and rock camp. But um but when you think about those steps and if you've been there you've experienced the steps and uh when every day's a leg day And um you when you're walking up these steps, you think about the this as as God's will. Okay, you got the platforms that are the big areas of God's will, like the ones we just mentioned. where I'm gonna go to college, I'm gonna marry all this kind of thing. But but how do you get to those big areas? Well chances are you're not gonna jump six steps and get to the platform, right? The intent is for you to get to the big areas, the big platforms by taking one step at a time. And the bottom line is, guys, if if you are in God's will at every step, you are going to be in God's will when you get to the big decision. That's how it works. So what do you have to do? You have to be in God's will today. You have to be in God's will now. Now we'll talk about that a little bit more, but I want to kind of give us a background. There's a couple passages we're going to go to. I think it's in your notes, Romans 12, 1 Corinthians 2. And uh I think these kind of give us a an understanding of what it means to know God's will. But the first thing we need to see as far as what God's will is is the foundations for thinking about God's will. Okay? Number one, we gotta and we we understand this, that we were created in God's image, right? Um and God intended for us from the very get-go that there be nothing to interfere with this So if we're creating God's image, we should know God's desires at every step and moment of our life. That was God's original intent. I mean that's how he that's how he planned. God's purpose was for us to know God and to glorify him. Philippians 3. 10 says, Paul says this to the church of Philippi, that I may know him. And the power of his resurrection and the fellowship of his sufferings being made conformable unto his death, God's intent for us is for is to know him And there's a lot of different ways, just physically in this life, that we know things. Okay? Yeah there's there we can we can know things from uh different ti different sources uh from sense perception or or different things like that 's how we when we experience something that's how we get to know something So from that, from a reasoning process, thinking from point A to point B, okay? And that's how we understand things here on this earth. Does that make sense? There's a way you gain knowledge, the way you understand things here on earth. Maybe your authority brings to bear something in your in your in your life and you say, okay, this is how I understand certain knowledge Even intuition is brought into this to be able to understand certain things in this life. Intuition is the direct apprehension of knowledge That is not the result of a conscious reasoning or immediate sense perceptions. Now our intuition must be based on more objective reasoning process, okay? I know don't don't don't lo I don't want to lose you here. I just want you to understand something. God's intent was for us to know him. He gave us the ability in this life to know him, to understand him. To ex experience into a level to to where we can understand, okay, what do I what what decision should I make here? Well God has given us the process to be able to understand Him, to know what decision to make, to know what step to take. And God's original design allowed for these things to be in our life unhindered. They're not going to be hindered. And we see this in this in this illustration. I think the illustration is actually in your In your notes. It's right here. God's original plan is for us to understand Him and to know Him. Nothing to hinder it. Well, herein comes the problem. What happens? So because of the fall, sin came into the world and distorted our reasoning process. And here's what we see right here. God's original intent. Okay, I hope you're following this. Okay Okay, big picture knowing God's will. I believe God doesn't want us to be floundering around. I believe God wants us to understand his desires Okay? And God's original intent through what He gave us in life was to to help us to understand those things. Well, the problem is sin came into the world and distorted our reasoning process. Now, instead of seeing God clearly in everyday life and every aspect, the fall of man is there, and now we are looking through tainted glasses. We're looking at life through tainted glasses And this really is a problem because there are a lot, because of sin, there are a lot of bad decisions in this life, right? How many of you have ever made a bad decision? All right, all of us have I remember So I made a lot of that decision. And uh but uh I used to uh at at the wild I've got a pretty good sized yard. And uh before I had a twelve year old that could cut grass with a r with a push lawnmower, I got a riding lawnmower. And um I never wanted to spend a lot of money on this riding lawnmower and e my riding lawnmower, so I'd try to get the cheaper thing because I can kind of work on things. Well I bought this riding lawnmower that that when I when I bought it, the guy said now the gas tank had the leak. I'm like, pfft, that's fine. As long as it runs. Okay? Well it was fine because all I would have to do I'd fill it up And then I would cut my grass and then I would drain the tank every single time. Okay? And uh so that that's just how I lived. Um well it got to the point where the lawnmower started getting a little bit older. And um the the ignition system started stopped working. Okay? Well, all my life I've been messing around with you know with with engines and stuff like that. I don't know what I'll do. I'll just cross the solenoid and and and start it like that because it just bypassed the ignition. And that wor that word some of you guys are like, oh no. But uh so that was fine for a while until those two those two things met. Because when you cross the solenoid, guess what happens Spark. So I uh leaking uh gas tank and and probably the dis So it worked fine because I always had the gas cap on so it was never, you know, the suction or whatever didn't leak enough. Well one time I left the cap off of my lawnmower and I was like, well I gotta start so and I just forgot to put it back on and I went down and across the solenoid and I turned my lawnmower into a giant candle. Actually I did this popped it and it it started And I stepped back and oh that's that's pretty cool. But it was not a really great thing because, you know, I about blew the wilds up. And because I'm sitting there and literally there was a j it was a giant fire coming out of my gas tank. And Decision listen, if it wasn't for the fall, I'm blaming the fall of man on that. Okay. Bad decisions are there because and this is the process. This is what this is what's happened because of the fall. We can't think clearly And obviously we have responsibility in this. Romans 12, 1 and 2 points us to the fact that to be able to know God in his will, we must change the way we think. Okay? Okay, so uh I I wanna I want us to I want us to f follow along here in the process. God's original intent when God knew knew it was gonna happen, okay? divine sovereignty. But God's original intent was He created us for us to have a perfect relationship with Him. So as we walked through this life, we made these decisions without struggling. Right? We might not know the you know exactly what the name of our wife would be, but we know the day-to-day decision to get us to that end Well, the fall of man came and sin came into the world, and now we are making decisions through distorted glasses. And we're making bad decisions. Well, the point is that we need to get back to making good decisions. Well, to get back to the point of making good decisions, we have to change the way we think. We have to think rightly. When we're thinking Bible, we will make good decisions. When we think Bible at every step of our day. We will make godly decisions and when we get to the big decisions in our life, it won't be a major, right? Because it'll be like, okay, I've been making these steps and God, I've been following your will. And honestly, excuse me, the trust process comes into the fact into into the into the equation then because you know God so well you've experienced it so much you can make this decision knowing that you're in the center of God's will So we've got to get to the point where we think rightly, we think clearly. Romans 12, 1 and 2 again points us to that, to that do we need to be able to get to the point where we make our decisions. Herein lies the solution. Okay? So getting to the point where we make godly decisions so we can know God's will for our life. I'd like you to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 2 This passage is the best illustration, not even illustration, the best understanding of God, of God helping us. Understand His will. 1 Corinthians 2, 1 through 16 gives the most detailed explanation of God's revelation in the Bible. Okay? So getting back to our main gist of things. Follow along. I want you to get this. God's original intent was for us to understand him, to know him without any distortion. Sin comes into the world. We're looking through the through the through through decision-making process through tainted glasses now because of sin. So what does God do? God comes in and gives us The solution. He tells us. He helps us understand what it means. Here it is. God reveals himself. We see this clearly in 1 Corinthians chapter 2, verses 6 through 10. Actually, I want to kind of go through the whole the whole all there's first 16 verses. We'll kind of walk through this, okay? We're talking about God revealing himself to us to help us understand what he wants. Verse 1, and I brethren, Paul talking to the church of Corinth, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech. or of wisdom declaring unto you the testimony of God. And Paul Paul's right telling them right off the bat that listen, I have nothing in it of myself to to help you understand this. Because my purpose is not that. My purpose is this, verse 2, for I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. Crucified. Paul's desire was for him to get knowledge. Was to know God so we can make godly decisions. It makes sense if you think about it. So in this passage shows us the dilemma of a fallen world not knowing what God wants. And this wisdom we see as we look down through is referred to as hidden. Follow along in this passage. Just follow along. And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom. Declaring unto you the testimony of God. For I determined not to know anything among you save Jesus Christ and him crucified. That's my desire. That's what I want to know And I was with you in weakness and in fear and in much trembling. So he's telling us this his inadequacies. We'll look more about that in the next session. And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power. To this end that your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but where's it going to stand? In the power of God. Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect yet not, and there's a lot more we can talk about here. Uh we don't have time. Yet not the wisdom of the world nor of the princes of this world that came to naught. Here it is. Here's here's the here's the solution here. But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery Again, we see this wisdom here is referred to as hidden. It's a mystery. Even the hidden wisdom which God ordained before the world unto our glory. Okay? So completely understanding the mind of God is is hidden. It's a mystery right now to them Which none of the princes of this world knew, for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory. But as it is written, I hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of men the things which God has prepared for them that love God So, what is the solution here? The solution in his revelation of himself is a revelation of himself to us. As we get to know who God is, we can make godly decisions. As I said just a minute ago, it makes sense. When you get to know God, you make godly decisions. But this happens through the revelation that comes through the Holy Spirit. Look at verse 11. For what man knoweth the things of man save the spirit of man which is in him, even so the things of God which knoweth all man, but who? But the Spirit of God. So what happens? God reveals himself to us, but he lets us know these things through the use of the Holy Spirit, which only comes to believers. So it makes sense that this world is floundering. It makes sense that this world has no clue of what it's doing because they don't have the Holy Spirit. Those of us who know Christ, you see, uh we see that the natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God. They are foolishness unto him Neither can he know them. Why? Because they are spiritually discerned. The natural man, the unregenerate man, the unsaved man cannot cannot is is gonna flounder. And we should honestly it it it it it it makes us pige them. Because there is a solution. Well what's the solution? We come to know Christ and when we have the Holy Spirit, he reveals himself through the use of the Holy Spirit to us to teach us to live so we don't have to flounder. See the process? I hope it makes sense. And as Christians, we have the Holy Spirit so we can understand the things of God. Let's continue to read. We see this in verses 12 and 13. Now we have received not the spirit of the world. Okay? That's not our decision-making process. But the Spirit of God. But the Spirit, I'm sorry, but the Spirit which is of God, that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God. There it is. We have the Spirit of God that we might know the things that are freely given to all of us who know God. By uh by by the Spirit of God. Verse 13, which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth But with which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. Here's verse 14. I just quoted this verse. Going back to the unsaved man, but the natural man receives not the things of the Spirit of God. For they are foolishness unto him, neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual judgeth all things Yet he himself is judged of no man, for who hath known the mind of the Lord, which is exactly what we're seeking, that he may instruct him. But we have the mind of Christ. There is the solution. The Bible becomes the solution for us to be able to handle situations in life in a godly way so we can know. And God has given us everything that pertains to life and godliness. But we have an obligation to read and apply his truth accurately and appropriately. Um we'll talk about the wrong way here in just a minute to to make decisions. But okay, let's let me just let me say this again. Hope you guys are getting the flow. I know we went through this quickly. Okay? God's original intent, creation, was for us to experience Him and to know Him and in essence make decisions every single day without floundering. Without without without without wondering, oh am I doing the right thing? That was God's original intent. Man sinned. Sin came into the world, and now I'm looking through my decision-making process Through tainted glasses of sin. Well, God comes in and says, you know what? He doesn't come in and say, you know what, fend for yourself, you've got to figure this thing out. He says, you know what? What we see in this passage right here I'm going to help you with this, and I'm going to reveal myself to you through the use of the Holy Spirit. So where you don't have to wonder, and this is why I'm saying God doesn't want us to be like those squirrels. God wants us now, we can't just run out and make haphazard decisions. We have to stop and we have to think, we have to pray, we have to say, okay, what what would best please God in this in this in this scenario? What would best please God? Not just what's okay. What would that this is a key aspect of making decisions? What would best please God? And I believe he's given us the solution here. So that's that that is the solution. Does that make sense? Any questions? You have a question? Go ahead and ask it. I want to clarify this. I want you to understand this. Because this is key to helping us understand. So now we've come to the solution. We've seen the foundations for knowing God's will. We've seen the problem, which is The sin coming into the world, we see the solution which is God giving us the Holy Spirit to reveal Himself through the use of the Word of God. And now. We have the plan. What is the plan? Well, I think the first thing we need to see is the wrong plan for making decisions, okay? There is There is a wrong plan for for choosing something. Okay? Some of these things might be an aspect of the right plan. But what do I mean by the wrong plan? When we talk about the wrong plan, we're talking about making decisions. I get this. Solely or mostly based on these. And these things we're going to talk about here in just a second are there's they're more subjective, okay? So what are some of the wrong ways to make decisions as we think through this? Number one, selfish motives. Obviously this is a pretty clear one. Okay, if I have a decision to make, okay, I wonder, dude, does God want me to do this? Okay? Now, time out again for a second. We've just understood that God has a desire for us and an understanding that God wants us to know what he wants. And he has given us the solution to know what he wants to the Holy Spirit. Okay? So the Holy Spirit is the key aspect in making decisions. So, when I get to a point of decision, what does God want? You're asking yourself legitimately, what does God want here in this decision-making process? What does God want for me to do? Well, we cannot make decisions based on selfish motives. Okay, what do we mean by that? I want. When I just want something and I go out and get it, it has nothing to do with God. Okay? So we can't make decisions based on selfish motives. Now the desire comes into it. We'll talk about that in just a little bit, okay? So hold off if you have questions. Or whimsical methods. What do I mean by whimsical methods? Verse pointing. You can't make decisions based on verse pointing. That's a very that can be a dangerous thing to do. Okay? Oh, what does God want me to do today? Alright, well I'm going to point to a verse. Oh, and Judas went out and hung himself. Pretty dangerous thing, right? He's like, oh no, that can't be right. Uh what go to another verse. You point. What thou uh uh go thou and do likewise. No, that's not what That's not right. Oh, I got a ticket. So I flip something else. What they'll do is too quickly. No, listen, boy, verse pointing is not a way that we make decisions. We've got to understand the context of Scripture as a biblical whole. So you understand what the Bible is saying, the thrust of the Bible. Then you break that down with the context of the passage. And we understand the context of the passage through individual verses. Does that make sense? You've got to know your Bible. Because there are seeming contradictions at times, but when you know the Bible, it never contradicts itself. Ever. You've got to understand the word of God. That means we have to be scholars. It's like, holy, yeah, I just don't like to study. You know what? That has to change. That was the same way. Growing up , I didn't, you know, when I first started having my time in the in in the words, I I basically started doing it just because I I I knew it was something I needed to do. I was convicted about it. Uh then I sort then I started having my my time in the Word, having my devotions, and I was like, you know, a little secret. I didn't re first I didn't really like it. It was like studying. And I was from Alabama. We didn't have to study And uh but but the more I did it, the more I I I loved it. And it was because God started revealing himself to me in his word. And when God reveals himself to you, there's nothing like it. And you're gonna want more and more and more and more. And you guys have to be, thank you, have to be scholars if we should Have to be scholars. You have to get to the point where you don't have to be like world-renowned right off the bat, okay? Just start understanding the Bible to where you can understand what it means to make decisions. You've got to be in the word. So whimsical methods, what's another whimsical method? Flipping a coin. That's not just whimsical, that's stupid. Okay. We had some counselors of staff a while back. They were gonna go out and do something and if they had just thought about it they would have known we didn't want them to do it like well should we do this or not? Uh no, let's just flip a coin. Well it landed on the wrong side. It's not a wise move. What about putting out a fleece? Who did that? Gideon did. God was very gracious with Gideon, right? Gideon already knew what God wanted him to do. God had already told him. We shouldn't put out a fleece. So we could talk more about that kind of thing as well. What's some other thing? Circumstances. What do I mean by that? God has opened the door. Well God opened this door. Do you walk through every door that's opened? It's not a very smart thing, especially if they're cleaning the girl's bathroom. You're a guy. No, the doors open. No. You don't just walk through every door. That's not a reason to make a decision. Now, does God open doors? Yes, He does, but that's not the sole source of our decision-making process. What about this? What about I have peace about it? Um nope. Let me ask you this When Christ was in the Garden of Eden praying, would somebody on an outside look at Christ and say that he was at peace? Was he? He was. Because he was in the center of God's will. He was a peace. Jonah. When he was in the boat, what was he doing? He was asleep. Was he in the middle of God's will? Nope. Did he look like he was a peace? Yep. Because you're having peace about something. Now, does God give peace? Yes, but that is not the solution to making it peace. decision. There's got to be more objective reasons for making decisions. What about just desire? I just want to go. Can it be a part? Yes. We'll talk about that in a little bit, but it should not be a sole reason. Again, remember the wrong plan is making decisions solely or mostly based on these. Some of these might be factors at times. What about what about this and this one you're gonna be like, Willie, I can't believe you put that up there. Prayer. Should you pray about your decisions? Absolutely. But you can't band-aid your decision by saying, I prayed about it. You can't do that. I know this firsthand. Back in, I can't remember when it was, obviously before I was married, but this girl came up to me after a Friday night service at camp. And she came up, she goes, I prayed about something. It's like what? And she goes, I I prayed about them. God told me and she gave me the actual date. She said I think it was like June tenth, uh, two thousand one, you and I are gonna get married. I'm like, God didn't tell me that it's uh it wa it's not the girl that I'm married to today, okay? I mean I prayed about it. That that's not That's not yeah, absolutely we should pray about our decisions. Absolutely. But we can't just say, you know what, I prayed about and make that decision. That's not how it works So these are all factors in the wrong plan, making decisions solely or mostly based on these. So what is the right plan? I'd like you to turn to Romans chapter 12. Remember what we said just a few minutes ago about Because sin has come into the world, we're looking through making decisions through tainted glasses, we have to change the way we think, right? This is a passage that says, okay, you've got to change the way you think. Passage you probably know. We read these verses. I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. That ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, a holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service, by the way. And be not conformed to this world, but be ye transformed. How? By the renewing of your mind. To what end? That ye may prove, here it is, what is that good and acceptable and perfect what? Will of God. You want to know God's will? Follow this plan. This is it right here. What is this plan? Number one, give yourself holy to God I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercy of God, that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. You give yourself holy God. Do you want to make godly decisions? Then you have got to get down on your knees and say, God, I don't know what you have planned for me. I don't know what it is. But I am holy, 110% yours. And God, whatever you want to do with me, I will do it. I'm just going to follow your direction. That's where it began. If you're not willing to do this, you're not on the right trajectory. You're not on the right path. You have to be to the point in your life where you say, God, I don't care what it is, I'm willing to do it. And you might be sitting out there willing. If I do that, he's gonna make me go to some some some continent that that that that nobody speaks uh my language and you know and I'll have to run around in a loincloth and God, He's gonna make me do that if I make that commitment. You know what? Maybe But the difference is you're gonna want to. You're gonna have that desire. That's where you're gonna end up And bottom line, listen, the best place that you could be is in the center of God's will. And I promise you this, you don't want to be anywhere else. If God wouldn't want me at the wiles, then the worst place for me to be would be at the wiles. Even though it's a great place. I've got to follow God's plan for my life, not what I think God's plan for my life is. It's what God wants. You've got to give yourself holy, and there's a couple qualifications to this. What kind of what kind of How do you present yourself a body living? It's a holy and acceptable God sacrifice. So holiness means sanctified, separated. When you're saying, God, I want to do completely what you want me to do, that means purity. You can't add your thoughts to this when it doesn't match up with what the Bible says. Does that make sense? Present yourself. I beseech you every brother by the mercy of God that you present your bodies a living sacrifice. What kind of a living sacrifice? A holy sacrifice. And acceptable to God's sacrifice. When you present your body to God, God will say, yes, I accept that. And he is only going to accept those things that line up with his character. Acceptable to God. And then he goes on to say, which honestly is your reasonable service, when you really contemplate what God did for you. How could I do less than give him my best and to live for him completely after everything he's done for me. And one day we'll totally realize this. Let's realize it now, guys. Let's realize it now. Let's not wait till we get to heaven to realize, let's realize this now, this truth now. So the first thing you have to do to understand, you have to give yourself Holy to God. Then secondly, you have to create a biblical worldview. Look at verse 2. It says and be not conform to this world. But be transformed. Do not be conformed to this world, but be transformed. You have to create a biblical worldview. How do we do this? Be transformed. How? By the renewing of your mind. Man must change the way he thinks to line up with God's mind if he's going to make godly decisions. It makes sense. I want to please you, God. So, okay, I'm thinking this way. I need to make sure I align myself with what God wants every day. Not just in the big areas, every day that I live. So we must understand God's mind. To do that we must study the Bible as a whole and not just proof texts. We talked about that just a minute ago. You know, many people want to use the Bible as as I I hate to use this analogy, but it's a kind of a spiritual Ouija board Where you just kind of align it up and it makes the decision and no, that's not what we do. We must be doing and we must be understanding the Bible from a biblical side. We must have a biblical worldview, and then our values flow from our from that. When we have biblical values, we will make biblical decisions. Okay? So here's the process Biblical worldview, right? From our biblical worldview come our values, what we think is important in life. And from those values come our decisions. Okay? Biblical worldview. Even in the in the world, a worldview creates your values, which creates your decisions. So when your values are when your worldview is wrong, your values are going to be wrong, which makes your decisions wrong. So we've got to understand that. We've got to have a biblical worldview. Now, what is a worldview? A worldview is the mental framework. I don't know if it's on there or not. A worldview is this. It's a it's a mental framework. This is the definition, or a conceptual system that gives meaning to all the components of our world and honestly and us as well. That's what a worldview is. There are many groups out there that have their own worldviews. They make decisions based on their presuppositions about what they think this world is all about, at least for them. So what does a biblical worldview look like? A biblical worldview is grounded in what? It's in the definition. It's in the it's in the That's in the Bible, right? A biblical worldview is grounded in the Bible. For those who have a biblical worldview, the Bible is the basis for every decision you make and everything you say and everything you do. So there they're in lies our day-to-day life. Well, I'm going to take this step. Well What does the Bible say? Or what precepts, what principles in the Bible guide me in this decision? Okay? Is it against something that somebody uh that that an authority wouldn't want me to do? You all these things play into the into the account of us making this decision. But when my worldview is biblical, I'm saying I want what God wants. So I'm naturally going to make that best step because I want what God wants. Because that's my biblical worldview. So and then we get to this and we gotta understand that our worldview creates what we value. One man said this, it's not hard to make decisions once you know what your values are Amen? Guess who said that? It was Roy Disney. Wasn't some theologian. But he's right. It's really easy to make decisions when you know what your values are. And for a believer When you understand what you value, it's a lot easier to make that proper decision. But to have the right values, you have to arrive at the right right mindset, the right worldview. And there it is. And be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. So don't have a worldly worldview. We have a biblical worldview. How do we do this? By not by being by transforming the way we think He goes on to say, and be not conformed to this world, be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind that ye may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. There's your value. You can prove what is that good and accept the one perfect will of God. That by testing, this is what it means, you will discern what God's will is. That by testing, you will discern what God's will is. So we must be moved to action and choose things based on our biblical value system. Well, that leads us to our next thought. We have to make sure our our values are in the right order. Okay? And I think this order is important. Make sure your values are in the right order. So what is your value set? What is our value set? Okay, let me say this again. I hope you're getting this. Now we're moving through this quickly. Hope you're understanding this. God's original intent was for us to know him without anything hindering that Sin came into the world. We're looking through our thought process now in tainted glasses. Well God comes in and says, you know what? I'm going to reveal myself to you by the use of the Holy Spirit. Okay, so I have created a solution for you. So we to this end we have to change the way we think. We're no longer thinking through worldly change of glasses, we're thinking Bible to make our decisions And then we go to Romans chapter 12 and he tells us , he said, present yourself holy to God, a holy and an acceptable God sacrifice. And then he said, be not conformed to this world. Don't think like the world. Be transformed. How do we transform ourselves? By the renewing of the mind that we may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God So when we are transforming our mind, we're creating those things that we value. So in a decision-making process, what are the things we should value? And I think these are key. in making godly decisions, especially in big areas of your life, okay? Number one, is it against biblical precepts or principles? Does the Bible say I shouldn't do this? And there's some obvious things out there, right? There's some obvious things that you know you should stay away from because the Bible has specific things to say. What about in those areas where where they seem gray? Well, we talked about this a little bit earlier. You've got to do what is best. As far to the right as possible. So the second thing, number one, is against biblical precepts or principles. Secondly, what do my parents say? God has given us parents for a reason. The family is ordained by God. And God intends for you to go To your parents. Say, Willie, you don't know my parents. No, I don't. But I know what the Bible says. Children obey. Your parents if they're Christians. Children obey your parents in the Lord. Why? Because this is right. He goes on to say, we need to honor our father and our mother. So what if your parents are unbelievers? Well, what they're telling you or asking you to do is it against what the Bible tells you to do? Well then number one, you've got to You gotta go with what the Bible says. Is it not against what the Bible says? Well, no, it's not against the Bible. And do it. They do it. That's protection there, guys. God ordained the family. Is God strong enough to handle this situation? Absolutely he is. I really just feel like that's not the path that I should take. I really feel God wants me to go this direction. Well is is what your parents say against what the Bible says? No Is God strong enough to change their heart? Yes. I have an opportunity, my wife, and I have an opportunity quite often. to counsel uh couples that are that are dating. And oftentimes a couple will come to me and and one of the parents is all for this relationship and the other parent is not. And they come and say, Willie, Sarah, we really feel like this is God's will for us. Well, what do your parents say? Well, my parents don't really like it. Guess what? You're not gonna like my my counsel here, but guess what? I'm gonna challenge you to break it off. But we really feel like this is God's will. Is God strong enough? Let's say this. If God wants you together, ain't nobody keeping you apart. And if God doesn't want you together, then you don't want to be together. I gave this counsel to a couple of few years back, and they they struggled, but they but they but they did it, they submit it. And they would look at you now and say, I'm so thankful. Not because they were either one bad, no. They're both married to good people. But it's just not what God wanted And God's powerful enough to do whatever He wants. So just do what God do what the Bible obviously says. So is it just what the Bible says, the Biblical principle Jesus says? What do your parents say? Next, next thought What does my pastor say? God ordained the church. And your pastor is there for a reason. So you go and you get counsel. And next, what did other godly counsel say? That couple that came to me and had talked to their parents, they had talked to their pastors, and and now they're coming, they were coming and asking me. I don't know if they were hoping that I would say something different. But I gave him that counsel. And I believe these are in order, guys, in the decision-making process, especially in the big areas of your life. So is it against principles of freedom? What do my parents say? What do my pastor say? What does the other godly counsel say? And then guess what? Maybe. What are my desires? So they come to you, somebody comes and says, You know what, this is uh this is what I believe God wants. Well, is it against what the Bible says? No, it's not. Well what do your parents say? They're all for it. Well, what do your pastor say? Well he's all for it because my parents are all for it and they're all on the same page. Well I'm not going to go against them and go for it. I just don't know if it's what God wants What do you want to do? Well, I kind of would like to do this. Then do it. God gives us desires for a reason. He wants us to enjoy our life. It walks through that door. And then that leads us to the final thing. Make your decision. Just make your decision. Oh, what if I make the wrong decision? What if I don't do what God wants me to do? Again, is God strong enough to alter anything? Absolutely he is. And you've covered that based on the very first thoughts. Giving yourself wholly to God. You go back to the very first thought. Did you submit your will to God? Yes. Do you want what God wants? Yes. Then is God strong enough to cover anything stupid you might do? Yes. So enjoy life. And the most enjoyment you're going to have out of life is by going through God's plan. I promise you that. And I've made some bad decisions, but by God's grace I've made some good decisions. My wife and I went through this And back when we were dating where my parents were all for the relationship. Her parents were not against it, but they weren't ready. And we had counsel on one side that says, you know what, you just need to go ahead and go. You really feel like this is God's will. Just just go for it. But we had some other counselors that said, you know what? Why don't you just take it slow? And wait on God. And basically her parents came down to the wilds and said, You're coming home with us And she had a decision to make. Am I gonna go home with them or am I going to just go ahead and do what I really feel God wants God wants me to do? as far as marrying Willie. And she went home. And I pursued. I I went and met with her parents as much as I could, met with her dad, and finally Thanksgiving Day came and I was up there visiting her parents and her dad came to me and said , What will I do? Her mom and I have have decided we're gonna let you ask her to marry you. An hour and a half later, we were engaged, so I wasn't gonna let him back out. But God honored it. And it wasn't me. She wasn't my wife then. But I want to say just an illustration, guys. God wants what's best for you. And you shouldn't want what God doesn't want. It's a very dangerous thing. Does it make sense? I hope so. I really do think God wants us to not flounder around in this life. He wants us to make decisions, and I think he's given us a plan to make decisions. So you have to follow his plan. Let's pray. Father, thank you again for your word. Pray you continue to help us to Uh understand your your will and your knowledge on things. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen