Okay, well good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we'll look forward to getting our service started today. Um I did want to uh make uh you aware of something at the end of the service. I don't know if you received an email from Angela, but Liz Nice passed away today. That was this afternoon, so I was down there and got to spend some time with Cheryl and the kids. And what it's looking like is we're probably going to have a memorial service a week from Monday, and that will be in the evening. evening. So it's still getting worked out, but that's kind of what they're looking at. So this will be after the Thanksgiving holiday. So just want to make you aware of that. Please do keep the family in prayer and um we'll let you know as uh things uh happen there. Um also if you want to write them and just in a sympathy card that would really be a blessing. Also if you wanted to do flowers. We'll let you know how to how to get that for that memorial service. So let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we will get started tonight. Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity to be gathered together as a local church. I pray that tonight you would really speak to our hearts in a special way, be with Pastor Chris, as he'll be Preaching the word. I pray that you would really guide his thoughts and that the word of God would be proclaimed with power. I pray that as we sing praise to you, our hearts would really be knit together. We would really think clearly through these wonderful truths that we'll be expressing in song. And I pray that you would uh just work in our hearts in a special way this evening. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen. All right. Good evening, everyone. We're going to start off this evening's Song service with an old one. I think we tried to sing one this last week, but it wasn't the one that I was real familiar with. This week it's going to be. We had to go to an older book. I even got a copy of the song, but it was written in a different key and slightly Slightly different, but it would have been fine. But we've got the books here. So stand with me and we're going to sing three verses of Oh Happy Day Amen. Oh happy day that makes my choice on me, my Saviour and my God , may this glory. I rejoice until it raptures all abroad. Happy day Happy day when Jesus washed my sins away. He taught me how to watch and pray. That we rejoicing every day. Happy day, happy day when Jesus washed my sins away. Oh happy bond that feel thy bows, give you hand of feeling now , do that sake, which might I move Happy day, happy day when Jesus was My sins away because we have to watch and pray and live rejoicing every day. Happy day, happy day when Jesus washed my sins away Done the gray, action draw, I am I void, and he is mine Drew me , hollow, chart you can fest, the voice divine Happy day, happy day, when Jesus washed my sins away, He taught me how to watch and pray, And live rejoicing every day. Happy day, happy day when Jesus washed my sins away. Rest my one Which winter rest or ever from more I will depart with him a every good Happy day, happy day, when Jesus washed my sins away, He taught me how to watch and pray, And live rejoicing every day. Happy day, happy day when Jesus washed my sins away. Amen. Have a seat. Oh my goodness. I'm sitting here watching myself, trying to watch the music, read the music, read the notes, and then the screens up there And I can confuse myself so easy. Let's take our hymns and turn to page 529. I think I was on sensory overload for that song. Goodness. Five twenty-nine there shall be showers of bless There shall be showers of blessing , if it's a promise of love, there shall be seasons refreshing, sent from the Savior above. Showers of Blessing, showers of blessing we need. Mercy drops round us our falling, but for the showers we plead There shall be showers of blessing, precious reviving again Over the hills and the valleys. Sound of abundance of rain, showers of blessing, showers of blessings we need, mercy doth promise our falling But for the showers we plead, there shall be showers of blessing, Oh, that today they might fall. Tell us to God we're confessing. We call showers of bless. Blessing we need, mercy drops round us are falling, but for the showers we plead. And just right across the page, flip a page actually, rescue the parachute. You know, this weather's been kind of interesting. We went we hit sub -zero and of course there goes the ragweed pollen, hopefully But now that the air is getting much drier, uh, it makes it a little more difficult to wet your whistle and be able to sing. But page 530, sing out, help me out, sing three verses of rescue the perishing. Rel through the perishing, care for the dying, snatch them in pity from sin and the grave Weep for the erring one, lift up the fallen , tell them of Jesus the mighty design. Rescue the perishing. Care for the dying. Jesus is merciful. Jesus will save. Though they are slighting him, still he is waiting, waiting the penant child to receive Plead with them earnestly, plead with them gently. He will forgive if they only believe Rescue the perishing, care for the dying. Jesus is merciful. Jesus will save Rest to the perishing duty demanded. Pray for thy labor the Lord will provide. Check to the narrow way Patiently with that hell up for wonder a savior had died. Rest to the perishing care for the dying. Jesus is merciful. Jesus will say. Amen. Good singing. Ah, hey. Okay, well, on Sunday nights we take a few moments to share Oh, your your sister is is speaking above you. Hold on. I still can't hear you. Which one is you on? Nathan. Nathaniel. Yeah, oh the great Oh sorry, I couldn't see you speaking of what page? 57 in the blue book. Sorry about that Okay, fifty-seven in the blue book. Alright, way back there in the back. Page one hundred and fifteen in the red book? One sixteen, okay 116 in the blue book, in the red book. Good, good. Okay. Uh Kelly? 27 and the blue books. Sorry if I ask you to repeat, but the masks muffle some of the the noises. One sixty two, you guys are gonna kill me, I can tell already. The blue buck, blue blue buck. Okay now Nathan. Three eighty eight? Three eighty. Okay. Mm I'll try we'll try to sneak one more in. How many things will people come here? Three hundred. Four ninety-three. In the red book. I heard four ninety three and now I heard four ninety three. 493. Okay. Alright. I think we've got enough blue books that I can stumble through there. Page 57 in the blue book. Should have one right there in the middle. of your pew. Page fifty-seven. I don't uh play it through once. Let me see if I I know it. Oh, what do you think? Okay, we sang that just not too long ago, so I don't know it but I remember Remember it? So here we go. On the first. The word of God is Divinely made in heaven 's voice in ever from God. No finish lies, it's perfect sign the thought of Christ the Lord, Unneath the power of words. Always pay with solid blade and never fail to wound and say. Alright, page 116. I'm actually glad that was in four flats. That brought it down closer to my range. Page 116. Page 116. This is my father's world. First verse This is my father 's world, and to my listening. All nature sings around me ring music of the spirit Just live my father 's world Just in the box of rocks and trees of skies and streets and the wonders rock. Okay, page. Page twenty-seven in her blue book. Page twenty-seven, page two seven. I am there. My confession Wow, we s we sang this not too long ago, but play it through once for me. Help me out with the test. Uh can we put that one on hold? I'd like to practice that. to I don't know that I could even lead that. I don't know that I can play it so let's I'll put I'll make number 27 one to look into And uh we'll try that one at another time when we can do it, do it justice. Look beautiful words. So let's go to page 162 in the blue book Page 162. So another one I think I know. Greg Haberberger. Can you play it? Wow, that sounds like another song that I know. Um we'll give it uh we'll give it a shot. Yeah. I want God for all my iniquity is satisfied the Father's holy wrath The baby come in my behaviour, can't made my crime, sacrifice. Without reserve my offer and my life Reming Flood compels me to play A person. No, that was another one I should have uh should have uh put aside for next week maybe. That one was that's a tough one for me to Sight reading. Okay, page 380 in the red book. Okay, we'll do yeah let's let's do this one and the next one Alright. Now you've got me challenged to go through the whole blue book at home and try to get familiar on these songs. I consider it a challenge. Faithful men. Oh, good. Page 380. Faithful men. I am the king to Jesus, giving all this. In the race, pressing upward to gain the heavenly prize. Faithful women are my witness, who has struggled and died Watch from the grass and in the sky. Faithful men have gone before him. Faithful men to fight instead I want to follow in their presence, guided by those faithful men. Alright, in page 493. Come, ye thankful people. Come, we'll make this the last song before the message. Stand with me, stretch your legs, but sing it out. First and last. Come, ye thankful people come, praise the song of our stone. All is safely gathered in Air the winter storms taken, God makers provide For our wants to be supplied, come to God 's until come, raise the song of our best home on the last. Even so we're quickly come to thy final order 's home. Gather thou might be willing free from carrow, free from sin. There forever purified in thy presence fili, come with all thy angels come Praise God for you our best. Amen. Have a seat. Good singing. All right, Ezra Chapter Eight Ezra 8. We're getting close to the end here of the book of Ezra, and we just met Ezra in chapter 7. We're in Ezra chapter 8. Now last time, as I said, we were introduced finally to the scribe named Ezra. And Ezra, as we saw, sought to serve God in light of his glorious providence. We learned that that's what God wants us to do, to serve God in his glorious providence. He saw that the hand of his God was upon him. That's a phrase that's used throughout these last few chapters of Ezra in reference to God's providential hand upon his people. And that theme continues into this chapter here in Ezra 8. Now, Ezra 8 is one of those chapters that is so full of information that it's really easy to just kind of Read it and gloss through without any kind of application. But let's take some time and let's work through this chapter. And what we'll see is God 's providential hand working in the midst of Ezra's plans in bringing this group of Jews back to Jerusalem. Now, this week's Thanksgiving, I'm sure for a while we've been making plans. We got plans for the holidays, we got plans for this and that, but it's 2020, right? So plans don't mean a whole lot. Nevertheless , we all make plans, right? We all make plans, whether it's small plans, dating plans, big plans, plans for you know, where to go out to eat or where to travel to or what retirement plan to have or whatever. We all make plans to some degree. It's a life thing. When we come to Ezra 8, we see a very practical chapter on a process of planning in a biblical way. And that's what I'd like for us to focus on because on any level To some proportionate degree, God wants you and I to make plans in light of his providence. In light of God's providence. So as we work through Rezur VII, Look and see how you can ensure that you are planning at any level in light of God's providence with three practical characteristics that should be true of your planning We'll start by reading just verse 1 and then a few verses down the way here. It says in Ezra chapter 8, verse 1, These are now the chief of their fathers. And this is the genealogy of them that went up with me from Babylon in the reign of Artaxerxes the king. So this is Ezra giving a list of those who went with them, the family leaders of those that went with them. To Jerusalem from Babylon. Now skip down to verse 15. It says there, and I gathered them together to the river that runneth to Ahaba. And there abode we in tents three days, and I viewed the people and the priests, and there was none of the sons of Levi. Then I sent I for Eliezer for Ariel, for Shemaih and for El Nathan, and for Jerob and El and for Amazon, and for Nathan, and for Zechariah and for Meshulom, chief men. Also For Jiraub and for El Nathan, men of understanding. I'm guessing El Nathan was a very popular name at the time. Verse 17, and I sent them with commandment unto Edo, the chief of the place Casifia And I told them that which they should say unto Edo, and to his brethren the Nethanemes, at the palace of Casiphia, that they should bring unto us ministers for the house of our God, and by the good hand of our God upon us They brought us a man of understanding of the sons of Mali, the sons of Levi, the son of Israel, and Sharibia, with his sons and his brethren, eighteen And then it goes on in verses 19 to 20 to list a few more of those Levites. So God wants you to make plans in light of his providence. And the first very practical characteristic of a biblical, providentially minded planning process, we see here Ezra first of all had thoughtful awareness. You and I need to make sure that our planning process includes thoughtful awareness. Now, where do we see this? Well, if we were to read through the first 20 verses, we would see a lot of names. A lot of names that I have a very hard time pronouncing. So we won't read through all that, but I want you to recognize that Ezra was aware of whom God had put under his leadership to minister to. That's who we see in verses 1 through 20. We see Ezra demonstrate his thoughtful awareness. First of all, he was aware in verse 2 of who was a descendant. Of whom? Now, again, there's lots of names here, but look at verse two. It says, Of the sons of Phineas, Gersham, of the sons of Ithamar, Daniel. Of the sons of David, Hatush. Now, you probably recognized automatically the name David And that's what Ezra recognized too. He saw that here was a descendant of David, and he was a leader of a family that had descended from David. Why is that important? Well, the Jews were looking for their Messiah. Those that understood the messianic prophecies of Daniel knew that there would be a Messiah coming from the family, the lineage of David. Now they weren't sure exactly where But it was still important for a Jew to be aware of who the descendants of David were. But look again in verse 2. You notice there's David, but there's also Phineas and Etamar. Now I hope that in your reading of the Old Testament, those names kind of jump out at you The name Phineas refers to a son of Aaron. He was a Levitical high priest. He was of the Aaronic high priesthood And Ithamar was also of that descendant. He was the nephew, I believe, of Phineas. I'm trying to remember. He had three sons, four sons. But he was related to Aaron. He was an Iranic priest. Very important in knowing who was who in the culture and the people of Israel. Now why do I bring this up? Well, you know, Ezra had to take some time to know who these per people were. He had to take some time to verify their lineage. He got to know these people. He was also aware of who wasn't in these families Lines. And that's what we see in verses 3 through 20. Various families, peoples within the tribes of Israel. These were heads of families. They were considered community leaders. And you know, it wasn't just that Ezra took the time to just know who these people were and what their positions were, but there's a practical side of it. We read that there in verses 15 through 20. Because he looked at this group of people, he was able to see, hey. There's all these Levitical priests, there's these men from the tribes tribe of Judah, there's probably some other tribes mixed in here, but there were no layman Levites, if you will. That's what he noticed there in verse fifteen. He says, I gathered them together in the river that runneth to Ahaba, and there abode we in tents three days, and I viewed the people and the priests. Now I thought that was weird at first, because I thought Levites were priests, right? But not all Levites are priests. There were some Levites that their ministry was simply to be among the people of Israel and to teach them. And there were other Levites that had other roles, and I don't know if it's specifically referring to one or the other. But for sure, he was only able to recognize that there was a specific group of Levites that were not present in that group. How did he know that? Because he He took time to know these people, to know their backgrounds, to know their history, to know their families. And so what you see here is that Ezra was aware of the people he was called to minister to And when we go through our planning process, I understand you don't need to know every single person involved with something if you're trying to make a plan for lunch. But you still need to be aware of those around you when in it's small, big, or in-between plans. I'll give you an example. This was kind of a funny one. When when I first came to Anchor, I went on a visit to someone who was living on Fort Meade. What I didn't know when I plugged that address into Google was that they were living on the NSA side of Fort Meade. And so we pulled into the gate, my wife and I, pulled into the gate, thinking my military ID would get me through there. And within a few minutes I was surrounded by police cars being questioned for the next thirty minutes. minutes. It was not a good day. But you know what? I could have avoided that had I taken the time to be aware of who that person was, where they were living, what their circumstances were. And what would happen if I tried to go visit town? My plans went very Aure that trip. But I learned something, and one of the things I learned was I had to be aware of the people I was trying to minister to. And you know what? Even if your plans only involve you, you still need to take others into account. And that I kind of throw it into the side there. So Ezra was aware of the people whom God had put under his care. But Ezra, in trying to have thoughtful awareness in his planning process, was also aware of what God had put under his care. Notice in verse 25, look there with me. In verse 25 says, when he separated those twelve of the chief of the priests, he weighed unto them the silver and the gold and the vessels, even the offering of the house of our God, which the king and his counsellors and his lords and all Israel there present had offered I even weighed into their hands six hundred and fifty talents of silver, and silver vessels in hundred talents, and of gold in hundred talents, also twenty basins of gold, of a thousand rams and 2,000 vessels of fine copper, precious as gold. What you see there is a very detailed list of the things that they were transporting from Babylon to Jerusalem. Now it's easy to read this and think, oh, okay, this is just some stuff. But I actually have a list here of what this entails. So 650 tons of silver, for example, that's 24 tons. And for some of you guys that's about a little over fifty-seven F-150s. Just to give you some kind of a frame of reference. Six hundred and fifty talents of silver. A hundred of talents of silver vessel, so about three and three quarters tons. The same amount in gold. And then 20 gold basins worth a thousand drams. Each dram was a quarter ounce Gold coin. So a thousand times a quarter ounce gold coin. That was a lot of money. And Ezra took the time, it didn't take just a day. Or two days. It took serious time to go through and to know what was involved with what God had put underneath under his care. He took the time to do that. Planning anything will always require resources. And it's important that we become aware of those resources because God wants us to be good stewards, right? God wants us to take into account what we have in order to use them wisely. So, to make plans in light of God's providence, you and I need to first ensure that our plans involve are characterized by thoughtful awareness. But Ezra actually gives us another characteristic. That second characteristic of planning that should exist is spiritual awareness. Spiritual awareness. Notice in verse 21. Then I, Ezra, proclaimed a fast there at the river of Hababah, that we might afflict ourselves before our God, to seek of him a right way for us, and for our little ones, and for all our substance. For I was ashamed to require of the king a ha a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way. Because we had spoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all them for good that seek him. But his power and his wrath is against all them that forsake him. So we fasted and besought our God for this. And he was entreated up for us. You must plan with spiritual awareness. What does that mean? What does it mean to plan with spiritual awareness Spiritual awareness. Well, one thing that it means is having spiritual focus. You saw there in verses twenty-one and twenty-three that Ezra proclaimed a fast. Fasting, not something that we typically do nowadays, right? Fasting is a spiritual discipline wherein we strive to take time, put something else aside, and take time to focus in prayer and seeking godly wisdom. to the word. What's interesting here is that in verse twenty-one they say that they proclaimed a fast That we might afflict ourselves before our God. And that underlying word for afflict or afflicted carries this idea of humbling oneself Humbling oneself. So imagine you're setting yourself up for a fast. You know, you're setting aside some time for prayer and for for seeking God's word, pursuing God's word, that takes a little bit, it takes some degree of humility. Why? Because we recognize that we are limited and finite, and we need God 's wisdom and guidance in whatever it is we're seeking that guidance for. And I I gotta tell you, it's not easy to humble our yourself. Especially when it comes to fasting. It's not easy to humble yourself and to be somewhat honest. Or to be honest, to humble ourselves ourselves sometimes involves a little bit of suffering, affliction. Now sometimes humbling ourselves is not the best feeling in the world. But you know, we need to be willing to do do it. it. When the whole point of it is realizing that when we're making plans, when we're trying to plan things, we are finite and fragile. And God is all wise and omnipotent. We need Him. Now I'm not saying your planning should always require fasting. That's not what I'm saying here. I doubt it'll suffer from it. But the point is that we need to focus on pursuing godly wisdom when it comes to our planning process. I'm not saying that you you need to fall on your knees and pray and fast when deciding between McDonald's or Burger King for lunch. That's not what I'm saying. But I will say when you have biblical wisdom, when you know God's Word, when you've pursued God's word, you'll know that even when making simple plans, when you're doing something right, you're doing something in a Appropriate. When you come to more serious plans, like how to raise your children, where to move, how to spend your retirement I challenge you, you need to definitely stop and spend some time in prayer and in pursuit of biblical wisdom. So spiritual awareness means spiritual focus. But not only that, it also means spiritual integrity. Remember there in verse 22, it says That Ezra was ashamed to require of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way. Why didn't Ezra want protection for this group of Jews carrying gold and silver and brass? It says there, because we had spoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all them for good that seek him. But his power and his wrath is against all them that forsake him Spiritual integrity. Azra decided not to take Persian protection because he had told the king that God was going to protect them Now, you know what? Some people are going to say that's presumptuous. How could she do that? You're going for for months and months on this on this long journey and you're not going to take some protection. What are you thinking? But then there's some people that look at that and say, that's some serious faith. That's tremendous. Wow. That's an example of faith. But you know, in either case, we need to know Ezra had a desire to ensure that his actions did not harm the testimony of the Lord God of Israel. Whatever he decided to do, he made sure that he was full of integrity, that nothing that he did would besuck March the name of the gotten the Lord God. That takes integrity. We need that in our planning process. We need spiritual awareness that is spiritually focused and has spiritual integrity. But you know what also means having spiritual commitment. Notice in verse 28. Speaking to those those high those priests who were taking care of all this stuff, he said, I said unto them, Ye are holy unto the Lord. The vessels are holy also, and the silver and the gold are free are a free will offering unto the Lord God of your fathers. Watch ye. And keep them until ye weigh them before the chief of the priests and the Levites and the chief of the fathers of Israel, Jerusalem, in the chambers of the house of the Lord. So what you see here is a charge, an admonition, that these priests who are taking on this responsibility. We're living a holy life. That's what he charged them with. He said, listen, you are holy. You're separated. You have a specific task. And you need to make sure that you're living up to it. Spiritual commitment It involves being aware of your responsibilities and committing to completing them from start to finish And that's, we'll see here, that's what these priests did. They made sure that what they had been entrusted with was brought from Babylon to Jerusalem. So I want to ask you. Are you spiritually aware in your planning processes? Does your spiritual awareness have focus and integrity and commitment? Once you've ensured that those characteristics are true of your planning in light of God's providence, when you've made sure that your planning has uh has spiritual awareness and and uh and thoughtful awareness Once those two characteristics are true, then you need to move on from the planning process and execute. You know, you don't plan just for planning's sake. You've got to make a choice. Are you going to do it or are you not? Whatever it is you're planning, but you need to execute with worshipful intent. That's the third characteristic. Of planning in light of God's providence, having or executing with worshiping, worshipful intent And I'm reminded of 1 Corinthians 10 31. You could probably finish it for me. Whatsoever you eat, or whatsoever you drink, or whatsoever you do, do all for the glory of God. And that's that's what these Jews sought. But first of all, they had to execute their That's what you see Ezra and these Jews doing. They executed their plans. Look in verse thirty. It says So took the priests and the Levites the weight of the silver and the gold and the vessels to bring them to Jerusalem unto the house of our God. Then when he departed from the river of Havava on the twelfth day of the first month to go unto Jerusalem, and the hand of our God was upon us, and he delivered us. from the hand of the enemy and of such as lay in wait by the way. And we came to Jerusalem and abode there three days. Now on the fourth day was the silver and the gold and the vessels weighed in the house of our God by the hand of Merrimaut, the son of Uriah the priest, and with them was Eliezer the son of Phineas. And in verse thirty four, by number and by weight of every one, and all the weight was written at that time. Also the children of those that had been carried away. Which were come out of the captivity, offered burnt offerings unto the God of Israel. They executed Their plans. Now, if you recall back in Ezra 7, the journey from Babylon to Jerusalem took about five months. But I'd almost think that the planning process could have been just as long. It definitely took more than just a few days to organize so many people and all the logistics for such a long journey. But in spite of how long it would have taken them to plan it, when it came time to go, they went. They executed. And they executed their plans while trusting in the hand of their God that was upon them. I have to say, so many Christians, especially Christians in my generation, have a tendency of sitting on their hands And twiddling their thumbs and waiting for any number of reasons to execute some plan that they have. Listen, without a good reason, you should make plans with thoughtful spiritual awareness and then execute those plans. Plans with faith in the God who gives all wisdom. And you know, I'm not just saying execute those plans with the intent of going through with it. Executing can look like saying, no, we're not going to do that. The point is, you're executing. You're doing something. That's not the end of it. Once those plans are made, once they are executed, That should always, every time, give way to worship. What did we see there in verse 35? As the children of those that had been carried away, which were come out of the captivity, they offered burnt offerings unto the God of Israel, twelve bullocks for all Israel, ninety and six rams, seventy-seven lambs. Twelve he goats for a sin offering. All this was a burnt offering unto the Lord. They worshipped their God. They didn't just move from Babylon to Jerusalem. Put the stuff in the temple and say, We're done. No, they said we need to worship our God, and that was their intent. They sought to do this. How do I know that? Because of the amount of sacrifices that we have here. They didn't just Think of this as an afterthought. They had planned for this. They said once we're done, we are going to worship our God. And whenever we make plans, when we go through and execute Whatever we do, when we say, yes, we're going to do this, or no, we're not, we need to have worshipful intent. Should be our end goal. We can praise God for successful plans. We can praise God for unsuccessful plans, for the lessons learned In all things we can worship the Lord because in all things we need to glorify Him. What's the Whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. God wants you to make plans in light of his providence. We're planners. That's what we are as humans. We make plans on a daily basis, to some degree or another, but at any level of planning. There needs to be a proportionate amount of thoughtful and spiritual awareness that leads to an execution with worshipful intent. Sometimes that execution involves not moving forward. But in any case, we can worship the Lord because his providence. is upon us. His hand is upon us. And as he allows us to plan and to see him guide and direct us We can worship him. Now, you know, we our series is getting back to normal. And I gotta say, life is not as normal as we thought it was going to be at this point. But you know what? Even when it comes to making plans in the year twenty twenty, the year of bad timing. We can still have thoughtful spiritual awareness that leads to executing with a worshipful intent. That's what I hope you learned from Ezra 8 tonight. And I hope that as we move forward, even into this holiday season and onward , That we would plan in light of God's glorious providence. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Father, we're so indebted to you for your word. And though there's so many great deep Deep doctrinal truths, we also thank you for the everyday practical truths that speak to the heart of every human being. Lord, in light of your sovereignty, in light of your providence, you allow us to make plans. And whether or not those plans get executed, we can go through with them. Or choose not to go through with them and still give you the praise and the glory you deserve. I ask, Lord, you would help us tonight with wherever we are in a planning process That we can stop and think and meditate on your providence in the midst of it all. For it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. You know, the doctrine of God's providence is one of the most uh One of the most amazing doctrines. In fact, it's a doctrine that is very rich. There is a mystery that's associated with how God works. But one of the things that we learn is that God works through the decisions that we make. And uh he worked sometimes in spite of our decisions, and we can thank him for that. But the little phrase that really stood out in those verses, and he actually repeats it several times, is the hand of our God was upon us for good. And the idea is that these people planned and they worked through their decisions, but they recognize that the reason that it prospered is because God blessed it. And so that's such a very important thing for us to learn in life. God expects us to think, He expects us to plan, He expects us to work hard, He expects us to make good choices. Uh but he also wants us to do it humbly because if he doesn't bless it, it falls flat on his face. You can plan as much as you want, but God always can stay checkmate. at any point he wants. And uh so what a what a very important uh truth for us to remember. Thank you for that. Thank you for that challenge from God's word. We need to uh trust him and we also need to make good choices. Choices and plan. Uh let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer. We're going to forego our closing hymn because my little one is restless Uh we're just gonna uh we're gonna go ahead and uh forego our closing hymn. But I hope that you can join us uh on Tuesday night. Remember we're gonna have uh really a Thanksgiving service. This will be our normal midweek service when we normally would gather together and we'd be doing our uh our studying the pastoral epistles and then have our prayer meeting. Um this sun uh this Tuesday will be a little bit different. Um it's It's going to be focused entirely on uh just Thanksgiving. And so we will actually do a little bit more singing. We normally just uh sing one song and then have our lesson and then uh have a prayer time. So it's going to be a little bit different, but I want to encourage you to come on Teasday if you can, and then I hope you have a safe Thanksgiving holiday season. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and then we will be discussing Father, we thank you so much for the opportunity we've had today to gather again as a body of believers. Thank you for the challenges that we went through this morning in Sunday school as we Reflected on the way that we grow and mature as Christians. Father, thank you for reminding us that you use suffering and you use hardship and you use difficulty to accomplish uh spiritual growth in our lives and you use it to mature us and make us what you want us to be. Father, thank you for this morning as we were reminded in the 103rd Psalm. That we are to bless you with all of our being. And truly you are worthy of all of our praise and all of our glorying. And I pray that you'll help us throughout these days to Just draw closer to you and to reflect deeply on how truly great and glorious you are. And then I thank you for this evening as we are reminded that you are sovereign and you work. behind the scenes to accomplish your purposes, yet you still expect us to plan and to work hard and to make good choices. And you work through those. And we thank you that in spite of our frailties and our failures on our part, you are faithful and you will still execute your purposes in our lives. Father, I pray that this week would be a glorious week of focus on you. Father, we want to lift up the niece family as they are really grieving the passing of Liz, I pray that you would comfort Cheryl and the kids. I pray that as they uh make plans for um her memorial service that that that would be a sweet time of remembrance of her life and the gift of life. It would also be a time where we reflect on really the hope that we have as Christians, what sets us apart from the world when someone passes into eternity, that they would rejoice in redemption. And they would rejoice that Liz is with you and they will see her again. Father, we pray for Mr. Jenny as he's recovering from hip surgery. We think of those who are traveling this week, and there are many that will travel or will not travel, but will gather with friends. I pray that you would keep all of us physically healthy and safe. And I pray that uh we would be able to gather back together again and that we would have sweet fellowship one with another as we worship you together. We ask for your blessing on each family and in it in each individual that's with us tonight. And we ask these Things in Christ's name, Amen