Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our service today. Hope that you're having a great weekend and we're looking forward to our service today. Have a couple of announcements and then after that we'll get started. All right, good morning. Hope you guys stay cool today. Don't melt in this heat. Um as I know it is warm out. Uh take advantage. I think tomorrow's supposed to be a little bit cooler, so if you guys can get advantage of that, take it. Today, following this morning meeting over here on the piano side, we will be having a VBS meeting. I would request if you have kids that are in junior church or in the nursery Please just go pick those up quickly as that way we can get to the meeting started at a rapid rate and just cover all the information as necessary. This evening we have an opportunity to just kind of love on our graduates. We have uh several, I believe it's five seniors have graduated, whether it be from high school, college, uh master's program, following the evening service in the fellowship hall. So just an opportunity there to just uh encourage and just love on some of our uh church members. Uh next week was Sacrificial Sunday. We're gonna be uh the offering is gonna go to refurbishing the back restroom. So if you guys start praying about the amount you would like to start giving and thinking about that. So next week's gonna be a big week, and then in a couple weeks we have BBS. So we do be planning for that. There's going to be a meeting for teachers and leaders on Sunday morning and then vacation Bible school the rest of that week. So there is still stuff to be needed. If you'd like to bring some stuff in to take part that way or volunteer service, talk with Pastor. There are plenty of opportunities to get involved. Pastor Josh? Good morning. Well, thank you so much for your prayers for safety and for the teens at a week of camp. It was an excellent week. I enjoyed it a lot. It's one of those weeks where I'm thankful that I have the privilege of being a youth pastor, or I get to go to camp over and over Way into my 40s. It's wonderful. I love it. And I just want to remind you that camp is a great week worth investing in And I think that you can talk to any of the teens that went and they would agree and can share some stories of just seeing the Word of God opened up. in a great way without distractions, just immersed in the wonder and the word and preaching and teaching with counselors and their whole schedule is designed to just allow an atmosphere for the word of God to change their lives. And I think it was just that. And praise the Lord for the bonus of safety to and from. And I am thankful to the snows that helped us drive there. All those teenagers so that I appreciate that as well. But just thank the Lord for what he has done and what he will continue to do. And if you talk to a teenager, I'm sure they can give you several different stories of things that they enjoyed, something that they learned from God and His Word. This morning, we're going to open our scripture reading and our service with Ezekiel 33, and we will start in verse 7. So thou, O Son of Man, I have set thee a watchman unto the house of Israel. Therefore thou shalt hear the word at thy mouth, and warn them from me. When I say unto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt surely die, if thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his way. That wicked man shall die his iniquity, but his blood will I require at thine hand. Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way to turn from it If he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity, but thou hast delivered thy soul. Therefore. O thou son of man, speak unto the house of Israel. Thus ye speak, saying, Of our transgressions and our sins be upon us. And we pine away with them, how shall we then live? Saying to them, As I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked. But that the wicked turn from his way and live. And turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways. For why will ye die, O house of Israel? Therefore, thou son of man, say unto the children of thy people, The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him from the day of his transgression As for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall thereby in the day that he turneth from his wickedness, neither shall he be turned Oh, sorry, I lost my soul. In the day that he turneth from his wickedness, neither shall the righteous be able to live for his righteousness in the day that he sinneth. When I shall say to the righteous, that he shall surely live, if he trust in his own righteousness and commit iniquity, all his righteousness shall not be remembered. But for his iniquity that he hath committed, he shall die for it. This morning, our focus of worship is for us to marvel at the greatness of God's patience and grace. Please let's all bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service. Lord, we thank you for the Lord's Day. And as we are gathered together, I pray that You would really open our hearts to the Word of God. As we sing hymns of praise to you, I pray that we will think about the rich truths that are expressed in these songs. As we listen to the preaching of your word, I pray that you would help me to lay open the scriptures in a very simple and clear way, in a way that you can use in each of our hearts. And I pray that the music will richly minister to our hearts as well. Please be with those who are not able to be with us today, those who've traveled, those who are dealing with sickness. I pray that your hand would be at work in their lives, and I pray that you would just be with those who maybe join us in the live stream today that the service will also be an encouragement to them. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Acre Baptist Church and esteemed guests. Thank you for joining in with us this morning. Thank you for joining with us either in person or on live stream. Challenge this morning. If you choose to accept, just to please stand with me. Turn to page 26. We're going to focus our thoughts and minds on the Lord while hopefully thinking cool thoughts on this warm day Praise to the Lord the Almighty, page twenty-six. All four verses sing out. Nosotros tenemos la primera cámara de la hora de estar en nuestra cosa. You're starting out pretty good. Do I have to remain standing for the next song though? I stand amazed in the presence. Sing it out Page one hundred and forty-three. One hundred and forty-three I stand placed in the presence of Jesus the Nazarene and wonder how he can love me for faith. Never continue thy marvelous, how wonderful and my tongue will ever be how marvelous. So when we're boiling quite a little for me , I think the God we bring on the eye. We get chronic. Amen. Please be seated as we turn to page 157. Page 157. Grace that is greater than our sin. Amen. And amen. Pray doing praying God praying , praise doing praise , Hey man , Amen. This time we'll go to our second reading of the scripture. We're in the book of Luke. Still in the book of Luke. We'll be in the book of Luke for a little bit longer, but amen. We're getting fed very well. We're going to start Luke chapter 13, verse 31 to 35. And the scripture says, The same day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying unto him, Get thee out, and depart hence, for Herod will kill thee. And he said unto them, Go ye and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, and I do cures today and to-morrow, and the third day I shall be perfected Nevertheless, I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killeth the prophets, and stoneth them that are sent unto thee. How often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings? and ye would not. Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. And verily I say unto you, ye shall not see me until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. And may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Um Daily looms and it's a big thing. Thank you for that. Very good. Alright, for the next song. Again, you're not gonna have to, you can't stay seated. But there's there's a dual dual purpose going on here. At the end of the second verse, of course, there's three verses. At the end of the second verse We're going to stand up and greet, but you guys stand up anyway for arise, my soul, arise. Okay? So even if we weren't greeting Going to have you stand up, page 299 in the Red Book, or follow along with us, and pick out somebody that you don't know, don't know well, go over and say hi, and uh greet one another. As we sing. Page two hundred ninety-nine, Arise, my soul, arise. You are right when you are Angorotic. I know where you want to. So God in the way We come literally my neighbor and God Right, standing please. We're gonna go to the blue book. Blue book, page 41. Page 41 of the blue book, worthy of worship, all three verses. And that last verse will sing a cappella. Page forty one. And what you 're talking about All I need for my Why kind of come on to friend? Savior and for love, our life with the doubt. You are worrying. Follow me. You are worried Say the voice and say that you are worthy. Word me and one word, words and Please be seated. Can you get that? Oh so Are you weary from wave upon wave of grief and affliction whom no man can save As sickness, no rounted or unending night, uncertainty storm, your joy or your light. O doubting, O fearful, remember his care The helpless and hopeless need never despair, For from your Afflictions this glory shall spring, the deeper your sorrow, the louder you'll think. Remember your Father is farm is love I'll never forsake you this pain will not break you For I will remake you for an Joy, my promise is faithful, though now it is faithful. No power can travel my commanded love Remember your savior is grief and his pain, The lovely affliction, unmerited shame Though you have betrayed him, he died in your place. The choice set before him, he offers by God. We love your father, his father , his law I'll never forsake you, this pain will not break you. For I will repay you for unending joy. My promise is faithful, though now it is painful. No power can trample my covenant law. I'll never forsake you, this pain will not break you, for I will repake you for unending joy. My promise is faithful, so now it is faithful. Work in front of my car than lost your Free mama, your father is wrong. Okay, well our our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for your class. That's ages four to seven. And uh please make sure that they go with the help of a parent. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to Luke chapter 13. Luke chapter 13, and we are looking at verses 31 down to verse 35. Again, that's Luke chapter 13, verses 31 down to verse 35. Here's what the scriptures say. The same day there came of the Pharisees saying unto him, Get thee out, depart hence, for Herod will kill thee. And he said unto them , Go ye and tell that fox, behold, I cast out devils, I do cures, and today and tomorrow and the third day I shall be perfected. Nevertheless, I must walk today and tomorrow and the day following, for it cannot be that a prophet shall perish out of Jerusalem. O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killeth the prophets and stonest them that are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together? as an hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not. Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. And verily I say unto you, ye shall not see me until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. The passage in front of us is a fascinating passage of Scripture for a lot of reasons, but one of the most interesting reasons about it is that it is a lament. of Christ over a rebellious city. And that rebellious city is Jerusalem, and it paints for us a powerful picture of the incredible riches of his grace toward people. who were sinful and rejecting him. As we look at these verses, we're going to see that God wants us to have a healthy view. of his grace and marvel in it. And it's amazing the context and the way in which God's grace is revealed. Before we look at that, I want to remind you of some of the songs that we sang this morning. And there is a theme that is very important in our service today. We sang three hymns that talk of God's grace. For instance, grace greater than our sin. He says marvelous, infinite, matchless grace. freely bestowed on all who believe. Isn't that an amazing statement from that hymn? Or the song Arise, my soul, arise. I really love this one. He says, Arise, my soul, arise, shake off. Thy guilty fears, the bleeding sacrifice on my behalf appears. I now am reconciled. His Pardoning voice I hear. He owns me for his child I can no longer fear. That a great statement. Or we're going to sing this song at the end of our service. It is, My hope is in the Lord, who gave himself for me , paid the price of all my sin at Calvary. No merit of my own is anger to suppress. My only hope is found in Jesus' righteousness. His grace has planned it all. 'Tis mine but to believe and recognize his work of love and Christ receive. Aren't those amazing statements? Aren't those rich hymns? There's a reason we sing these hymns. There's a reason we sang those hymns this morning. It's because they talk about God's grace. We've sung about this grace, but here's my question to you this morning. Has the grace that we sing about actually gripped your soul? Or maybe you didn't sing about it. Maybe you mumbled about it. Maybe you listened to others sing about it. But if you sang this morning these wonderful hymns, has that gracefully gripped your soul? Has it gripped the way that you think? Has it shaped your affections toward God? Do you have a healthy view of God's grace? How does this view of his race impact your life today? You say, well, it doesn't. If that's true, you have a serious problem. If it doesn't to the effect that it should, I hope that when we walk out of here, that will change. So I want us to bow together and ask God to help us to have a greater appreciation, a clearer view of His grace. And then we're going to dig into this text together. Father, thank you for the Word of God. As we think about Jesus' words to these Pharisees. As he lamented the rebellion of Jerusalem and the judgment they would face for rejecting the Messiah. And we see his heart for those people. I pray that we would be gripped by the great grace of our God Help us to realize he does deeply love us as his people. And even those who are in rebellion right now, he extends his hand of mercy on them. And he desires to save them. He is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. And so, Father, you know the hearts in this room. And you know the hearts of those who are listening on the live stream or who will hear this, who knows when, I pray that you would use the truths of Scripture to grip our soul. So we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen First thing I want us to notice this morning is understanding Christ's words in the light of the moment in history that this is stated in. In verse 31, notice the words, he says, The same day there came certain of the Pharisees saying unto him, Get thee out and depart hence, for Herod will kill thee. Now, before we see how Jesus responds to this man, it's important for us to understand how there is this building story in the life and ministry of Christ, and Luke is recording it so that we will understand there's a it's building to a climax. And ultimately the Pharisees are going to get behind a crowd, and the religious leaders are going to plot behind the scenes to have Jesus killed. And so in the big picture, we see that Christ's earthly ministry was moving to An endpoint. He taught publicly for over three years, probably about three and a half at this point. His ministry had been validated through signs and wonders and prophecies and miracles. And his teaching was repeatedly confronting the excesses and the hypocrisy of the religious leaders. Sadly The people had the greatest access to the scriptures in those days. In fact, they had the greatest access to the scripture of any group of people living up to this time in history. They were the greatest opponents. to the Lord Jesus Christ. They were sinning against an immense amount of knowledge. And this is one of the reasons that they were so hardened and so calloused toward Jesus. Then we see this immediate tension that is building in Jerusalem. There was this building animosity amongst these people toward Christ. And there's reasons for that. Notice what Jesus said back a couple of chapters in Luke chapter 11. He says, woe unto you lawyers! For you have taken away the key of knowledge, and you enter not in yourselves. And them that were entering in you hindered. And he said these things unto them, and the scribes and the Pharisees began to urge him vehemently and to provoke him and to speak of many things. laying wait for him and seeking to catch something out of his mouth that they might accuse him. Do you feel the drama in those verses? where Jesus basically says, you are taking away the knowledge people need to go to heaven. You're not going to go in yourselves, and you're hindering those who are turning to the truth. And they hate him so much. Don't forget, this was stated two chapters before what we're reading here. this morning. And then think about the words in Luke chapter 13, 24 to 28. So these are the verses right up before what we're looking at here. This is what Jesus said. He said Strive to enter in at the straight gate, for many I say, will seek to enter in and shall not be able. The next statement is fascinating. There will be weeping and gnashing of teeth when ye Not they, ye shall not be able to enter. You will see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all of the prophets in the kingdom of God. And you yourselves will be thrust out. What is he saying? You want to talk about confrontational? Yeah, there are a lot of people who I think the preaching's too hard these days. And they said, well, Jesus' preaching was very to the point. He looked at these religious people and he said, you're outside the kingdom. You're trying to enter in and you're not gonna go. You're gonna be outside. You're gonna see Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, these people that you taught about and you preached about. And you talked about and you put your confidence in how you were connected to these people ethnically, and you will not be in the kingdom that those people are going to be a part of. So you can kind of understand why these people had such animosity towards Jesus, not saying it was justifiable, but because of their rejection of the truth, there was a building tension. But then Christ's response to this man is very interesting. Because it reveals how he reads the Pharisees' words. Now, if you look down in these verses, the man comes to Jesus. And when he comes to Jesus, he basically says, you shouldn't stay here. It's not safe because Herod wants to kill you. And some of us may be saying, well, maybe this person was kind towards Jesus. Maybe he actually cared about Jesus' safety. But based on how Jesus answers, you know, that's not what Jesus is thinking about this man's words. Reminds me of a proverb, Proverb 26, 26. He says, Whoso's hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness will be shown before the whole congregation. And what is that saying? What that's saying is when a person has a heart of animosity towards another individual And what they do is they conceal it with smooth and gentle and nice words. And they present themselves as if they're a friend and an ally. But in fact, in their heart there is animosity. Guess what happens? It comes out. It's going to come out. And that's exactly what was happening here. They confronted him. In fact, we see this in Luke chapter 20. This is several chapters later. It says, it came to pass. that on one of those days as he taught the people in the temple and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came to him with the elders and spake in him saying, Tell us by what authority dost thou teach these things, and who is he that gave thee this authority? Hold on, what is he preaching? He's preaching the gospel. He's saying you need to be saved from your sin and the Messiah is come and the Messiah is going to establish redemption and the kingdom of God is at hand. What in the world is there a problem with such a message? That's a good message. But they resisted it. And then it says later in the same chapter, they watched him and sent spies which would feign themselves just men, that they might take hold on his words. and so that they might deliver him unto the power and the authority of the governor. Whew, what's going on there? In other words, these people came and they got close to Jesus And they were presenting themselves as if they were disciples, but in fact they weren't. They were looking for an opportunity to take advantage of him. They were actually infiltrating Christ's disciples, they are obviously very, very wicked people with sinister motives. And later in that same chapter, Jesus calls them out. He says, Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes and love greetings in the marketplace in a high seat. They devour widows' houses and for a show make long prayers. These will receive greater damnation. Wow. So what does Jesus say to this man? He basically tells him, I don't believe you. In fact, it's interesting when we see the story of Jesus before Herod. I'm not going to read this because of the length of it, but go to Luke 23 and read that account and notice how Herod did not have animosity towards Jesus. He actually wanted to see him. He wanted to talk to him. He wanted to ask him questions. He wanted to see him perform a miracle because He was fascinated by Jesus and he thought it would be really neat to see what he might do. And at the same time, the religious leaders were there and they were lying about him and doing everything in their power to try to get Herod to turn against Jesus. So how does Jesus respond to this guy? He responds by saying, why don't you go and tell that fox, this is what I do? And it's kind of interesting too. He said, go and tell that fox I cast out devils. Or it says he said unto them, not him, but them. Jesus knows what's going on here. And so what we see is that Jesus has called out this man's hypocrisy. But that leads us to a second thing that I think is very fascinating here We need to consider how this text of Scripture demonstrates God's grace. Now, before I dig into that, you're going to sit here and go, hold on a second. Jesus just called Herod a fox. Jesus basically is very confrontational with this f these Pharisees. He's later on going to talk about how the nation is going to be judged and Jerusalem is going to be laid waste and their children are going to be killed and men and women and children are going to face a horrific judgment. You go, I don't see any grace in those words at all. But you've got to look at all he what he says. Because when you understand what is coming and you understand how justifiable it is and you understand Jesus' attitude towards these people and you put all that together It actually is a very powerful picture of his grace. Notice what he says in verses 32 to 34. He says, O Jerusalem. Jerusalem, which killeth the prophets, stoneth them that are sent unto thee. Notice the next statement. How often Would I have gathered thy children together as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and you would not. Just pause for a second. How do you respond to people that treat you dirty? How do you respond to people who undermine you? And try to make your life miserable. And they speak nice to you, but you know in their hearts there is evil intent And you know that's going on, and you have this sense of where things are going. You know we have this like sixth sense, you're like, oh I I know where this is going. I'm just going to cut that off before it goes there. It's almost like you dealt with a problem And then you deal with that same problem again and you deal with it again. And the next time you deal with something that has those signs of something moving that way, you're like, I'm going to cut it off right here. I don't want to deal with this. I know. We all do that, right? You know, shame shame on me once if you trick me, shame on me twice uh if if if if you do it again it's it's on me, right? Shame on you if you trick me once, shame on me if you trick me twice. That's what we say, right? So the idea is that we tend to try to get ahead of it. You would expect Jesus if he was like you and me. You would expect him to have kind of a callous attitude towards the Jewish people. You would expect him to have a callous attitude towards that generation in Jerusalem. He knows. that when they deliver him to Pilate, they're going to say something like this, his blood be on us and on our children. They're going to say that. He's going to stand before all these different powerful people, and they're going to bring false accusation after false accusation after false accusation. And as Jesus is hanging on that cross, They're going to be walking up to him and they're going to be mocking him and laughing at him and jeering at him. And he knows all that's going to take place. But that's not his attitude towards that. Notice the resolve of Christ. He was on a mission to establish redemption, and nothing could stop that. Verses 32 and 33 says, I cast out devils and I do cure today and tomorrow, and on the third day I shall be perfected. Nevertheless, I must walk today and tomorrow in the day following. It cannot be that a prophet perish in Jerusalem. He mentions the history of these people. They had received so many opportunities, and their history was one of rejecting God and his word. He says, those which kill the prophets and stone them that are sent unto them. Now recently on Tuesday nights, I've been going through the Old Testament. And we dealt with 1 and 2 Kings and 1 and 2 Chronicles. And those two books, 1 2 Kings and the 2nd book, 1 2 Chronicles, they're actually just two, not four books in the Hebrew text. But 1 and 2 Kings is all about showing the justification for God bringing judgment on the nation in 586. In other words, we have 400 years of Israel's history where he sends prophet after prophet after prophet after prophet and they reject and they reject and they reject and they reject. In fact, the northern kingdoms did not have one good king out of all of them. And the southern kingdom had very few kings that were godly kings. And so what is 1 and 2 Kings all about? It's the history of these people saying God was absolutely just to bring judgment upon them. But what is first in 2 Chronicles? It's going all the way back to Adam, Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, to David, and it says, but God still has a purpose for his people. It's a fascinating thing. My judgment is just. I still have a purpose for my people. That was their history. They killed the prophets. They rejected the word. And it was just a small remnant of people at the time of Christ that embraced him as the Messiah. We talk about Pentecost. How many people were in the upper room waiting for Jesus, or waiting, waiting for the coming of the Spirit, fewer than there are in this room right now at this moment. Out of all of the people in Jerusalem, a smaller group than what we have in this room right now were waiting for the coming of the Spirit. The fact is that there was an overwhelming rejection of Christ. And he mentions that. And this rejection is stunning. In verse 35, he kind of mentions this. He says You will not see me until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. You say, Well, what is that all about? He's talking about Palm Sunday. And on Palm Sunday, there was going to be something very interesting that was going to take place. Jesus is going to come into Jerusalem, and Psalm 118 talks about this, and Luke 19, 36 to 44 talk about this. And as Jesus comes into Jerusalem, all of these people, these massive crowds who are there celebrating the Passover at that moment, in their minds they're saying, we're about to have a second Pass Second Exodus. This guy's gonna come and he's gonna save us from Rome and He's gonna establish us as his people and He's gonna establish His rule and we get to be a part of it and that's the mindset of the people. And so they're saying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. But what you see is in the crowd there were people that were like, Jesus, quit letting these people talk like this. those people were religious leaders. And guess what those people would be doing just a little bit time later in that same week? We need to crucify this man. We need to crucify this man. And he they they got the whole crowd up in arms and they said, crucify him. In Psalm 118 I want to read to you what it states because this really gives you the picture of what was going to take place at that moment. It says, the stone which the builders refused has become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it, save now. You say, what's the point of Psalm 118? What's interesting about Psalm 118 and what's interesting about the Palm Sunday events as they are unfolding and the different gospel accounts is that you see a people who say Save now, but there's also people who are rejecting the stone that he says the builders refused. He is the head of the corner. You see both at the same time. Why is that? Because they didn't understand redemption The Psalm recognized that only Christ could bring salvation, but he would be rejected. And that this is marvelous in the Lord's eyes, and it is the day which the Lord has made, and we'll rejoice and be glad in it. But there was going to be a mixture of responses. Most would reject. Few would understand. And you know what this leads to? At least the verse 35, the future judgment. He says, Behold, your house is left unto you desolate. That was what would happen because of their rejection. You say, well, Pastor, I don't see the grace. Look back at verse 34. Jesus knows all this. He knows about their history. He knows about what's going under the surface there in that place. It's like sometimes you know you walk into a room and you're like something's going on here. You ever you ever done that? Like maybe you walk into the break room at work and you're like, I think they're talking about me. What's going on? Right? And every time you walk into the break room, you kind of get that sense again. You start going, I think somebody's saying some things behind the scenes. I'm not liking that very much. This is going on in Jerusalem. They want to kill Jesus. He knows that. He knows where it's going to end. He knows the past. He knows the present. He knows the future. He knows where it's going. Yet this is his attitude. O Jerusalem, which killeth the prophets, stoneth them that are sent, how often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings? And you would not. You know what that is? It's called grace. It's called forbearance. God is just and he must punish evil on the final day. But he takes no delight in the destruction of the wicked. In verse 34, we saw the phrase, How often would I have gathered thy children together? But you would not. In chapter 19, verses 42 and 44, he says, When he came near, he beheld the city, and he wept over it, saying, If thou hadst known They should not, they shall, he said, if thou hast known thy visitation, but ye did not, they'll leave unto thee one stone upon another, because thou knowest not the time of thy visitation. You know, I think a lot of us need to have a spirit a little more like Jesus. We think about some of the stuff going on in our own society today. I think we need to call sin sin. What is evil is evil. And we shouldn't compromise in any way. But here's the truth. Some of us really want to see people get it. We really do. You say, no, not me. Okay. I find myself in this position sometimes. I just hope God judges that person because look what they're doing. Well, wouldn't it be nice if God saved them? Wouldn't it be nice if this person became a testimony of the power of the gospel? Wouldn't it be great if the sin debt that that person deserves was poured out on Christ and they are forgiven and redeemed? They become God's child. What do you see in Christ's attitude towards people who are so antagonistic? He weeps over them. That is a really important thing for us to remember. This is all about the grace of God and his forbearance and his love for people that really are rebellious. And by the way, they knew what they were rejecting. Reminds me of the text we read earlier this morning, Ezekiel 33. He says, I have set thee as a watchman unto the house of Israel, therefore Thou shalt hear the word, they shall therefore thou shalt hear the words of my mouth and warn them for me, from me. Say unto them, As I live, saith the Lord God, I have no pleasure in the deaths of the wicked. but that the wicked should turn from his way and live. Now I would not have wanted to be Ezekiel in these verses. Because God tells Ezekiel the prophet, he says, I'm sending you to a cold and callous and very rebellious people. And when you open up your mouth and you teach them and you preach and you say, Thus saith the Lord, they're going to stare at you with a stone face and say, we could care less. But your job is to warn them. Your job is to compel them. Your job is to appeal to them because I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked. but that the wicked turn from his way and live. You know what's amazing when God says that to Ezekiel? He says that knowing what they're going to do. And even predicting it, but still saying, in my heart, I care about these people. I love them. I want their souls to be saved. Isn't that a powerful thing to consider? I want you to think about some different illustrations of God's grace. Think about the kid who grows up in church. And they get stays in vacation Bible school when they're six years old. And then they grow up in a good Christian home and they're taught the Word of God and they get older, they get married, they raise up their kids for for the Lord Jesus Christ and they live a life that is really dedicated to the Lord, even from a child's. God's grace in that? You better believe his grace is in that. Why did they grow up in that home? Because of God's grace. Why did they hear the gospel at a young age? Because of God's grace. Why did they have so much access because of God's grace? What preserved them and protected them from all the nonsense and all the misery that's out there in the world? The grace of God. And let me say this. That is my prayer for every kid growing up in this church. Every kid, that is my prayer for you. I'll give you another scenario. How about a young adult who backslides? They get saved at six, seven years old in the church. They become an 18, 19, 20-year-old, and all of a sudden the world starts really turning their head. And all of a sudden, that is very appealing to them. And God in his mercy humbles them. And he breaks them down through circumstance and they turn back to him. Is God's grace in that? Absolutely. Absolutely. You say, well, which one is more? I don't know. The fact is it's the grace of God that preserves us from a lot of misery, it preserves us from a lot of sinful choices, and it's the grace of God that turns a very callous person. back to himself. Think about the person who gets saved later in life. And I I know in in our congregation there are many people that you say, you know, I was in my 20s, 30s, and 40s. I didn't live for God. I didn't know anything about the Bible. I didn't grow up in a Christian home. I made a lot of really bad choices. I was even antagonistic toward God. And for some reason, at some point when I was at this stage in my life, God started getting my attention through this, this, this, and this, and this. And you got saved. And your life completely changed. Your perspective was completely transformed. You started living for God after having lived a life of complete emptiness for so many years. Is God's grace in that? Absolutely. Absolutely it is. What about the person who rejects the gospel their entire life? Yet enjoy so many good things. God allows them to get married. God allows them to have children. God allows them to have relatively good health. God allows them to live a very long time. God allows them to have a good job. God allows them to live in a country of great prosperity and goodness. And this person lives their whole life shaking their fist at God saying, I don't need you I don't want you. I don't believe in you. And if you really existed, I would hate you. And they live their whole life like that and they die. Is God's grace showing that? I do. I believe it is. You let them live He gave them a lot of good things. He was patient with them. He gave them opportunity to the very day that they died that they could have turned to him and they didn't. The reason I bring up these illustrations is to simply say this. God shows his grace in the lives of every single person that lives. Whether it's a little kid that gets saved at six, seven, eight years old and they live for God from the time they're a child, or someone who gets saved and turns away from the Lord and they're backslidden and they're rebellious. And for a period of their lives, they are not living like a Christian, though they are a Christian, and God turns them back to Himself, and they have a lot of misery and a lot of pain and a lot of frustration because of what they sowed in those years. But God showed his grace. And that person who lives a life separated from God and turns to him as an older person, he shows his grace. And even the person who rejects and rejects and rejects and rejects and rejects till the very end, he still showed his grace. And that is what is being communicated in this passage of Scripture. He says, how often would I have gathered you as a hand to her chicks? But you would not, he says, I extended my hand over and over and over and over and over again. And while you said no and you said no, I just kept doing it. I kept doing it. But you know, this is a thing we find out in the Bible, all over the place. I wrote down a whole bunch of examples and I had to narrow them down to just a couple because I can't sit here and go through all of them. I thought about Manasseh. I thought about Lot. I thought about Noah. I thought about Ahab. I thought about so many examples, but I want to share with you just a couple. The first one is Jonah. And the repentance of Nineveh. In Jonah chapter 1, verse 1, it says this. Now the word of the Lord came unto Jonah, saying, Arise and go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it. Their wickedness has come up before me. Now when we read Nineveh, there is no emotional response in your heart or mine because it's just uh just the name of a group of people that lived thousands of years ago. But when God came to Jonah and said, go to Nineveh, he said, not a chance. Those people are so evil and so cruel and so unjust They are ruthless. In fact, if you study history, you'll you'll find out about it. Went to the British Museum many years ago and I remember going through walking through the pillars of Nineveh. I was like, whoa, this is amazing. Like I'm walking through. And you read about some of the stuff that they did, and you're like, whoa, I'm glad I didn't live in those days. And when Jonah says, I'm not going there, I think we can understand that. And when God finally turns Jonah back, we know the story. He goes to the city, and this is what it says in chapter 3. So the people of Nineveh believed God and proclaimed a fast and put on sackcloth. And this is what they said in verse 9. They said, Who can tell if God will turn? And repent and turn away from his fierce wrath. He has said he's going to judge us. Let's cry out to him for mercy. Maybe he won't do it. They had no guarantee that he wouldn't do it. Jonah's message was not a gospel message. He said, God's going to destroy the city. God's going to destroy the city. He didn't say, turn to him, maybe he won't. There's not any gospel in this message. It's all crest you. God's going to crest you, and I'm here to tell you it's going to happen. But that's not what they did. They humbled themselves And it says, God saw their works and turned from their evil way, and God repented of the evil that he had said he would do unto them, and he did it not. God said, all right, I will spare you. Now, if you're Jonah, you're like, why? These people are so wicked. Okay, fine. There's like a little blip on the radar where they said, I'm so sorry, I won't do this again. But I know what they're like. These are our arch enemies. These people are ruthless. And then it says that Jonah went up and he sat on a hill overlooking the city to just see what would happen. And when he saw that God didn't judge the city, this is what it said. It says, it displeased Jonah exceedingly. He was very angry, and he prayed unto the Lord and said Therefore I fled before you to Tarshis. I knew that thou art a gracious God, merciful, slow to anger of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil Therefore now, O Lord, take, I beseech thee, my life. It is better that I die than live. You know how many people say, you know, God is cruel and God is harsh and God is vindictive and God's this tyrant. That's not what Jonah was thinking. He said, I didn't want to go to Nineveh because I was afraid you might be kind to them. I was afraid you might not punish them. Do you see how Jonah's thinking about God? He's actually not happy that God is so patient. And he's not happy that God is so merciful. And he's really not happy that God could potentially spare these people because in his mind they needed to get So here's the question, who is more evil, God or Jonah? Who really had wrath against the people, God or Jonah? And here's the honest truth. A lot of people that say God is a wrathful God and he's vindictive and he's cruel and he's unjust, the same people that say I'm more righteous than God, guess what? They hate God. people with no cause. The same God who has extended to them so much kindness, so much mercy, so much grace, so much opportunity, they cannot see who He is. Think about the story of Nebuchadnezzar, Daniel chapter 4. The king spake and said, Is not this great Babylon that I have built? The house of the kingdom by the might of my power. How did he build that kingdom? It's called slave labor. And where did he get those slaves from? People that he conquered, that he let live. So literally he'd go and he'd like wipe out cities and he'd kill everybody that he didn't want to let live. And those who were like, you know, look like they might be good to work in his kingdom, he took them and he enslaved them, and they built his kingdom. And so when he says, is must not the great Babylon that I have built with my hands for my honor and for my majesty, he did it on the backs of people. It says, while the word was in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven saying, O Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken, thy kingdom is departed from thee. Boom, just like that. God said, you cross the line. But here's what's interesting. God actually put Nebuchadnezzar back in power A short time later. It says, At the end of the days, I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up my eyes unto heaven, my understanding returned, and I blessed the Most Holy. I praise and honored him that liveth forever. Whose kingdom is an everlasting dominion. His kingdom is from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are as puted as nothing, and he doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven. None can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? What is that story? God's grace. Do you realize that the kingdom that destroyed the northern kingdom of Israel, God showed them grace? And the kingdom that destroyed the southern kingdom of Judah and Jerusalem and the temple, God showed them grace. But the greatest example in the Bible that I can think of is Paul. In Galatians chapter 1, he says, You have heard of my conversation in times past in the Jewish religion. Beyond measure, I persecuted the Church of God and wasted it, and profited in the Jewish religion above many my equals in mine own nation, being more zealous of the traditions of my fathers. But when it pleased God who separated me from my mother's womb and called me by his grace. He says in Acts 26, I punished them often in every synagogue. I compelled them. to blaspheme, I persecuted them, even unto strange cities. In 1 Corinthians 15 he says, I'm the least of the apostles, in that I'm not meet to be called an apostle. I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am. The grace of God was with me. Why don't you think about this? Do you realize that the Apostle Paul was in Jerusalem when Jesus was crucified? Do you realize that the Apostle Paul was a leader in the Sanhedrin at the time that Jesus was crucified? Do you realize that the Apostle Paul had access to everything that we're reading about in the gospel, in the gospel accounts? He saw those things. He heard those things. He witnessed those things. He hated those things. He persecuted those things. Yet God saved him. What is that? It 's grace. I want to remind you that this morning we need to have a bigger view of God's grace. We understand how good he is, how kind he is. So how do we practically do this? We need to stop and marvel at the infinite depths of God's grace. His dealings with each of us will always demonstrate his grace in ways that are beyond our full comprehension. And the fact is there's lots of different potential scenarios in this room. I'll give you a couple. There might be someone who today, you're seeing this for the very first time. Could be you're on the live stream, could be you're here in this service. Could be that you've been in our church many, many times. It's never really struck you like, wow, salvation is really through Christ alone, his death, his resurrection, his righteousness. And now it has hit you. And I ask this question, what should you do? Well, as grace says, repent and believe. Turn to him, trust in his finished work. There might be someone here who thinks that God has abandoned them. And would never want them to be saved. There's lots of people like that. They know their sin. It weighs heavily on their minds. And they say, I am an unsavable person. And God's grace says, reject the lie, turn to Christ, believe in his finished work. There might be someone who is very proud, a skeptic, a scorner of the Christian faith. And God's free offer of salvation has been given to you over and over and over and over again. And his grace says there's still time, repent and believe. He saved Paul. He was kind to Nebuchadnezzar. He spared Nineveh. He said, I would have gathered these children to myself, but you had not. Don't be, but I will not. Turn to him. To the one who sees God as a cruel, whimsical tyrant who irrationally wipes people out. His grace says, reject the lie, repent, and believe. To the little child whose earliest memories are the basic gospel treats. I know there's kids in here that if you ask them, do you remember what it was like to not know who Jesus was, they'll say, I don't remember. Because mama was teaching them when they were a little little kid, teaching them Bible verses. Dad opened up the Word of God. They were in Sunday school. They were in junior church. They were in all these places. And I say, his grace says, thank God that you had access to the gospel when you were a little kid. And that he has spared you from so much potential misery that's out there. To the backslidding Christian who has drifted from the faith and is living a life that bears no marks of true faith, I say, his graces, turn back and enjoy the position you have. There might be someone who has professed faith in Christ, and the truth is you're not a Christian. And the fact that you're living the way that you are right now is a demonstration of the fact that you're spiritually dead and you're not saved. Turn to Christ. Trust him as your Savior. Maybe you're saved, but you're not living like it. You know it. God says, turn back. To the one who has turned back to God and wonders, has God really accepted me, his grace says, don't trust your feelings, trust his word. And there might be someone here who's in that position. I know when I was a teenager, there are times I wrestled with doubts about my salvation I said, am I really saved? And I'd think about something that had just gone down, the way I'd handled a certain situation, and my focus was really on my feelings, and I needed to look at the scriptures and say, what does the Bible say? What does God say in his word about salvation? And I remembered those truths and I said, I've trusted in this work. I'm saved by the grace of God through faith alone in Christ. So while externally it might appear that each of these people have almost nothing in common, God's grace is demonstrated richly in each of their lives. So if you're unsaved, it's no accident you're here, here in this message. You need to turn to Christ. If you're cold and complacent, it is no accident that you're hearing this message. You need to digest the truth and allow your heart to be filled with joy and gratitude. And worship toward God. If you doubt his love and goodness in any way, consider his forbearance, his compassion on these people, and know he loves God You too. Consider his patience and the various ways he has given you opportunity to hear and handle the truth. And to those who love him and delight in him, which I would assume is most of us. We should love him a little bit more today. We should delight in him a little bit more today. We should have just a little bit deeper appreciation for who he is. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Before we close in prayer, I think it's important to ask a question. Is there someone here that would say, you know, I don't know for certain that I'm saved? I don't know if I were to die today, I'd go to heaven. I grew up in church, never been to church, I feel like I'm unsavable, and I need to talk to somebody about that. If that's you, while everyone else has got their eyes closed and heads bowed, would you just quietly raise up your hand? I'm not going to call you out. Certainly not going to say your name But I want to take a note because I'd like to speak with you. Anybody like that? Just quietly raise up your hand and say, I need to talk to somebody about my salvation. Might be someone here today that would say, I believe I'm saved, but boy, I don't live like it. And I need to turn back to God. And I need to hear that. Let's ask the Lord to help us to apply the truth the way that we should today. Father, thank you for your word. Take it and impress it on our souls. Help us to recognize that Jesus is a very good Savior. He loves people. He desires them to repent and believe. And even those who are resistant and rejecting, he calls them with a forbearing heart to turn to him and to be saved. And so, Father, you know the hearts in this room, the hearts of those who are listening this morning, may they turn to you in humility. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's take our hymn books out. We're going to turn to our closing hymn 336. 336, my hope is in the Lord. We'll sing three verses, one, two, and four. Please let's stand together, and this will be our closing hymn. Before we have someone close us in prayer. Three hundred and thirty-six, my hope is in the Lord. My break briefly from my own breath I am. Man, what a great song for us to close this service on. I'd like to ask your brother Chad Peterson could come and close us in prayer And if you're visiting with us this morning, I hope you'll stop by and greet my wife and I. We'd just like to be an encouragement to you any way that we can I hope you'll be able to come back tonight as we have our graduation fellowship afterward, and we had several graduates and We're thankful for their their completion of some of them it's high school, some of it's college, some of it's graduate school. And so we just thank God for his mercy, and uh especially for their families who support them uh through that and friends and some of you who came alongside of them at times when they were discouraged. So So just be a great time to be an encouragement and a blessing to them. Chad, close in prayer, please. Father, thank you for this opportunity to come into your house and glean from your word. Lord, I pray that we would take what we've heard today and apply it to our lives in a special and purposeful way. Lord, I pray that you'd watch over and protect us and keep us safe and healthy. Throughout the weeks to come and bring us back at the appointed time in Jesus' name. Amen