Good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we will get into our lesson this evening in 2 Timothy chapter 2. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study your word tonight and then to spend time together in prayer as a church body. I pray that our time together would be very encouraging and Christ-centered. I pray that The things that are presented this evening from 2 Timothy 2 would be very practical. I know that these are tough passages and very insightful, very practical, very important for us. So I pray that you'd help me to communicate it effectively, and we ask that we'd be able to apply it consistently in our lives. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, 2 Timothy chapter 2 is where we are tonight, and we are looking at verses 22 down to verse 26. Again, that's 2 Timothy 2, verses 22 to 26. I'm going to go ahead and read these verses, and then we are going to dig into an important topic, and that topic is maturity in ministry. Maturity and ministry. Here we go. 2 Timothy 2, verse 22 says this. Flee also youthful lusts, but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace. With them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart, but foolish and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they do gender strife. And the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient, in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves. If peradventure God will grant them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will. Now when we look at this passage of Scripture, what we're looking at is a passage that is exhorting Timothy to be a man of maturity in his ministry. And when we talk about him being exhorted to be a man of integrity or a man of maturity, let's remember that he's a man that lacked a lot of experience. He was a very young man. Now we don't know exactly how old he was, but a lot of commentators would say he was probably in his younger thirties And in a culture like an ancient culture where someone being an elder being senior was extremely important Someone that was that young would not have been considered a person that really would be taken at as seriously. It was not someone that had a lot of extreme experience in life. It doesn't appear that Timothy had a family, so he wouldn't have had some of the maturity that often comes with being married, having children, having to deal with the responsibilities of family life. It seems like he's just a young, single man. Yet Paul really trusted this man, Timothy. He knew that Timothy was a man that had a heart that was clean. He knew that Timothy was a man of integrity. He knew that Timothy loved the people and he was going to care for them. with the same kind of heart that the Apostle Paul had. So he's challenging this man, in spite of his lack of experience, have a ministry that is a ministry characterized by maturity. And so he warns him to be careful not to fall prey to the common passions that are typical of those who are inexperienced. In fact, when I ask you the question, I'm not going to ask for your answer, but just think with me, when he says, flee also youthful lusts, what comes to mind? Well, the first thing that probably comes to mind to a lot of people is, well, he's probably talking about sexual passion. But what's really interesting about that viewpoint of what he means by youthful lust is he never in the context talks about that particular area. Not saying that that isn't a youthful lust, but let's remember that when David committed uh adultery with Bathsheba, he wasn't a 25-year-old young man. The fact is he was well into his fifties. Bathsheba was easily old enough to be his daughter. There was a huge gap between them. And so this is not just a sin that's characteristic of young men and young people, but the reality is that sexual temptation is something that can appeal to any person, whatever their age. But what I'd like us to do is I'd like us this evening to look at this topic of what he's talking about when he says youthful lust. He actually is going to talk about very specific things. And I think as we talk about that, you'll say, you know what, that makes sense. Those are youthful passions that have to be corralled and they have to be kept under control when someone is young and an experienced. So how can we be a person like Timothy was supposed to be, who had a seasoned approach to the areas of ministry that God entrusts us to? Well, the first thing I'd like us to see tonight is that effective ministry is more than just sound doctrine. Now, please don't misunderstand what I'm saying. I'm not suggesting that a lack of sound doctrine can be a part of an effective ministry. In order for a ministry to be effective, for the ministry to be sound, for the ministry to be truly blessed by God, There has to be sound doctrine. Yet there is a tendency in our minds sometimes to think that that is all of what it is. In other words, just because you look at a church's doctrinal statement and the way they articulate the gospel and the way they articulate very important issues of church practice, those things can be sound and they can be solid, but that church can be very unhealthy. The ministry being effective is more than just a doctrinal statement. So notice what he says in verse 22. He says, flee also, but Follow. Flee also, but follow. First of all, I want us to see that this statement is not meant to diminish the importance of doctrinal soundness. Go back with me to verse 21. This is the verse right before this section. He says, you need to reject false doctrine and false teachers. He says, if a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honor, sanctified, and meet for the masters. Now in the context, the question is, what is Paul saying that he needs to purge himself from? Well, he's supposed to purge himself from the false teaching of the people that were in Ephesus that were undermining doctrinal soundness. So he says, reject false teaching. Obviously, that is an important part of being an effective minister. Also in verses 15 through 16. sixteen he talks about the importance of diligent study and communicating the scriptures effectively. He says, study to show thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth. But shun profame and vain babblings, for they will increase unto more ungodliness. So if a person is going to be an effective minister of the gospel They need to have sound doctrine. They need to be able to articulate the scriptures with clarity. But that's not the stopping point. That's important, that's foundational, but there's an additional element to effective ministry, and that's what we're getting into here Sound teaching must be coupled with vibrant Christian character. And he's going to state it in two ways. He's going to give us a negative, don't do this, don't allow this to be a part of your life, and then he's going to give us a Give us the positive, here's what is to replace negative what you are fleeing from, what you are rooting out, what you are making sure is not a part of your ministry. The negative is flee youthful lusts. And we're going to talk about what he means by that in just a few moments. On the positive, he says, but rather follow righteousness. Faith, charity, peace with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart. Now I want to break down those four words: righteousness, faith, charity, and peace. While Timothy is fleeing youthful lust, that as a young man he's going to be tempted to indulge in, he is to flee and then to replace them with, first of all, righteousness. But what is righteousness? It's moral excellence. Do what is right. Be a person of conviction. Treat people in a way that is just, that is honest, that is consistent with God's moral character. That's what he means when he says, flee you for lust. Don't be pragmatic. Be a righteous man in the way that you do your ministry. The second word is faith. This has the idea of a faithfulness that flows out of a steadfast trust in God. So when he talks about faith, he's not just talking about the quality of trusting God. But he's talking about how that quality of trusting God is something that's going to establish a steadfastness, a consistency, a faithfulness. So he's saying do right and do right consistently because you trust God consistently. The third word is the word charity And that word is the idea of a sacrificial love, of being willing to give of oneself, being willing to give of one's rights for the good of another individual. In other words, you're not just releasing your rights because the person is demanding something that they want. But you're releasing your rights to do what is best in the eyes of God for this person. You know, you really cannot properly define love if you don't understand God's nature. If you don't understand God's character, if you don't understand what is right and what is wrong, genuine love in the biblical sense is defined by what God says is morally right and what God says is morally wrong. So think about when the scripture says that charity suffereth long and is kind, it vaunteth not itself. He talks about how charity does what is right. And so in order for us to understand biblical love, that sacrificial giving of self, we have to understand what's right. The fourth word is the word peace. He says, be governed by a desire to seek the most peaceable, Christ-honoring resolves possible. Now, if you're following along in our Sunday school on Sunday mornings, We talked about this concept of getting along with other people. And the scripture says, as much as lieth within you, live peaceably with all men. In other words, as much as it depends on you, as much as you have the ability to control your own actions, your own responses, the way that you think and act towards other people, do what is right in those ways. Another way to put it is what it says in Colossians 3. He says, Let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also you are called into one body, and be ye thankful. When he says, let the peace of God rule in your hearts, he's basically saying, this is how you know how to relate to other people. The way that God has dealt with you. He has established peace between you and him through the cross. That becomes the basis for how you're to relate to other people. And so we talk about forgiveness and forbearance and kindness. It's all connected back to the cross. It's all connected back to the gospel. And so Paul tells Timothy, don't be a young man who, though you're inexperienced And though you are tempted to be dominated by youthful passions, flee those things and positively put on righteousness and faith and charity and peace. So we've seen that effective ministry is not just sound doctrine. Sound doctrine is the foundation. You do not have effective ministry without sound doctrine, but sound doctrine is not the stopping point. In other words, you have to go beyond that to being a healthy, vibrant Christian. The second truth we're going to find tonight is that effective ministers flee youthful lusts. Notice what it says in verses 23 to 26. Because in these verses, he's actually going to define for us What he means by youthful lusts. What are the kinds of things that in Paul's mind Timothy is going to be prone to do, and he needs to make sure that he doesn't do them? Verse 23, foolish and unlearned questions avoid. Anybody ever heard young preacher boys in a Christian college debate about biblical matters? I was one of them. You know, we we'd we'd come out of ministerial class and we'd go we'd go get our pizza in the dining hall and we'd sit there and we would just debate about stuff. The question is why did we do it? Because we were proud. We just like debating about this stuff because it made us feel smart and we can make an argument. You know what I'm talking to, you remember what it was like to be in that states? Because we were we were in Bible college at the same time. He says foolish and unlearned questions avoid them. In other words, don't do stuff like that. He then goes on to say, knowing they do gender strive. In other words, debating about stuff that you really can't know for certain, things that are not cut and dry and they're not really clear, things that we don't really know about, what's it going to do? It's just going to create contention He says, but the servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle unto all men. apt to teach, patient, in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves, if peradventure God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. That they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive by him and his will. Now let's be really practical. What he's going to say in these verses, in fact, it's very convicting. It's very convicting for me. And I think if you really process what it's saying, it's going to be very convicting for you Let's break down what he means by youthful loss. The first thing that he's telling him to flee from is he says, flee the temptation to indulge in worthless discussions. foolish and unlearned questions avoid. You know there are some questions that the way that they're shaped Is really not an appropriate question to ask to get the answer that you need? This question's like that In fact, a lot of times if you 're watching the news and somebody kind of wants to twist this person into a knot, this reporter will ask them a question that it's an unfair question. The premise begins with a bias. It's like somebody that says, hey, have you stopped slapping your wife? How do you answer that question? Well, if you say no, that means that you're doing it, right? And if you say yes, that means you used to do it. Well what if the person has never touched their wife like that? They treat them with the ultimate respect and honor and dignity. Is that a fair question? The answer is no. Why Because it begins with a premise that you're guilty. Now tell me if you're still guilty. We can ask questions like this. We can ask theological questions that quite frankly are a lot like this. And so he says, foolish and unlearned questions avoid those things. Flee the temptation to indulge in worthless, fruitless discussions. And I think as people get older and as they mature and as they they you know just live life and they see what's really important, you know what they begin to do, they start realizing, you know, the answer to that question doesn't actually matter that much. It doesn't matter. I'm not going to get bogged down in that particular area. A second area that he mentions, flee the temptation to indulge in heated disputes. He says that the servant of the Lord must not strive. And that word strive has the idea of go to battle with people. In other words, someone who is ministering is not supposed to be an angry person. Not supposed to be a person who's vindictive and harsh. And likes to get into disputes with other people. Now, not to say that a person who's ministering is supposed to be spineless. I'm not suggesting that at all. You know, there are times that you have to take a stand. You have to take a forceful stand. You have to take a strong stand where you will not bend and you will not be moved. But the reality is you will be forced into those places because people have pushed you into those places. Not that you're looking for those kinds of situations. He says the servant of the Lord is a person who's not looking for fights. He's not looking to be a person who gets into conflict with others. The third is flee the temptation to be unnecessarily harsh. He says rather than the servant of the Lord striving, he needs to be gentle. He needs to be gentle. The forcing we see, flee the temptation to rely on philosophical arguments rather than simple Bible exposition. You know what's kind of interesting? He says this person needs to be apt to teach. Question, what is he supposed to be teaching? It's the scriptures. In other words, it's not that this person has developed some philosophical arguments And they're able to kind of think through all these issues, but there's a standard that they go to, and that standard is Scripture. And they are skillful in being able to take the Word of God, lay it out in a very simple way that so people understand it. And the Holy Spirit can take it and begin to press it into the hearts of the people that they're ministering to. Flee the temptation to be lazy in this area of teaching God's Word. Fifth, flee the temptation to give up quickly on people or to carry the burdens of changing others. He uses the term pesha. It's kind of interesting as we get later on into this. He's going to emphasize the fact that it is not you and it is not me who has the power to change the hearts of people. A person who is patient is someone who doesn't give up on other people. A person who's patient is also somebody that realizes I cannot change a person. And so I'm going to patiently endure, letting God be the one who works. And so when the opportunity arrives, I'm going to take the opportunity. If I have an opportunity to speak, I'm going to do it. I'm going to do it in the right way But I recognize that it's God who ultimately is going to bring conviction, it's who's going to shake somebody, who's going to help them to see something that they can't see. So the servant of the Lord has to be patient. Impatience is a youthful lust. Impatience is a youthful lust. Having a quick temper is a youthful lust. Getting bogged down in worthless discussions, youthful lust. Being overly harsh and vindictive with people, that is a youthful lust. The last one that he mentions is flee the temptation to lose control of your emotions when dealing with frustrating circumstances. He says, in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves. Let me tell you, it's a very difficult thing. To try to help somebody that is hurting themselves and they think you're the problem. You know what I mean? It's a tough thing But the reality is that if you're ever in a ministry capacity, you will be with people that are like that. They are hurting themselves. And you're trying to help them, and they think you're the problem. They think that you're hurting them. And so what does he say? You have to control your responses to people in those situations. It is God who ultimately opens the heart. When he talks about youthful lust, I believe those are the things that he's talking about. Because those are the things that we find immediately in the context that he's dealing with. Not to say there aren't other kinds of youthful lusts. But these are the specific ones that Paul was concerned that Timothy was going to find himself involved in. The third truth we find is that effective ministry understands how people become ensnared. One of the greatest things that can help you to be a good dad, or a good mom , or a and I say good, I mean godly, okay? A godly Sunday school teacher, a godly mentor. Is that you understand two things. How do people get ensnared? And two, how do they change You know, lots and lots of people do not understand how people change and how they get ensnared. And what's amazing is that Paul is going to tell Timothy exactly how people become ensnared. and how they get freedom. Notice what he says in verses 24 to 26. The servant of the Lord must not strive, but be gentle, apt to teach, patient in meekness, instructing those that oppose themselves. Don't miss this next phrase. It's very important. If God, peradventure, will give them repentance. to the acknowledging of the truth, and that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive at his will. Now there are two specific dimensions that he talks about in these verses that are at the root of spiritual problems. The first area is the mind, how we think about things. If my thinking is wrong, if I'm believing a lie, guess what? I am snared by the lies I believe. The second area has the idea of behavioral patterns that are destructive. So let's notice how he addresses this. First of all, the thinking. He says that the servant of the Lord needs to be apt to teach. In other words, you're giving instruction from a point of authority, God's word, so that you address the lies that people are believing so that they will see the truth and the truth can set them free. This is the exact same phrase that's used when it talks about the responsibility of appointing people to pastor, elder, bishop. If they're going to be in that position, they have to be apt to teach. The second phrase that shows you that the mind is a major part of where we are bogged down spiritually is he says this in meekness instructing. Now this is a really interesting word. That word instructing is actually translated in other parts of the New Testament with the word chasten. In other words, that word instrument is a you know our in English we can we can like say it a couple of different ways that give you a full picture of what is there. In other words, the Greek word that's used there is more descriptive than just saying, oh, we're going to teach you something. We're going to teach you in a specific way. For instance, in Hebrews chapter 12, verse 6, he says, Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. It's the same Greek word used there. In other words, God is dealing with them where he's teaching them, he's disciplining them, he's training them. That instruction kind of encompasses all of those things. He says, No chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness which is unto them which are exercised thereby. So when Paul tells Timothy to in meekness and strought, he's saying, you need to work with people who are believing lies after the pattern of the way that God deals with you as his child and actually chastening you sometimes. In other words, what does God do? God has to draw a hard line with us sometimes because we don't listen. There are times that God just encourages us because we are broken. There are times that God allows us to pass through hardships because He's got to shake us and get our attention. And the reality is that when we're working with people, whether it's our own children, or whether it's a person we're trying to mentor, whether it's someone who's a pastor or a missionary, whatever the role is, when we're trying to help people who are blind spiritually We're going to have to instruct them in a way that sometimes is a little bit tough. , And sometimes we have to allow them to experience the consequence of their wrong thinking for a period so that we can come alongside and eventually help them. And encourage them. That's the idea that's there. We also see in Ephesians chapter 6, verse 4, the exact same Greek word is used in this context. And here's what he says, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. And what's really interesting is the word that's used there that is translated chasten and instruct is the word nurture. In other words, when we think about the way that a father deals with his children, and the way that we're supposed to relate to people that are bound by lies that they believe, is we're to relate to them in a very nurturing way. As someone who genuinely loves them and is as kind as can be, yet also has to draw a hard line when that's necessary too. We see that all these things are encompassed here. But what's the main point? The main point is to help people to think biblically, not to embrace lies. And then we see the third statement, if peradventure God will gr give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. That word repentance means there's a thinking change there And that thinking change happens as a person acknowledges the truth. So all three of those statements are focused on the way people think. The second aspect is the behavioral pattern side. Do you realize the way that you think establishes patterns of life? It's true. If I think that something is true and I'm acting on it, guess what? I'm going to establish a pattern in that area If I think that something is good, I'm going to establish a pattern there. If I'm dominated by something, I'm going to establish a pattern. And we're going to see that concept in these verses. First of all, behavioral patterns that are self-destructive. He says that these are people who oppose themselves. That means that what they're doing is hurting them. He's not just talking about the way they think, but how the way they think affects what they do, and what they do is affecting them in a very negative and harmful way. Secondly, behavioral patterns that are addictive, ensnaring. He says that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him. Do you see how he goes from the way we think to patterns of activity that are self-destructive to patterns of activity that ensnare us and enslave us and we're in bondage to those things Folks, we need to understand that when it comes to helping people, their problems are primarily, their spiritual problems are primarily in the way that they think. and how their thought processes have established destructive, enslaving patterns of life Now realize something. If you're coaching someone who is shooting a basketball the wrong way Or they're standing in the batter's box the wrong way, or they're taking a shot in a wrestling match the wrong way. Guess what you have to do? You have to show them they're wrong. You have to teach them what's right, and then you have to train them. You have to repeatedly take them through a process But they don't have the self-discipline to do themselves. That's why you're the coach. And you're going to walk them through that process. So they're going to break old patterns. Bad habits, they're going to know it is true and they're going to establish it because you're going to help them. That's what you do as a dad. That's what you do as a mom. That's what a pastor sometimes has to do. That's what you have to do when you're mentoring or discipling a younger believer who is ensnared in some area. You have to show them what is wrong. Teach them what is right, and then walk through this pattern of helping them to begin to develop right patterns of life. I gotta ask you a question. Is that a time-consuming thing? Absolutely. So then why do you think he says that the servant of the Lord must not strive? And he needs to be patient. And he needs to make sure that he's not a vindictive and angry person. It's because it is not easy to do this. It's not easy to do it if it's your child. It's not easy to do that if it's a church member that you're working with. It's not easy to do it if it's somebody in your family, or if it's a close friend, or if it's somebody that you're trying to mentor and work with, or somebody that you work with. You know, God brings us into these relationships with lots of different people. And so what he's basically saying is, Timothy You 've got to flee the youthful lust that make this necessary kind of ministry impossible. The only way that you can do it is by fleeing those things and pursuing faith, love, patience, peace. You've got to do that. Fourthly, and finally, effective ministry understands how people are actually liberated from sinful addictions. Folks, just because someone is deceived doesn't mean they're going to stay that way. Just because someone is bound by sin does not mean they will stay there. But in order to get where you need to be, there's a process. And this process can be very hard. And sometimes we need other Christians who are a little more mature than us. Or who maybe are not enslaved by this themselves, who can help us walk through that. How do people actually get victory or liberated from these sinful addictions? Notice what it says in the text. If God that's important, if God Peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil and are take who are taken captive by him at his will. The first word is the word repentance. There can never, never, never be genuine spiritual change without repentance. Folks, if you think you can change without your own thinking being radically changed by the Spirit of God And you being humbled, or if you're trying to help a person and they're not genuinely humbled, they will not, will not change. The word if doesn't go either way. There can be no repentance apart from the gracious work of God. He says, if God peradventure, not saying that God doesn't use us as tools. But it's not some conversation that you have or that I have that'll be the breaking point. It may be a tool God uses, but it is ultimately God who gets into the person's heart. I mean God has all kinds of tools at his disposal. If a person is proud, you think God can't humble them? He absolutely can. And he can do it just like that. The third phrase, God works through biblical instruction, repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. In other words, God does it, but he does it through the scriptures. And that's why when we're working with other people, we're trying to minister to other people, we have to let the scriptures be our authority. And the tool that we present to people so that God will work through them. Repentance is the starting point for change. No change without repentance. The second word is the word conversion. Now, when we use the word conversion, we tend to think of conversion in the sense of when a person trusts Christ. And the Bible does use that word that way. But the word convert literally means a changed pattern of life. So repentance leads to conversion. If a person's an unsaved person and they understand the gospel and they repent and they trust Christ, And they are converted, they are turned from darkness to light. But the Bible can also use the term repentance or conversion to talk about how we grow into Christ's likeness. Like in Luke chapter 22, he says, I pray thee, Peter, that thy faith fail not when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren. Peter's a believer. He has faith. He's an immature believer. He's an overconfident believer. But Jesus says I'm going to pray that your faith doesn't fail. And when you're converted, when you're turned back to where you're supposed to be, strengthen your brothers. That's what he says. Psalm 19, verse 7 says that the law of the Lord is perfect, converting the soul. The idea is that God uses his word to mature us and to change us and to conform us to the image of Jesus Christ. Psalm one nineteen, nine and eleven, wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way by taking heed thereto according to thy word. Thy word have I hid in mine heart that I might not sin against thee And so God uses the scriptures, first of all, to be the authority that says you submit to what God says, but secondly, he uses it as an instrument to change us. It's like the primary tool. I mean, think about the wording, being transformed through the renewing of your mind. God takes the word To change how we think. And as the word of God settles in my mind and uproots wrong thinking and replaces it with truth, what happens? God changes me as a person. James 1 talks about the engrafted word. God's word is placed into my heart. What does it do? It begins to produce a different fruit in me because of it being engrafted into my heart. 2 Corinthians 3 talks about us being changed as we look into a glass and behold the glory of the Lord. As I look into God's word, what do I see? I see his perfect character being reflected and proclaimed to me. God uses that to change us. In Ephesians 5, he says that God wants us to be sanctified and cleansed by the washing of water by the Word. So the point is, it's not just that the scriptures are our authority, but the scriptures are the tool that empowers us to change. And then he talks about pastoral care and meekness instructing. I think about that statement: Fathers, bring up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. And afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Folks, the bottom line is people change. When God brings people to repentance. Through the Word of God that is being proclaimed by servants of His who are faithful to teach it. That's why church is such an integral part of our growth as a Christian. I I tell people, if you don't involve yourself in the local church, guess what? You are not into the preaching ministry. And if you're not into the preaching ministry, you are neglecting the most potent thing that God uses to change your There is something very, very special and sacred about the preaching of God's Word. And so God takes his word and he implants it in our hearts, and that's how we change it. I conclude with this final thought. God wants us to be people who take a seasoned approach in a ministry. I want to remind you that our doctrine is an absolute foundation to healthy ministry, but that's not all. Sound doctrine is not the only factor. Our ministries will not be healthy if they're not shaped by healthy, vibrant Christian living. We have to put off the temptation of the inexperienced and the undisciplined, and we need to pursue, follow after righteousness and charity and peace. We must preach Christ, but we must do it with a godly virtue. And we must understand how people both become ensnared by Satan and how they're freed from this vicious grasp. The fact is, when we work with other people, what we say really does matter. The way that we present ourselves really does matter. But it's also important to realize that that is not the final factor. God works in spite of us. I mean, every single one of us, when God uses us in some way to help other people, we fall short in many ways. He's the one who gets the glory. But I want to encourage you, as Paul encouraged Timothy, let's be a people who flee these youthful lusts and follow righteousness, faith, charity, and peace. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, thank you for the opportunity to look at the text in front of us. It is a very convicting scripture. I pray that you'd help us. To be convicted where that's what we need. To be strengthened and encouraged where that's what we need. Father, use us as instruments to get into the lives of others I pray that you use us to reach people with the gospel. I pray that you'll use us to mentor and to guide younger Christians who really desperately need Someone that is going to look out for them, someone who's going to come alongside of them, and someone who's going to be in a nurturing role in their lives. Father, help us as parents. To have this role effectively with our children. We have so many young children in our church. I'm so thankful for that. Help our moms and dads. To invest very wisely in the lives of these little children. And I pray that you'd help us all to be instruments that are fit for your service. We ask these things in Christ's name, Amen.