And as even we reflect on the morning service with the Lord's table as well as the baptisms, what an exciting morning it was. And we thank you for the privilege and remembrance that we can have through what you have done for us. And rather the hearts and working in the hearts and lives of those that were baptized. And we just ask that our hearts and minds this evening would be open and tender to receive the word as it's preached this evening. Evening, that the Spirit of God would have his will and way on tender hearts that are desiring to conform and be more like our Savior Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen. All right, good evening. We're going to take our hymn books tonight and turn to page 433 or follow along the with the mat bouncing Yeah, the bouncing ball's gonna be up there tonight. Tell it to Jesus, we're gonna sing all four verses. Stand up and get those diaphragms going. Are you weary? Are you having hearted? Tell it to Jesus, tell it to Jesus, are you grieving or rejoicing? Tell it to Jesus alone. Tell it to Jesus. Tell it to Jesus. He is a prayer that will alone. You have all the waters of the window to deal with I can say that you will You know other years of liberty. Do you feel like everyone 's Ghana? Hell it 's the wakeless what shall we He is the friend I love alone. You told such a friend of God. Are you trouble at the Barbie? El Sudivas , El Sudivas, for Christ in the Mark Alex Jason alone Just a couple pages over to page four thirty-five Page four hundred and thirty-five, all four verses of I Need Thee Every Hour I need the every hour post for me. I need thee, oh I need thee Every hour I need, oh well I shall do thee. I need our dear God, and things would come. I need the every I need to I know unto me, I leave every now in your name Every hour leaving no wetly now I come do I need every hour for so we might be held. I need me, I need the every I need the Oh man, my Savior I come. Amen. Go ahead and have a seat. we turn to page 410 and sing it is tis tis so sweet to trust in Jesus Keep singing out. 'Tis so sweet to trust in Jesus just to take him as his work. Just to breath the white, just say no , Lord, Jesus. Now I prove you more and more to be not all crazy trust in all. Oh gosh, we call me God with the money. Straddle Yeah, it is we call it as a seat, just what we must have we I'm a life room and no more. Jesus. I am so glad with the pressure in the fame of friends, and I know many. Amen. Time for testimonies. Mä niin ihan niin sanomaan menen oma on niin mennä huonomma niin muun nimenomaan, niin ihan niitä sanottu niin, niin ihan muuten muun Minimum minimum minimum minimi minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum Mahanna hommooni. Minulla on tämän oma, niin hommani meni oni mun mielestä muu Olen ihan moninen ihan Minimum minimum minimi non minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum minimum ma minimi minimum minim The Spirit Sword will sing just one verse. We can every time When you get a moment, read the rest of those verses. Those are excellent verses. All right, there's 57 page. Now we go to the red book, page 492. Let's see a second. Hold on. I want what is 492? What is 492? Okay. Okay, that's I was wantin wondering if I I should save that for last, but no, let's go ahead and sing it. For the beauty of the earth. First verse. Okay, just a second. I want to see two fifty one. I I don't know, Brother Braxton, do you do you want to follow 482 right before the preachment? Uh uh, you do. You'll you're okay with that. Okay, you're gonna have a rowdy group. Okay. 250 251 is what I was trying to look for. Near the cross. All right. First verse, Jesus keep me near the cross. Two hundred and fifty-one. And that problem may be my own , in my hand. Okay. You know, victory in Jesus used to be kind of the bang. I think 482 is becoming the anthem of our youngsters. Page 482. Alright, we're gonna sing first and last. Far away the voice of strife. And I know that 's the weaker all everyone, but we 're every day. Well On the metal from the healthcare water. You we know the God might be my Where are we right when I won't have to be a one? Where we can be Oh my goodness , because you don't even go to the house. Make me have never and never now run my own life, leave me , come never , from the love. Fellows in course of friendly angels To hear us broken heart Cause for to find the magic How ring I above the land God was still a raging water So nature's near brush the sun to hear or cry for string for turning. In the new old hard day, God will give your children right than our prayer. We are God who crowned my youth with goodness , God who gives me. God who works of another wonder, God who brings us to our need, here. Right here , and upon your face again. There's a prior. Good evening. If you guys would open your Bibles to Joshua 3. I would like to start off tonight with kind of giving a Testimony and praise. Um I just want to say thank you to the church as they've been very welcoming to my wife and I as we've been able to just to get to know many of you. Um just very opening your hearts and just welcoming us. We've been very appreciative of it. One of the things though that we've been able to do is starting to get to know you is that many of you guys are not originally from the area. We're finding out there are a few, but for the most part, it seems like many people have moved here. I don't know about you guys, but when I think about moving as we just moved here, it always seems to stir a lot of memories. As you're looking, as you're slowly packing up stuff, you're looking at objects and it stirs your mind and just kind of thinking about different things. You you look in the past and you see all right, you think about what maybe God has done. Um I know the church we came from in Florida the Lord really blessed us there and really took care of us. And it was hard to leave is of I think about the the house. It was the first place I took both my children home to. And just the memories and having to remember what God has done. Similarly though, when we look at Joshua 3, we start seeing that everything through Joshua 3 and 4 is all about looking back. It 's seeing what God has done. And it's having to remember and thinking about what God has done and what he's doing and what he will be doing. When we look at Joshua 3, I'm actually going to start with the end in mind. So if you want to flip over one page to Joshua 4. I'm going to start reading in verse 20. And those twelve stones which they took out of the Jordan did Joshua pitch in Gilgal. And he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When your children shall ask your fathers in time come, saying, What mean these stones? And ye shall let your children know, saying, Israel came over this Jordan on dry land. For the Lord your God dried up the waters of Jordan from before you until ye were passed over, as the Lord God did to the Red Sea. which he dried up from the before us until we were gone over. That all the people of the earth might know that the hand of the Lord That it is mighty, that ye might fear the Lord your God forever. When we look at this passage, what I want us to really look at is is that just as Israel is looking back at what God has done, I want us to see that God wants us to remember how good he is. And remember that God is taking care of us. And the one of the questions really go along with this is asking the questions, do you think God is good? Challenges and things come in our lives. And we really ask the question, is God good? Is he working through these circumstances? But as we look through here, we're going to start seeing how God has worked in the past and how we can look to the future and knowing what he's doing. So just as we see that God wants us to remember that how good he is , I'm going to begin by reading chapter verse 1 of chapter 3. And Joshua rose early in the morning, and they removed from Shidem and came to Jordan. He and all the children of Israel lodged there before they passed over. And it came to pass after three days that the officers went through the host, and he commanded the people, saying, When ye see the Ark of the Covenant, the Lord your God, and the priests of Levites bearing it, and they shall remove your place and go after it. And I'm going to jump down to verse 5. And it says, And Joshua said unto the people, sanctify yourselves, for tomorrow the Lord will do mutt wonders among you. Let us pray. pray. Dear Father Lord, thank you for today. Thank you for what you've done, what you're doing, and where you've led us, where you're there with us currently, and where you're going to be taking us, Father. As we are looking back at what you've done and how good you are, that we will not forget that during our circumstances, but remember who you are and who what your characters are. Amen. First thing I want us to look at is we see here is that God is leading the way. God is leading the way into where they've been at and how they arrived where they were. One of the first things we talk about the Lord leading, we have to look in the past. And I don't when I think about Israel leaving and having to be led by the Lord, the first thing that comes to mind is the cloud, the pillar of smoke and fire. This is Exodus 32. 1322, it's also repeated in Exodus 40, 34. They spent the last 40 years in the wilderness. going through different things, having different circumstances come before them. But one of the things that was always a consistent was the pillar of smoke. When they left Israel, or when they left Egypt, they were coming out and talk, but the Lord was going to lead them by fire, pillar of smoke by night by the day, pillar of fire by night. He begins with having to say, I'm going to be leading you as you go. Follow behind. I'm a guide and protect you as we're going. He brought them to a place and we remember that they come to the Red Sea and they say, The Lord, you're here to you brought us here to die. Egyptians are right behind us. Why did you bring us here? And the Lord then comes from leading behind them to then protecting them from behind, and he says, I'm going to take care of you. And he allows Moses to really to step up, raise his rod, and allow them to cross safely. One of the things we're going to see consistently here is that There's a lot of parallels to Exodus 14 with the crossing of the Red Sea, and there's a reason for that. But just as the Lord was leading them during through the pillar, They also later had the tabernacle built. And it says in Exodus 40, verse 38, the very last chapter and the very last verse of Exodus, it says, For the cloud of the Lord was upon the tabernacle by day And the fire was on it by night. And the sight of all the house of Israel throughout all of their journeys. The few verses leading up to that, it says, When the cloud is down, they don't move. They stay put. But when the cloud or the fire gets up and it's no longer there, it means to pack up and it's time to move. The Lord is leading in the circumstances, and they're leading here. Now let's deal with the antithesis of this. If the Lord's not leading, that means man has to be leading. And we, if you look in Numbers 13 and 14, there's a common story that many of you are probably familiar with. Twelve spies go into the promised land, Canaan, they search around, ten were bad, two were good, as the song goes that there is this man was leading and he decided that we were going to do it in his own way and he was not going to follow the way the Lord had directed. And it begins with this beginning passage here, having to say, we have a choice. We can either follow God and His way looking back. And seeing what he has done, or we can follow a man, and we saw how that turned out. And they're placing a question before him. So now that we're looking back at the Lord leading, let's kind of look at what's the current circumstance now. The current time. So in the present, we have the time frame. In verse 2, it says, it came to pass after three days. If you would, just flip over one page or so in your Bible to Joshua 1. Joshua 1, 11. It says, Joshua, verse 10 it says, Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying, Pass through the host and command the people, saying, Prepare your victors. For within three days you shall pass over this Jordan to go and to possess the land. There's those three days of mentioned again. It says they're going to go over in three days. Well, within those chapter 1 and chapter 3, you have the story of Rahab Chris taught over last week. If you remember, Rahab says, she tells him, All right, now I protected you, now go and hide in the mountains for three days. So we look here, there's a couple contexts, and there's argument amongst bull um commentators about which one it was. There was either Joshua's wrong in the three days in chapter one. It just wasn't three days, it ended up being seven days. There was the second one which would have three days being very similar. Basically the s the surprise left when he said this. And they came back that same evening and we're heading out basically and they're picking up and moving. So everything happens very, very quickly. Or what I tend to lean more towards is Joshua spent up the spot. earlier than before that in faith. And when they came back, it was all in the timeline that the Lord had planned. Joshua 2 doesn't really give a direct timeline where it falls in the place of here. But we see that Joshua 1, God, Joshua's saying, hey, three days, are you ready? And then on the mark of the three days, just as the Lord seemed to have led him and told them, it was time to start moving. In verse 4, the Lord is leading again. He goes, There shall be a space between you and it about two thousand cubits by measure, and it being the ark of the covenant, that you may know by which he must go for it. In verse two, one of the things that's interesting Is the Ark of the Covenant was not to be carried by the priests. As it says in verse 3 there, it says they were the priests were bearing it. If you actually look back to Exodus and Leviticus, we start talking about the ark. The Kohavites were the ones that were supposed to bear the ark. But the Lord specifically said he wanted the priests at this time. It was something yet again different than what they had seen and what they had believed the Lord is working. And I think one of the main things to go along with that is the end of verse 4. Heretofore. It says that ye have not passed this way heretofore. It gives us idea of in a place you have not gone before. When we start walking towards something you're unsure of, it can be hard I remember the first time when I went to interview for to be the teaching job down in Miami. My wife and I haven't been married even, I think it wasn't even nine months, or it was right around the or no, when I first interviewed it was like three months into the marriage. And it was very nerve-wracking about having to basically pick up my wife, take her from her family that we've been there and having to make a decision that is going to in essence change our entire lives It was very nerve-wracking. And having to say, Lord, what are you doing here? I remember telling my friend, I said, I don't know how the lost people do it, having to make a hard decision like this of having to affect your family. I don't know how they do it. But then, you know, three years later, when it came to the Lord having to bring us here, it was not as hard of a decision, having to say, you know, the Lord had led before. Similar in this situation though, it was a place that was not being led. Rather than going from a teaching job now it's to a pastoral position and having to see what the Lord is doing and having to just trust and having faith and it's letting the Lord lead. And specifically here we see that it's applying to Joshua. A lot of what's being said here is also affecting Joshua. Verse 7 And the Lord said unto Joshua, This day I will begin to magnify thee in the sight of all Israel, that ye may know that I that, as I was with Moses, so will I be with thee. Multiple times in Joshua the Deuteronomy in j in Joshua 1, you see this passage of the Lord saying, Be strong of good courage, be strong and of good courage, be strong and of good courage. I mean Joshua's taking over after Moses. What footsteps to follow? How challenging would that be having to come in behind As the Bible says, the meekest man in the Bible, and having to really, aside from Jesus, but having to come behind him and having to follow in his footsteps, Lord is encouraging Moses or Joshua, and even goes here again saying, hey, Joshua. Let me lead. I'm going to take you in a place you've never been to before. You're going to see things that you've never seen before. And Israel's going to follow you just as they followed Moses. I don't know if that's an encouraging when you think about that, I don't know if that's necessarily an encouraging statement when you look at how well the Israel followed Moses. But the Lord's working and he's trying to lead them along. Exodus 14, as I said earlier, is the passage of the Red Sea. They begin their passage and the Lord's protecting, the Lord's leading. But the very end, the very last verse. of Exodus 14, verse 31, it says, Israel saw the work which the Lord had did upon the Egyptians. And the people feared the Lord and believed the Lord and his servant Moses What a statement that's there that's being said about what Israel, how they believe Moses. And again, Lord's saying it's going to be the same with you. Let me lead. But not only do we see the Lord leading, he was also standing in the way. He was present during the time where they were at. Look at verse nine. And Joshua said to the children of Israel, Come hither and near the words of the Lord. And hereby you shall know the living God is among you. And he begins talking about what's going to happen when they cross the Red Sea. You're going to have enemies. The Lord's going to be there. He's going to start driving them out. Verse 11, behold the ark. It's going to come into Jordan before you, and it's going to end up staying there. And we're going to spend a lot of time in this little section here because this whole passage of over Jordan Goes on from verse 9 all the way to chapter 4, verse 13. Is this this long, lengthy dealing with God's going to be in the middle with it? He's going to be in there right alongside, having to be there side by side. He's also ahead, but he's also aside and having to be in the ocean with them or in the sorry the river with them and having to help pass. He's working with them. You know, in the past, we keep going back. We want a memorial and we really want to think, what has the Lord done in the past? One of the things was in the Ark of the Covenant and the Tabernacle. When they were there at the Ark of the Covenant in the tabernacle, it was in the very center of the city, of the nation as they were moving. It gives the idea in 217, Numbers 217, then the tabernacle of the congregation shall set forth a camp of the Levites in the midst of the camp. The idea that it's in the middle. Everybody else is going to be around them. The Lord was in the middle of the camp, so everyone could see What he was doing. He was in camp. He's going to be in the middle with them. They can look back and they can see their you know Moses say or Joshua saying here that hey I'm do not fail the drive that he will without fail drive out before you the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Hivites, the Perizzites, the Gergesites, the Amorites, and the Jebusites. Without fail, God's gonna be doing these things. He start driving these out. Do you remember the battles that have happened? To me, there were two major battles that I think of. There were more than two that happened. But the first one I think is the most prevalent is the Amalekites. In Exodus 17, they go into battle against the Amalekites and they say, God says, All right, Moses, take two and two men up there with you and hold your rod up. And he takes the rod, he starts holding it up, and whenever he starts to fail, you have her and Aaron that are helpful holding the arms up. And while his arms are up, Israel was prevailing. There's this idea that God was in the middle to fight with them unless they were, they had to keep trusting on him even during the hardest battles. Things happen in life and it's very easy to buckle under the weight and turn to something else, but the Lord is simply saying here, I'm here. Are you listening? I will I'm gonna help be alongside you, help battle. The Amorites is another one is as they were going on a little bit later, they're traveling around, the Lord's still leading them, and they come to the Amorites and they they simply ask, can we have passage? They say, no, no, you're not going to pass us. There's a night, and there's not much said, but what ends up happening is the Lord just smote them. It says in about a handful of verses that they went to battle, the Lord just smote them, just wiped them off the map. And they then are able to then start dwelling in their cities. He's saying, Hey, I went to battle with you and not only did you go to battle, I gave you shelter. You no longer had to sh sta stay in a tent, you got an actual house for a b You got to dwell in their cities. Whatever was in their cities is now yours, and you get to take that. He's taking care of them as he's alongside them and walking, saying, hey. I prepared a way, if you're letting me lead, while you're there, I'm going to take care of you. So that's the past looking at what has happened. What's going on right now? The first thing we see is this first step of faith. These little steps of faith that begin in having to with getting their feet wet. It says in verse 15 that the Jordan overfloweth its banks. Doesn't give much information there. I did a little research and trying to figure out what, like how deep was that. And in the current day, it could be anywhere between 50 to 100 feet deep if the Jordan were to overflow its banks today. So I don't know if you were to walk up to Jordan and it says they're walking up and it says, all right, now just they're carrying the ark, it's heavy, and the priest and he just says, go. That sounds a little nerve-wracking of having to say, yeah, it's fine, but it's going to be that drop-off that's going to get you, and you're not going to be ready for it. And he just says, take a little step of faith. Take a few steps forward. The few first few steps are always easy, but as you get going, sometimes it will be hard. But as the first feet steps come. And it says in verse 13, and it shall come to pass as soon as the souls of the f of the priests that bear the ark of the Lord of all the earth shall rest in the waters of Jordan. And then that the waters of Jordan shall be cut off from the waters that come down from above. As your soul starts to get wet, as you take that little step of faith, Your feet aren't even gonna get wet. I'm gonna start preparing a wave. I'm there with you guys. I'm gonna be walking alongside you, helping carry to make sure you're not gonna drown in this water. Can't drown, there's no water there, kind of idea. And he's going to start leading them along the way. But it wasn't just that their as their feet began to be dipped in. It actually, if you look, it even goes into verse 16 it says the waters came down from above and stood arose upon an a he a heap very far from the city David. Or the city sorry, the city Adam that is beside Zaratan. Now in the next slide I have a map. of what was what the Jordan River would look like. The blue circle at the top is Adam. The the red dotted line is the path straight from where they were at before, their previous and Shinnem, all the way over to Jericho. If they came in a straight line, that's where they would have crossed at. That distance between that line and that blue circle is roughly about 22. I did a like a straight line map and it's about 25 miles. He didn't just take the water and just make enough space, but he took that water and just shoved it so far you can't even see it anymore. They say that the flattest spot you can see with the day if it's a clear day and there's no sign that the earth is flat, because of its curvature, you only can see about ten miles. He didn't just take it ten miles, he took it an extra fifteen and just said You're not even going to have to worry about this. Just go straight ahead. And he keeps staying in there and he takes it and he pushed it back and he kept protecting them. And verse 17 , and the priests that bare the Ark of the Covenant, the Lord stood firm on the dry land in the midst of Jordan, and all their Israel passed over on dry ground until all the people passed over. Clean over Jordan. One thing to note there is the Lord was the first one in, and he was the last one out. He stayed there the entire time. He did not leave. He did not halfway through or do anything like that. He stayed planted. The Ark of the Covenant is the picture of the presence of God on earth during this time. We're able to see that God was working in this time. But it begins even farther, having to keep going. That we have begun building the altar. The first one we see is the building on the other side of the altar. God had commanded this and he says, take these stones from down the Jordan, right where they were standing, and they start carrying them up on the on the other side. Keep track of that. We're going to come back to that later. But he says, take these rocks and build them over here. One person from each tribe, so there's 12 tribes. Everything's going to be done for a little bit later. But he says, hey, just take these. The other one to look at, though, on the altar, is the one that's in Jordan. In verse 9, Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of Jordan. It's not commanded by God. I I looked, I I couldn't find a reason why. Uh commentators have no idea why they just kind of glance over that passage just kind of saying, they just he has built an altar. To me, there's a couple things. When it says that they are there unto this day, a lot of people believe that it would have been tall enough that when the water was at normal levels, it would have been able to be seen. When you start thinking about packing up and moving, you ever grab you ever or maybe unpacking as you're as you're already moved and now you're gonna start unpacking things out. You pull that item and you start thinking and it's just like wow. Brings back another flood of memories. But sometimes there are times in our lives when we made decisions And there's an object that we can think back to. Or maybe there's a place about where the Lord started to change and started working in your life. I wonder if that was what was going on here in Joshua's heart. He had all those people come up, but he's like, you know what, I'm going to build an altar where the Lord was for me. Because the Lord changed everything here for me. And he starts just working. As you look through the whole book of Joshua, it doesn't even give the idea they ever walked right by that again. But I just wonder if that's what it was for Joshua. It wasn't just for the children to walk by the altars and having to see. Joshua was there. Joshua when he saw that and saw, Lord, you did something here in my life. But the last thing is, just as the Lord led, leads in, the Lord is in the way with us. God finished the way for Israel. But look at the past. We're at the beginning of Joshua. What that means is there was a chapter closing for Moses. The closing of the waters right behind them just as it happened in Exodus 14. The waters came down. There was nobody in at this time. But the waters came and receded back. And the Lord closed away saying, there's no time to go back. You have to deal with what's ahead of you now. There were, you know, you had the tribes on the eastern side. There was no going back. They had to deal with what they were doing first. They had to keep going forward. They had to finish it before they could return home. The Lord's simply saying, time to take a step forward. The chapter there now has closed for Moses. Joshua, it's time to start leading. On the other side of the Jordan, the Lord was working. But now it's going to be for you to start working. You know, the Lord prepared Moses and He took him when it was his time. The Lord took Moses and it was his time because the Lord was preparing Joshua. And he was telling Joshua, you're ready now. Having to make a decision when it's time to be ready can be very, very challenging. But if we look at the past and now we look at the present, we see verse 14. On that day the Lord magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel. And they feared him as they feared Moses all the days of his life. The Lord closed the chapter for Moses so a new chapter could begin. And Joshua is beginning his chapter, and he's beginning to go, and he's starting to lead, and the Lord wants to work through. You know, it says in verse 18, that it came to pass the priests that bare the ark of the covenant that were come out of the midst of the Jordan , and the soul of the priests were lifted onto dry land. As soon as they took the step back to where the land was supposed to be at, where it was supposed to be dry, the water of the Jordan returned under their place and flowed over all its banks as they did before. It's almost like the whole goal of God here was to say, all right, this was cool. I have better things going on. I mean, we remember earlier it says the Lord will do wonders among you. This is not the end of great things, but it's the beginning of great things ahead, if you let him lead. And one of the things that I found most exciting when I was looking through is that I never put together at this time is verse 19. And that the people came out of Jordan on the tenth day of the first month, and encamped in Gilgal in the eastern border of Jericho. The first month, the tenth day of the first month, the first time you hear that reference is 40 years to the day. We always heard 40 years, but I don't think I ever really thought about that it was to the day. The Lord sent that the Passover. They had the Passover where they put the lamb during while they were in Egypt on the tenth day of that month. And the Lord even talks about it in Exodus 12, 1 through 3. And it says, The Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron, the land of Egypt, saying, This month shall be the beginning of months. We have the first month, and it shall be the first month of the year to you. Speaking to all the congregation of Israel saying, In the tenth day of this month, they shall take to them, every man a lamb, according to the house of their fathers, a lamb For in a house. And he begins to describe what's going on about the Passover. And he says, on the first month of ten days, we're going to have the Passover to remember what was done. And whole time through Joshua or through the wilderness wanderings, there was not a Passover done. And it's saying in verse 19 that they can begin remembering. I don't want to take away from next week, but we see the Passover was actually observed at Gilgal in chapter 5. It immediately the Lord says, we're back where we need to be. You're following, you're letting. That chapter is closed. Let's start anew. Let's look at what's happening here and let's look at the Lord and how things were done. And in verse 20 through 24, as we began this message, it says, and those twelve stones which they took out of Jordan did Joshua pitch in Gilgal. And he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When your children shall ask their fathers in time come, say, What means these stones? Then you shall let your children know, saying, Israel came over this Jordan on dry land. For the Lord your God dried up the waters of Jordan from before you until ye were passed over, as the Lord your God did to the Red Sea, which he dried up from before us until we are gone over. And the people of the earth might know the hand of the Lord, that it is mighty, that ye might fear the Lord your God forever. These passages here are constantly a time to look back and reflect. Of having to see what the Lord was doing, how he had led them in. He stayed with them while they were there. And when they moved out, he closed the door behind them. Every step was orchestrated by God. And he wants them to come behind and now say, hey, children, do you see what God did and what he's doing? Trust him. Have faith in him. One of the things that I think is so sad is that there's a generation of children that are not knowing the Lord. Having to be in a Christian school before and having to see how dark-minded many of the children are that have grown in a semi-Christian whole household. They've forgotten what foundation this country was founded on and having to even teach it, even though we have students every year. That were coming in and they were first time, they were the first time they've ever been in Christian school. They just wanted to go to a private school with good education and we had the opportunity to present the gospel. Children have lost that. That really kind of puts this very challenging thing on, is as we see the theme of this passage was remembering what God has done, how good He's been. He wants us to remember how good God is and how powerful He is. When I look around this room, there's I'd say maybe between three to five generations here. There are people before that many of you have done and the Lord has seen things that I have never seen. There are things that I have seen the Lord do that maybe younger children, I'm gonna use Joshua and Daniels are sitting right here, that they have not seen. Each person has a story to tell a younger generation before them and to see what God is doing, what he has done. That we may have a light of what he will do. In Titus, Paul instructs the older generation to come alongside and raise up the next generation. Older take the younger, man to man, woman to woman. As I've seen that done here many times, and people have been so welcoming to us, it's been very encouraging for me to have seen how the olders are coming alongside and talking to us. I've not arrived. I'm encouraged constantly by so many of the older generation, the one before me, that are telling me their stories. But there there's a timeline we have to keep in mind. One of the things that I I think back to that is not necessarily in Christian eyes, but my great grandfather went sharp Over in World War II shortly after D-Day. He passed away a handful of years ago, and I never really got a chance to ask him what it was like, and having to talk to him and hear his story. The opportunity is gone. Even though that may be in a war perspective, I hope that won't be the same set about your story to tell the next generation that it won't be lost. So as I I challenge the older and I ask the question, are you telling the stories of God's goodness in your life from your life? And younger generation. Just as I made the mistake with my grandfather, are you listening? Are you hearing the stories that are being told? Are you seeing what the Lord has done and how mighty He is, and that you might fear the Lord your God forever? What better day to have this message in my mind than to line up what would happen this morning with the Lord's table and baptism? Things to pause and see what the Lord has done and remembering what he is doing and what he has done My challenge for you as you guys go forward is tell the story. Remember what God has done, but don't just internalize that. Focalize it. That we may see the Lord is good, and the generation coming up may know that He is good. Let us pray. Dear Father Lord, thank you for today. Thank you for this morning. And That we're able to just remember the price you paid on the cross, what you did. But what you're doing also. We thank you for the baptisms and having to see that you are still working in this generation. That young and older getting saved, and they are if we see a generation that needs you. Light is prayed though, Father, that we will not be silent, for we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard. Amen. Do I need to do closings on? Um closing him Anyone have a preference, a recommendation? Oh, it's three. I didn't even see it on here. All right, 391. 391. Uh uh Doug, you said this morning it takes a genius to follow this, right? So 391, I am resolved. Autogan stands I am resolved no longer to linger charmed by the world delight. Jesus great I will come The fourth verse, I am called to well each day. Hastings of Rad and Dream Jesus. I will go to me. I am resolved to enter the kingdom, leading the path of sin. I will accept him, A sense of land and free. You are dismissed