Today we're gathered together to remember the gift of life and specifically the life of Brother David Vogelsang. He was a dear friend to many in this room. A disciple of Christ. Remember his life not as those that have no hope, because we know that today our brother in Christ is more alive than he's ever been before. He's free from sickness, pain, weariness, the effects of sin in a fallen world. He's absent from this body, and he's present with his Savior. As one congregation, let's ask God to bless our time as we remember this dear man's life and And what we as God's people cherish in the gospel. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, we are we are truly privileged people. To be able to gather together today and to reflect on the glorious gospel message. A message that gives us tremendous comfort At the passing of a dear friend and brother in Christ, a message that gives us confidence that today He is with you And that he's more alive today than he's ever been. That the effects of a fallen world are no longer holding onto his body That he no more experiences sickness, suffering , pain, temptation. That he's in the presence of the Savior whom he loves so much. Father, we cherish this opportunity to reflect on the gospel. And we are we cherish this opportunity to be encouraged by the faithfulness and the perseverance of a dear godly man. I pray that all that is done today would point honor to the Lord Jesus, that we as your people would be strengthened. And encouraged and reminded of this glorious gospel that we hold dear and what unites us this day. Christ's name. Amen. David Allen Vogelsain, 75, 62-year resident of Arnold, Maryland, died on August 23rd, 2019. at Future Care Chesapeake in Arnold, Maryland. Mr. Vogelsain was born in Washington, D. C. on September 17, 1943, to the late Ralph and Charlotte Vogelsheim. After graduating from Saverna Park Senior High School in 1962, he began a career as a mail carrier for the Saverna Park Post Office. He ultimately went on to serve in this position for 35 years. retiring in 1997. Dave was also very active at Anchor Baptist Church in Millersville, teaching Sunday school classes, operating the sound equipment. In his spare time, he enjoyed traveling, trains, woodworking, and watching planes land at BWI Airport Mr. Vogelsain is preceded in death by his parents. He's survived by his brothers, Richard, wife Mary, Daniel, and wife Debbie, Dale of Ferndale. Two nephews, John and Derek, three nieces, Tracy, Trina, and Sarabath. If you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn to 1 Corinthians 15, and we're going to read. Read together a glorious passage that deals with where Dave is today and how he stands today in the presence of presence of the Lord. 1 Corinthians 15, 42. I'll read verses 42 and 43 and then we'll pass a little bit to later in the chapter. This is what the scriptures say. So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption, it is raised in incorruption, it is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness. It is raised in power. Now, this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God, neither doth corruption inherit incorruption. Behold, I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound. And the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written: Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin. The strength of sin is the law, but thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Amen. Sometimes the day seems long Our trials are to bear We're telling it Complain to my saree, but Christ will soon appear To catch his fry away all tears for ever In a constant It will be worth it all When we see Jesus, my trials will seem so When we see cross one glimpse of his face So bravely run the race. Till we seek wrong At times the sky seems dark With not a ray of light, were tossed and driven on. No human have been tossed But there is one in hand who knows our deepest care Let Jesus solve your problems. Just go to him and pray. It will be worth it all when we see Jesus. Life's trials will seem so sweet Small when we see cross one a glimpse of his face Oh sorry race, so bravely run the race. Lice and we are also Arms forever pass will cross the great to glory, save at last. Will share the joys of having a heart, a home of friends. The time will be finished with If we 'll be what it all why does the Jesus My strials will seem so small when we see price Why negli some history face or sorrow? So bravely run the race till we cross. If you have a hymn book, you can take it, please, and turn to Hymn 38, we also have it on the screen behind us. We'll be singing the first and the last verses of how great thou art. I'd ask you to stand together, please, as a congregation, as we sing This wonderful hymn. My God, when I an awesome wonder, consider all the worlds I hands have made. I see the stars I Hear the rolling thunder, thy power through love, the universe display, And seeks my soul, my Savior God to thee. How great thou wall, how great thou wall, then sings my soul, my Savior God to thee. How great thou. Now great alas. When Christ shall come with shout of acclamation and take me home, but joy shall fill my home, then I shall bow. In humble adoration, and there proclaim My God, how great thou And sings my soul, my Savior God. To thee, I'll breathe thou on, I'll breathe thou on and sinks my soul, my Savior God to thee. How breathe thou walk how break thou wal think he may be seated We're going to turn to Hebrews chapter 12, and this will be the text that we look at this morning as we reflect on Mr. Dave's life. Hebrews chapter 12, we're looking at verses 1 to 3 together. Scriptures read : Wherefore, seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us. Looking unto Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him Endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. For consider him that endured such contradiction of sin Against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds. I'd like you to take your hymn books, turn to hymn 147, and we also have it on the screen behind us if you'd like to follow there. We're going to be singing the first, the second, and the fifth verses of Mr. Day's favorite hymn, Amazing Grace. Oh , I'm not sure. For sound that save a ranch like me, I once was But now was mine, but now I see on the second Swas praise that on my heart to hear That grace might be how precious it can Face up here he leaves on the last. And we spend there ten thousand years by shining as the sun. Weep no last days to sing God 's place and when we first we Amen. We'd like to take just a few moments this morning to give an individual or two an opportunity to share some of the blessings. the ways that their own life was truly enriched by this dear man. So I know there's uh someone who's come up with some uh eulogy and so I'll give you an opportunity, Phil. Come on up here. We're just going to reflect for a few minutes on the blessing of this man's life. My name is Phil Thompson, and I had the privilege of spending a lot of time with Mr. Dave. And didn't didn't know this would be so hard. But uh I I was able to write down some of my thoughts and put some of that online. um back back a few days ago. And uh when Joel was kind enough to ask me if I wanted to share some of that, I I was excited to be able to have the opportunity to share a little bit because I think we all knew Mr. Dave was really investing in a lot of people and doing a lot of things. And I know even for the time I was with him and in his Sunday school class and uh working with him in the in the churchyard and mowing the grass and and all that that um that that he was having having a ministry to all kinds of uh young men and women um investing in their lives um and And for me personally I know um Dave was like a dad to me in so many ways. Um and uh he taught me how how to think he taught me how to read well um he he taught me to love god uh he taught me how to pray well um i would i would pray A lot with him. And his testimony and his life and his investment in me shaped the trajectory of my life. And I don't I don't doubt that uh if it weren't for his investment in my life, I wouldn't be here today. Would be something that would be a viable option for me. But seeing his life and seeing the value that he placed in the gospel transformed my life. Um and so as as I thought about I don't know, I could s I could say a million things about Mr. Dave And different things will resonate with each of you. But I just kept coming to back to this thought and and he has it there in his favorite verse. On the back of the handout today, talking about how the desire is to see that there be fruit and that fruit would remain. That was truly the heartbeat. of Dave's life. Um I remember him telling me multiple times, uh, Phil, don't bother coming to my funeral. It doesn't it's not gonna matter. Um that I'm I'm not even gonna be here anyways. I'm I'm already gonna be with Jesus. Jesus, so don't don't even bother making the drive. Um he and and the reason why he said that was he would tell me, he said, it's more important for you to be investing and And planting the seeds of the gospel in your area and to be ministering in the lives of others, um, because that is the fruit that I want to see. Uh he he didn't He didn't care about it for himself. His whole ministry was this outward -facing gospel seed planting life Uh that's why he cared so much about missions. That's why he cared so much uh about sending care packages to missionaries to um investing in young folks that that wanted to go um spend their lives for Jesus. And um and so that that heartbeat is something that can still live on today Day because that's that's the desire that the fruit would remain. So I if if I think if Mr. Dave was here today um he probably would be really embarrassed that we're talking at all about him. He he wouldn't want a word to be said about him Today. Um in fact I'm reminded of he he used to have this favorite sermon that he would preach at the nursing home around the corner. Um around Christmas time he would preach A sermon entitled Jesus Born in the Shadow of the Cross. And he would love going back to that and revisiting because everybody wanted to hear about baby Jesus. Jesus in the manger and and you know sweet stories about about the the the the couple the that have this baby in this this manger and he would he would tell them a story about how Jesus was born to do a very particular mission. Jesus was born to fulfill this plan of God to come into the world and to die for sinners and to give give up his his his life, the Son of God, on behalf of all of humanity. And that was Jesus' mission. And I think in some ways Dave saw a similar mission: that his life would be lived under the shadow of the cross of Christ. That all of God's plan for him would be encompassed So as each of you are here today, you're here as a testimony of you've looked into the life of David, almost like a diamond, you've seen some aspect of his life jump out. out and you've seen some good thing about what he's done. And and while that's very true, I think that he would say say there's something deeper there. It's more than just this little fractal of light that comes off the diamond. Um the the the the shadow of the cross has reshaped and reoriented Dave's life so much that the good things that we see about him and the good things that we re remember and we share with each other about his life and his investment and the awesome stuff that he did really just points back to Jesus. And that was that was his mission. was to see the name of Jesus made famous through the whole world. And so if if he were here today, he would want us to think about one thing. He he would want us to look at that life that he lived and consider whether or not Invested in spreading the fame of Jesus to the ends of the world is a waste. Is that a waste to spend your life praying To God so that other people would know Jesus? Is it a waste to put a life and invest it into other people so that Jesus might know And I suspect the fact that you're sitting here today says it's not a waste. That was the most incredible investment anyone can make. And I think for me, as I've reflected on that , look if if it's a waste to put your life into making the name of Jesus famous, then then why bother? Why bother even being here? Why bother even talking about the good things things that Dave did. Because like the the disciples when the woman brought that perfume and dumps it all over Jesus, they they looked at that and said, Why would you do that? That makes no sense. You can invest in in the poor, you can invest in all kinds of other things. Why would you pour your life out for Jesus like that? And and the the reality is no, that was the greatest investment anyone can ever make. And if that's the case, then I I should be full out all the way invested for Jesus as well. Not not a ten percent investment, not not a fraction, but one hundred Hundred percent, like Dave lived, all on the table for Jesus. And that's why we're here today, and that's what he would want us to think about life under the shadow. The blue cross. On Sunday night, we had we do a testimony time here at Anchor, and I talked for a few moments about uh Dave, and I Ask people if they would like to send some uh remarks to the office. They wanted to speak uh to do that. No one wanted wanted to get up and say what they were thinking, but they did send some thoughts to the office. And I wanted to be able to just highlight a couple of the things that we were said uh by folks things that I'm not the only person that saw them or some of them I didn't see. Some of the things that people talked about were the fact that every year they would Would receive this little card at Christmas, I believe it was. I might even have some people carrying one right now. I don't know. And inside there'd be a bookmark, inside there'd be a little track. One of those things said somebody prayed for you. Mr. Dave prayed for people. He was a prayer warrior. I remember on Wednesday night. Nights when I first came to Anchor. He'd sit right over there in that corner and uh and he prayed. And myself and several other young men, this church over the years has been a place where lots of young men had the opportunity to get their first taste of ministry without destroying a church. You know what I mean? It was their opportunity to learn under somebody. And And Dave loved those men. He loved those people. And I was one of them. And Micah, who preached here on Sunday night, he was one of them. There are books and library today in Cape Coast, Ghana, West Africa, that he paid for, he gave to us, and we've Put them in that library and they will be used by the men who are leading that church right now today. Um there were phone calls, long phone calls that he made to me when I was a missionary. In Ghana. Long phone calls that he made to Micah and to others. There's a missionary who Who was supported by this church from their very first days of deputation. His name is Jeff Williams. He's in New Zealand And Jeff Williams was truly blessed by Mr. Dave's life. And he shared that with me. He shared that after Dave's passing. And he remembers him as a man who loved the gospel and the advance of the gospel. The truth is that when I think of this man's life, I think Think of someone like John the Baptist who said, he must increase, I must decrease. And that's exactly what Phil was saying today. He would not want us to be lifting him up. It's really not about his life. It's about the one who stirred up his affections. It's about the one the one who who shaped his worldview. It's about his Savior. So I'd like you to take your Bibles and turn to Hebrews 12, and I want us to take a couple of moments to morning to reflect on a text that I really believe this man took to heart and purposed to live in light of. Hebrews 12, 1 to 3. I'm going to read it, make a couple of summary statements, and then just highlight the heart of this text and reflect on how this means Hebrews 12, 1 to 3, wherefore seeing we also are compassed to the out with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us, looking unto Jesus The author and finisher of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God. God for consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest he be wearied and faint and your minds. If I was going to summarize this passage, I would summarize it with a statement. Run the race God gives you with patience till he calls you home. That's exactly what he did. About a week ago, I was standing beside him in the hospital, and we were talking And as we were talking, the thing that we reminded ourselves of was that very fact. Run with patience. The race had set before For you. And when we prayed together, we prayed, Lord, give this man the grace and the strength that he needs to run out his race till you call him Call him home and help him to glory in the blessings he has in Christ. And that's what we did. And that's That's what he did. That's what this text tells us to do. It's a command. It gives us many encouragements to press on through trials, and it gives us the ultimate source of strength. When days get very dark and very difficult. Let me share with you a couple of simple facts that we find in the text that I think will be a very Very significant help to us today. The first fact is this godly people, godly saints, they draw all their encouragement from the test Testimonies of God's people. Notice what the passage says. Seeing we are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. In Hebrews 11 The writer lays out a story of key individuals who are involved in God's redemptive plan. People like Abraham and Isaac and Jacob. Jacob and Moses and David, he just lays out the stories of these people. And you know what he highlights? He highlights that though these people were looking for a savior, they never saw him. They never saw the completion of those promises. They died trusting in a savior who would come. And he said they would We're faithful. And he says, because we have all those examples, we can be faithful. The truth is that this is a man who lived his life Enjoying the testimonies of God's people. He loved missions and he loved missionary biographies. And I remember sitting down and the pew over there and him telling me stories about lots of people. Who were serving Christ in faraway places? He was able to persevere faithfully because he loves the stories of those people. He derives strength from God by reflecting on God's faithfulness in the lives of those people. And that's exactly what the scriptures tell us to do. The second fact is that God's people learn to remove entanglements that hinder them in this race. He says, let us run with patience. the race that is set before us. He said we need to remove the weights and the sin which so easily besets us. And I remember Sitting over there and him saying things like, Joel, I could probably say it the way he did it, but I won't do that. Joel, you need to be faithful. It's a lot of young men who have purpose to do what you purpose to do, and they're not doing it anymore. Turned away. And if you will not be cautious and lay aside sin and the weights that can beset you You, you will stumble as they have stumbled. And the fact is, it's sin and it's unbelief that causes people to turn away even from the faith. From opportunities to serve. And this man was someone who constantly reminded young men and women But particularly young men who thought that God had called them into he constantly reminded them of this truth. Fact three, godly saints, God's people People learn to persevere in the race that God has chosen for them. He says, the race that sat before them. We don't Choose our own race. I mean, there are certain elements where the decisions we make do impact the race that we run, but there are certain things that are completely outside of our control. I never knew, Mr. Dave. As a healthy, strong man. I did not know him that way. I always knew him as someone who it would take him ten to fifteen minutes to get from that seat. To his car. And he did it himself. Always. Always. That's how I knew him. The truth is that God allowed this man to suffer physically. And you know what's amazing about this man's life? And I'm sure there were days he struggled. I'm sure of that. But that's not something that ever stood out to me To me in any conversation I had with him. He was a man who loved Jesus. He loved Christ's church. He loved the gospel. He loved the advance of God's kingdom. And he did it as a man who suffered for decades of life. He ran the race that God set before him. And I want to encourage you. I don't know where you are today in the race. But you can be faithful. And he was. Fact four, godly saints find Christ's faithfulness to be Their highest comfort. The writer, the script scriptures say, looking unto Jesus, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. Despising the shame and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God, for consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest he be wearied and faint in your mind. What is it that sustains a person through decades of suffering? It's his savior. He realized that his life was righteous in Christ only because Jesus suffered in his place. He understood that Jesus went to the cross, that Jesus was despised and rejected, that he was beaten, that he was bloodied, that he was crucified. That he was laid in a tomb that was not his own. And that he rose triumphant from the dead. He understood the suffering of Christ that allowed him to stand complete in Christ. And that suffering of Christ was something that sustained him. And that's something that can sustain you and me today. The fact is, many people go through hardship in life and they quit. They become angry, they become bitter, they fall away in unbelief, they turn away from the gospel, they turn Away from the church of God, and the fact is, this man did not do that because he understood his Savior. And godly people are sustained by looking Looking to Jesus. But the fat the final thing that I mentioned here that's very important is that godly saints rest secure in God-saving work. The reason that this man accomplished anything for the cause of Christ was not rooted in his own strength. It was not rooted in his own goodness. It was not rooted in his own wisdom. It was rooted exclusively in the work of Jesus Christ. This text says that he is the author and he is the finisher of our faith. When he talks about being an author, it basically means that he's somebody that goes before to accomplish it for us. Another word that sometimes uses the word pioneer. To think of somebody that goes ahead and does something that others have not done. You know what Jesus did for us so we could be saved? He died on Calvary's cross. He went to that cross, he was crucified, he bore the wrath of the Father, he was punished in our place, he is the author of our salvation. If you're standing here today as a child of God, it's because Because he went before it and he accomplished everything for you. And when he talks about him being the finisher of our faith, the idea is he's the one that brings us to maturity. and completeness. The fact is that this man was able to do what he did because he recognized at a point in his life that he was spiritually bankrupt. All his righteousness were as filthy rags. He did not stand righteous before God because of any dollar he put in an offering plate at this church. Because of any Sunday school lesson that he had taught, because of any conversation he had to encourage a young man or a young lady who had a purpose to go into the Lord's work, those things counted nothing before God. It wasn't his baptism, it wasn't his conversion, uh uh, it wasn't his confirmation. It was the work of Christ. It was the fact that as a sinner, he understood his condition before God, his unrighteousness before God. God, and he turned in repentance, and he trusted in the finished work of the Lord Jesus Christ, who died for his sins, rose from the dead, and he stands righteous in heaven. Folks, that is why we have something to celebrate today. That is why we rejoice not as those who have no hope, because He has a Savior who stands in his place. And I asked this question this morning. Do you know the same Savior? Have you come face to face with those truths? That you're a sinner, that your righteousness is a filthy rag. You are spiritually bankrupt. If we could go to your account and look at righteousness and goodness, God Says it's zero. You say, I don't like that. I go to church. I tithe, I give to missions, I do good things. Listen, it's zero Zero. You have no righteousness that God accepts. I, as a pastor, have no righteousness that God accepts. This man had no righteousness. That God accepts. Until you come face to face with that reality and God works in your heart where there is genuine repentance and you see it is the work of Christ alone, you cannot be saved. And then there stands the cross. The Savior. His sacrifice. His resurrection. His righteousness. And God says if you'll turn to the Lord Jesus and trust in what he did for you on that cross, He will save you. He will justify you. He will cleanse you. He'll make you his child. That is why we rejoice. Not like the world who says, I hope, I wish, we say he's with God. What a blessing. Blessing. If you don't know the Lord as your Savior, you've never been born again, you don't understand the gospel, please don't leave this place. Coming face to face with the cross and the work of Christ. I know that Mr. Dave would love to see peace People saved who are not today as a result of his passing into eternity. And so if you don't know the Lord, you need to ask, so we can take a Bible and show you how to be saved. I want to read to you his life verse and a quote from a man who he loved John 15, 16, Christ says, Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you. And ordained you that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain, that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it to you That verse was a verse that was very dear to this man because he said twas grace that Taught my heart to fear. And grace my fears relieved. How precious did that grace appear? The hour I first believed. God worked a work of grace in him and brought him face to face with a cross and he turned to Christ in repentance and faith because of the work of God. And his life is Continuing and will continue to produce fruit. When we're gone, his life will continue to impact people. And this City all over the world. David Brainerd made this statement. It is impossible for any rational creature to be happy without acting all for God. God Himself could not make him happy any other way. There is nothing in the world worth living for but doing good and finishing God's work, doing the work that Christ did. I see nothing else in the world that can yield any satisfaction besides living to God. Pleasing Him, doing His whole will. Let's bow together in prayer and ask those who are pallbearers to take your place. As we close in prayer. Father in heaven, I thank you for this wonderful text of Scripture That commands us to run with patience the race that is set before us, looking to you, the author and finisher of our faith The one who made it possible for us to be redeemed. The one who purchased our redemption, the one who brought us face to face with the cross. The one who turned our hearts to you. We glory in our Savior, and we praise you that this dear man Gloryed in his Savior. I pray that if even one person this morning does not have a firm conviction that they are redeemed, Justified, forgiven, cleansed by the work of Christ, I pray that today you would work in them in a way that is outside of our power. You might draw them to yourself. And that they might turn in repentance and faith to the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. We thank you for the gift of life. We thank you for the faithfulness. Of a dear friend and disciple of Christ. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen. I'd like to ask, as our Paul Bearers take I'd like to ask the congregation to turn to hymn 478. We're going to sing the first and the last verses together. Let's stand together, please. Hymn 478, it is well with my soul. As we sing, Paul Bears will head out, and the family will follow them. Then I'll give a few instructions. When peace like a river us And yet my way when stars like sea hills to My lost thou hast taught me to say it is well, it is well with my soul. With my school. It is well, it is well with my store on the last. And Lord is such a face shall be signed. The cloud be brought back as a The truth shall resound, and more shall be send , even so it is well. It says my soul, amen. What a blessing we have as Christians to be able to sing that song. And it's not just something we're saying, it's true. For those of you who would like to go with us to the graveside, please make sure that you get the card that you need to put in your window, as well as make sure that your lights are on. going up to Glenhaven Memorial, which is up Ritchie Highway. The Hearst will be the first to go, then I will follow, and then the family's cars. So please make sure that you get those things if you're planning to go to the graveside. Also I want to mention that when we come back from the graveside, there's going to be a time of fellowship and just a time of remembrance and a time of reflecting. on the many blessings that we've enjoyed because of this man's life. And so all of you are invited to that. It's in the back. There's a good bit of food. So don't feel like you're putting anybody out to show up. If you're here now, you're invited to that. But we also understand that some of you may have duties that you need to go to right away We're going to close in prayer and then we'll dismiss in an orderly fashion one right at time. Let's pray. Our Father, we pray that you would work In our hearts through the time we've spent together this morning. Help us to reflect on the text before us, the truth. expounded the faithfulness of a man who chose to walk to the very best of his ability in obedience to this script. I pray that you would encourage the family. I pray that you would bless people who are feeling the weight of separation. I pray that you would sustain them, that your grace would encourage encourage them. And I pray that our time of reflection today would be very sweet. We ask these things in Christ's name.