Well let's have a word of prayer and then we're gonna get started with uh this session. Hopefully it'll be very practical, very and we're gonna we're gonna we're gonna deal right with a passage of scripture of what the nature of ministry ministry uh looks like. And I kind of want to have that discussion. Kind of limited on time because I was a little long-winded in my first one, but um uh hopefully this will be good and again hope and I'll try to give you some opportunity for some questions as well. See if you have those questions. So let's pray and ask God to help us understand His Word. Father, we thank you for again for your word. And we We know uh that as we think through it, if we allow your Holy Spirit to guide us and teach us uh from your word that um uh we can understand it. And we thank you that uh the clarity is there, uh we don't have to To rely on our own uh thoughts uh to to make it clear. Uh your Holy Spirit will teach it to us, and I pray that that will be the case uh even today, uh, this afternoon. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right. Of course, the thrust of this whole session, not session, but this whole lit conference is understanding ministry. Okay. And I think we have a wrong concept a lot of times of what ministry uh is. Um when I was growing up, uh my dad was in uh uh full-time Christian ministry. Okay. So what I I that being said, I had a mindset or a thought process of what what ministry is. that's uh you know that it's something that you're called into ministry and then you go to go to college to to to a Bible school to to study ministry and then and then you go out and you look for a ministry uh to be at. And then when you uh get kicked out of that ministry or you leave that ministry, you're in between ministries and you're so the next thing you do you're looking for a new ministry. And uh I I think I had the wrong mindset of really what ministry uh was all about. Um ministry is for each one of us. Guess what? We're all called into full-time Christian ministry. You know why? Because we're all full-time Christians. And as we walk around ministry is to whomever we come into contact with. Okay. I have ministry all over the place. You have ministry all over the place. We have to have the right thought process. Now listen, I understand what when w what what is what is referred to as as being called into full coverage. Christian service. And I understand uh the thought process there and I believe that's true. I think God does direct people into uh vocational uh ministry, which uh the pastorates or the use pastors or something like that. I think you're definitely directed into that. But I think a lot of times, and I know this is the case for me, my mindset was, oh, full double Christian service, I don't have to worry about that because that's what my pastor is called. Uh that's what my youth pastor is is is called for. Um you know if I have the opportunity to talk to people about Christ, great. I know I'm supposed to do that, but really I'm not I'm not called into full-time Christian ministry. ministry and and that was wrong. We're all called into full-time Christian ministry because we're all full-time Christians. And whenever we come into contact with somebody There's an opportunity to minister. And we have to have the proper the proper mindset as far as what that looks like. Am I messed up on the microphone or am I doing something? It's what? Bad luck? I have a lot of that I guess. Um So I think it's important for us to understand ministry. And the best thing to do as far as understanding ministry is to really kind of look at a guy who who who did a pretty good job in in ministering to other people. Um and that was the Apostle Paul. Okay. Uh he's talking to this pat in this passage. I think you see your notes there, 2nd Corinthians chapter two. We're not gonna we're not gonna go through that whole the whole two chapter two, chapter three, chapter four, chapter five. We'll definitely hit highlights. Excuse me. We only have a half an hour to do this then. So obviously we can't d dive into it. I I I think if we could sp been many sessions, a lot of sessions. So we're just basically hitting highlights of really what nature of ministry uh is all about. So second Corinthians chapter two, let me read the verses fourteen seventeen as we get into this. And I do still have some water left. I what what's going on with my voice is I do, thank you. Um I was in Alabama for Thanksgiving and I went back up to North Carolina so it was hot and cold and then I flew down to Miami, which is eighty six six degrees. And then I fly back up here, which is like negative thirty last night. So it's really messing with my head, not just mentally. Um it's messing with my sinuses and stuff, so that's my that's my issue. You want me to Alright. I will be I will be loud anyway. Yeah, we'll we'll be Okay, sounds good. Um so let's let's read these uh these verses together. Uh second Corinthians chapter two, starting at verse fourteen says this now thanks be unto God. Which always causes us to triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest the Savior, the savor of his knowledge by us in every place. Okay, so get the get the picture of what he is saying here. He's saying God is making it possible for them to be able to be used in the lives of whomever you come to contact with. For we are unto God a sweet savor of Christ. That's who Paul was saying how he was being viewed as ministry. So his ministry was going out, whether it be to I don't mind turning this off too, totally if you want me to Let me turn it off. Okay. Um his ministry was going out to whomever he had to come into contact with, those who are who are being saved and those who are perishing. So the unsaved and the saved, whomever he came into contact with, I mean, everybody falls in in one of those two categories, okay? And Paul's saying, this is where I am. He says, to the one we are the saver of death unto death, the other the saver of life unto life. And then he asks this question, who is sufficient for these things? For we are not as many which corrupt the word of God, but as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God speak we in Christ. So as we're looking at what ministry is, you guys okay, you guys understand what we're talking about with ministry. Um when you have the opportunity to go to somebody else and interact with somebody else in a spiritual way to guide them to take that next step. spiritual step whether it be through just uh through instruction or through through uh just just encouragement that's what ministry is You guys talk to me just for a second. Where can you, I want to put this down where you where where the rubber meets the road for you guys. Where do you see this happening for you? Okay? Yeah. Okay, public school, for instance. Hey, very good. It's okay. All those who don't got me Christmas will suffer to you. Okay? We're all too easy to mention. A lot of your place in here, yeah, we're allowed. Yeah, absolutely. Where else? And both these of them were kind of uh test ones as far as you can watching, we're else, we're else getting the street. Yeah. Okay. Bible studies at a community college. Are you at a community college? Is that where you are? That's great. You have that specific opportunity and I would love to I wish we could hear some time some opportunities that have How you interact, how you met these people, because that's ministry. Where else? Oh, very good. What do you mean? Do you cats and dogs, right? Is that an industry? Absolutely. Absolutely. So we can't, we've got to have the proper mindset. We've got to say, okay, what about when you go out these doors tonight and you get on your vehicles to head back to your hometown? Do you have opportunity for ministry? Um can you minister effectively if you get there and you sit back in your seat, put your headphones in and go like this? Because we have to have the proper thoughts about ministry. God has given us people to minister to. Take advantage. Yeah. Right, right. So through the prayers, maybe through through uh in our interaction. Yeah. It is, absolutely. Ministry is who everybody has. Whoever you put in mind. Say a lot of you stay in charge of the church. Yes, absolutely. And and it comes through again through through the interaction of saying, you know what, I would encourage you this way, or or you know what, this is what the Bible says, or sometimes, and you've got to be careful of this So we The reason I'm I'm belaboring this point is because I say for me growing up, I didn't think about it writing. I thought, okay, uh yeah, uh Ministry, if I had the opportunity to ministry, it's going to happen in three Sunday school when I answer questions of the teacher when he asks. No. You step out these doors, you've got ministry. We get up You've got an opportunity to minister. You ministry is everywhere and all the time. We've got to get in that mindset. And that's the mindset that Paul had. He is saying, listen, it's everywhere. So when we're thinking about the nature of ministry, true ministry is a ministry of God. And there's a couple thoughts that we have to have. If we're going to think rightly about ministering to other people, it starts with a thankful heart. Again, verse 14 of this of this chapter, of this uh, now he says this, Paul says, now thanks be unto God. It's right off the bat, I I am becoming more and more convinced that being thankful is should be a primary part of our Christian life. It's not just supplemental, guys. It's not just something like, oh yeah, I need to be thankful when I think about it. Being thankful should be a a a primary part of our Christian life because when we are thankful, we are showing, we are saying, okay, God, I am so overwhelmed by who you are and what you have done. And that's what I mean if anybody should be I mean think about Paul here. It'd be pretty easy for him to be motivated to be thankful, right? For what God is allowing him to do. Why do you think that's the case? What was his past? Do you remember? Talk to me. He literally killed Christians. So if Paul is thinking about this, he's thinking, well, there is no way that I should be doing what I do. From a human standpoint. There is no way that I can have this opportunity to be able to minister for God to these people. And he was very thankful that God would allow him. And none of you corporate are still Christians, okay? But listen, there is no way you deserve this here. None of us deserve it. And we've got to have a thankful heart. It starts with a thankful heart. And he says it's a heart of thankfulness to God. And we see some notes there in chapter 1, verses 8 through 11, chapter 4, verses 8 through 12. In spite of his suffering , He was thankful. Well Paul went through a lot of stuff and he man he mentioned that. He he goes through this whole list of things that he has faced in his life. None of us have faced what what Paul faced. Right? I mean the man should have been dead numerous times. Shipwrecks, beating, stoning, snake bites, all this kind of stuff. In spite of his suffering, what is he? He's not going and saying, oh God, I guess, Lord, I I I guess I I I'm ministering here, but I mean I mean look at all the stuff I've had to put put up with No, all that stuff's in spite of those things. In spite of, in chapter two, we're not going to get into this, in spite of an emotional letter. that he had to send out and and there's a lot we can talk to about that, but something that could have taken his his mindset in a wrong direction, he was still thankful. In spite of much anguish, we see in chapter 2, verses 12 and following, he is very thankful to God. Thankful for what? Thankful for God's victory procession. The picture that we see here is the picture of a king having taken some captives and taking them through the streets and showing everybody what the king, how the king had taken these people captive. Let me read this for passage again. Now, thanks be unto God, which always causes us to triumph in Christ, and maketh manifest the savor of his knowledge by us in every place. For we are unto God a sweet savour of Christ, in them that are saved, and them that perish. For the one we are the saver of death unto death, the other a savor of life unto life, and who is sufficient for these things? Now The picture here is that these people who were taken captive, they were taken down through the streets. Okay? And to show the king how grateful they were about this, they would take flowers and they would throw them on the streets and as the slaves that they that had been taken captive would walk through the streets, they would They would trounce on these flowers and this aroma would go up to the people, which was a sweet smelling savor. It was a sweet, sweet smell that brought brought thought to the fact that that that what what the what their king had done. And Paul was very thankful that God allowed this. He says in Christ he always leads us in triumphal procession. Let me continue 2 Corinthians chapter 2 verse 14. Thanks being to God which always causes us to triumph in Christ. And maketh manifest the savor of his knowledge by us in every place. For we are unto God a sweet savor of Christ, in them that are saved, and in them that perish. To the one we are saver of death and to death, the other saver of life and to life, and who is sufficient for these things? For we are not as many which corrupt the word of God, but as of sincerity, but as of God in the sight of God speak we in Christ. He was thankful for God leading them in that triumphal procession. Again, it has the idea of a conquering general leading the slaves that he has conquered on a victory parade through the streets But unlike the normal attitude of humiliation you would find in these slaves, there is a spirit of thankfulness that the king had overtaken them and put them in a position to be able to be used. Does that make sense? This is this is again Paul is saying I don't deserve to be used to minister to people But by God's grace and through God's strength, He has overtaken that and led me in a triumphal prof profission. And now as I walk through these flowers, what God is using, it's using to everybody that's around. To those who are saved, those who are unsaved, they're all smelling the same thing. That 's a pretty deep concept here, but that's the important Bible study. We've got to understand the context, bless you. You've got to understand what's going on. He is thankful for this victory that God has caused. He is thankful for the influence in spreading the fragrance of the gospel of Christ in every place. Again, we gotta understand this ministry is not located within Paul's person. It is from the gospel ministry as one who is a proclaimer of Jesus Christ. This is not something that God does. And God was not using Paul for Paul. God was using Paul because God wanted to. And God doesn't use us for us. He uses us because he's gracious and he loves us. And guys, we need to we need to have the right mindset and we need to reverse our thinking to some extent To not think of ministry as something that we do because we're Christians. We should be excited about this, that God would choose to use us in the lives of people. Because he does not have to. And you have that opportunity to minister in this way. So he was thankful for this. He was thankful. Look in verse 16 and 17. Excuse me. He was thankful for the enabling of God for this ministry. Second part of verse 16. And it says, and who is sufficient for these things? For we are not as many which corrupt the word of God. But as of sincerity, but as of God, in the sight of God speak we in Christ. He is saying, I don't deserve this. And you don't deserve to be used of God to be able to minister to people, whomever it is. We should be thankful that God would do this. And thankful for God enabling us to be used in ministry. He goes on in verse 17, he says, For we are not as many which corrupt the word of God. Um it's the illustration of some peddlers. Um it's someone who would do ministry for the wrong motive. That and Paul's saying we're not like these people who would go out and just hawk the word of God just because it's going to give us money or give us prestige or give us fame. We're doing this ministry for God. And that's what Paul's saying. Um For sake of time, we're gonna have to kind of bypass a couple things here. For Paul and for all of us, we don't have to hawk the Word of God. We don't have to try to make anybody buy into something that is not true. These peddlers, um These peddlers that he's referring to at this passage and others was a huckster who cleverly deceived unaware buyers into purchasing a cheap imitation of the real thing. And Paul is saying, I'm very thankful because what I am offering to other people is a genuine product. It's not a person coming to you on the streets in New York City and say, hey, you want to buy a watch? And then when you buy the watch, you realize it's not it's imitation Rolex. Guys, what we had the What we have to give people in the idea of ministry is something that is genuine. It is the real deal. It is the gospel of Christ. And it shouldn't be something that we should be ashamed of. Romans chapter 1, verse 16, for I am not ashamed. Paul wrote this in another place. I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ. Why is this? Why was he not ashamed of the gospel of Christ? For it is the power of God to everyone that believed, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. So guys, we don't have to okay when we're I have this opportunity. Okay, let's think about your public schools. How many of you go to public schools? You have a wonderful. And those of you who are pretty schools are not thinking how I can be a really helpful. doctrine as well. It's just fine as a ground so you've got the majority of people around you don't know Christ. That's why You have an opportunity to go in and not just look at the people in your school as potentially I feel like we don't mind the church. The harvest is when it's you guys an opportunity to go out and minister to these people in the postups. And the good thing about it That's just the one thing one one of the one of the huge bright spots about it is it's not your truth. It's not in you It's the work of God that is quick and powerful and sharper than anything that Pierce is even body and sun , soul, and spirit, and of rejoice and marrow. I thought it was That's how much detail it has in the discerner of the thought and the instance of the heart. You're not. The Word of God is. And you have this. And Paul is thinking, guess what? I don't have to go out and just hawk something that's not genuine. I am so thankful that God has given me something that is pure. And we don't, I don't have to rely on something that's not genuine, and I don't have to rely on my own strengths. You don't have to go and try to talk anybody into anything. You know what? The word of God is powerful. So you go and you give them the truth and allow the word of God to do its work. That's the power of the ministry. And we can step back and watch what God does. Now, will people reject? Yes. Yes, they will. To their own detriment. And you just continue to pray. But guys, you have the power to minister. That's what Paul is saying And he's very thankful for that. So moving on, true ministry. Number one is a ministry that is of God, not of us. And the second thing, we don't spend a lot of time here. We kind of uh uh uh uh talked about it a little bit in the last session. You'll see number two there, true ministry is a ministry that transforms lives. Not because of us, but because of the Holy Spirit. Let me just read chapter 3. It says, do we begin again to commend ourselves? Or need we, as some others, epistles of commendation to you or letters of commendation from you? A lot more we can talk about with that as well. But going on, he says, You are our epistle, written in our hearts, known and read of all men. So he's saying, you have changed. You are the proof that we are ministering effectively. You are the proof because you're changing. For as much as you are manifestly declared to be the epistle of Christ ministered by us, okay, so is ministered by the Apostle Paul and the other apostles. Written not with ink, but what is it written with? The Spirit of the living God, not in tables of stone, but in fleshly tables of the heart And such trust have we through Christ to God word. Not that we are sufficient of ourselves to think anything as of ourselves, but our sufficiency is of God. Who also made us able ministers. Okay, so this is why we're using this passage. He has made us able ministers of the New Testament. Going back to his point, not of the letter. But of the Spirit, for the letter killeth, but the Spirit giveth life. The power and the working in the ministry that we have is the power that transforms people by the Holy Spirit. Got it? You don't change anybody. The Holy Spirit changes people. You just need to be used, just like Paul was saying, you know what? I just want to be used And I'm so thankful that God would choose to use me as a slave, walking down through the street, and all I am doing, all I am doing is walking on those collars. And the Roman is going to everybody. That's all I have. Okay? That's all we are. In our ministry opportunity, that's all we do. But I tell you how I know it's Look at this. The Roman that has been given by a holy God. God uses you. It's so encouraging. to look back over a life. It's honestly just keep the point, as we talked about in the first session, in Romans chapter 12, verse 1, that we are willing to say, God, I want to be used of you. Having that mindset, a genuine heart to say, God, I don't care what it is, just use me. So you do that and you stumble a long way. As you get down through your life and you make decisions to please God, you look back on your life and you say, Wow. God, you've used me. I don't deserve that. That's exactly the mindset of Paul right here. I don't deserve to be used. But God, you're using me. God, I just want to encourage you and just be willing to go out and see God obviously. Go along with our very first general session today. I just want to use me. And every single one of you can be used Because you can interact with people and give them the word. So, what is this ministry? It's a ministry of God. It's a ministry that transforms lives because of the Holy Spirit. And the last thing we need to see quickly is the proper motivation for ministry. Chapter 5. Again, there's so much more. We could spend a long time in chapter 4 as well, right? But chapter 5 , going down to verse 11. We see Paul's motivation to minister to other people. We see in this chapter it's called the Ministry of Reconciliation. Okay? The ministry that Paul has to help others reckon be reconciled to God. being put in a proper relationship with God again and Paul saying, I don't deserve this, but you're using me, and I'm very thankful. And I know this is uh this happens by the use of the Holy Spirit. And I just I want everybody to know my motivation here. Look at verse 11. He says, knowing therefore, number one, the terror of the Lord. Knowing the terror of the Lord, knowing the fear of the Lord. You see, the fear of God is what motivated him, one of the motivations. Understanding what fearing God really means is a motivator for him to serve God. Now, what does it mean to fear God? I know in this day and age. We think fearing something is being scared of it. That's not the proper thoughts about what it looks like to be to fear God. Okay. Now we should fear knowing the God the the power of God, we should fear that because the power of God combined with the the holiness of God In light of my sin, that's a fearful thing. Okay. But we don't have to be, we we shouldn't be scared of God. That's not what his Thoughts are here. He says, knowing the fear of God. One man said the fear of God, this is a fear excited by the thought of standing before the judgment seat of Christ and having one's life exposed. and estimated before a holy God, which brings reverence and awe to this holy God. This fear of God, another man said this, I can't remember who it was, I didn't write it down. The fear of God is not a fear of condemnation. Why? How do we know it's not a fear of condemnation? What does Romans chapter 8 tell us? There is therefore now what? No condemnation. God's not if I'm a Christian, I condemnation is past. There's therefore there are now no condemnation So it's not a fear of condemnation, it is a fear of lack of a lack of commendation When we stand before the judgment seat of Christ, we will not fear condemnation. We will fear hearing of those opportunities that we had to bring God glory and we didn't. I do believe this. So the point here is that is the judgment seat of Christ and the lack of reward. Now if you're out here saying, you know what, I don't need rewards, I'm okay with that, you're missing the point. He's saying it's the fear of God, knowing, knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, what happens? What do we see happen in that verse? Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, what happens? We persuade men. This is a motivator. We persuade men and women. Okay. It's all inclusive. Okay. So this is knowing the fear of the Lord, knowing who God is and what he's all about, and knowing his holiness. We evangelize. We are trying to persuade men to understand who God is for God's glory and for their good. We say we knowing the fear of the Lord, we persuade men, but what are but we are made manifest unto God. That word manifest means revealed for the purpose of accountability. And so the Christian, the Corinthians here needed to know that Paul exercises his ministry in the sight of all, knowing that God is there to keep him accountable. He says, number one, God is my accountability here. I minister to other people because of God. Knowing the fear of God, I persuade men, and I am manifested to God, and He is the one that's going to keep me on the right track. He says, and I hope made manifest in your conscience as well. Let me just continue to read because I want to get down to this last point. We've got to be done. He says, This: Knowing therefore the terror of the Lord, we persuade men. But are made manifest unto God, and I trust also are manifest are made manifest in your consciences. For we commend not ourselves again unto you, but give you occasion to glory on our behalf. To this purpose, that that we may have somewhat to answer them, which glory in appearance and not in heart. Again, there's a lot more we can talk about here. There's so much deep stuff here. He says, For whether we are beside ourselves, it is of God. Or whether we be sober, it is for your cause. And here it is. Here's the main motivator. For the love of Christ constraineth us. For the love of Christ constrain us. It constrains me. It seizes me The love of God provided such a strong motivation because he had drawn the proper conclusion about evidence. He's saying, nothing in this ministry is for me. And Paul was saying, nothing in this ministry is for Paul. It's all about God, and the love of God constrained him Why is this the case? Keep following along. The Bible outlines itself here. Okay. For the love of Christ constraineth us, because why is it constraining me? Why is it motivating me to minister to other people? Because we thus judge. What are we judging? Basically, we're looking at evidence, okay? And I'm making this decision based on this evidence. Because we thus judge that if one died for all, then we're all dead, and that he died for all, that they which live should not henceforth live unto themselves, but unto him which died for them and rose again So what is this evidence? In essence, that all were dead in their sins. And Paul knew his sin. The evidence is that all are dead in their sins, but Christ died for all. Therefore, all who are saved have died in Christ. So therefore the decision came. And that's why I am motivated to minister to others. Why? Because I look at what Christ did for me. That's in essence what he's saying. I am thus judging. I am looking at this evidence. What evidence that Christ died for me? And that's where this love constrains us to minister to others. Does this make sense? I guess I am motivated to minister to others. Because I just got me. I am motivated to minister to others that I know what Christ did for me. The fact that he died for us because he loved me. And when When I truly get an understanding of this, I truly grasp the concept of what God did for me, then I don't want to go up to everybody and say, I know this might not make sense to you, but because of who I am, because of sin, I was on my way to hell. Separated from God for all eternity. But I don't have to go there because Jesus Christ died on the cross because God loves me. And that is motivating me to minister to other people. That 's the love for us to God that constrains us. So when we're thinking about ministry, we've got to understand this is a ministry of God. This is God's ministry. And he wants us to interact. And when you think about that, we stop and we think, why should God be using it? Exactly what Paul was saying in chapter 2. Why would he not use me and I killed? Christians, followers of God. Why would God use me? You know what? I don't know. But thank you. Satan. And I know that this ministry is not about me. It's about the fact that God wants to use me and the Holy Spirit will is be the one that does the work. All it has to do is give the info. In a loving way. And I'm going to do this because I think I have to stop and constantly what God gives me. And that motivates me to want to share it with you. So why is it that I'm not going to share it with you? You know why? Because I am seeing the people. Why stop being consumed with me? And being consumed not with us, but by I need to be consumed with God. And when I in pursuit of God, I was motivated that the love of God is strange. It's strange seizes me, grabs hold of me , throws me into ministry because I know about it. I thus judge Christ shines all. When I think about that, I think, I want to pull out to share the gospel. You know why these people who are who are who seems captivated by sharing the gospel with other people? So they have to be like God. Guys, you need to learn. To love people you come to contact with the same love that God has to be. I think we 've been 30 seconds in hell Now we just step out and help me Don't want to go here. Not only is this is a hell. That is a place and zero residence to you. I don't know. We did 30 seconds in hell, I don't know if that's no good stuff. Let's just think about what God says. And allow that to motivate us to minister as God. To who? Yes. Um those people, many many other Christians who who are who are who who Who are just not making great decisions. You don't go to them and say, You need to democrat. No, you go to them and say, Listen, I know I said. Well, I I noticed this is this step in your life, and I just want to encourage you to make sure to follow God. Why? Because you want to put everybody on a straight and narrow? No. But it's because the relationship they can have with God, the fellowship they can have with God. And that should yes in this channel. Hopefully I can serve and look. I know, but this is pretty session. We were waiting for some and other way to draw this and so on. But we're really dying into pretty stuff But hopefully we can take a step back and look at the greater time to understand ministry, ministry of God. We are not worthy of it. The gospel Jesus to use this. It's a ministry that transforms people's lives, not by us, but by all history. It's a ministry that we can have. We will have a proper relationship with this ministry that will allow the love of God to constrain us because of us. That's who you should have. That's how we want to change. Thanks. Alright, let's break. Lord, I pray you'd help us to think rightly about what ministry is. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.