And turn our Bibles again to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. And I'm going to read this section. It's a little bit long. I'm going to just hit a couple of things that we talked about the last time we were here. But then we're really going to get into the meat of what I think that Paul is trying to communicate in these verses. So 1 Corinthians chapter 11, and we pick up in verse 1. Be ye therefore followers of me, even as I am of Christ. Now, I praise you, brethren, that you remember me in all things and keep the ordinances as I have delivered them to you. But Would have you to know that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God Every man praying or prophesying having his head uncovered dishonors his head, but every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head covered, every Every woman that prop prayeth or prophesieth with her head uncovered dishonoreth her head. For that is even all for that is even all one as if she were shaven. For if the woman be not covered, let her also be shorn. But if it be a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered. For man indeed ought not to cover his head, for as much as he is the image and glory of God But the woman is the glory of the man. So the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man, neither is the man created for the woman, but the woman for the man For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head because of the angels. Nevertheless, neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord. For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman. But all things of God, judge in yourselves, is it comely that a woman pray unto God uncovered Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him, but if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her, for her hair is given her for a covering But if any man seemed to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches of God. Now, this is a really fascinating passage of Scripture. Lots and lots of interpretively difficult things to get into. And I'm sure that when I present some of the things that I present, maybe not everybody here is going to agree with my interpretation perfectly. That's okay. I'm not going to take that personally. Please don't take that personally either. To the best of my ability, I'm trying to cut straight what the text is talking about. So that we understand several things. One would be how Paul is trying to logically lay out a case for how to address this issue, and then two What was the interpretation for the people at that time? And then how are we to actually apply it ourselves And so last time that we were in this passage, we actually spent a lot of time just talking in general about Bible interpretation. I gave you several We could say general guidelines for how we should interpret a passage of scripture. We really emphasized a lot of things about the context. and the flow of the book of 1 Corinthians and then some of the details that are there in this particular passage. And then we start getting into the way that Paul actually lays out his case for what he is driving at. Basically, what Paul is driving at is a very simple thing. In the church at Corinth, women were expected to wear a physical head covering when they are praying or prophesying in the church. That's what he's getting at, okay? He's not talking about length of hair. He's talking about a physical covering, as far as I can see it in the text. The question we should ask ourselves then would be this. If that was the application for the people then, should that also be the application for us today? And the answer, in my opinion, is actually no. It is slightly different. And the reason for that is because I believe in the church at Corinth, the wearing of a physical head covering, a physical uh covering was actually a distinctiveness to show that women in the church were following appropriate customs that were expected in their culture for how they related to men in in community if they were married and they were showing discretion. And so I'm going to kind of work through the passage and then get to those final points at the end. So the first thing that Paul does in these verses, in verse number three, is he talks about creation. You say, well, why does that matter? What really is at the heart of Paul's concern is not really a piece of cloth on a head. What Paul is most concerned about is the fact that within the church the people needed to recognize that when God created society, when he created the church, when he created the family, he created structure, And that structure follows his design. When God created men and God created women, he created them functionally different. I think Everyone that's had biology and above, you understand that, okay? But that is not a mistake. That's not something that God just thought, oh, maybe I'll do this, so things could be a little bit different. He had an exact reason for doing what he did. And so what Paul does when he talks about this issue is he goes all the way back to creation. And the reason he does this is to say, listen It's really not so much about a piece of cloth on someone's head. It's about our attitude toward God's design for men and women, the distinction between the differences in those designs. and how we are supposed to be ordered properly in the home, in the church, in our relationship to one another. And so that's why he goes in verse 3 to the statement, the head of every man is Christ. The head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. Interestingly, he even goes into talking about the fact that within the Trinity There is a distinction in the various roles that each person of the Godhead functions in. And so when we talk about our salvation, we could say that the Father sent the Son. to be the Savior of the world. The Son leaves and then goes back to the Father and he sends the Spirit. And when the Bible speaks about the Trinity and their relationship to one another, the different persons There seems to be consistently an order that's talked about. And that order that's talked about has nothing to do with a difference of natures. When we talk about the Father, we talk about the Son, we talk about the Spirit, there's absolute equality when it comes to their essence. Okay? When we talk about uh who is more important than the other, we don't have a discussion like that because They are of equal importance. They're equally God. One is not more God or one is not less God. But the point is that there is order in how our salvation is actually accomplished. with the various persons of the Godhead working together in perfect harmony. And so Paul makes that distinction, in my opinion, because it is his way of saying this. When we talk about distinction of role, it has nothing to do with equality. It has nothing to do with ability. It has nothing to do with saying one person is better or smarter or stronger. It's all about saying God has ordered things to be a particular way. Then we move secondly into him talking a little bit more about this creation distinction. And I want us to go to the book of Genesis and see the way that it's stated so that we can remember this. ourselves. So first of all, go to Genesis chapter 1 verse 27. In Genesis 1 27 it says this: God created man in his own image. In the image of God created he him, male, and female created he them. And God blessed them. And God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth. and subdue it and have dominion. Now, when we talk about the creation, it's pretty clear that we have men and we have women and we don't have other distinctions made Now, pretty obvious, right? You say, well, why does that matter? Well, it matters because in our society we don't seem to understand that. It's not that we don't understand it, it's that people don't want to acknowledge it That's really what it is. And you know what it really comes down to? It's actually a rebellion against God's plan. It's a rebellion against His order. And I'm not saying that to be edgy and nasty. I'm simply stating the facts. When God created male and female and the distinctiveness between the two and the fact that he creates marriage so that man and woman come together and create life in the context of a a bond of covenant that's supposed to last till death separates them. The reason that God did that was a good thing And we should celebrate it and we should be thankful for it. And that's really at the heart of what's going on in these verses. You have people that are resisting God 's purpose and design. In Genesis 5, 1 and 2, it says, this is the book of the generations of Adam. And the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him, male and female create he them, and blessed them and called their name Adam. in the day when they were created. And so you can even see in the way that this is stated that when we talk about Adam and Eve, We have a distinction of man and female, and we also have this sense in which Adam is the one who is created first, and there is an order and there is a responsibility that is placed on his shoulders. That is why when we read Romans chapter 5 and it talks about Adam, it says, by one man sin entered the world, death by sin, and death passed on all men for that all have sinned. That's not in any way to diminish Eve's sin is to say that Adam's sin is what ultimately brought all of humanity into condemnation. And by the way, Christ is the second Adam, and it is through his sacrifice on the cross that we can be reconciled to God. And so Romans 5 really lays this out. All of this goes back to the fact that there's distinction and there is function. Third thing that we see is the purpose that is emphasized here. Genesis 1. 27 God blessed them and God said unto them, Be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it and have dominion. In order to fulfill the dominion mandate, it takes two people, not one. That was God's design When God created Adam, Adam could not fulfill the part of the dominion mandate that involved being fruitful. Now, could he subdue? Yes. Could Eve subdue? Yes. So there are certain things that they could do independent of one another because they're image bearers, but there is a very important aspect of their responsibility to be fruitful and multiply that they could not do by themselves. God created them with the complementarian need for one another. And interestingly, this text is going to emphasize that. It's going to talk about order, but it's also going to talk about the fact that a man is dependent on a woman in certain regards. Because nobody was born without mom. Okay? That's pretty simple, right? So we're going to get into that in just a little bit. So to fill the Dominion mandate, specifically the part dealing with being fruitful and multiplying, it takes two people. A complementary relationship. Now look down in verse number 11 because he's going to talk about this. He says in verse 11, neither is the man without the woman. Now, it's important that we that we keep this in the back of our minds when we're studying the Bible. In fact, this morning we had an example of this and we were doing our Bible lesson with the kids. We're in the book of Luke, and in the book of Luke, he lays out several different things about forgiveness. The very first thing that he talks about is he says, if you harm one of these little ones, it would be better for a Milton to be Tied around your neck and you'd be cast into the sea, then you would hurt one of these little ones. Alright? That was the first thing that he states. And then he talks about the fact that it's impossible for people to live without offenses coming between them. And then he says, if your brother sins against you, then you go to them and you rebuke them. If they repent, then you forgive them. And if They do it again and they repent and then you forgive them, and he says, up to seven times. Now what I told my kids was, I think, very, very important when we're dealing with a passage like this I said, you know, there are times in the Bible where what we have is we have a concept presented here, and we have a concept presented here. This is true. This is true. But unless you put them side by side and you examine them together, you really don't get the full picture. Do you understand what I'm saying? There are a lot of proverbs that are written this way. This is true and this is true. They're set side by side. If you want the full picture, you gotta see both of them. And so I said in this passage of Scripture dealing with forgiveness, there are several concepts that Jesus is communicating. One is that when you sin against somebody, that's a really big deal. You say, well, why does that matter? Well, because when you have somebody that's wronged you, and then they repent and they say, I'm sorry, and you forgive them, then someone might say, well, then you're saying that sin doesn't matter. No, no, not saying that at all. It's a really big deal. So he affirms that here. And then we see the side where, well, if you want restoration, then they have to to be willing to actually be repentant about it, okay? So I can show kindness to a person who's wronged me. I could choose not to be their judge, but I can't reconcile with them unless they are repentant. And they desire that to actually take place. And then we can actually resolve the issue. So what I tried to present to the kids this morning was I said, listen You have this concept and this concept and this and this, and they all go together. And if you really want to understand what Jesus has to say about this issue, you see them all together. Now that would be true here. If you just take one of these verses and you ignore everything else that Paul's saying, you're going to miss a very important piece of the picture. Okay? And so you might have somebody who goes, okay, well you're telling me that, you know, the man is the head of the woman and the woman was made for man. I mean he uses that those l that language. It's true. But he also provides the counterbalance. And the woman is, or the man is not without the woman. Neither is the woman without the man. As the woman is of the man, even so the man is also the woman. Do you see how he's providing this counterbalance here? These are not in conflict with one another. They need to be seen side by side. It's all a part of the picture. This is very, very important. So even when we talk about the ordering of our families, is it true that the husband is the head of the wife? The answer is yes. The Bible is very clear about it. Is it true that a wife is to submit to her husband in her home? The answer is absolutely yes. And you know what is also true? What's also true is a husband should never abuse his husband. his authority in the home. He should never abuse the fact that that he is the one who's going to have to make the ultimate decision in situation. He is to love his wife as Christ loved the church. And so what you see is when you put this here and this here and you put them side by side, you go, oh, this really works together very well. What sud what sometimes people will do is they'll say, I'll take this and I'll ignore that and I'll just focus on this and that's it. You've got to put them all together. And so that would be the same thing true in this passage of scripture. So he's emphasizing that there is a complementarian relationship here. Neither is the man without the woman. Verse 11, neither is the woman without the man. Verse 12, as the woman is of the man, speaking back to the creation, when God created Eve, he didn't create her out of the dirt like he created Adam He created her out of Adam's rib. Okay? So literally, he took a part of Adam and he made Eve out of that part of Adam and then brought her to Adam. All of humanity descends from one individual. And that's crazy to think about it, but it's true. That's what the Bible teaches. So that's what he means when he says, neither is the woman or the woman is of the man, verse 12, even so is the man also by the woman. So even though we go all the way back to the creation, we say, well, you know, God created Adam first, and then he created Eve out of out of Adam and brought her to Adam, and all of that is true. What's also true is from that point on, throughout all of history, guess what? All of us are born by the woman. And so the point that I think the scriptures are making here is there's balance. You have to see that there's order, but there's balance here. So this principle is upheld most vividly in two contexts. The home and the church. You know, when I read the New Testament, I don't see it ever addressing whether or not a woman could hold public office. It never addresses that. But you know what it does address? A woman can't be a pastor. There's a difference. Why is that? Well, because there is a very specific institution of the church And that is clearly defined by God. Some of these other areas are not directly addressed. So when we talk about the home, we go to Colossians, we go to Ephesians, it's very, very clear. Husbands and wives have a very particular order in their relationship. And they are to work together to bring glory to God. In the church, we have passages like 1 Timothy 3. 2, a bishop, meaning an overseer, must be blameless, the husband of one wife. It doesn't just say a bishop must be blameless someone who's only been married one time. It says husbands One wife. That's like pretty particular, right? Or then we go to 1 Timothy chapter 2 verse 12. I do not permit a woman to teach or to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. For Adam was first formed, then Eve, and Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression I know it makes people in the 21st century upset, but I hope you realize for 2,000 years of church history nobody had a problem with it. That's exactly what they saw in the Bible. Now, again, this is simply dealing with the order within the context. Context of the church. And so it would make sense that within the church context, if men are to be in roles of leadership and women are to be in roles of support. That that would not be a context where people would be throwing off restraint and trying to flaunt the fact that they are rejecting God's design. Doesn't that make sense? That's at the heart of what's being talked about here in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. We move to a fourth thing that he has here, and that is the distinction of nature. Now this is a very interesting argument that Paul is making. There is a natural distinction between men and women in their hair. You say, okay. That is what he says. Verse number 14, doth not even nature itself teach you that if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him? And some people are going, well, well how long is long? Great question. I I don't know what to tell you there. How short is short? Great question. I don't think we have a very clear distinction here. But here's what he's actually getting at. Within your society, people know that men have short hair and women have long hair. There's a distinction. That's really all he's saying. When you see two people walking down the road in the first century, you can tell who's a man and who's a woman by two things, how they dress and how their hair is ordered. Verse 15, if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her. So he's saying, basically he's saying this: if a man is presenting himself as a woman, it's shameful. But if a woman is presenting herself as female, that's normal. And then we could reverse it and say the exact opposite. There are other scriptures that talk about this as well in the Old Testament. Deuteronomy twenty-two, verse five. The woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto a man, neither shall a man put on a woman's garment, for all do so are abomination unto the Lord thy God. Now You say, well again, what is he talking about there? He's talking about what in society people know unquestionably, that is the way women dress. That is the way men dress. And by the way, not every culture has the exact same way of demarking these things. Even if in our own society we could say that. But the point is this, if a person wants to present themselves as somebody that they are not, they know how to do it. That's what he's saying. And if that's what a person is desiring to do, they're going against the natural order that God has intended for them. The third thing that Paul is getting at here is the issue of submission to God's order and purpose and the natural distinctions between men and women as God created them to function. And so in these verses, I think it's important for us to just kind of try. I know that we're removed by 2,000 years from this. We do not have all the same customs in our culture that they had in those days. But I think it's important for us to just kind of try to digest a little bit of what Paul is saying here and what the people were understanding him to be saying when he gave this instruction about the head covering. The first is this. Long hair was presented as a glory that draws attention to feminine beauty. Notice how he puts it in verse 15. If a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her. Second, women generally did not voluntarily shave their heads because it was often used as a punishment for shameful, for serious, shameful acts. Verse number six If a woman be not covered, let her also be shorn. But if it be a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered. Now When Paul says that, it tells us something about that particular custom. If people in society saw that a woman had a shaved head, In their society, they said, why did that take place? Now please understand something. This has nothing to do with someone who has a health issue or anything like that. In fact, really, in our own society, I don't even know that we have a practice that is entirely comparable to what they're talking about. But in those days, if someone had committed adultery, that would be an example. As a public humiliation to that woman, they would shave her head. That was one of the things that they did. So this is kind of the thing that Paul is getting at. He's saying do not put yourself in a position like someone who has done something short. Shameful. Third, long hair was presented as a distinguishing characteristic between men and women. Verses 14 and 15. If a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him. If a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her. What is he saying there? He's saying we understand that men and women are different. We understand that they're supposed to look different, they're supposed to function different, and if somebody's trying to present themselves as somebody that they're not, that's shameful. That's really what he's saying. Fourth, a head covering was worn as a physical cover in public to demonstrate submission to one's husband and to communicate general modesty. In verse five. Every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head uncovered dishonoreth her head. And I think when she when he uses the term head there, he's referring to her husband. In fact, to give you a simple analogy, and this this is imperfect, it's entirely imperfect, but it gives you a little bit of an idea. In our society, we wear wedding bands. Not everybody wears wedding bands. It's not expected everybody wears wedding bands, but it's a pretty typical way that people identify themselves as married. So when I uh when I wear this wedding band wherever I go, people are going to they don't know who my wife is necessarily, they don't know who I am necessarily. But they know if I'm wearing this wedding band, then it's my way of communicating I'm married. So if I was wearing a wedding band and I was doing something that was uh very inappropriate, someone would be looking going like, Are you a married guy? Like what are you doing over there? Now, I don't know how many people think that way anymore. I think people should. But the whole point is this: when you wear this, you are identifying yourself as someone who has a particular status. You are a married person. There's a reason that sometimes people who are married take off their wedding band when they're going on a trip and they're angry at their spouse. Why are they doing that? It's obviously not communicating something very good, is it? And so something as simple as wearing a wedding band, not wearing a wedding band, in our society, it is a marker, a symbol that associates you with something very particular. That is the way that we should look at this issue of the head covering for these ladies. When a woman wore a head covering in the first century in Corinth, it was her way of saying, I'm married. I'm not available and I'm carrying myself in a modest way towards the people that I'm interacting with. That's really what it was communicating. Does our society have such a custom? No, we don't. If we did, then we should follow it. But we don't. And so we would say that there's an underlying principle, but the application, in fact, is going to be slightly different in the time that we live in. And so removing this symbol in worship would have been viewed as a shameful act because it communicated a lack of modesty and submission to one's husband. Verse number six, if a woman be not covered, let her be shorn. If it be a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered. Now, what's Paul saying? He's saying in our society, as in Corinthian society, if you are a married woman, it is expected out of showing respect To your husband that you would wear a head covering. It's your way of saying I'm married. It's your way of saying I'm not available. It's your way of saying I am arranged properly in relation to my husband and I'm carrying myself appropriately and society. Society. Why would you go into the church and remove that symbol in such a context? That's what he's saying. Now doesn't that kind of make sense? That it would not make sense to do that? I hope it does. In other words, he's saying follow the proper order that God has designed, don't push against it, don't rebel against it, don't treat it as a light thing. Lastly, men were also expected to maintain proper distinction from women Verse 14, does not even nature itself teach you that it if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him? Now, in my opinion, that is how to understand the passage. You might disagree with me. That's okay. It's a very complicated passage. In fact, a lot of pastors frankly wouldn't even deal with this passage. I hate to say that, but it's true. Because there's so many pieces that we have to work through There are lots of things that we don't fully understand them. And there are some concepts that they frankly are very, very delicate. But in the big picture, what Paul is saying is this: God's order should be maintained. God's order should be celebrated, and we should not walk into the church context and disregard and push against God's ordering for our lives. So how are these people supposed to apply the text that Paul had written? Well, this is what I think they needed to do. The Corinthian church needed to understand that God's order from creation was a good thing. They needed to embrace it. And they needed to have a life that was practically shaped by it in all areas, especially in the church and in their homes. Secondly, while their roles were different, there was a clear order in the church for men, and they were to view themselves not as people who were superior, but had different responsibilities. And women were not to push against that, nor were men to abuse the rightful authority that they had in their homes and their church. Three, the church was to approach corporate worship with a sense of gravity. A lot of people look at church like it's uh just like a party time or something. I mean, there should be some seriousness. I mean, when he talks about the Lord's table, he says that because you're disregarding the Lord's table, some people are getting sick and dying. So what it tells us is that the way that they were coming to the gathering of the church was very flippant, it was very disrespectful. And we should recognize that if he was concerned that there was proper decorum within the context of the body, then we should also see that it should happen today. Fourth, their gatherings need to be ordered in all areas, especially in the ways that men and women interacted in these contexts. Fifth, men and women were expected to maintain appropriate socially understood distinctions as men and women. They were not permitted to participate in corporate worship in a way that communicated mixed signals. And they needed to maintain a sense of distinctiveness, modesty, appropriate submission by wearing a physical head covering in the normal way that was communicated in their culture. That was how they were supposed to apply the text. Now how do we do it? We don't have these customs in our society today. So how do we apply what Paul is talking about? Well, here we go. First of all, we need to understand God's creative order and embrace that as well. Nothing has changed between them and now. Two thousand years of history have passed, but God's creative design is the same. His expectations for our lives are the same, so we need to embrace them. We need to understand a correct view of the different roles and emphasize that men should never abuse their authority, see themselves as superior to women. They should order themselves appropriately. We should approach corporate worship with a sense of gravity. Our gatherings need to be properly ordered in all areas, especially in ways that our men and women interact in those contexts. We should encourage one another to faithfully maintain appropriately socially understood distinctions as men and women. Now, I think today we actually this seems very appropriate for the times we live in, doesn't it? Okay? There's this movement in our in our time period where people are celebrating crossing over between men and women and blurring the distinction so that you can't tell if someone's a man or a woman. And the bottom line is I don't know the motivations of every person that decides to do that. Some people are just confused. Some people have been abused. And they're troubled internally and they don't know how to deal with that. Some people are frankly being manipulated by older individuals. Some people are feeling very uncomfortable as they're uh entering into puberty and they're they're going through changes in their bodies. Some some some girls are a little bit more masculine in their demeanor. Some boys are a little more feminine in their demeanor. That's just the truth. In their personalities. But the bottom line is this. God created men, God created women. God has distinct roles for men, he has distinct roles for women. God's design for men is good. God's design for women is good. And we should embrace that. If God made me a man, I should say. Praise God. What did you want me to do as a man? I'm going to do it. If God made you a woman, you should say, why did God make me a woman? What does he want me to do as a woman for the rest of my life to bring glory to God? And we need to embrace this. Things, not not resist them, not not be upset at them, not push back at them. One of the reasons there's so much confusion our day is because, frankly, a lot of men aren't acting like men anymore. A lot of women aren't acting like women. A lot of people are not growing up in strong homes where they see a good example of parents that love the Lord, that love each other, that are actually functioning together in a peaceable way. Their families are healthy and vibrant. and strong, and that is often inf influencing them. And so we need to be careful about these areas. We need to encourage one another to faithfully maintain appropriately understood distinctions. And lastly, we need to promote a sense of wholesome distinction, modesty, and order in the church. These verses and these truths are just as pertinent today as they were 2,000 years ago. And I believe that if we will do the right thing in these areas and we'll really guide our children well in these areas and we'll give them a good example and we'll actually have healthy, vibrant homes, our children will really thrive. As they mature and become adults. Let's pray that God will help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we think about this passage in front of us and how it talks about some sensitive issues, especially especially in our society today. Father, I pray that in our church we would have a deep love for you That as men, the men in our church would function appropriately in their homes and in the church, that our men would never abuse the authorities they've been given. That our men would love their wives as Christ loved the church, love their children, and would always be submitted. Ultimately, to your authority as they function in the roles that you've given them. I pray for our ladies. I pray that you would give them strength to be godly women. And I pray that as they come alongside a husband. Or maybe they're not married and they're functioning in a different capacity. They don't have a family that they're managing at that time. I pray that they would function as godly women in the opportunities that you give them. them. Father, I pray for our households, help our households to be strong and healthy places. Places where mom and dad love each other deeply. That they work together as a team, that there's a clear mutual respect for one another, and that the children understand. How a home is supposed to function. I pray that in our church, our men would lead in the roles that you've given them in a way that is good for our church. It's good for their families and ultimately it honors your purpose for each of us. And Father, I pray for those in our country who are very confused. I know that there are young people right now who have been indoctrinated in our public schools. They've been indoctrinated in social schools. media. They have a lot of social pressure that's pushing them in directions that are ultimately extremely harmful to their development and harmful to their futures. And Father, I pray that in your mercy that you would preserve many, many young people who are in the balances and they are struggling with their identity and they're struggling with embracing as men being a man or as women being women. And they're going through changes that are uncomfortable. And I pray that you would bring godly healthy men along these young men's lives and godly healthy young women to come alongside these young ladies that would guide them and help them as they mature and as they develop. And Father, I pray that you would just help us as a church to be a place where we love people, wherever they're at, and we point them to you. To you. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.