Let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles to the book of First Corinthians again tonight. And we are in First Corinthians chapter 11. And uh I have a lot of notes that we're gonna be going through. We're not gonna get through them all tonight. We've got some people going, oh, I've got a duck. But the uh topic that we're going to address tonight, and uh we'll address it for probably a couple weeks. is not an easy topic to address from a just a purely uh digging into interpreting the text kind of a concept. And uh it's important that we work our way through this methodically. It's also important that as I present this in front of you Um I'll just say that there are some aspects to what I'm going to present to you where I can't say I'm 100% sure about how to interpret certain aspects of this. Not all of it, but there are some some little nuances here that I think that we have to hold them a little bit gingerly. And so the topic we're going to address tonight is the topic of Women wearing head coverings in the church. Probably never heard that preached down in a Baptist church, have you? Yeah, because most Baptist pastors just go by it and don't I don't spend any time there. Uh if you grew up in a Mennonite church, it's like uh it's like a cardinal aspect of the gospel, right? But this is a topic that, in fact, it's very important that we dig into this passage, and I think it's important for us to not miss Really that that Paul is going to address lots and lots of issues that are really supports to what he's going to say about women wearing head coverings in the church when they pray or when they prophesy. Okay? So we're going to dig into this topic bit by bit, work our way through it. Try to figure it out exactly what Paul is saying, why he's addressing that, how he approaches the topic, and I hope by the end of the time it will have been a great help to you. First Corinthians chapter 11, verse number one Be ye followers of me, even as I am of Christ. Now, I praise you, brethren, that ye remember me in all things and keep the ordinances as I delivered them unto you. But I would have you to know that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonoreth his head. But every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head uncovered dishonoreth her head. For that is even all one, as if she were shaven. For if the woman be not covered, let her also be shorn. But if it be a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered. For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, for as much as he is the image and glory of God, but the woman is the glory of the man. Now you can all see why this is going to be an interesting text for us to deal with, all right? For the man is not of the woman, but the woman of the man, neither was the man created for the woman, but the woman for the man. For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head because of the angels. Another interesting statement there. Nevertheless, neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man in the Lord. For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman, but also but all things of God. Judge in yourselves, is it comely that a woman pray unto God uncovered? Does not even nature itself teach you that if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him. But if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her. For her hair is given her for a covering But if any man seemed to be contentious, no such custom, neither the churches of God. What an interesting passage of Scripture. And some of you are going, where in the world is this going to go this evening? Well, what I want to do at the beginning of this discussion, of this passage, is I want us to begin with some general observations about how we interpret challenging passages of scripture. And there are several different layers of how we approach interpreting a passage of scripture. And I think that it's important for us from time to time to kind of highlight these things. The passage that comes to mind when I think about the importance of interpreting the Bible carefully is 2 Timothy 3. 16. It says this, all scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness, that the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Now, there's a reason I start with that text because you could almost take the entire topic of bibliology and you could break down individual components to how we tend to address that doctrine. out of just these two verses in the New Testament. For instance, he says, all scripture is given by inspiration of God. So that means every written word of Scripture comes from God 's breath. Not just the thoughts, the concepts, but the very words. Now I do want to make make this point. It's not the English words that were breathed out by God. The words that were breathed out by God were Hebrew and Greek text. And so that's not to in any way diminish what we are reading this evening. the Bible in our own language. I'm not trying to diminish that in any way, but I am trying to emphasize the fact that what is perfect is what was given through the apostles and through the pop prophets. And so it's the very words that God gave through these individuals. And then he goes on to say that these Truths, this this word is profitable, and the end result is that the man of God may be perfect. We 're fully matured and then thoroughly furnished unto all good works. So we could talk about the nature of the Bible being God's word. We could talk about the fact that God's word is clear and it's actually powerful and it changes us. We could talk about the sufficiency of Scripture. All of those things are a part of this discussion. So the first level of interpreting a difficult text of Scripture is to begin with this fact. The Bible is inerrant, that means it's without error. It is internally, it has an internal continuity, that means that what it says in Genesis and what it says in Revelation and everything between those two places, it all works together. It's not in conflict. within itself. It has the same ultimate author, and that is God. And then the third thing is there's clarity. Now, what that means is that when you dig into it, it's not written to try to trip you up, not written to trick you. It's written so that you can understand exactly what God wants you to know. So we begin with that basic starting point. This book is God's word. It's without error. There is internal continuity there. And it is written to be clear. Alright? And so I'll break it down like this. Every word of scripture, God's word, perfectly pure, and all it teaches. All scripture is God's word. Therefore, there's internal continuity leading us to interpret the scripture with scripture. And if we're willing to do the work, the clear meaning of the scripture should come out. Notice the statement, if we are willing to do the work. Now we come to a passage of scripture like this. We are removed from this text by thousands of years. And there are things that are going on in the church at Corinth that are causing Paul to write what he's saying. And as Paul is writing these things, it was very clear to these people what he was saying. Sometimes when we are removed from this, it's a little bit harder. So we have to do the work to make sure we understand what it's saying. So level one, inerrancy, internal continuity, and clarity. Level two, context. Probably the single most significant detail that we have to learn how to dig into if we want to understand a difficult passage is we have to be observers of context. If you want to understand how a piece is to be interpreted, you have to look at it in the light of the whole picture. And so you wouldn't go to a passage like 1 Corinthians chapter 11, pick one little verse, ignore everything that has been said before it. everything that's said after it, everything that Paul is driving at for application, just ignore all those things and interpret that one verse by itself in isolation. That would be extremely irresponsible. We should not do that. What we need to do is step back and go, I want to get the big picture first, and then from the big picture I start working my way down into the details until I come to that last little piece, how does that statement or that verse or that phrase fit into the whole? Very, very important detail. So, to get context, we have to begin with the occasion. What I mean is what was going on in the church that needed to be addressed? Why did Paul write it? There was something in his head. There was something that they had asked him. There was something that he saw. There was something that a person asked him through letter. And Paul goes, That has to be addressed. There's a cause for what he's writing. Secondly, we look at big picture. What's the primary argument or teaching that we find in this book? And then thirdly, what are the parts within the whole? What details within the text support the flow of the main arguments of the teaching? Now, you might be sitting here going, I thought we were here to study the Bible tonight. You're talking about how to do it. What I'm going to do is I'm going to explain how to do it, and then we're going to actually do it together. That's really what we're doing. Third level is the level of detail. And a good Bible interpreter. is someone who is attentive to detail. It's not that you don't necessarily have to be super smart. You just have to be willing to do the work and to notice details. And to start understanding how all these pieces fit together in the big picture. One of the greatest tools for you, skills for us to develop when it comes to Bible interpretation. is be an observer of what's being stated. And so we ask the question, are there clues in the scripture that show us the emphasis of what is there? I'm going to do this. probably tonight or next week, depending on how far we get into this, where I'm going to show you that Paul actually is very methodical in these verses at how he addresses this this issue. And then there's a place where he he changes that method and that draws your attention to what's the problem. You'll see it in a few minutes. Second thing, what are the key words? Whenever we're doing our college and career studies, we'll read through the passage and I'll say, what are some key words that we need to understand what these words mean? Maybe look them up, see them in other contexts. Let's understand keywords. What are the key phrases? Are there any analogies that are used here? If a New Testament writer quotes from the Old Testament, we've got to go to that Old Testament passage, read that in its context, and go. Why did he quote this right here? And it a lot a lot of times give us tremendous insight into what is there. And then are there any theological concepts being presented to drive at these applications? And what you will find in these verses is that a very simple question, should women wear a physical head covering in public worship in the first century in Corinth? How you answer that question, Paul didn't just say yes or no. He said, let me give you all these things that you need to understand, and now I'll tell you how to approach that issue. Very interesting how he does this. Level four, application. You don't start with application, you end with application. And this is something that I think a lot of times we don't do well. We want to read the Bible, we want to apply it, but we don't understand what it's saying. If you're applying something that you don't understand , If you're not actually correct in how you understand that and then you try to apply it, guess what? You're doing something that's potentially very detrimental. So you have to be very cautious. So we move lastly to application and we start with what are the timeless truths that we find in this passage of Scripture No matter what the audience is, no matter what's going on in the culture, what are the biblical truths that are laid out in these verses, how are those truths being applied to that audience at that time, level two. And then how do we faithfully apply it in our own current situation where we are applying these principles the way that God intended them We're going to try to do that with this passage. Okay? So those are the levels. We're looking at the context, we're looking at the details, we're moving into application. That's What we're going to try to do here. Alright, so part number two. Let's talk about the context of this passage of scripture. If you want to understand what's going on in the big picture, we can start in verses 2 and 3, and then skip over to verse 16, because this kind of bookends what Paul is talking about. Look down in your Bible at verse 2. He says, I praise you, brethren, that ye remember me in all things and keep the ordinances as I delivered them to you. But I would have you know, and then he goes into some things, and he says, if any man seems to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches of God. So this is what Paul is saying. Paul is saying, I have delivered to you ordinances. And an ordinance is something that God commanded the church to be done. Okay? So when we talk about baptism, baptism is an ordinance. Why do we do baptisms? Well, because Christ commanded those who have placed their faith in Christ to get baptized. And they are baptized by immersion, to identify with the gospel. And so we We do baptism, believers baptism, because we believe Christ teaches the church to do that. Or then when we come to the Lord's table, we would say the exact same thing. Why do we do the Lord's table and why do we try to do it the way that we do it? Well, it's because Christ gives instruction on the fact that we are to do the Lord's table. He tells us how to do the Lord's table. And we want to be faithful to his authority by doing it exactly the way that he says it. So what Paul is basically saying is what you have been given, you're trying to do it, and I commend you for that. However, there are some things as you're going about doing it that you're not doing well. For instance, the Lord's table, people got drunk. That's a problem, okay? So they're doing the Lord's table, and then people are bringing in some of the cultural practices, and we have huge problems. And in this particular passage, he is talking about how within the corporate worship there are certain practices that are undermining what is going on there. And this is the whole focus. So let's talk about context and focus. What is going on in the church that needed to be addressed? Now, if we want to stop and think about it, we have to recognize that Paul has already been addressing a series of topics. To go back to the beginning of the book, He talks about the gospel. He talks about people that are being very proud. He talks about people that are abusing authority. He goes into lots and lots of different areas. And so this is not some like radically different topic that has nothing to do with the other things that he's talked about. This is something that's just following in line, the same kinds of problems that are being expressed in those areas that he's already addressed. This is also a problem that's flowing out of that. So in the context, we see that there's a tendency to demand perceived rights based on a misunderstanding of legitimate business. Biblical teaching. You remember back over the last couple of weeks, he says, All things are lawful for me, but not everything's expedient. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought unto Under the power of any. Okay? So here's the statement. I'm now under grace, and being under grace means there's no more condemnation. I'm in Christ. But that doesn't mean that I should just go and do anything I want. It doesn't mean that the way that I live is irrelevant. It doesn't change my position. It doesn't change my status before God. But it is, there's clearly a right and a wrong way for us to respond. And so the tendency of the people was, where is the line? I want to take as much ground as I possibly can. The second thing is there was a self-willed attitude creating a detrimental behavior in the church. And this is undermining both the unity and the health of the church. And this is true in any context. It's true in our families. It's true in the church. This is true in your neighborhood. It's true everywhere. When people start getting very agitated with one another and they're always demanding their rights, guess what it does? It creates tension. And those tensions can get very personal and very difficult. And so here in the church context, that's what they're doing. Third The detrimental behavior that was flowing out of this attitude was undermining several aspects of their worship as a church So when they're coming together, instead of them coming together and really glorifying God and believers being built up and edified and Christ is being exalted and the world is being impacted by the church, instead what's happening is that people are kind of using the church as a platform to elevate themselves. And there's all this infighting going on within the church context. And what's happening? They're actually undermining the church's witness. This detrimental behavior is destructive the spiritual growth of the people. People in the church. You don't grow in a context like that. And so what's the last thing? Well, the attitude is impacting their practice in lots of ways, causing them to compromise as a church, and it's undermining their testimony That's what's going on in the big picture here in 1 Corinthians. Second question. What was the primary argument or teaching in the book? Well you could really break it down into two parts. One was spiritual maturity has certain kind of marks, and spiritual immaturity or carnality has another set of marks. And you can see that these two things are contrary to one another. They're in opposition. So, spiritual maturity, their submission to Christ, their selfless love toward others There's a willingness to give of oneself sacrificially. There's a resistance to being promoting of self. That's on the spiritually mature side. On the opposite side, what do we have? Selective attitudes toward Christ's teaching. I'll obey him here and I'll ignore him here. Or a tendency to use others for self-promotion. Not ministering to others, giving of yourself, but using people so that you get what you want. I mean, you could do that in the church. It's very easy for people to manufacture results on the backs of other people. For people to puff themselves up on the backs of other people. For people to promote themselves in the backs of other people. He says that should never be a part of the church. A resistance to self-sacrifice, a desire to demand the full extent of our own rights. These are the things that are going on in the church. So that moves us to another question. What details in the text support the flow of the main argument of his teaching. Three things. One, men and women were not relating properly to one another in corporate worship. We're going to get into the specifics of what he means by that. That. Two, women were using corporate worship as a platform to flaunt their perceived liberties. Three, this abuse of the church context led to massive problems Now, that's kind of the big picture as I look at everything that's there, that's how I'd summarize it. Paul realizes that people's attitude of self-service is undermining the unity and the health of the church. And in particular, it's this one issue of women in the church that are flaunting themselves in a very specific way that we'll talk about in a minute that is creating problem in the church. So, what are the clues to the problem? I want you to keep your finger there and look at several verses. The first verse I want you to turn to is verse number four. Notice what it says. Every man praying or prophesying, then in verse 5 he says, every woman that prayeth or prophesy, do you see how he addresses both the men and the women there? You know what that means? That means both the men and the women have a problem. And he's trying to clarify the problem. He's saying both the men and the women were taught the right way to approach teaching and prayer in corporate worship, and they weren't doing it the way that they should. So he addresses both groups. Now look at him, verse 7. He says, a man indeed ought not to cover his head. Verse 7. But the woman, on the other hand, is to cover her head. Both men and women were taught the right attitude toward head coverings and corporate worship. Now, we haven't even gotten into what he's getting into as far as why and all that kind of stuff, but I just want you to see the parallels here. The third example. Look at verse 11. Neither is the man without the woman. Verse 11: neither is the woman without the man. Verse 12, as the woman is of the man, verse 12, even so is the man also by the woman. Interestingly, he's showing something There was an attitude of superiority. You could almost put it like this. It's like junior hires. You know in junior high you got like The boys are the best. And they're all like looking down on the girls and the girls, the girls are the best. And they're like going back and forth about who's better. Isn't that something that happens in a junior high context? Well apparently it can happen in the adult context too. So what is he doing? He's he's created his counterbalance, and this is important for us to understand. So the things that he's going to say about the order in the church and The roles of women and men that are very different from one another, that is set right beside the fact that men and women are not inferior or superior to one another. So order and you know the fact that one person's in charge and another's not has nothing to do with somebody being inferior or superior. He's he's very clear about that. So what's he showing? There's a complementary relationship between men and women. And he goes all the way back to the original creation. He goes all the way back to the course of nature. Both men and women were taught that they were created with a need for one another. That's why the Bible says it's not good for the man to be alone. Because marriage is a good thing. God created Adam incomplete. Now I'm going to draw your attention to that a little bit later, hopefully. Fourth clue. Verse 14: Doth not even nature itself teach you that if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him? Verse 15, but if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her. Both men and women were taught to consider nature's distinction between male and female. So notice something about each of these examples. In each example, he's addressed men and he's addressed women. He hasn't let anybody off the hook. He hasn't gone to one group and ignored the other group. He's gone to the men, gone to the women, gone to the men, gone to the women, gone to the men, gone to the women, over and over and over again. But he's going to change his pattern in Verse thirteen He says, is it comely that a woman pray unto God uncovered? And by the way, that's talking about the head covering. He never addresses men there. Why? Because that is the issue that Paul is addressing here. The problem is that there were women in the church context, and now that there's All these ladies are going, I'm not wearing your head covering here. So am I in violation of this passage? I actually believe you're not, and I'll explain to you why by the end of the time that we deal with this. As long as your attitude is what it's supposed to be about where he's going to go in this stuff. But within their culture, there was a very specific purpose For women wearing a head covering that made them distinct from the men and symbolized certain things for these people. In the same way, by the way, I'm, can I still pull this off? Yes. Whew, man. All that time I 'm still not so fat. I can't take my wedding ban off. This wedding ban is a symbol. Okay? Not every culture wears a wedding band. Not everybody in American culture wears a wedding band. But you wear a wedding band as a symbol that says, hey You are married, okay? And what does that do? That tells the people around you something about your mindset. It should tell them something about your actions and attitudes. towards other people and it should also really talk about the way they should relate to you. All of that should be a part of that. Now, is it wrong for someone who's married not to wear a wedding band? Well the question might be why not? I mean if it's if if if it's not really an issue culturally then it's not wrong. But if the reason a person's not wearing is because they're traveling, they don't want people to know they're not married. Well that's a big problem. Why is that? Because they have some kind of intent beyond just not wearing a wedding band It's a very, very interesting thing to think about. Or sometimes if a woman is traveling overseas, she might wear a wedding band when she's traveling because she doesn't And want people to give her grief while she's traveling and doing those kinds of things. Even though she's not married. She's trying to, you know, put out this to let you know, hey, leave me alone. I'm taken. I am spoken for, however you want to put it. And so this issue of head covering was something that was symbolic in their culture. Mentioned what those things were a little bit later. So what's the implication? The primary issue being addressed at Corinth was the problem of women refusing to wear proper head coverings in corporate worship when they were praying and teaching. Question, why was this a problem? Why was it a problem for them to say, I'm not going to do this? It's because their motive was rooted in a theological attitude about their role in the church. That's really what it came down to. And so we know that because of where Paul goes from here down. He's going to get into key theological concepts that are driving out his application. And so we're going to work through them one at a time. The first support for Paul's argument is the order of creation. Question, who was created first? Was it Adam or was it Eve? Okay? Good job, guys. You got the answer right. Does that matter? Well according to the scripture it does. Question. Is sin passed because of Eve's sin or Adam's? Adam sin. Somebody goes, hold on a second. Wait a minute. So Eve sinned first But when Adam sinned, that's when the problem really developed and in fact affected everybody. So in Romans chapter 5 it says, by one man sin entered the world. So it was all questioned. I thought it was by a woman. And and Paul would say, Hold on a second. I'm gonna focus on the first Adam who brought sin into the world in death, and the second Adam who dealt with it at the cross, and Eve was out of the man and under his authority. And so it was actually Adam's sin that God held all of humanity for accountable for. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? In Adam all die. It didn't say in Eve all die. It says in Adam all die. And so this issue of the order of creation is something that Paul's going to address. By the way, this is not the only place When Paul talks about the roles of men and women in the church, in the home, things like that, that's not the only place that he goes to the creation order. Verse 3: The head of every man is Christ. The head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. What a really interesting statement. Let me read it again. The head of every man is Christ. The head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. Now, Paul is addressing several layers of relationship. First one is the man and Christ. The second is the woman and the man. And then the third is Christ and God. And when he says Christ and God, he's really talking about the relationship of the Son to the Father within the Godhead, within the Trinity. And this is important for us to understand. So I'm going to just kind of break it down, starting out first of all, what he has to say about Christ's relationship to the Father. And then we're going to move down because what this really does is it shows us that when Paul is talking about this issue of head covering, submission, headship, all of those things, it has nothing to do with people's abilities. It has nothing to do with their personalities. It has everything to do with God's design for creation. That's really what it is. And that's very, very important. It has nothing to do with inferior, superior. The fact that you're that you work under somebody a at your job doesn't make you inferior to them. Or the fact that there are people that are under you at your job doesn't make you superior to them. It's simply who is in charge? Who is accountable? The buck stops with which person. If things fall apart, who's going to be held responsible for it? That's what we're getting at. And so, first of all, he talks about the order within the Trinity. We talk about the Father and the Son and the Spirit. The Father is God. The Son is God, and the Spirit is God, and they're all equally God. Okay? The Father is not more God than the Son. The Son's not more God than the Spirit. The Father is not more God than the Spirit. They are all equally God. However, their function or their role as persons has distinctiveness. So when we talk about salvation, okay, and we're talking about this from Ephesians chapter 1. We just started our Ephesians study. We're talking about this in our soteriology class. The Father sent the Son. It doesn't say the Son sent the Father. The father sent the son. That means the father had a plan. That means that the son obeyed the father's plan. He submitted to the father's will. By the way, what does the son say? He says, I'm going to go to my father, and when I go, I'm going to leave the comforter, and he is going to Be good for you. Alright. So he's going to send the comforter. So what what it's showing you is that there's different roles or functions within the Godhead. This is not an equality issue. This is not one God more than another. We're not talking about that. We're talking about relationship. How they function together as a unity. So when we talk about the issue of the role of a husband to his wife, We're not saying, well, the husband's the head of the wife because he's smarter. There's a lot of men that their wives are smarter than them. It's just true. They might be better at certain things than their husband is. But who does God say is responsible for what goes on at home? Husband Not to say that a wife isn't responsible for her own actions, but when it comes to the guidance of the home, God holds the man responsible. Okay? So this is a really important thing for us to understand. And there are several scriptures that talk about this. By the way, in 1 Corinthians, there are three times. That Paul highlights the fact that there is a subordinate relationship within the Godhead between Father and Son. And he is in no way diminishing the glory and the grandeur and the divine nature of who Christ is. He's in no way doing that. He's simply talking about how they function together. John 4, my need is to do the will of him that sent me. That's what Jesus said John 5. 23. All men should honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. He that honoreth not the Son honoreth not the Father which hath sent him. 1 Corinthians 15, 28, when all things, this is one of the most explicit statements on this, when all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself Be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all. I mean, you try to figure that one out But I mean he's clearly stating it, all right? The father sends the son, the son submits to the father, the father elevates him, and then all things are delivered unto the father. What is this showing you? There is a subordinate interaction within the Godhead. I think it's important for us to understand. Paul goes there first. Second thing. Christ is the head of creation. Now, when we talk about Christ and his humanity, we need to realize. Just like Adam represented humanity in the fall, Christ represents his people in the cross. Okay? Romans 5 is very clear about this. In Adam all oh 1 Corinthians 15, in Adam all die, in Christ all are made alive. 1 Corinthians 5, there's the first man, Adam, there's the second man, Christ, one man's disobedience. bring sin and death into the world. One man's obedience resolves the issue entirely. And so we see that Christ Is the preeminent one over all of creation. I have to make this very clear. He is preeminent over creation, not as a created being. He is creator. It's important to make that that very clear. So Christ is identifying with the creation, but he is the eternal son. He took on flesh and he dwelt among us. But listen to some of these statements. They're very interesting. Romans eight twenty nine Whom he did foreknow, he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren. Emphasizing his humanity. Colossians 1:14, in whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins, who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature. Ephesians 1. 22, he hath put all things under his feet, gave him to be the head over all things to the church. Colossians 1 18. He is the head of the body, the church, who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, that in all things he might have the preeminence. Now, this is a very, very important point to make here. It is true that Paul's point is that in the church context, men are responsible to lead as pastors, as deacons, and women are not permitted to be in those roles. And there are women today that say, not fair. You've got to take it up with God, not with me. It wasn't my idea. But when Paul addresses that issue, what does he do? He goes back to creation. That's what he does. Because God created a very clear order. But here's what's important to recognize. Even while there is order within the home, even when there is order within the church, There is no such thing as human authority that doesn't answer to a higher authority. No such thing. In the home, that's true. Yes, the husband is the head of the wife. And guess what? And he is answerable to Christ. Yes, a pastor leads a congregation, but he's not the chief shepherd. He's an under -shepherd. When the chief shepherd comes, then he is going to answer to the chief shepherd. And so the point that he's making is all human authorities have a higher authority and that authority is Christ. And then he says that there is order in the family. The head, the man is the head of the woman. Now, let's notice what he's getting at here in the book of Genesis. And I think this is where I'll stop tonight after this. I'm just going to read to you what it says so that we can kind of see the sequence here. Verse number seven of Genesis 2. The Lord God formed man of the dust of the ground and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and man became a living soul. Adam was created alone. Verse 18, and the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be made alone. I will make him and help meet for him. A lot of times we use the word help meet, but what he really means is a helper who is comparable to go side by side and work together. Just think about this for a minute. When God created you uh with a circulatory system, it's a complete one, right? You can go through all the different systems That you have, your ability to see, your heart beating, circulating your blood, breathing, all that stuff. But when it came to the fact of how a person procreates, creates life, he created us all incomplete. All of us. Either you're a man or you're a woman. Men can't create life by themselves. Women can't create life by themselves. That's the way God designed it. And so God creates Adam and he makes the point, you were created first, but you cannot function as one who creates life without someone being created right beside you. Who meets that complimentary need. It's pretty pretty fascinating thing. So when he says it's not good that the man should be alone, he's not just saying he needs a friend. He cannot obey the command to be fruitful and multiply and replenish the earth and subdue it. He cannot do it by himself. And God made it that way. That's pretty significant. And so we go to verse 21 to 24. The Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam. He slept and he took one of his ribs. Clothes up his flesh instead thereof, and the rib which the Lord God had taken from the man made he a woman and brought her unto the man. And listen carefully to the way this is stated. And Adam said, This is now bone of my bone, flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman because she was taken out of the man. Now, could God have created Adam out of the dirt and then been like, oh, he needs a wife? I'm going to create Eve out of the dirt too? He could have done that. He did not do that. that. He created the woman out of the man. So all of humanity descends from one individual. Isn't that a crazy thing to think about? All of humanity. One individual. In other words, he creates Adam first. He creates them with the need. If he's going to follow God's plan, be fruitful, multiply, replenish, subdue, he's got to have a wife. And he chooses to create her out of Adam. And that's why it is Adam who's held responsible. For the fall, naive. Pretty amazing. It's called headship. That's the way God designed it. For this cause a man leaves his father, mother, and cleaves to his wife, and they shall be one flesh And so that is God's plan. When we go to Ephesians chapter 5, verse 23, he says that the husband is the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church In this context, the context of the home, there's a distinct order of duties. There's a unique accountability ascribed to the husband. The distinction in biological nature is good, was designed by God for distinct roles. Headship in the home is not distinct from submission to Christ. And should never be abused. And so it's important to recognize, and we're going to see this in these verses. And if we just look at some of these verses and we isolate them out, we don't look at everything that Paul's saying, some of them go, woo. makes feel a little uncomfortable. But he's going to provide the balance. The man needs the woman. The woman needs the man. The woman was created out of the man. The man comes by the woman. What is he trying to do? Create the balance so there's not abuse. So that people look at this clearly. So we're going to stop there because the next one would be getting into the distinction of male and female. And the purpose for that distinction. I know we kind of already hit on this a little bit, but it's important to what Paul is addressing. Isn't it amazing how something as simple as a woman not wearing A scarf on her head in public worship. Paul said, I'm going to talk about creation and the order of creation. Because the motive for that simple action was actually a rebellion against God's design. Such a simple little action. And I hope by the by the time we get through all this, we will appreciate what he did. has to say. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you for your word. Thank you for these truths. I thank you that you created us male and female For a purpose. You had a design. And I pray that as men in this room, we would embrace your design, be faithful in the capacities you've called us to. I pray for all of the women in this room that they would embrace your design for their lives and that they would submit to your purposes. And I pray that in our marriages we would have healthy and vibrant homes, that the order of our homes would Conform to God's purposes, that the way that we work together as units would bring glory to you, that we would do our work as unto you in all areas. And as we examine this little area that is addressed, I pray that we would have clear thinking, especially about the theological truths that undergird what Paul has to say here. Ask all this in Christ's name amen