Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you back tonight and hope you had a good afternoon. And uh let's uh go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer and then we'll get started with our service tonight. Let's pray. Father in heaven, thank you so much for your word and the opportunity tonight to open it up. And we recognize that every Every time we open the Bible, we we desperately need you to speak to our hearts. And so I pray that tonight you would do that. And I pray that you'd be with the many uh folks who've traveled over the weekend. And I pray that tomorrow as we have cookouts and family gatherings that we would take time to reflect on the reason that we have a memorial weekend And it is to remember those who have paid the ultimate price. And so I pray that we would just reflect soberly on what we enjoy today. And I pray that tonight you would speak to our hearts. Bless the singing. and the testimonies, and may all of it bring glory to you. In Christ's name, amen. Okay, good evening. We're going to start off on page 371. Or watch the screen for me. Stand up. We're going to sing both verses of a passion for thee. Sing it, make a joyful noise. Set my heart, O dear Father, on thee and thee on me. Give me a first for thy presence , divine Lord keep my focus on loving me holy , but me promise Turn my heart after thy passion for thee , O Lord, set afire in my soul, and a thirst for my Not just this word, but who love me with all of my heart Father, fill with thy spirit and bids me for service. Let love for Christ every margin inspire Teach me to follow itself the submission , feel my joy, then my husband die. A passion for thee , Lord, set afire in my soul, and a thirst for my God In all my prayer, Lord, thy cower and hides, not just with word. But to love me with all of my heart. Amen. Just a few pages over to page three hundred and eighty-two. Page 382 , all four verses of Nearer, Still Nearer. Dall me my saviour, so precious thou art. Oh beautiful through the price. Shout me straight in that breath. Shelter me safe There might be an abreat Nothing I bring not does enough to Jesus my king Only my hand for now can try. I would love him like you Rent me that wind, I blood embodies There are still neighbor My gladly All of its pleasures of employment. Give me but Jesus my Lord crucified. Give me but Jesus My Lord here still here My entrance fast Nearer my slave, you're still nearer to me. Go ahead and have a seat while I try a Clean my throat. Oh, the allergies are good today. Okay, page 391. Page 391. gonna blow it out on this one. I am resolved, okay? All one first, second, and the fourth on this one. 391. Are you resolved? I am resolved no longer to linger, charmed by the world delight Things that are higher, things that are nobler, it have a lure my sight I will hasten to him and sons of God and free. Jesus , pray the highest, I will come to thee. I am resolved to go to the Savior, weaving my sin and strife He is the true one, he is the just one, he hath the words of life I will extend to him extend supply and bring. Jesus, greatest ISI will come to the on the West now I am resolved to enter the kingdom, leaving the path of sin. Friends may oppose me, foes may beside me, there will I enter in. I will hasten to him , hasten to that and bring Jesus greatest. I will come to thee. Amen. Good singing. Now for some tests. Jahan hahema ihan hankin hauskoja, niin hän haanemaan Jihen Can't get these kids ramped up and settle down in time for the message. Page four hundred and eighty-two All right, I want to hear it all in tune. Page four hundred and eighty-two. Far away, the noise of strife upon my ear is falling. Then I know the thing of her be set on every hand Doubt and fear and things ever in pain to me are calling None of these shall move me from you love when I'm living on the mountain underneath the cloudless sky. I break in at the fountain that ever shall run dry. Oh, yes, I'm feasting on the manna from a bounti for supply, for I am dwelling on you lay. What happened to this side of the over here. They're all sick sick. All good. What's that? I know that. Yes, indeed. Okay, that was good. Page thirty in the red book. Yeah, we were a little offsided on that side. Mr. Brock didn't uh didn't participate I think Don was giving him the little no, don't you do it. Okay. I'll hail the power of Jesus' name. Okay. Hill the power of Jesus' name. Let angels prostrate fall. Let angels prostrate fall. Bring forth the royal diatom and cry Crown him, crown him, crown him, and crown him, Lord of all. Amen. We haven't sang that one a bit. Okay, page 80 in the blue book. Wonderful, merciful Savior. We'll sing all three of these verses. Wonderful, merciful , savor, precious redeemer and praise. Oh , rescue the souls of You are the woman that we pray You are the one we adore. You give the healing and praise God. Words always hunger words always hunger. Counsel a comfort keeper spirit, we want you embrace You offer open ourselves with Oh people that we lost away. You are the one that we pray. You are the one. We adore you give the healing and grace for our Oh our hearts always hunger for stand with me on the left leave, Almighty Infant With only loving your own, here in our weakness you find us. Darling before your call, calling before your boy. You are the one that we pray You are the one we adore. You give the healing and praise God. Hearts always hunger. Oh our hearts always hunger. Please be seated Seeking first king And all these things shall be added unto you. I can 't tell me if you come to you She can be shall not shall be All I do all the time. And we're going to do that. And only Oh my holiday for the week. Thank you so much for that. If you have your Bibles, I want to encourage you to take it and let's all turn together to the book of Numbers. And we have been working our way through Old Testament passages, and uh most of these passages are dealing with the nation of Israel during the time of the Exodus. Don't worry, we're going to get to the end of the Exodus, and then we're going to We're going to keep moving our way through Old Testament passages. But the text we're going to look at this evening is one that we really need to take some time to process. We need to take some time to think through the implications of what we're looking at this evening. And so let's look together at Numbers chapter 20. We're going to read verses 1 through 8 together. And then we're going to look at a passage that really is very tragic. Very, very tragic. Numbers chapter 20, verse number one says this. Then came the children of Israel. Even the whole congregation into the desert of sin. In the first month, and the people abode in Kiddish. And Miriam died there, and was buried there, and there was no water for the congregation They gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and the people choked with Moses and spake, saying, Would God that we had died when our brethren died before the Lord? And why have ye brought up the congregation of the Lord into this wilderness that we and our cattle should die there And wherefore have ye made us to come up out of Egypt to bring us unto this evil place? It is no place of seed, or of figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates, neither is there any water to drink And Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upon their faces. And the glory of the Lord appeared unto them. And the Lord spake unto Moses, saying, Take the rod, gather thou the assembly together, thou and Aaron and thy brother, and speak ye. Unto the rock before their eyes. Let me say it again. Take the rod, gather thou the assembly together, thou and Aaron thy brother, and speak. Ye unto the rock before their eyes, and it shall give forth his water, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock. So thou shalt give the congregation and their beasts drink. Let's take a moment, bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to help us to appreciate what is before us and to properly apply it. Our Father, we thank you so much for the Old Testament. We recognize that as we read these historical accounts of how your people struggled and they suffered, And many times they triumphed, and at other times they faltered. I pray that as we read these words, our hearts would be drawn close to you. We'd be sobered by the deceitfulness of sin. We would recognize how easy it is for us in our frailty and in our weakness. To become weary, disgruntled, frustrated, and then in a moment of weakness to make decisions that don't just impact the moment, but in fact they impact the rest of our lives. I pray that as we look at Moses, we would recognize that even the greatest of men have clay feet. And we must be very sobered by this. I pray that you'd help us if we have allowed patterns of thinking. Or patterns of activity to develop in our hearts and in our lives that are leading us into a direction of failure morally. Where we would turn away from you in a moment of weakness, that we would be humbled in these moments, that we would turn back to you, that we would get on our knees and allow the Holy Spirit of God to bring us a repentance of heart and of mind, and that we would humble ourselves and experience your grace and your strengthening hand. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Numbers 20 illustrates the principle that years of faithful endurance can be damaged by just one moment of passion or of indiscretion. And when we study church history, every single person that comes up on that list, it seems that many of those people, though they were great men, they were great women, they were involved in tremendous Periods of service. It appears that many of these people have blots on the reputation or blots on their character or blots on their name and at a moment in their life from that point on things completely changed. It is possible for someone to serve the Lord faithfully 20, 30, 40 years, and after many years of service, one moment completely destroys everything. The one thing that people will remember about that individual will not be the twenty years of service, or the forty years of service, or their faithful endurance, but what will be remembered many times And those situations will be their moment of weakness, their moment of passion, their moment of indiscretion. Now when we look at the life of Moses, we're looking at a man who was unquestionably a great man. In fact, when the Bible talks about Moses, the way that it describes it is absolutely stunning. The first thing I want you to do is notice that with me. He was a man who was great, and he was an example of faithful, steadfast endurance. For instance, in Exodus 32, verses 31 and 32, listen to the way that it describes the selflessness of Moses. It says, And Moses returned unto the Lord and said, Oh, this people have sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold. Yet now If thou wilt forgive their sin, and then there's like a a dash. Do you see that in your Bible? It's kind of interesting. It's almost as if Moses is saying, God, please forgive their sin, and then he doesn't know what to say next, and he says, But If not, blot me, I praise thee, out of thy book, which thou hast written Can you imagine what Moses is saying there? He's saying, if it's not possible for you to show mercy and forgive these people , Let the weight of their sin fall on my shoulders and punish me in their place and remove me, not them. That's what he's saying. Really, in some ways, it's almost like the the attitude of the Lord Jesus as he's willing to go to the cross and he's willing to die on the cross so that we can receive eternal life. Now, I think in this passage Moses is talking about, take me out of this world. He's talking about being judged by death. But the the thing that we notice here is that when Moses should have been angry and furious at the people, instead in this moment, as everything kind of, the dust settles, if you want to put it that way, Moses says, God, please be merciful to them. That's his heart. That's selflessness. Moses has endured a lot at the moment that we're reading about in those verses, and this is his attitude. Another example, Exodus chapter 33, verse 11. Listen to what it says. It says, and the Lord spake unto Moses, face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. Catch that. God interacted with Moses differently than he interacted with anybody in that generation. Anybody in the generations that followed. Moses in this story, when he had been up in the mountain with God and he comes down, it says that his face was glowing, and they actually had to put a veil over his face. Because the people could not look upon him because of the glory of God's presence emanating off of Moses because of the time he had spent with the Lord. It's pretty amazing to think about. Another example, Numbers chapter 12, verse 3. In fact, this is what Pastor Chris talked about last week. It says the man Moses was very meek. Above all the men which were upon the face of the earth. Now, I remember when he mentioned this the other week, he mentioned the fact that what the statement really is more than anything is to say that more than anybody in the world, Moses dealt with more junk. He dealt with so much frustration and so much difficulty and so much complaining and he gave so much to the people and he endured it. He held his peace in so many situations. Moses was a man who kept his cool. Now, not perfectly. Obviously the passage we're gonna look at this evening is an example of him not keeping his cool. But if you were to look at the entirety of his life, you would not find a person save the Lord Jesus Christ who had such a meek disposition. Deuteronomy 34, 10. It says, There arose not a prophet since in Israel, like unto Moses, whom the Lord knew face to face. In all the signs and the wonders which the Lord sent him to do in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land, and in all that mighty hand, and all the great terror which Moses showed in the sight of the Lord. Out of all the prophets, Elijah, Elisha, all of the prophets of the Old Testament, Isaiah and Micah, and you just go through the list, there was nobody that rose to the level of Moses. But out of all those statements, perhaps some of the most fascinating are actually made in the New Testament in Hebrews chapter 11 when it talks about Moses being a man of faith. Notice what it says in verse 24. It says, By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter, choosing rather to suffer affliction. with the people of God than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season, esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt, for he had respect unto the recompense of the reward. By faith he for Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king, for he endured as seeing him who is invisible. Could you imagine somebody being able to say that about you? I can't imagine someone being able to say that about me. Moses had so much, and he said, I'm walking away from the palace because I want to identify with my people who just happen to be slaves. And I'm willing to suffer affliction with God's people because I know the pleasures of sin are just for a season. What an amazing statement. He forsakes Egypt not fearing the wrath of the king. He endures us seeing him who is invisible. You say, well, well, Pastor, why do you take time to mention that? The reason that I do is I want you to recognize the kind of man that we're dealing with. We're dealing with a great man. We're dealing with a man who had tremendous restraint. We're dealing with a man who endured faithfully. We're talking about a man who feared God. We're talking about a man of great faith. But the second thing we're going to see this evening is that one lapse of judgment in Moses ' life left an irreversible consequence. Notice what it says in verses 9 through 11. It says, And Moses took the rod from before the Lord as he commanded him. So far he's good. And Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and he said unto them, and all of a sudden it's like a total shift. Notice what he said. Hear now, ye rebels. Must we fetch you water out of this rock? Whew. There's some intensity there. Moses is angry. I I thought he was the meekest man who ever lived. Well, apparently he had reached his limits. He had reached this point where he says, enough is enough. I'm sure no one in this room has ever been in such a place. Except maybe when you came home from an exhausting day of work and there's little chaos at home. Right, Dad? Or maybe, Mom, you left your husband to watch the kids and you come back and the house is It's happened, I'm sure, once or twice for a few people. Once or twice. Yes, we have a few families with large many, many children. We know how this goes. Moses is angry He's furious. He says, listen, rebels, I'm tired of dealing with you people. That's what he said. I'm exhausted. You've wearied me. I'm tired of this. Must we fetch you water out of this rock? Now think of all the stories of God's provision as they were in the wilderness. We think about bitter waters being turned sweet. We think of it about them being backed up against the Red Sea and here are Pharaoh's armies coming. And Moses is able to stand in front of the sea and God sends a wind and he He separates the sea and the whole nation passes through on dry ground and then they get on the other side and then the waters come crashing down and Pharaoh and his armies are destroyed just like that. Saw that. Think about the terror of Mount Sinai. Think about the times that God had provided in another instance where God tells him to strike the rock, and he does, and water comes out. Think about the provision of manna. Over forty years, there was testimony after testimony after testimony. Of God's provision. And Moses had reached this moment where he says, I'm tired of dealing with this. And he says, Must we fetch you water out of the rock? And he lifts up his hand, and with his rock he s or with his rod he smites the rock twice. Now, not only did God tell him to speak to the rock, But twice he hits it. Now, interestingly enough, when we go to the New Testament, it is very clear that this moment in Israel's history was meant to point people to the reality of Christ's provision. He talks about the fact that Christ was the rock that provided water for them in the wilderness. And Christ is the one who provides the manna to save sustain him. And so there is a very significant sense to what Moses is doing. It's not just that he's angry, and it's not just that he does exactly something contrary to what God has told him. But he's also messing with an illustration that he really doesn't have a full concept of at the time. I'll give you just an example of the sacredness of areas of our life. You know, a lot of people don't think about this, but when we talk about something like our marriages and the relationship between husband and wife and wife and husband, and we talk about the tensions that can develop within a marriage. When we talk about marriage, one of the reasons that God wants our marriages to last and to be sustained and to be permanent, a permanent bond, is because he says that our marriages to be a picture of of Christ's love for the church. So when someone says, I'm a Christian and I love Jesus and their marriage is just blowing apart, somebody goes, Oh really? But when they have a strong marriage, a vibrant marriage, they could say this is a very beautiful picture of Christ's love for the church. And this is actually something that is revealed in the marriage context. And so when we go to Ephesians chapter 5, what does Paul do? He actually draws us to that situation. So within the scriptures, there are many, many places Where God is not just allowing people to go through, we could say, normal, ordinary circumstances, but there is a significance to that moment in time. But Moses isn't noticing this. And it's a very simple explanation as to why. It's because he's angry He's lost his cool. And it's also pretty understandable as to why he is angry and he has lost his cool. I think any one of us, if we would have planted ourselves in that situation, we wouldn't have even gotten to this moment. We would have been there a long time before Moses was. But let's notice these details again. Again, God gave Moses a very simple command. And he confirms when he gives the command he's going to provide water. Notice what it says in verses seven and eight. It says he spoke unto Moses, he says, Take the rod, gather the assembly together, and Speak unto the rock before their eyes, and it shall give forth his water. Interesting the the the the pronouns that are used there Okay? It, a rock, is going to give his water. You see that? That's not a mistake That's not funky pronouns like we have today, okay? He's talking about an inanimate object that God is using for a picture. That's what he's talking about. Literally, Christ is going to give water to the people. So what is it? Simple commands. An important picture that is here. And he tells them that this is going to actually, this is actually going to be a blessing. The water is going to come The second thing we see is that Moses arrogantly disobeys God before the people. Hear now, ye rebels. Must we fetch you water out of this rock? Does Moses have the power to give the people water? No, he doesn't. He has no power to give the people water. He doesn't have any more power to give people water than you and I have. Okay? The only reason that Moses was able to do this is because God was working through him but the man himself did not have such authority he did not have such power it was only when god was working through him. And so we really even see this sense of presumption in the way that Moses is speaking. Must we fetch you water out of this rock. Then we see that when he smites the rock, the water comes. But God speaks that fast to Moses. Notice what he says in verse 12. And the Lord spake unto Moses and Aaron, saying, Because ye believed me not, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel. Therefore Ye shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given them. Do you catch that? He basically says, You didn't believe You didn't sanctify me. The idea is that you didn't set me apart. You treated me as a peer. Moses literally does something that God told him not to do. I mean, imagine that. He treats God as if God is an equal. Instead of treating him as holy and righteous and Lord, Moses puts himself on the same level in this moment. And so God says, you will not take this congregation into the land. That's a really sobering thing, isn't it? Now someone might say, well, you know, I mean Moses is almost 120 years old by this time, so you know. Could you imagine the last 40 years of your life? All you do is deal with complaining people. And you give them the law, and you know that they're going to enter the promised land, but you yourself will not be able to participate. That was what happened to Moses. And so there is a very simple principle that we see here. You can pick your sin, but you cannot pick your conduct. You can pick your sin, but you cannot pick your consequence. You can chart your course, but you cannot pick where it ends. Does that make sense? The fact is that the decisions that we make have consequence. The patterns we establish have consequence. And when we make a decision, we don't know where it's going to end. When we begin down a road, we don't know where it's going to end. But what we do know is that when we make a sinful decision, the consequences can be absolutely catastrophic. Now let me pause for a moment. God many times is very restrained in how he deals with people. One of the things that is really a problem for us is that we see that that when people sin, sometimes God is patient with them and he is merciful with them and he extends his hand of uh of mercy to those individuals. He does it to us Many times as we persist down a path in rebellion against God, it's not like the first day we take a step or the tenth day we take a step. or the first month we take a step, or the fifth year we take a step, that that's when God drops the hammer on us. And as we move down this road and as we go further and further and further further and we seek lower and lower and lower and there's a greater degree of enslavement that we're dealing with. What we don't realize is as God extends mercy and opportunity, we are making it worse for ourselves. How should we respond to such a text? Probably questions like, why have you been so patient with me? Why have you continued to bless me despite my carelessness? Father, forgive me for being so flippant. For treating you like a peer, for being so careless , so arrogant, so presumptuous Father, help me to hate my sin like you hate my sin. You know, God loves us, and that's why He hates sin. Because sin is destructive. And it hurts people. It hurts the sinner. It hurts the ones who are sinned against. It hurts lots and lots of people. Sin is like a cancer. It doesn't stop. It just takes over and it keeps moving Father, help me to walk circumspectly. Help me to distrust myself. Help me to embrace real, genuine accountability. Help me to bring people alongside who can strengthen me. And uplift me and encourage me. Help me to be humble in my disposition towards you and others. That's the way we should respond. But how do we often respond? I can't believe God is so harsh. Isn't that kind of how we respond? Doesn't seem fair. Forty years of faithfulness and endurance In one moment, boom, just like that. Why? If that's the way we're thinking, it reveals something about our thinking patterns. You know what it's revealing? Our view of sin is flawed. Because the fact is that what Moses did didn't start on that day. When you and I sinned catastrophically, And it brings tremendous consequences. That's not when it started. That is the end result. That is a pattern of life that has been established. And so we get focused on the fruit, and we don't see that there are roots that go down miles that are undergirding that decision and that ultimately are at the core of those consequences. Our view of sin is flawed. Our view of our own wisdom and judgment is flawed. Amazingly, as we persist down a sinful path, our judgment becomes more and more flawed the longer we are in such a state. We don't even realize that it's happening to us. Sin is deceptive. It has a way of ensnaring us and entangling us and duping us. And so our wisdom and judgment is flawed. Our view of God is flawed. All of a sudden, we start thinking that we, the sinner, are righteous, and that he, the holy one, is unrighteous. Isn't that stunning to consider? That we near mortals, we sinners, would judge our Creator. We who sit against him would look at him and we would say, I question your righteousness in such a situation. Yet do you know how common that is? You know how many churches won't even touch the issue of sin. Well, there's certain sins they would never address. Why? Oh, it's it's it's It's too sensitive. And the reason is because people love to judge God, and they fail to recognize that's not where it ends. In this kind of a situation, we desperately need to have a heart that is filled with Scripture, that is renovated from within. Let me read to you what Hebrews chapter 3 says. It's very pertinent to this issue. It says, take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief. In departing from the living God, exhort one another daily while it is called today, lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin. Why is being in church so important? One of the great reasons why being in church is so important is because in this context, the word of God is proclaimed with authority. Now, this book is authority, okay? But there is something unique about the preaching and teaching of God's Word because it is focused on us. It calls us to response. It calls us to examine. It calls us to turn to God. It calls us to think biblically. And when we interact with other Christians, our thinking is stirred up and it is challenged and it's encouraged. And sometimes when I come to church, I need to be convicted. And sometimes when I come to church, I need to be encouraged. It's not always conviction, but it's not always uplifting. We need God to minister to us wherever we stand at the moment. Sometimes we need to just be reminded that what God says is true. And we need to be in a context where rather than God's authority being questioned, it is upheld and it is emphasized. Why? Because sin hardens hearts. Sin deceives. Sin causes us to drift. Hebrews 12, 15. He says, looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God. But that's not talking about losing salvation. He's talking about there is grace available for all of us And our most desperate and difficult situations, when we are tempted, when we are discouraged, when we are weary, when we are arrogant, whatever it is. There is grace available from God, and we need to take that grace, and we need to apply that grace, and we need to live in the power of that grace. But we don't always do that. Sometimes we walk away from it. And what happens when a person fails of the grace that's available is a root of bitterness springs up and troubles them, and many are Defiles. We know the story of Esau. He says Esau was a fornicator. He was a profane person. He sold his birthright For a pot of stew. This is pretty amazing. He didn't care. He says something that has immeasurable value There is eternal significance to the covenantal promises given to Abraham and to Isaac and all their descendants. And what does Esau do? He says. You could take it. Just give me the soup. I'm just gonna die if I don't eat this. That's what fornication ultimately is. Something of value is being treated as if it has no value. That's what's happening. And then it says, afterwards he wanted the blessing, and he was rejected, and he found no place of repentance, so he sought it carefully with tears. What's he saying? He's saying once the decision was made, Esau didn't have a second chance. There wasn't another option available. And someone might say, well, that's not fear. Since when does God have to give us uh the number of chances we demand? Since when does God have to bend himself towards our impulses and our wishes and our desires and our expectations? He has no obligation to do such things. A thing. And so these two passages remind us we need to be careful. So it leads us to a third truth. And that is that a lapse in judgment doesn't come without a process. Doesn't come in a vacuum. Whenever we see the consequences that come from sin, or we see something that is very visible and very tragic. That didn't happen without a long process. And the process is actually, it's fairly easy to actually recognize if you're perceptive. If you're willing to examine your own life, you can see it in your own life. And it happens in the most subtle of ways. It could be something like a person has a wound and it's a legitimate wound and it frustrates them, it discourages them. But all of a sudden they allow that little wound to take root and it becomes a matter of bitterness. Or a person decides, you know, I know church is important. I know it's important to be around Christians. I know it's important to be in the Word, but I'm tired this week. Well, you decide, well, I'll just I'll check out the live stream. Oh man, it's kind of late. Maybe eh I'll look at it later And that little decision becomes, well, another week, and then another week, and another week, and another week, and pretty soon it's like I'm kind of used to cutting my grass on Sunday. I'm kind of used to going to the football game on Sunday. I'm kind of used to traveling on the weekends. I'm kind of used to these events that I love going to, and all of a sudden church is like, ah no, I should be there. Maybe next week. What happens? What happens is that people drift. And that drifting leads to huge problems. And those huge problems lead to what? Massive moral failure. So in verses one and two he says this: Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of sin. In the first month the people abode in Kadesh, and Miriam died. That was Don't pass by that Part of the story is that his sister died. This is the one who put him in the in the basket and and left him in the Nile River and watched him through the wheat reef. This is the one who when Pharaoh's daughter discovers this baby in the basket, she comes and says, I can help you out. I can find a Hebrew woman that can that can make sure that that this child is taken care of. And Pharaoh's daughter says, okay, I'll even pay this Hebrew woman. This is Miriam. This is his sister. He loved his sister. She was someone that had been a very important part of Moses ' interaction. When you read through, there's a lot said about Miriam. She was an influential, sage kind of a person in the nation. It was a time of great mourning. She dies. She's buried. There's no water, and the congregation is gathered, and they're angry with Moses. So here's Moses. He's like, my sister just died. It's hot. It's tiring. Give me some space. Why did you take us out into this wilderness? Give us water. You can't give us water. It was so much better there. You just want to kill us. And he's like, Could you give me some slack? My sister just died What's the point? It didn't happen in a vacuum. In Ecclesiastes eleven, verse three it says, If the clouds are full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. If a tree fall toward the north or to the south, and the place where the tree falleth there it shall be. It's an interesting little statement. Here's what he's saying. This is what Solomon is saying. He says, if clouds are full of rain, guess what happens? It rains. If a tree is leaning one direction, guess what happens? It falls in that direction. And when it lands, guess what? You can't move it. That's the way life is. It's his way of saying there are certain things in life they're predictable. There are certain things in life you don't know the moment they're going to happen, but you know they will because you can observe their natural laws at play. You can walk outside and say, I think it's gonna rain later today, and it does. I see that tree, it looks like it's gonna hit our house, and it does. And then when it does, you gotta call your insurance and all those kinds of things. What's the point? The point is that these things don't happen in a vacuum. Moses was dealing with the pressure of leading a rebellious people. They wore him down. He was not a young man. He was over a hundred years old. And he dealt with these people This moment was probably stayed off because God had raised up people that bore that load with him. Do you remember the story of Jethro? Jethro says, you're not going to be able to bear this people doing what you're doing. You need people to help bear this with you. And he does. And you know what? Maybe this would have happened 20 years earlier if it hadn't been for Moses listening to what Justin had to say. He watches an entire generation of people pass into eternity. Some of you are at that station in life where it's like, oh, another one of my friends just died. Another one of my friends just died. I'm going to this funeral. I'm going to that funeral. I'm going to that funeral. Anybody, you know what I'm talking about? My grandparents tell me about this. They say, all of our friends have died. It's the joy of living to be 90 years old. All of your friends die. You've outlived them all. What does that do? It wears you out. Makes you tired, makes you weary. It it it saps you of your energy, it takes away your motivation. These things are all factors. He's buried his sister. He's an old man. But it didn't change the fact that this was While we can explain the path that leads to sin, it does not excuse. It does not excuse the sin. It doesn't remove the consequence. There's always, always a process. Persistent problems can wear us down. Discouragement can lead to difficulties and bitterness A series of setbacks can present or create resentment and bitterness. Bitterness can create an arrogance and an entitlement. We have seen it in other people. It's possible it could even be taking place in our own lives. And when those things are happening, we've got to come face to face with it before these kinds of moments. You say, well, Pastor, what is the takeaway, the implication? Here's the takeaway. We have to guard our hearts. We have to constantly guard our hearts. Sin is deceitful. Nobody's above these patterns or processes. If Moses, the greatest of the prophets of the Old Testament, if he could have had a moment like this, then who do I think that I couldn't have this happen? Who do you think that this couldn't happen to you? None of us are above these matters. We must constantly be guarding our thinking against Worldly patterns of thought that lead down catastrophic, painful roads. We have to develop patterns of putting our sinful passions to death. This is not a game. This is a spiritual battle. This is a matter of whether or not we'll experience the hardships of the and the brutal reality of our own sin, or whether we'll experience the wonderful joys that come from walking according to God's principles and ways. And so I remind you of two simple texts as we close. James 4, 6. He giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble. Do you catch that? He gives more grace. He resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Submit yourself, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners. Purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted, mourn, weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning, your joy to heaviness. Humble yourself in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. You know what that is? That is a description of what we must do. When we begin to see a heart of callousness and coldness and arrogance developing in our heart, that's not the time to just continue down that road. It's the time to get on our knees and say, God forgive. God, cleanse me. God help me to think biblically again. Help me to see you high and lifted up. And help me to see myself as I truly am before you. A sinner saved by God. Grace. God, I'm going to submit to you. God, I'm going to mourn over my sin. I'm going to draw nigh to you. And he says, I'll draw nigh to you. That's what we need to do. You say, well, well, Pastor, I'm really not this far down that road. Good You need to stop where you are at the moment that we are meeting this passage of scripture. Well, I could go a little further and I'll be okay. No, you can't You have no idea what lies tomorrow. Don't play with sin. In Hebrews chapter 12, verse 5, we're reminded of something. We really have two options. If you're a child of God, if you're a Christian, either one, you can humble yourself, or two, you can let Him humble you. That's the way it works. If you belong to God, you're his child, either you humble yourself or God chastens his children. Here's what it says: My son, despise not the chastening of the Lord. Nor faint when thou art rebuked of him. For whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. No chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterwards it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness. Unto them which are exercised thereby. Lift up the hands which hang down and the feeble knees, make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way, let it rather be healed. This is what we all need to walk away with this evening. No matter where we are today, it is possible, it is possible that we are in a road that is leading to a destructive end. Now, I'm not here to say I know you are. Okay? I'm here to ask you to think, are am I? Am I on such a path? I'm not asking you how long you've been on this road. I'm simply saying, are you on such a path? Because if you are on such a path, it's time to repent and turn back to God and to humble yourself. And really it comes down to one of two things. Either one, you will humble yourself. And experience God's grace and restoration and return to joy and return to healthy, vibrant Christian living, a reviving of heart, or two, you will persist until God has to deal with you in discipline. And I ask the question, which do you want? Which do you want? I would say, take the first. Humble yourself under the mighty hand of God and he'll lift you up. That's what we need to take away from the text in front of us. We need to walk away from this text saying, God, I thank you that you love me. And that you will chasten me if I persist in such sin. Moses didn't get there in one day. He was warned Down. It can happen to you. It can happen to me. May God help us to be sobered by this text. Let's pray. Father, I think about this scripture And I pray that none of us would walk out of this room angry or conflicted. Gruntled, judging you as if you are unjust or unwise or unrighteous. I pray that the effect of every person in this room Room and every person on the live stream would be God. Thank you. Thank you for confronting me tonight. I pray every one of us would humble our hearts in your presence, that we would allow the Spirit of God to humble us and convict us. To soften our hearts, and that we would experience this fresh renewal of your gracious hand at work in us. Father, I pray that you would you would work in us in such a way that we would be a revived people, even when we have struggled and we have been wearied and we are discouraged and we are angry May we be a renewed people. Ones that are experiencing true, genuine revival. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I'd like to ask you to take out your hymn books and let's turn to our closing hymn, hymn five hundred and twenty-seven. The song we're going to sing is Revive Us Again, and really what it comes down to is either we should sing the song or we should ask God to help us to be in a position where we can sing the song. Genuinely, honestly, before the Lord. If you need to do business with God, do it. Don't delay. Don't push to Let's stand together. Let's sing this hymn together. 527. Revive us again. Let's sing it as if we truly mean it. Let's sing it to the Lord. Worms. We praise thee, O God, for the Son of thy love, for Jesus whose guideth is now gone above Hallelujah, by the glory, Hallelujah, Amen, Hallelujah, by the glory , revive us up again We praise thee, O God, for thy spirit of light, who has shown us our Savior and scattered our night. Hallelujah thine the glory, Hallelujah, Amen, Hallelujah, thine the glory , revive us again All glory and praise to the Lamb that was slain, who has borne all our sins and has cleansed at these days. God and the glory, Hallelujah, Amen, Hallelujah , thy glory, be by He thy bus again, really start with thy love, may he so be rekindled with fire from above Hallelujah, Dying the Fury, Hallelujah, Amen, Hallelujah, Dying the Fury, We by Basha. And like I said, if you can't really sing that from your heart, then tonight you need to spend some time with the Lord. You need to let Him work in your heart through the scriptures. Humble yourself, he'll lift you. up. Sean, it's so good to have you. I know that you're here for just a little while. We miss you guys. Looking forward to when you're back and uh with your boys And so can you come up and uh close us in prayer tonight? And if you're visiting with us today, so glad that you could come and uh shake my hand. And send our greetings. And pray for those who have traveled. A lot of people uh this weekend have traveled. I think it's supposed to be like between Thanksgiving and Memorial Day. Those are like the two like biggest travel holidays, they bump up all the gas prices. So I know a lot of folks in our church have traveled, uh pray for them, and a lot are sick too. Several folks are sick. So pray that they'll be able to get back into good health. Go ahead. Spring. Father, thank you for this time they were able to spend uh together this week and just uh Thank you for the message that we heard, and thank you for all the testimonies that we heard as well. And just thank you for the way that uh you're working through individuals in this church. I just ask uh that We would take this message to heart, and if uh any of us have uh unrepentant sin in our lives, uh that uh we would just confess it to you and uh that you would give us the grace to uh uh to uh forsake it and uh and try to walk with you. And uh we just thank you for uh uh all that you all that you do for us in Jesus' name. Amen.