We're going to continue our study in our Old Testament. We're going to be picking it up in 2 Kings chapter 5. 2 Kings chapter 5, and I'll read about the first half of the chapter. But while I read, I want you to focus on a couple different things. One, I want you to focus on the description of the captain here of Naaman Next, I want you to focus on some of the unnamed yet kind of subtly used people in this passage. They go unnamed and just kind of See what they say and what ends up happening a result of these people that were laying name remain nameless in this portion of scripture So pay attention to those two things, this great description of this high mighty man, and then the unnamed people that God used greatly in this passage. So we're going to pick it up in 2 Kings chapter 5, and we will begin reading in verse 1. It says, Now Naaman, captain of the host of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master, and honorable, because by him the Lord had given deliverance unto Syria. He was also a mighty man in valor, but he was a leper. And the Syrians had gone out by companies and had brought away captive out of the land of a little of Israel, a little maid, and she waited on Naaman's wife. And she said to her mistress, Would God my Lord were the prophets that are in Samaria, for he would recover him of his leprosy. And one went in and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus, said the maid, that is in the land of Israel. And the king of Syria said, Go to, go! And I will send a letter to the king of Israel. And he departed and took with him ten talents of silver and six thousand pieces of gold and ten changes of raiment. And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now, when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman my servant to thee, that thou mayst recover him of leprosy And it came to pass when the king of Israel had read the letter that he rent his clothes and said, Am I God? To kill and to make alive? That this man doth send me to recover a man of his leprosy? Wherefore consider, I pray you, and see how he seeketh a quarrel against me And it was so. When Elisha, the man of God, had heard the king of Israel had rent his clothes, he sent to the king, saying, Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? Let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel. So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot, and stood at the door of the house of Elisha. And Elisha sent a messenger to him, saying, Go and wash in Jordan seven times, that thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. But Naaman was wroth and went away and said, Behold, I thought He will surely come out to me and stand and call on the name of the Lord his God and strike his hand over the place and recover the leper. Are not Abanah and Tarfar rivers of Damascus better than all the waters of Israel? May I not wash in them and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage. And his servants came near and spake unto him and said, My father, if the prophet had bid thee to do some great thing Wouldn't thou not have done it? How much rather then when he saith unto thee, Wash and be clean? And he went down and dipped himself seven times in Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God. And his flesh came again like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean. And he returned to the man of God and his company and came, and stood before him, and he said, Behold Now I know that there is no God in all the earth but in Israel. Now therefore I pray thee, take a blessing of thy soul. Father, we thank you for this passage of Scripture. What we can glean from it, the Spirit of God can use it in our hearts and lives. Sometimes these great and mighty men will have certain expectations. Sometimes the people that go nameless are just faithful, believing in who you are and what you're capable of. Father, would you use this text and these lives in our hearts to conform us, to change us all to the image of your Son. Son and our precious Savior and Redeemer's name of Christ we pray. Amen. So we're going to look at healing of Naaman here in this passage And first we're going to see Naaman the Great. I told us to pay attention to this. It's really just in this first verse. But we have Naaman the Great. He's this high-ranking. successful man. And look at the description. He's captain of the host of the king of Syria. So he's like his right hand man. If he wants someone destroyed, if he wants taken take someone taken over, this is the man that he sends to do it. He's a great man with his master. He's honorable. And here's what's interesting too. Because by him the Lord had given him deliverance unto Syria. So Lord was using this guy to be so successful. And not only do you have all this list of great things, it also says he's a mighty man of hour. You have this great list, and hopefully as they're listed up there. There's a fifth thing on here. Now if we just didn't read this and we were describing a great man, if you could put number five on there about him being a leper, that would be great. If we were to say multiple choice, you know, which one does not fit in this list? It would be easy. I think the kids could figure out. You're going through there, okay, yeah, okay, he's great, he's white, okay, he's honorable, okay. A leper? Nah Troslav does not fit. I mean, if this is a multiple choice, you'd be like, that's the easy one. That's like the George Washington, you know, answer that, you know, he he was not there. Okay. That's what you would pick. So you have this great mighty man in this great position, and he's got this problem. Somehow he gets leprosy. And God is going to use this, this whole process to have some people that relatively seeming in the big picture are insignificant. They just happen to be servants of God who trust in him at the right place at the right time. What I want to encourage us in part with is let us not be a man or a woman, a person, a Christian, that builds up ourself, that tries to great some make some big name about who we are, what I've accomplished, and everyone look at me. But yet sometimes God just uses the nameless people to do great things and encourage others in the Lord. Would we not build up a name for ourself? But would we point people to Christ? So let's look what happens. So you have Naaman the Great, this high-ranking fictional with all these things. Then we get to the nameless little maid in verses 2 through 4. So the Syrians, they come and they're taking people captive, they're conquering people, but this is different. In Naaman's house, there's this little maid, this young girl. And what does she do? She helps take care of Naaman's wife. Just a little servant girl just doing what she's supposed to do, not in her own land, is just taken captive and she's just doing what she's supposed to do. And she catches wind of this problem. You have this great and mighty man. She's helping the wife of this great man And she becomes aware of this problem. But what she has is a great faith in God. Let's look at this in verse 3. And she just says to her mistress, Would God, my Lord, were the prophet that is in Samaria, he would recover him of leprosy. So here you have this unnamed little girl overhears of this situation. Of this great Naaman. And she just kind of mentions in past, you know, maybe she's brushing, you know, Naaman's wife's hair or whatever, or fetching her water, or who knows what she's doing. She's taking care of her and she, here's the problem. Hey, you know what? There's a prophet in Israel. He can handle this leprosy. I heard that he watched his master fly up in his chariot and he gets his mantle and he walks up and he splits the river. No, that was so cool. I've heard stories And he did all kinds of things. This man could be used about it. He could probably do this. I know he can. You have this little, this young girl that has faith in this great and mighty God that he can do the impossible. And then if she mentions this, this takes a great faith because she's saying this to the name 's wife. And then you know how news spreads. So-and-so talked to so-and-so, and so-and-so continues to so and so, and then finally it gets all the way to the king. Look at this. By verse 4, this is what happens. And he went in and told his Lord, saying thus and thus he said to the maiden in the land of Israel, so that the word is spreading. This poor girl is saying, there's a prophet in Israel. He can handle this leprosy. Now, the king catches with this. It goes all the way up to the king. So point three, we're moving quite quickly here at the front, but we have in verses five through seven, now we have a nervous king. We're not going to get to the nervous king quite yet, but the first king, the king of Syria, he hears all this message to so-and-so, so to-and-so, and it gets all the way back to him. And so he comes with this idea. If he hears this prophet that can do this amazing things and heal name it of his leprosy, man, that's a great deal. If you're the king This is your right-hand man. This is the guy that he defends your nation. He conquers other people. This is a great and wonderful man. If I can do anything for him, if he's got a problem, I'll do everything I can to help him. So he catches wind of this. He decides he wants to help this man by writing a letter. And he is thinking, man, this is great. This will work out wonderful. This guy's been helpful. Well, this becomes a bit of a challenge because there's a bit of a silent, almost cold war type of thing between Israel and Syria, and Syria's like the big guy with the big stick, and Israel here is just hoping that everyone just stays away so we can survive another day. So the king of Israel, he writes this letter. And as he does, we get down, over verse 6, he says, and he brought the letter of the king of Israel, saying, Now when the letter has come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman, my servant, to thee, that thou mayst recover him of leprosy. So basically in the level letter, they're looking for someone to heal Naaman. So this letter gets sent, verse 7. And it came to pass when the king of Israel had read the letter. Now I want to pause here very quickly. We're talking about the nameless little girl. I think the point of this passage here is both kings are not named. I think I have them in the notes there of we know who they are, but they're not named in this passage. And I think that that's just a significant thing of that's not the main point necessarily, but so this king of Syria writes this letter to the king of Israel. King of Israel gets this letter. When he gets this letter and he reads this, can you imagine that? So you're this king, you get this letter from this big mighty nation just north of you. They've got kid they carry a big stick and a big army. And he sends you this message that seems humanly impossible. And he takes this as, okay, you heal my main man of leprosy or you die. That's basically the way he interprets this. So that's why he rents his clothes. He gets all upset. He is nervous. He's thinking, man, this country oh what is going on? He's gonna say I can't help him and and now he's gonna wipe us out because I can't do something impossible Here's what's interesting. So this how did this whole thing start? This whole thing started because this little girl catches wind of her bosses husband getting sick of leprosy. And she says, oh I know this can be healed. There's the prophet in Israel. I know we can do this. And this spreads. Who's she trusting in? She's trusting in the God of this prophet of Israel. Now you write this letter to the king of Israel who should know the prophet, who should know the power of God. Who should recognize these things? And he hears of this great mighty nation and he's thinking, This is impossible. Now we're about to die. This is not good. He is setting us up. So he is very nervous. He doesn't know what to do. Then Elisha hears this. So who's he trusting in? He's trusting in his own understanding. He's trusting in his own military experience. He's trusting in his own everything but God. We don't see him going to God. What we see here is Elisha catches wind of this. So here it is. You have another servant of God that happens to be in the right place to hear the right thing. And he says, oh, by the way, you know what? God can do this. You send that man to me and we'll watch God work through me. So a little girl hears it, says, hey, I know a God that can do this. Elisha hears another king that's troubled. Hey, I know God can do this. Who are we trusting in? Are we just being faithful where God has placed each one of us? Or are we so busy trying to build a name for ourselves that we miss the everyday little blessings that we could be? I don't think either one of these people planned. I don't think this little girl planned on rescuing Naaman. I don't think Elisha planned on coming to the king's rescue. They're being faithful and trusting in God, knowing that God can do amazing things in and through them. That's what's taking place here. So this nervous king gets his response and he doesn't know what to do. He's thinking he's gonna die here. There is no way. He's gonna quarrel against me. He gets comforted in verse 8. So in verses 8 to the rest of this portion that we read, we're going to see really this is leading to verse 15. Hey, there is no God outside the God of Israel. A part of the point of this is hey, you trust in God because he is the only God that you can trust in. These other false gods, these other nations, they're no good. They can't do what God can do. They don't even exist. It's driving to that point. So now we're going to see how this has taken us to this point that there is no God but the God of Israel. And it starts with Elijah comforting the king of Israel. who has rent his clothes at this point, and he's there with the king. He says, why are you doing this? He says, let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel. Listen, there is someone that is standing for the Lord. There's someone who is not afraid to sin. This almost you can say, I mean it's not as drastic, but this would kind of be like Elijah saying, hey, there's a God, there's a prophet. We'll see who answers You get the prophets of Baal. We'll see what happens with them. But I'm going to call them the God of Israel. This is kind of like Elisha's moment. Hey, listen, you send them to me. Let's see what God can do. So, this word gets back to Naaman in verse 9. Naaman came with his horses and his chariot, and he stood at the door of the house of Elisha. So here's what's taking place. He's traveled from afar. He's got this big entourage. A guy like this doesn't travel by himself. He's probably got a company. He's got a small army with him, probably his own personal servants. I don't know if that little girl was there or not. That would have been interesting. But he is traveling with this big group. He travels this distance. He goes right to Elisha's house. What's interesting here is what we're going to see. Naaman, he had this great description in verse 1 of who he is and his accomplishments and the respect that he had. And then we get to verse 10. And just for a moment, think of what we're going through his mind, of how he builds himself up and what he thinks about himself when we get to verse 10. So Elisha sees him at the door. He sends a messenger unto him, saying, Go and wash in Jordan seven times, that thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean. So what happens here is Naaman now goes to Elisha's house. So the king of Israel is like, I hope this works. He's probably sweating and praying more than he has to have in his life. As this Naaman with his old dying entage and company of people is going to Elisha's house. He gets, knocks on the door for Elisha, opens the door. It's not even Elisha. He's going to come to the door. That's a I mean, you guys can be doing some traveling this week, we will. When you go to someone's house, you travel from afar. You knock the door The little kid answers the door and then there's no greeting. There's no nothing. You're like, oh the kid is here. Where are they? Oh that they'll be here in a little bit. They they knew you were coming, but they're off still at the store. You're like, I traveled all this way to see them and they're not even here. Oh that's kind of nice. I thought we were family. We are treating you like family. You're just normal. Okay, okay. But so you travel from afar, they don't even greet you. So Naaman, this high respected man, comes to the door, he sends his messenger. To give him a message. Go wash in the Jordan. Do it seven times. Just dip yourself seven times. Naaman is like, what in the world is going on here? This doesn't make any sense. Don't you know who I am? Do you understand who I am, what I can do to you? You don't even greet me at the door? So what is his response? Look at verse 11. But Naaman was wroth. That's a nice kind way of saying. He is very upset. He is not liking this day right now. And he lists some reasons. You know when you get upset? I'm going to tell you why I'm upset. For this reason, and for that reason, and for this. And then you just get all into the emotion of this fit and this rage and this anger. And you're going to list all the reasons to justify why you're angry. As if no one else knows, right? Let's see what he says. And he went away and said, behold, I thought, okay, he's thinking about himself. He will surely come out to me and stand and call in the name of the Lord his God. He's thinking he's gonna call out in fire from heaven, or maybe not fire, but maybe some kind of miraculous healing. and strike his hand over this place and recover the leper. So let's take a timeout. Naaman thinks very highly of himself and his position. He's a leper. He is slowly rotting to death in a very painful way. Yet he has a very high view of himself And he's thinking because of who he is and what he's accomplished and everything that I am, well I thought that you at least come and greet me. I thought you would come say hello And you didn't. Who do you think you are? Do you know who I am? Really? So he's upset and he goes away. And then he says, aren't there other rivers that are cleaner in Damascus? I came all this way, and you want me to dunk in this dirty, nasty Jordan River when we've got cleaner rivers back home? I marched all this way and I get sent to your house. You don't greet me? You give me this crazy message about this dirty Jordan River to Duncan, and you want me to do it seven times? What kind of fool do you think I am? I have destroyed far punier people than you and far greater people than you and you are gonna do this to me. What do we do when we're angry? Do we think of ourselves? Are we concerned about others? Recognizing, you know, maybe we might need to humble ourselves, be slower to wrath. Slow to anger. Listen a little bit more. Speak a little bit less. We can practice that when we get angry It'd be a good thing to try, show some temperance, be patient, but he is not. He just this makes no sense to him whatsoever. And what he's getting set up for is This God of Israel doesn't need what you consider normal ways that make sense to do what he's going to do. Remember, this is driving to verse 15, where he is going to understand , you know what, there is no God that can do this. Only the God of Israel. That's where this passage is going. But right now, he doesn't see that yet. Sometimes you and I are right here where Naaman is. It just doesn't make sense. I cannot make any sense of this. This doesn't make I cannot logic my way through this. This can only be of God if anything like this happens. And God is saying, yes, exactly, that's right. Sometimes I'm going to work in ways that don't make sense. He used a little girl. He's using a messenger. In things that just the circumstances that don't seem to line up And then how's he end in verse 12? So Naaman ends as he says, so he turned and went away in a rage. He is throwing a toddler tantrum right here. Okay? He is so upset in this rage. And in the midst of this, I love the humility that takes place here in verse 13. In verse 13, his servants came near And spake unto him and said, These are s some of the servants unnamed again, just servants trying to try to talk some sense into this guy. My father, if the prophet had bid thee to do some great thing, wouldst thou not have done it? Wait a minute. If he told you to go conquer someone or told you to go climb some high mountain or if he told you to do some wonderful thing, wouldn't you have tried to do it? Here, at the end of the day Mr. Naaman, Captain Naaman, the honorable, the mighty man of valor. This is easy. You should be thankful that you came all this way and all you have to do is to dunk in this river. You should be thankful that it's that simple. But he had to lower himself. He had to swallow some pride. He had to get some common sense from the guys. I mean think about these servants. They must have really loved Damon To say, hey, listen, let's stop and think about this for a moment. You would have done anything, but pretty much what he asked you to do. Sometimes I think the Lord allows us just to be humbled into respond in something that doesn't make sense. And to recognize, you know what, if I just stop thinking about someone else other than myself and just let God work through what seems impossible, he might actually do something. But if I would do what sense to me and the way that I could figure it out, do you think God would get the praise for it? Do you think Naaman would have recognized who the God of Israel really was at the end of this if everything would have gone the way that he thought? Probably not. I don't think so. So they tell him, hey, you know what? Let's do the easy thing that you requested. What's the worst thing that can happen? It doesn't work? And what if it does? What if this crazy guy that didn't even meet you that you're still upset at? What if he's right? I mean Israel has done that their God has done some you remember those 450 prophets? Yeah, I think the little girl said something about that. Maybe we should just try it. I mean, I don't know the conversations took place, but it's possible. So then look at verse 14. They apparently were convincing enough. He swallowed the whole pride pie, okay, and he went down and he dipped himself seven times in the Jordan. Now when I think of this passage, he didn't tell them it wasn't just dumped him once. It wasn't two or three times. Seven times. And you can say whatever you want about the number, but I just think it was a humility of This man, namen, this great, mighty, honorable man, this mighty man of valor, is going to dunk himself in the dirty Jordan River seven times That's just a matter of obedience and trying to do what makes no sense whatsoever. So he dunks himself once, comes up. This is ridiculous! I can't believe I'm doing it. Just do it. Two. Are you sure? Seven times? We're we're counting, we're counting, we're rooting for you. Three. I mean you can't just come. I mean can you imagine I mean uh this is better work. You know, he's at five now, six If nothing happens this seventh time, this is a waste of time. I'm gonna march right back with my little company and that guy is gonna be done. This is ridiculous. He comes up seven And here's what God does after the seventh humbling dip in a dirty river that you weren't greeted by the host after traveling afar with all these gifts. Here's what happens. God does what he is capable of doing that is far beyond certainly what then what Naaman was thinking. So he went down and dipped himself seven times in Jordan, according according to the saying of the man of God. And his flesh came again like unto the flesh. That he had before? No. Look at what God does. The flesh of a little child. And he was clean. You know how little children is soft and is it, I mean we get calluses and it's dried up. It was like a little child, it was better than it was from them before All he had to do was listen, humble himself, and do what he was told, and follow basically the essay of the Lord. That was it. He didn't have to go all the way home and I mean it doesn't even make sense to get in water and have it wash away a disease. That doesn't even make sense anyways. Who cares what kind of water it is But in his mind. And God did above and beyond what Naaman thought. Now, after all this ordeal, from hearing this from this little maid, to being reminded of some common sense from your servants that must love you greatly. God had placed these faithful people in a certain place where they were just doing what they were supposed to do in the area which God gave them to serve and do it did it faithfully. Trusting in God and his word. So names in this passage aren't quite as important. You have Naaman, you have Elisha. No one else in this particular passage, though we know who they are, they are not named. And I think there's kind of a reason for that. We don't need to build up a name for self if you're trying to build up a name and then you can be like Naaman. Are you serving God faithfully where he's placed you? Sometimes to seem what's to do what seems insignificant. Sometimes God can use you to encourage someone else to serve God that may be discouraged, to have a common sense reminder in the God that we're serving. We need not to make a name to build ourselves up because sometimes We can build ourselves up so great that we don't think we need God. That his ways don't make sense. I can do it my way. And welcome to the pride of being a human. And then where does all this go after everything that's taking place? And God inserting these what seemed to be insignificant people just doing what they would normally do. faithful to God and his word and what he's capable of. Look what the result is by verse 15. And he returned to the man of God. This is Neaman. And all his company, and he came, and he stood before him and said, Behold, now I know that there is no God in all the earth. Button Israel. And this guy had done a lot of traveling in his life. He'd seen a lot of different gods and a lot of different things. Yet he humbled himself From servants that trusted in God enough to just be faithful where God had strategically placed them to do the right thing at the right time. And now Naaman here gets to see the God that they trusted in From this little no-name young lady that served his wife to help change this man's life. to save the life of a nervous king who is praising the Lord that Naaman didn't come back with his company upset But he knows there's a God in Israel. Would we trust in God as his servants, where he has faithfully placed, every single one of us to lift up his name, to point people to our God and our Savior, Jesus Christ, and what he is capable of doing, even when sometimes it doesn't seem to make sense. Make any sense. Would God help us to be humble and to serve faithfully where we're at? Father, we are just so thankful and privileged to read through this text, to think through this account. Most of them are unnamed. Would we be as this young girl and have faith in you? Would we be the encouraging servants to just say common sense? Let's believe what the Word of God says And trust in what God can do. Leave the result up to Him. Father, would we be your faithful servants wherever you've placed us? And we will thank you and praise you and encourage others to do likewise And we do this to exalt, to lift up, and to magnify your Son, our Savior, Jesus Christ, in whose precious and glorious name we pray. Amen.