This evening we're going to be in 1 Kings 21. 1 Kings 21. And before I read the uh passage in the scripture, I just want to remind ourselves, as I reminded myself. Sometimes when we come to Old Pet Testament passages, uh we tend to think of, oh, we're gonna tell a good story and this will be great for kids, and you know, sometimes we get excited, sometimes we get sad, sometimes we get frustrated. But really, I just want to remind ourselves that this is re it is the word of God. These are not just stories to tell to kids. These are real people, real-life situations. And we have the opportunity to learn and grow from their mistakes, to see the wisdom that they gleaned, what they learned about God, what we can learn about God, and then to take those truths and make it more personal to us, okay, that's how it works for them, what does that mean for me? How's that going to change my life based off what they learned to do? So I just want to keep that in mind that this is God's word. These are real people, real circumstances. It's not just great stories to read. And so we're going to look at Naboth's Vineyard, God's Word versus My Wants. And we're going to start in verse 1 of 1 Kings 21. And it came to pass after these things that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace of Ahab, king of Samaria. And Ahab spake unto Naboth, saying, Give me thy vineyard, that I may have it for a garden. of herbs, because it is near unto my house, and I will give thee for it a better vineyard than it. Or if it seem good to thee, I will give thee the worth of it in money. And Naboth said to Ahab , The Lord forbiddeth me that I should give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee. And Ahab came into the house, heavy and displeased, because the word which Naboth the Jezelite had spoken to him. For he had said, I will not give thee the inheritance of my fathers. And he laid him down upon his bed and turned away his face and would eat no bread But Jezebel his wife came to him and said unto him, Why is thy spirit so sad that thou eatest no bread? And he said unto her, Because I spake unto Nabot the Jezreelite, and said unto him, Give me thy vineyard for money Or else, if it please thee, I'll give thee another vineyard for it. And he answered, I will not give thee my vineyard. And Jezebel his wife said unto him, Dost thou now govern the kingdom of Israel? Arise and eat bread, and let thine heart be merry. I will give thee the vineyard of Nabath the Jezreelite. Shall we pray? Father, as we come before you this evening and look at this chapter, hit some of the highlights. that we would take it as your words to be applied to our lives, not just stories that we can learn lessons from. But yet is the word of God to change us and to conform us more to you, through your son, Jesus Christ, and how each of these can change our lives. to do that which is right, to obey your word, and help us each with our struggles, encourage us, help us, and convict us where necessary, and all this would be done. As the word of God is used by the Spirit of God to work in each individual's heart and life. And we thank you ahead of time for your word and what you can do through it. And we come to you through Christ's name. Amen. So in this text, using position, power, and God's word for personal gain at the expense of another person's individual liberty and obedience to God's word. So are you going to use your position, your power, your authority, you're going to use whatever weight you can pull, but in doing so, it's at another person's expense. their individual liberties and maybe even hinder or make them be in a more awkward situation in obeying God 's word. So let's first look at Ahab wants Naboth's vineyard, verses 1 through 3. Ahab wants Naboth's vineyard. So it comes to pass, and he uh after these things that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace Ahab King of Samaria. So you have some land that's by Ahab, and what happens is Ahab was thinking, I like this land. This is good land. I get to look at it from my palace. What a great profile place that would be. You know what? I like it. I want that. Now it's not his, but he desperately wants it. So what's he do? He goes to Naboth in verse 2. And he says, give me thy vineyard, that I may have it for a garden of herbs. Now how he said that, I don't know. Did he say it with the great authority of a king? Possibly. Did he say it kind of with a little bit of hesitation in his voice? I'm not sure. But he does say, hey, it's near my house. I really like it, and I want it. I tell you what. I'll give you another fine vineyard that can even be better than this one. Or I give you another option. I can just buy it outright from you. And that way I can have it either way. thinking of Naboth for sure in these situations. And he gets a surprising answer in verse 3. So there's the scene. You have this field, this vineyard that's by Ahab's palace. He sees it, he wants it, he asks for it, he requests it, he's thinking he's going to get it. Because why not? A king usually gets what he wants, right? Verse 3. And Naboth said unto Ahab, The Lord forbiddeth me that I should give inheritance of my fathers unto thee. Not the answer that Ahab was expecting to get from Naboth. He says, The Lord forbid it me. Now when we read this, we can think, okay, I don't want that to happen. That's like saying, no, I really don't want it. You know, I I don't want to do this, I'm uncomfortable. And he's using just words, oh, the Lord forbid me, oh, the Lord wouldn't like that. I kind of want to stick around. But he gives a little bit more and he says that I should give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee. Why should I give you what I already have? And the Lord forbid it. And at first we were just reading this, what does that mean? Well, if we go back and you look, maybe even in some of your Bibles you might have a uh cross-reference or something to Leviticus 25. That would be the background that I think gives great answer for what Naboth is saying. He's not just saying words to make it sound like he's got a good excuse. He is actually, in my opinion, he's actually probably referencing the Mosaic Law and saying, look, I cannot do this. God's word doesn't allow me. And so let's look at Leviticus. I'm just gonna get a couple highlights. in Leviticus 25. The context of the whole chapter is explaining the Jubilee. And basically what it is, it's giving rest to the land and restoration back to people. And you can read through the whole chapter and see all that unfold. I'm just going to hit some highlights. So starting in verse 1 and 2 of Leviticus 25, it says, And the Lord spake unto Moses in Mount Sinai, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, and saying to them, When ye come into the land which I give to you Then shall the land keep the Sabbath unto the Lord. Verse 8, later in that chapter, Leviticus 25. And thou shalt number seven Sabbaths of years unto thee, seven times seven years. And the space of the seven Sabbaths of the years shall be unto thee forty and nine years. Then thou shalt cause the trumpet of the Jubilee to sound on the tenth day of the seventh month, in the day of atonement. shall he make the trumpet sound throughout all your land. And ye shall howl the fiftieth year and proclaim liberty throughout all the land. to all the inhabitants thereof, and it shall be a jubilee unto you, and ye shall return every man unto his possession, and ye shall return every man unto his family. And then verse 23, towards the end of the chapter, and the land shall not be sold forever, for the land is mine. For ye are strangers and sojourners with me. So what is taking place in Leviticus 25? It's explaining the year of the Jubilee and in the bigger picture of the seven years and the forty-nine years. And then the difference is on the 50th year, the land would be restored. Before it was other things, and you could read through Leviticus 25. But it said the land would even be restored. And if you read some commentators or look this up, some people say, oh, this is their way of you know, helping the needing the poor and and that could all be true. And I think that is probably a part of it. But I don't think it's just um a matter of economics or a matter of helping the poor. I think it's a matter of obedience, trusting the Lord, and following his word. I think that's part of it. And recognizing that God has given us rest. I think there's a lot more to it than just economics. But when we read through this, what happens on the 50th year in verse 23 is the land shall not be sold forever. The whole idea is that if you bought someone else's land, it would be restored and given back. It was to help to keep the boundaries of the tribes in place. It was to help so the few would not monopolize and grow and then the poor or those that sold off land would end up with nothing. So there was a restoration. It was kind of a rebalancing, if you will. So the wealthy wouldn't continue to get wealthy, and the poor would get yet poorer. So there is some of those things to all the situation. So when Ahab goes to Uh Naboth and says unto him, I want this, I'll either give you money or you can move. I get the impression here that Nabath is just kind of a simple, down-to-earth country guy, works his family's farm, it's been there for generations. He's like, why would I give up my family's inheritance and their land that I've worked, that we have worked for generations just because You want it. Why would I move it someplace else? So you have a man in position with authority who just wants it. He can buy the other land. In fact, if there's a land that's better, why does he just take that? Well, because he likes the location. Because then he can look and see on his own land, right outside his own palace, as he looks at everything that he desires and wants and says, it is mine. And we're also reminded in Leviticus 25 that really anything that we have is just given to us by the Lord. All that land and all those portions that you can look at that was delegated and all the boundaries to all the tribes, God worked through that way to give them those allotments. It was God's design, it was God's plan. So when Nabath is saying all this, he's saying, hey, the Lord forbid, I can't do this. You are asking me to do something that the Word of God doesn't want me to do. Now we know Ahab in his history. And he thinks, well that's nice. But you know what? I don't really care what the Word of God says. I want what I want. Now if we pause right there, and before we go any further, We can pick on Ahab right here, and we could say, oh, that's evil. He just wants to. How dare him do that? But this is where I need to insert and think ourselves into this picture. Sometimes don't we just want what we want to the point where even though we know what God's Word says, you and I choose to do what we want anyway. We want what we want. And it's not like it's anything personally wrong with us necessarily. We're all bent. We're leaning towards sin. And we love me, myself, and I. And I want what I want. And sometimes We might not verbally say it, but in our mind we're thinking, I don't really care what God's Word says about it, because this is what I want. And then in part we think, I know better than what the Lord does. I know my plans for me more than God does. So before we give Ahab a really hard time here, Of going against the word of God and asking someone else to do it with him and invite him to disobey God's word according to Leviticus 25, we had to stop and consider, do I do these things? Am I encouraging people to obey God's word? Do I skip over verses and passages We can be a lot more like Ahab than we think with some of these things if we're honest with ourselves when we choose our own way over God's word and his ways. So let's continue to look at this. We've seen verses 1 through 3, Ahab wants Naboth's vineyard. And then in verses 4 through 6, we're going to see how Ahab pouts over Naboth's vineyard. Yes, he pouts. A grown man is pouting. I don't know how else to put this. He's pouting. And look at verse 4 For lack of better words, I'm calling this a toddler tantrum in verse 4. I just can't help but think about these types of things. And Ahab came into his house heavy and displeased. Now he's coming in, he is coming in stubborn, rebellious. angry, he's raging. I mean this is kind of a pleasant way of saying, oh, he came in a heavy and displeased. He is irate. He is not having a good day. This is like that little kid in the store that doesn't get what he wants. And then mom is trying to desperately think of something that would appease the kid to give him what he wants. And now even what he gets what he wants, now he wants two of them. And the kid is just throwing a fit and you're thinking, I hmm, what am I thinking? I'm not going to share with them. But use that as a lesson to apply to ourselves. Basically, we have this overgrown little child who's throwing a tangent because he doesn't get what he wants. And like I said, sometimes We could be in that same situation. This is not a little kid. Now I know it's talking about a toddler tantrum. I don't know how else to put it. He's very selfish. And children think of themselves. We'll get to that in a little bit. But this is a grown man And he is, well, look at it, let's just keep reading. This is incredible. He says, he spoke to him , for he said, I will not give you the inheritance of my fathers. And he laid him down on his bed. Now if you just read this, you would think it was a toddler or some young person that just had a chat with their parents and they didn't get what they wanted. you know, for their birthday or Christmas or just whatever they wanted at their heart's desire at the store. Because when you go into a store, whether you're a grandparent or grandchildren, which someday hopefully I get to enjoy, or with your kids, something you do want to give to your kids But you and I both know you can't get everything they want every time. One, they'd run you broke. And two, if they got everything they always wanted, you're doing nothing short of raising a spoiled brat. Because are they always going to get everything that they want at someone else's expense? They will not. So why are you teaching and training them to get what they want every time they want it and desire for it? You're only hurting them. And then what happens is that little child grows up. He ends up in a position of authority or power by chance. Maybe someone knows him. Family relation. Maybe his dad was a king. Who knows? And here, he doesn't get what he wants. And so what does he do? If you just read this, you would think it was a child, not a grown man. And he laid him down upon his bed and turned away his face and would not eat bread. Yes, we're talking about an adult male. A king of all things. And then it gets even better. Look at this. In verse five But Jezebel his mother. I I mean Jezebel his wife Jezebel his wife came to him. I'm sorry, when I read this, I still d I I I feel like she's treating him like a little kid. Oh, it's okay. You didn't get what you want. Oh, but why are you so sad today? And I'm not saying you can't be kind and compassionate, okay? You would do need to be kind and compassionate, okay? But they are sitting there, I mean kind of compassionate is not lip pooching out, arms crossed, crying in the corner of your bed, you know, sitting up, laying down, whatever. When you see your kid in the bed, pillow covering them, and you know Okay. Oh well what do you want? I'm sorry you're crying. What can I get for you? So Jezebel comes in like a mother, which is wife. I understand that. But Jezebel, his wife, came to him and said unto him, Why is thy spirit so sad? Thou eatest no bread? Hey Johnny, how come we're not eating? What's going on? What can I do to help you? What can I do to get you to eat again? Tell me what you want. Give me your heart's desire, and I'll do everything in my power to get it. That's kind of what's taking place here. Look at verse 6. And he said unto her, so here he is. facing the wall, pouting in his bed, looking the other way towards the wall, because I spake, verse 6, unto Naboth the Jezreelite And said unto him, Give me thy vineyard for money, or else, if it please thee, I will give thee another vineyard for it. And he answered, I will not give thee my vineyard. Oh man, what a rough day. He just didn't get what he wanted. I went to this guy and I said, I want your field. And he says, it's not for sale. I'll give you double what it's worth. It's not for sale. I'll give you another piece of land that's not in my family. I worked this with my grandfather. I know the ins and outs of the hills. I know which way, you know, the vines and all this stuff. I know how it goes. And God's word says in Leviticus, it's really it's the Lord's, and I have the privilege of stewarding it for him. Oh, I don't care. I want it. I want what you have. Not for sale, not doing it. Oh, I can't believe that. And then he goes, he cries, he pouts, and then Jezebel comes to the rescue and says, why are you so sad? And then look at this. It's such an encouraging wife here. So he's saying, give me another vineyard for it. And he answered, I will not give me my vineyard. Verse 7. Uh oh. I gotta get to the uh next point. So Ahab wants Naab's vineyard, verses 1 through 3, verses 4 through 6 So Ahab pouts over Nabeth's vineyard and oh almost missed it. Good thing. Turn with me. I love this passage and we talk about selfishness and and children. I like it because it's kind of just kind of hidden and tucked away, turn with me to 1 Corinthians 13 very quickly. I want you to see this verse. While you're turning to 1 Corinthians 13 It is quite obvious that 13 comes between 12 and 14. I am aware of that. But in 1 Corinthians Chapter 13, when I just mention that chapter, there's probably a word that comes to your mind of how we typically label this chapter. Okay, we call it the love chapter, and for good reason. But sandwiched in this love chapter, the middle of this sandwich, okay, is the love chapter, but it's talking about God's gifts and how he uses them on both ends of that. And if you just think for a moment, I know we've been discussing, you know, toddler tantrums and children, but just think with me about a young child. A toddler. The child who is just learning to walk and you're excited and they start talking and jibber-jabbering and sometimes you need an interpreter. But their first words Their first words are typically what? Mine? No. Sometimes dad-da. And we saying dad-da's because he wants dad to get him something. Go, oh look, he said my name. He said it before mom. Okay. Okay. But he talks about the they say no, they say mine, who is the child, what is the toddler thinking? About themselves. That's ingrained in every single one of us. And we could go through several different proverbs and several different things about the you know foolishness abound to the heart of child and other such passages. But we know, because of our sin nature, we are born thinking about me and what I want and it's mine and give me. And it takes the patience and prayer of a parent to help train that child away from thinking of themselves to others. And we see this in 1 Corinthians 13, verse 11. So as we're bringing to end the love chapter, this verse is tucked in here. And I love this. When I was a child, I spake as a child. I understood as a child. I thought as a child. Now let's pause. What does the child think about? Himself. His needs. No, no, no. His wants. What he wants. Needs are secondary. The child is self-absorbed. That's what makes a child a child. Now the last part of this verse in 1 Corinthians 13, it says, but when I became a man, I put away childish things. And any mother and father knows as you're raising children, it helps you to be more selfless. It helps you to recognize you have to go out of your way to help someone else that desperately needs it. Who wants to change diapers and spit up and things why is it always like when you're heading to church and you can't find the shoes or you know the spit-up all down your side? It's like, oh I put my suitcoat on and I picked up the kid and he's blah Or you're walking in and you have the blowout that you've never seen before. And now you're really gonna be late. Is it the diapers? Did I not put it on right? I don't sort of hurry right. Who knows? You have a very humbling time. You learn to be selfless. Because children are all by themselves. But when I became a man, what do we do? We start to think and talk differently. We begin to think about someone else other than ourself That's what takes time and training. That's when you know when you're going from little boy or a young child to a young man, a young lady, you're in the process of putting other people first. You're in the process of thinking, you know what, life is not about what I want. The child wants what he wants. Anyone could want what they want. Saved or lost The discipline the child has of growing that we need to put away these childish things is not to be self-absorbed. And that is so hard. That is challenging. Because I like me. I love me. I like people that are like me. And if you're not like me, then I don't like you as much because you're not like me. That's a normal thing. Don't look at me like I got four eyeballs. There's six eyeballs or something. Eventually I probably will have four eyes. But we know these things are true. We get self-absorbed. So there in 1 Corinthians 13, 11, we need to put away these childish things and we know that we start coming to maturity when we can start beginning and the process of thinking of someone else. Now let's go back to 1 Kings 21. In 1 Kings 21, we've seen that Nahab wants Navas vineyard. That's just what he wants, verses 1 through 3. Now he's pouting like a little toddler in verses 4 through 6. Then Jezebel 's has a plan to take Naboth's vineyard, verses 7 through 15. So she has a plan. And this is why I c in my mind I keep thinking of her kind of like the mother. I know it's not, but but when I read this, it just keeps defaulting to mother Oh, you didn't get what you wanted. Oh, there's someone in your way? I will have a plan for you. Let's get you what you want. And let's see how she does this. Look at verse 7. And Jezebel his wife said unto him, Dost thou now govern the kingdom of Israel? She's asking the question, Aren't you the king? Come on, act like it. Get up off your bed. Stop pouting. Be a king. Now if it just stopped there, I'd be like, good job, Jezebel. You're doing great. Tell this little boy to get up and be a man. But it doesn't. It doesn't stop there. She gets up and she says, Arise, eat the bread, and let the hat remarry. I will give thee The vineyard of Naboth the Jezrelite. You know that vineyard you really want? I can get it for you. Oh really? That would be nice, mommy. I mean, that would be great. Wifey? You're gonna get it for me? What I really want? I mean really I've done that. What is this plan? And she begins to tell him this plan. And we see as we unfold this wrong and go through every bit of it. But she gets his ring. She gets his assent and authority from him as the king. We can look briefly at it. In the verse 8, so she wrote letters. What? In Ahab's name. What's Ahab's name? Of the king with authority, with power. She is it so she has a plan and he's in his pouting tantrum is do whatever you want. So she's implementing her plan with his authority as the king. And sent letters unto the elbers and the nobles that were in the city dwelling with Naboth. And if you read through what she does is she devises this plan with his authority and with the weight of the king. And says, I mean this is almost like one child going to mommy, doesn't get the answer she wants, goes to daddy, gets the answer he likes, and then goes back and says, now we're gonna do it this way. Well daddy said, what? And the child just used the parents. But but Daddy said, or mommy said when they're talking to Mother Sidney, because if you have a parent's authority, that gives more weight than little Johnny telling little Sally. Because the kid will be like, well, I don't care what you said. But if the kid says, but dad said, then it carries more weight. Why? Because there's authority. There's a little more power there. That is exactly what Jezebel is doing. She's taking the weight and authority of the king to implement her plan. Why? So he can get what he wants, and what he wants is contrary to the word of God. So that's where we see the contrast of do we want God's word or do we want what we want? And here, her plan is to take it by force. And what she does, so she writes these letters and she gathers these people and she really sets him up. She hires these two witnesses before him. She says, and set two men, the sons of Belial, those are good honest guys. before him who bear witness against him saying this these so they're basically going to make up lies before him to blaspheme God and and notice it's capital G there That thou just blaspheme God and the king and then carry him out and stone him that he may die. So they're setting him up. They're creating this story. And here's what I find very interesting. That is very dangerous. So Ahab is pouting because he wants that land. Can't have it because God's word says Leviticus 25, okay, you can't get you can't sell it, and you know there's it's not going to work. So he's not just talking temporarily. Ahab was saying, I want it outright. You're never getting this back. And that's what Namot is like, nope, not happening, not doing it. She comes up with a plan to get him what he wants. But here's what's very interesting about this When she says, I will get it for you, and then she starts implementing this plan. When she says in verse 10 , Blaspheme that thou dost blaspheme God and the king, and then carry him out and stone him that he may die. Where is she getting this? Where did Queen Jezebel get the thought, okay, if we could get him to blaspheme against God, blasphemy against Jehovah, then we have the right. To kill him, to stone him. Where did she get that? Do you know where she got that? Leviticus chapter 24. A couple of verses before 25, it talks about the land. So in Leviticus 24, by verse 16, it says And he that blaspheme the name of the Lord, he shall surely be put to death. And all the congregation shall surely stone him. As well as the stranger, as he that is born in land, when he blasphemeth the name of the Lord, shall be put to death. Do you see what's taking place here? We don't care about what God's word says about the land. But when I want something bad enough, I don't care. I disregard God's word. But if I really want what I want, you know what? I'm going to take a part of God's word. And I'm going to use it to my benefit. So I'm going to use the king's authority and I'm going to use God's word. Because if we can get him to blasphemy against God, um we're going to tell people that he did, and then we're going to stone for that, because then stoning a blasphemer is Okay in front of the people. It's a worthy cause, even though we set up the whole thing. She is manipulating and using the Word of God to accomplish her own goal. In fact, not even her goal, just to satisfy the wants and desire of her pouting husband. They're going against God's word, but then they're using God's word. This would be similar to today. You know one of the most common phrases today that people will use that's Bible? You can't judge me. Oh, really? I like to take them to the verse in 1 Corinthians where it says, a spiritual man judges all things. Hmm, wait a minute. You can't judge me. Okay, Matthew 7, we're familiar with that. But then The Bible in first friends says a spiritual man judges all things. You mean I can't determine right versus wrong? It's called context, and we went through Matthew 5. Pastor's gone through that. Okay, you have to look at the context. But people will use the word of God to manipulate it to get their own wants to get their own desires. So what's happening is you have God 's word versus my wants. What do we want? What do we desire? And it's hard because each of us want what we want. We love self. And so she is taking God's word to her own benefit. So she'll give credit to some of God's word. And so here she's playing the middle. She's using it to her own advantage. Do we do this? I like this verse over here. So I'm going to take this out and I'm going to use it against this person over here, lifting it out of context. Disregarding and even unbelievers. I'm sure that everyone says, oh, you can't judge me. Do they even care about what the Word of God says? Are they concerned about the whole entirety and the whole counsel of God's word? Or are they just like a phrase? You know what the Bible says that there is no God? Yeah. Do you know what the context says? Yeah, the fool has said in his heart, there is no God But the Bible says there is no God, so the Bible still says there's no God. I mean you can just take a little I mean you can do this tons of all over the place with different things. That's what's taking place. We can do the same thing. We must be careful. We must take all of it and use it for God's glory, knowing that it's God's word. This is why I said at the beginning, these aren't just cute little stories that we share with little kids. Do we give God's weight the authority that it deserves? As not just black and some red words on a white page that's like reading, well, we don't read newspapers anymore. But articles, whatever you read online or podcasts, we listen to things. God's word should have authority above these things. And that's why when I read God's word, I feel like I can relax in part because I just know that it's true and it's accurate. When I read anything else, you always have to read, you know, is this right? Is this wrong? Is this opinion? You could be a little bit critical. When it comes to God's word, I don't feel like I have to do that. I really feel free. I just take it for what it says, and I know that that is the truth by which everything else I believe and make my decisions are based around. That's not what Jezebel is doing here. She's manipulating and using power in the position to steal from others, to get others to lie, to stone a man just so now that they're available. I mean this is incredible. But we must continue. So what is the conclusion of this little section? So in verse 15, and it came to pass when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned. and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Nabah, the Jezreelite. Which he refused to give thee for money. We tried to offer him. He should have listened, but he didn't, so we took care of him. Okay. So he should have given us the money, but he didn't, for Nabath is not alive but dead. So a couple times there it says he's dead. It's like he he fell to his death and so he died. Okay, thank you. He's definitely dead. Killed until he was dead. Verse 16. Here we're going to see our last section that we'll look at that briefly. So Ahab wants Naboth's vineyard. Ahab pouts over Naboth's vineyard. You have Jezebel's plan to take Naboth's vineyard. And then lastly Ahab and Elijah meet at Nabath 's vineyard. In verse 16, it came to pass when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead. That Ahab arose to go down the vineyard at Naboth Jezreite to take possession of it. Oh, he's so excited. I get it. Alright, Jezebel, she's the greatest wife ever. She just gives me whatever I want. I just love that. And you know what? That is appealing. Don't we like people because they give us what we want? I like that grandparent 'cause they give me what I want for Christmas. Oh, do we have to go to that person's house really? I mean that uncle or that aunt, they o it's it's socks every year. I mean who needs socks every year? I mean can I get something cool? Can I just get a gift card? Give me something from like Amazon gift card or something, you know, whatever So he said, great, this is wonderful. I'm gonna go take the land. I really wanted it and I have a great wife. And she did all this stuff. That's so great. I just gave her my ring and the letters and said, do it. She did it. Wonderful, great, it's exciting. But look what happened, verse 17 And the word of the Lord came to Elijah the Tishbite saying, Arise. Go down to meet Ahab, king of Israel, which is in Samaria. Behold, he is in the vineyard of Nabath, whither he has gone down to possess it. So God steps onto the scene. He thinks he's getting away with it. He thinks he's going to possess this land, and this is all wonderful and great. The challenge here is God knows different. He knows what's going on. You can't fool God. You can't trick him. You can't get around these things. So he goes to the vineyard. The Lord talks to Elijah. Meets him there. And he says, Behold, he's gone to possess it. And speak unto him, verse 19. Thus saith the Lord, Hast thou killed and also taken possession? So God tells Elijah, go here. This is what happened. Elijah now confronts Ahab. Now in Ahab for a second, when you see Ahab and he's so excited, he's in his field, he's observing, you know, looking at his new field that he's gonna get for himself that he really wanted. Then he sees that dreaded Elijah come. Every time that guy comes on, he's either going to tell me it's a drought, he's going to kill my prophets What's he gonna tell me this time? That just made a good day go bad really quick. I can only imagine just what he's thinking. When he see Elijah's coming up, he's thinking this is probably not gonna be good. And sure enough he says, you know what? You're a murderer. You're a thief. It reminds me a lot of Nathan, the prophet, before King David. Thou art the man. You stole. You killed. Now, but wait a minute. Ahab didn't do it. Jezebel did. Jezebel, with the king's authority and his ring and his name, accomplished this end. So who gets the credit for the murder? Ahab, the pounting toddler that didn't get what he wants. So God uses Elijah to confront him and said, you're a murderer. You are stealing. This is not right. Look at verse 20. And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? And he answered, I have found thee. Because thou hast sold thyself towards evil in the sight of the Lord. You found me again. Yeah, ye evil worker. God has to tell me to come to you, to tell you again, this is not right. You're doing evil in the sight of the Lord. Look down at verse 22. And will make thine house like the house of Jeroboam, the son of Nabat. That didn't end well. And like the house of Visha, the son of Hijah. For the provocation wherewith thou hast provoked me to anger and made Israel to sin. Okay, not good. Look down at verse 25 But there was none like Ahab, which did sell himself to the work of wickedness in the sight of the Lord, whom Jezebel his wife stirred up He did very abominably in following idols according to all things as did the Amorites, whom the Lord cast out for the children of Israel. So he's continuing to do wicked. He's going the wrong way. He's living against God's word. He wants what he wants, and that's the way he's living his life. But here's what's amazing. After hearing the message that God is going to bring judgment upon him and you are going to die a death. And it gets a little graphic in here about dogs licking up and he's going to die in the same manner or in the same place. But here's what I find very interesting at the end of this chapter. So he's done evil in the sight of the Lord. He's continuing to do evil. He gets confronted by the prophet. How does he respond? How does this whiny, pouting, toddler Grown man, how is he acting and responding to this message? Look in verse 29. Seeing how thou, how Ahab humbled himself before me. Because he hath humbled himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days, but in his son 's days, why bring the evil upon his sons house. He's not completely getting away with it, but you know what I see here? When Ahab humbles himself, he gets to see and experience God's grace. No matter how evil or wicked you are. Isn't that this is kind of a hard one sometimes to swallow. This man did evil. He did wicked. He listened to this horrible woman and did all that and lied and commit murder. But you know at the end of the day When he humbled himself, he realized, okay, this wasn't good. And he humbled himself before the Lord. And you know what God did? God extends grace. Now, if God is going to extend disgrace to this wicked king who lusts this even more wicked queen. To accomplish his wants and desires, and they're doing evil in the sight of the Lord above all these things. Yet at the end, what does God do? This is incredible. You would think, let him have it. Call down fire again. And yet he gets grace. He says, listen, I'm going to delay this. He's not completely getting away with it. And to hurt a king, you go after his son. Because he wants to pass it off. That's what got Pharaoh too, is it not? All these things to his kingdom, what got Pharaoh to crack a little bit was taking his son, taking the next generation away from him. That's what's taking place here. But we see God's grace as he humbles himself. So if God is going to do that, if we humble ourselves before God and we are in a pouty, no good, God, I got c I just want what I want. But if we come before God, I am sorry for being so selfish. I do need to think of others. I do need to give more weight to God's word than my own wants. Do you know how I think God's going to respond to that? I think he's going to respond very kind and gracious. That's a great example that we see here. If something's completely getting away with it, and he's still going to die, and that is going to happen. But he said here he's going to delay a lot of evil for his son So are do we use power position even as a parent or at work for personal gain? Are we doing it at the expense of others? Are we not giving God's word the weight that we should? Or are we just acting very childish and selfish to get what I want, regardless of what anyone, even God's word? instructs us to do. Father, we are so thankful for this day. And would this not just be a story that we read? But it would be your words to our hearts as the Spirit of God works in each one of us to work his way. Help us to be obedient to your word. And it is so hard for us. To put others above self. Would you help us and would you be gracious to us when we fall and when we stumble? That if we humble ourselves That your grace and your love is there to help us out. And Father, we thank you for your word and ask you to have your way in each one of us. And we do this. For the honor and glory of Jesus Christ, as we do our best to be in obediently obey your word. Amen.