Let's all turn together to the book of the Psalms. And this morning we will be addressing Psalm 48 and on our first Sundays of each month. We generally have the Lord's table, and then we also spend time in one of the Psalms. So the psalm that we're working through this morning is one that is very rich, it is very practical. In fact, if you can remember back over the last several months, we've looked at Psalm 46, 47, and 48 now, and they all kind of fit together, dealing with the same ultimate concept, and that is God's faithfulness. So this morning as we read this text, we're going to look at the faithfulness of God, His loving kindness, and we're going to be challenged to not forget our Father's loving kindness. Let's go ahead and put up in verse number one. It says, Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God and in the mountain of his holiness. Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth is Mount Zion on the sides of the north, the city of the great king. God is known in her palaces for a refuge. For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together, they saw it, and so they marveled. They were troubled and hasted away. Fear took hold upon them, and pain as of a woman in travail. Thou breakest the ships of Tarshus with an east wind. As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our God. God will establish it forever. Selah We have thought on thy loving kindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple. According to thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth. Thy right hand is full of righteousness. Let Mount Zion rejoice. Let the daughters of Judah be glad because of thy judgments. Walk about Zion. Go round about her, tell the towers thereof, mark ye well her bulwarks, and consider her palaces, that ye may tell it to the generation following. For this God is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even unto death. Let's bow together for prayer this morning. Father, would you take your word and minister to every heart this morning? You know the burdens that are carried in each heart. You know the challenges, you know the struggles that are going on and how we think about life and our circumstances. Perhaps even how we think about you. And so I pray that this morning as we dig into this text, you would open our heart our hearts and open our eyes to the tremendous truths that are being unpackaged in this psalm. As we think about it in its historic context, as we think about what was going on in the minds of the people, as they saw a mighty army gathered against them, and then as they reflected on your tremendous deliverance. May we learn, as they learned, how great you are, how faithful you are, how good you are. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. The text in front of us is a very interesting text because it is obviously being written in the midst of both test and triumph. Those two things go together in the passage in front of us. And before we start working our way through the various pieces of this psalm, I want to remind you of some things about life that in fact They're not contradictory, but they are, in fact, things that are a bit difficult sometimes for us to wrap our minds around. For instance, we think about the purification of gold. How does that happen? Well, the gold has to pass through fire. And the hotter the gold gets, the more the impurities are removed from that gold, and it is both tested And it demonstrates its true quality, and in fact, it is even purified in the fire. Or we think about how someone gets stronger or faster. Well, the way that people get stronger and faster, the way that muscle is built and endurance is strengthened, it's developed in the gym. It's developed under the load of weights. It's developed over that consistent pattern of running and training and putting our body through the difficulties and the tests of physical endurance. You do not get purified gold without heats. You do not get strength without tests. We even think about maturity. How is maturity shaped in people? It happens through time. It happens through living through challenging circumstances. In fact, it even happens through suffering. And so the way that a person matures is they have to go through suffering and time, and they have to process those things in the way that God intended them to process. I would think about human relationships. How do human relationships become built strong? Well, they happen through trust that is built. They happen through tensions that we work through. We build bridges. We develop an understanding of one another. We find middle ground. We put uh the the interest of our relationship ahead of our own personal whimsical desires. In fact, the way that relationship is built It's through trouble many times. It's through struggle. It's through tension that we're willing to work through. That's how good things that have real value are developed in life. My question is, how do you know that God is faithful? The answer is, well, he tells you. But how do you know? How do you know in experience that God is good and faithful and reliable? The answer is you have to be tested. And what's amazing about the psalm in front of us is that it gives us a beautiful analogy, a beautiful example from the history of God's people, the nation of Israel. of how God's word was tested and it demonstrated that in fact it is absolutely reliable. What God said he does. And these people testified to that. I'd like to summarize the Psalm in front of us in the following way: God uses life's darkest moments to persuade us that He is good, that His promises are sure. And his care is personal. In fact, there is a movement there. We have goodness that's general. We have the surety of his promises. That's specific. But when we talk about his care being personal, that is as personal as and as specific as you can get. It's not just that God is there, but God cares about you. And we're going to see that in the text in front of us. As we work our way through these truths, I hope that you will see that we should never forget how good God is and how He has proven Himself. So with that, let's move our way through the Psalm. First thing I want you to notice is found in verses one through three, and that is that God is good. Look at what it says in those verses. It says, great is the Lord and greatly to be praised in the city of our God. And then we skip down a few statements and he says, God is known in her palaces for a refuge. Now those statements are statements of truth about what the psalmist believes about God. You could almost say that that is his doctrine. This is his worldview. This is how he views God. Maybe it would be fair for me to ask the question, how do you view God? Do you view him as good? Do you view him as wise? Do you view him as sovereign? Do you feel him, view him as being personally involved in your life? Well the reality is that this text in front of us tells us what he is actually like, not what we think he's like, or what we're afraid he's not like or what we hope he's like, but what he's actually like. The psalmist doctrine is built on truth. Notice the details here. Verse 1, it says that he is great. Great is the Lord, greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness. The primary focus of this psalm, before we get to God's faithfulness and how sure his promises are, is the fact that he is a God of infinite power. And this God of infinite power has promised. And this God of infinite power has brought you into relationship with him. And he's made promises to you. And based on those promises to you, he is able to accomplish what he says. He will do. That is where the psalm starts. God's greatness. In fact, I think of some statements that are made in the Old Testament that really highlight this. You know the story of David when he goes out to fight Goliath? Why did David go to fight Goliath? Was it because he wanted to become a national hero? The answer is no. He went out because in his heart There was this deep passion for the glory of God to not be diminished in any way by the blasphemous statements of Goliath. And so we see in the words of David, 1 Samuel chapter 17, verse 45, I come to thee in the name of the Lord of hosts. The God is the uh of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied, this day will the Lord deliver thee into my hand. I will smite thee, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. Why did David go out to fight Goliath? Because he was passionate about God. And he knew God's greatness and he knew God's power. And he said, I cannot stand stand for the kinds of things that I'm hearing. What's the point? He's great. But there's a secondary focus here, and that is that God's greatness is stated in the context of a covenant relationship with his people. Listen to what the scripture says in Deuteronomy chapter 7 verse 9. Know therefore that the Lord thy God, he is God. He is the faithful God Which keepeth covenants and mercy with them that love him, and keepeth his covenants to a thousand generations So it's not just that he's great, but it's that this great God has taken you and he's brought you into relationship with him. That is at the core of the thinking of the psalmist. And then the second thing that we see that's mentioned in these verses is the way that God has so richly blessed this city, the city of Jerusalem, which was the center of not just, we could say, the capital of Israel, but it was also the center of of the worship of God. In verse 2 he says, beautiful for situation. Literally, the idea is if you see the city, it is set up on those hills and is this beautiful location. It is the joy of the whole earth. Fascinating statement. In Mount Zion on the sides of the north is the city of the great king. He focuses in on the beautiful situation of the city where it is set. He talks about it being a place where all the nations will come. In fact, when he talks about this being the joy of the whole earth, I'm going to tell you that that's something that is still needing to be fulfilled. It's something we are still anticipating. In fact, when we read the book of Revelation, it talks about how during the kingdom era, all the nations will flock to this city to worship the God of heaven, the Lord Jesus Christ. as he sits upon the throne of his father David. Why will they come? Because that is the center of focus where God is dwelling. It's also a place that will be ruled by the greatest king in history. It is the city of the great king. Not just a great king, the great king. Who is that? That's Christ. I think about Psalm 24 verse 7. Lift up your heads, O ye gates. Be lifted up ye everlasting doors. The King of glory shall come in. Who is this King of Glory? He is the Lord strong and mighty, the Lord mighty in battle. It's talking about Christ. That is who is at the center of this statement, that all the joy of the whole earth will be focused on this city. the city of the great king. Or Psalm 22, verse 27, all the ends of the earth will remember and turn unto the Lord, and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee, for the kingdom is the Lord's And he is the governor over all the nations. I want to remind you that this God is not just the God of the Jewish people. He's not just the God of the Old Testament saints. He's not just the God of the first century Christians He is the God of the peoples of all the nations who have turned in faith alone to Christ and are standing alone in his righteousness. and in his finished work, who are forgiven and cleansed and righteous in him. This is talking about you and me. That awesome to think about. But here's another interesting statement that is going to be developed later on in this psalm. He, that king, is her refuge. God is known in her palaces for refuge. Now what is the worldview that caused the psalmist to write what he wrote. And I know he's writing scripture. So he's being moved by the Holy Spirit. But the reality is it's not just that he's writing something that he's not thinking about. No, no, no. He is thinking. He is engaged. He is writing with an understanding of certain truths about God. And that is why he writes what he writes. The fact is his worldview was shaped by God's relationship to these people. For instance, God's covenant faithfulness to Abraham, Genesis 12. He says, Get out of this country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house unto a land that I will show thee. I will make of thee a great nation, I will bless them that bless thee, curse them that curse thee, and through thee all the families of the earth shall be blessed. So as the psalmist is writing this thing in Psalm 48, what's in the back of his mind? We are Abraham's descendants. And those promises God made to our forefather Abraham, they apply to us. We think about the land where that city Jerusalem sets. In Genesis 15, verse 18, it says. . In the same day the Lord made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed . have I given this land from the river of Egypt unto the river of the river Euphrates. Isn't that pretty amazing to think about? So from the Euphrates River all the way to the Nile River, that land God has given to Abraham's descendants Pretty awesome to think about. God's character is on the line. He's going to do it. And we think about this other statement. In Deuteronomy chapter 7, verses 7 through 8, where God has called out, He has elected this people to be His people. He says, the Lord did not set His love on you, nor choose you, because you were more in number. than any people, you were the fewest of all the people, but because the Lord loved you, and because he would keep the oath which he had sworn unto your fathers. Do you know what he's saying in those verses? He's saying to these people who are about to enter the land, God didn't choose you because you're good, because you're strong, because you're noble, because you're mightier than the other nations. He chose you. Because he made promises. And those promises will be kept. And you are the descendants of Abraham, and he has set his love on you because he's faithful. That's what he means. And so as we think about these statements in verses 1 through 3, it's all about proclaiming the goodness of God. He wants our knowledge to move from just an academic knowledge, though, to something that is personal and practical. And that moves us to the second part of this song. And that is that God's promises are sure. Now what I mean by sure is this. When God says it You can stand on it and you shouldn't be shaken from it. I didn't say you can't be shaken. We all can, but you shouldn't be shaken. Why is that? Because what God has promised, He will do. What God has promised, He is able to accomplish. There's nothing that catches God off guard. There's nothing that He goes, Well, I didn't see that coming. What am I gonna do? I've got to auto-correct here. He can't do that. He's a God who knows everything. He's a God who can do whatever he chooses, and if he promises, he will do it. And so we see this being laid out in the next portion of this psalm. Verses 4 through 8. But I want you to focus your attention on what is really the key to this section and also the key to the entire Psalm. And that is in verse number 8. Notice what it says. It says, as we have heard, so have we seen. Did you catch that? As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, in the city of our gods, God will establish it forever. Selah. Now this is important that we don't miss this. The psalmist is saying, I don't want you to just have this academic knowledge of God where you can answer a test or you can give a defense of some doctrinal statements about God. I want you to believe it so thoroughly that you act on it as if it is actually true. I want what you know and affirm about God to shape your passions. to shape your heart. I want you to love God. I want you to rest in him. I want you to delight in him. I want you to worship him. I don't want you to just be parroting off information. I want you to know this God personally and have a deep affection for him. How many Christians, the only reason they attend church is because they feel guilty if they don't How many Christians, the only reason they read the Bible is because they feel like if I don't check this off on my list, I will fail with the commitment that I made in January, my uh January New Year's resolution. And and and and they're they're just they're doing it because they're meeting a commitment. How many Christians that get up and they sit their kids down like, okay, I know I'm supposed to do devotions with my kids, so what can I come up with today? Or I know I'm supposed to pray, so I think I need to pray. I know I'm supposed to sing, so I'm gonna do my best to make it happen. That is not where we should live our lives. There's something deeply wrong in our hearts if we're simply going through the motions out of nothing more than duty. We should love God. We should rest in Him. We should delight in Him. We should worship Him. When we sing these hymns, there's no reason why we shouldn't be able to stand here as a congregation. And our hearts are lifted up with tremendous joy to God because these songs are rich. And these truths are deep, and these promises are true. And so what does the psalmist do? He gives us an interesting analogy, this illustration from the history of Israel, something that I believe they probably just lived through when the Psalms were written. And we see evidence of this in Psalm 46, we see evidence of this in Psalm 47, and then again in Psalm 48. They all go together because they are the reflections of the psalmist on what they have just lived through. Now, what is this illustration that he uses that is so vivid on the minds of the people? Well, this is an example of God demonstrating that in fact he keeps his people. He protects them. He preserves them. He's going to fulfill the promises he has made. Look down in verse number four at what it says. It says the kings were assembled and they passed by together. Now we don't know when this took place in the history of Israel. We don't know if this is the Philistines coming against David. Or the Assyrians coming against Hezekiah, or the Egyptians coming against Josiah. We don't know if this is Jehoshaphat standing there and seeing the Moabites and the Ammonites and the Edomites and they're filling the valleys. and they're coming to lay siege on Jerusalem. Whatever example it is, this is a moment in the history of these people when they saw these armies encamped around Jerusalem and they could see that they were setting a siege on the city. And they were concerned that they were going to get choked out and they were going to starve in their city. They were going to see some of the greatest atrocities that they had ever heard of. The things that they had heard of in these other cities, it's going to happen to them like they had heard it had happened to those other places. And they know that when the city is weakened and the people are sick, and they're starving to death, then their enemies will come over those walls and they'll wipe out everybody and who they want to take, they'll take and they'll destroy the city. In the back of these people's minds, as they see this siege being laid, they ask the question, what happened to God defending his people? Is there any way that we escape this tragic, painful, miserable end? And they wondered. It's interesting. We spent some time the last couple times we're in these Psalms looking at the story of Hezekiah. There's another story. that may very well fit into this situation. And that is when the Moabites, the Ammonites, and the Edomites laid siege in the days of Jehoshaphat. But in both the Hezekiah account and in the Jehoshaphat account, what we see is that God intervened when the people prayed. And the people fasted and they got on their knees before God in humility and they said, if deliverance doesn't come from you, we're all going to die. God, will you fulfill your word? And guess what? He did. Their response is one of great panic. Verses 5 and 6. They saw it. They marveled, they were troubled, they hasted away, fear took hold on them, there in pain as of a woman in travail. When it says they saw and they marveled and they troubled and they feared. The truth is, I don't know if this is talking about the people in the city or the people when God dealt with them who were outside of the city. But either way What it's showing you is that these are people who are in the most desperate of circumstances. And there are times in our lives where we live through circumstances that are so painful. And so frustrating. And we have such a lack of clarity that we go and we look at God and we say, are you there? Are you good? Are you sovereign? Are your promises trustworthy? You say we really do that? Yeah, it's sad, but true we do. And what do we see in these verses? His faithful deliverance is always an awesome deliverance. In verse 7, he says, thou breakest the ships of Tarshus with an east wind. Now what's very interesting about these verses is he talks about how the people respond in the circumstances, and then he uses these This very metaphorical language. For instance, ships of Tarshus were things that were built by the Phoenicians. The Phoenicians were a very prosperous seafaring group of people. They were very involved in industry and trade and they moved all over the Mediterranean world. They were a powerful people, they were an affluent people, they were an influential people. And he says those massive ships We're just dashed to pieces when God said it's time. Many times in the Old Testament refers to an east wind. An east wind is the description of something that is happening that is very harsh. A scorching wind from the wilderness. Kind of interesting. Where your wind comes from actually kind of dictates a little bit about your weather. For instance, think about the winter time. You know what a nor'easter is. I love snow and blizzards. And uh every year during the winter season I'm tracking storms. My wife always laughs about this. I'm tracking the storms. And I'm in a for days, it's on my radar. I'll I'll come into the office and people always laugh. They're like, oh, here he goes again. Hey, there's a chance of a snowstorm in a week. Hey, did you hear in three days we might have a snowstorm? But here's what it comes down to. The track of that storm is everything. Because if you're on the wrong side of the track you're either going to get all this moisture and warmer air on the east side of the storm, or you're going to be on the west side of the storm where it's pulling in all of this Cold Arctic air. And guess what? If you're on the west side, you get a lot of snow. And if you're on the east side, guess what? You get a lot of rain. And here you get you get snow and then you get rain and then everybody's, you know, teeth and then it get it gets ice at the end. You know what I'm talking about? about. This is Maryland weather. Well when they talk about an east wind, they're talking about a wind that comes from the wilderness, the hot, dry desert, a scorching wind. Why does he use this language? It's to simply say this. The strongest, the wisest, the most ambitious, when God says stop there, it's going to end. When God decides it's time to intervene, He will, and nothing can stop this. And you know what? This is what they live through. God sometimes allows us to get back to a corner, not because he's cruel and harsh and vindictive, but because he knows it is a necessary part of the process that refines us. and shapes us and builds us and drives us humbly to him. Then we see the godly man's experience in verse 8. As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the Lord of hosts, God will establish her forever Selah. What is he saying? What I know is now what I've experienced. It's like a person who's heard the gospel And they hear the gospel coming to them over and over and over again. You are a sinner, you are separated from God. There is no way you can come into the presence of a holy and righteous God as one who is a sinner. You need a redeemer. You need a savior. You need someone who can remove your sin debt. You need someone who can declare you righteous. And so what does the Bible say? Ephesians 2. 8. 9. By grace We are saved through faith. It is not of ourselves. It is the gift of God. It is not of works, lest any man should boast. And so you have this person who hears the gospel and they feel the weight of their sin. They say, I know I'm a sinner. I know I'm separated from God. I feel the weight of that. I feel the guilt of that. I feel the emptiness of that. And someone says, well, why don't you trust Christ? Not yet. Not yet. You meet with them again. You go through the same simple message. You talk through it. You say, I can see in your eyes that you are feeling the weight of these truths. Why won't you respond? Not yet. And they go on for a while. That's dangerous, by the way. Because every time you do that, you know what happens? The heart becomes a little harder. A little more calloused. And how do you know that there's another time? But when that person who has this internal turmoil that is there because the Spirit of God is driving home the truth, you are a sinner, separated from a holy God, and your only hope is the death and resurrection of Christ. And that sinner humbly turns in repentance to God and places their faith in Christ. You know what happens? This incredible turmoil becomes peace. Why? It's called experience. You have experienced what happens when you take God at His Word. And can I tell you, it's not just something that happens when we become Christians. It happens when we're fighting God in our personal walk as Christians. When we're wrestling with certain thoughts or we're wrestling with certain desires or certain patterns of life, or we're back into a situation that we cannot control. There are things that are going on that are beyond our ability to micromanage, but we're trying hard. And God says, you know what the Bible says. You know the truths of Scripture. Why won't you submit to them? Why won't you rest in them? Why won't you stand on them? And then a person finally gives in. They say, okay, I'm going to trust God. I'm going to take him at his word. And you know what God does? Calms the troubled heart. You might be here this morning and that's you. Why do you fight God? Turn to Him. He wants it to go from knowledge to experience to confidence. As we have heard, so have we seen, God will establish her forever. The psalmist knew his own history. The testimonies of the Lord are sure, making wise the simple. He had experienced God's faithfulness, and now he knows God a lot more thoroughly than he did before. I love Psalm 34. This poor man cried. And the Lord heard him and saved him out of all his troubles. The angel of the Lord encampeth round about them that fear him and delivereth them. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man that trusteth in him. You know the old saying, you can bring a horse to water, but you can't make him drink? You can give a Christian the truth, but you can't make them embrace it. And so what does God want? What is the passion of the psalm? God wants us to go from knowledge academic to experience. And then he wants us to go from experience to glorying in the fact that God has taken a personal interest in the individual who is so unworthy. And so that moves us to our third truth. His care is personal. Verses 9 through 14 describe the response after the event has taken place. I don't know about you, but maybe there's a situation in your life where you were backed into a corner, you didn't know how something was going to work out, and you felt the pressure of it, and it was a long duration kind of a season, and over that whole period of time, it wasn't the intensity of a moment. It was the prolonged tension of a season that really weighed you down. You ever been there? You say, I'm there now. Maybe you are, I don't know. But when you pass through that season and you come to the other side and you see how God has worked and you have learned something There's rest that comes on the other side of that. And there are certain things you've learned about God that you will not forget. That is what we're reading in verses 9 through 14. He says, walk about Zion. Go round about her. Tell the towers thereof. Mark you well her bulwarks. Consider her palaces. that you may tell it to the generation following. This is our God. That's personal. He's not just our God, but he's our God forever. And he will be our guide even unto death. There are two facts about God that I think are at the foundation of what we see here. One is that he is an awesome sovereign over all creation. Think about what it says in Daniel 4. All the inhabitants of the earth are appealed as nothing. He doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the land none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? That is God. He is high. He is holy. He is lofty. But there is another truth that is set right beside that truth of the transcendence and the greatness of God. You know what that is? That God cares about you. And that is that he takes a personal interest in broken, weary, and obscure people The vast majority of the people in this room, nobody in history will know you except the few people that you live with, that you work with, that you go to church with, and then the people that you'll interact with over the period of time God puts you on this planet. Nobody's gonna write a book about you. Nobody's gonna put together a movie about your life. Nobody's gonna talk about you in lectures of how you were an amazing person. You live, as most of us, a fairly obscure life. I'm not saying that to down anybody. There might be some exceptions in here. I don't know. Maybe some of these young kids are going to be something we don't know down the road. But here's what we see. That God cares about all of us. Psalm 103, verse 13, like a father pitieth his children. That's the same God, who none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? Like a father pities his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame, he remembereth we are dust. Isaiah 42. 3. I love this statement. A brood wreaths he shall not break. A smoking flax shall he not quench. When God looks at the broken and the weary, you know what he does? He comes alongside of them and he lifts them up. And this is the God of power who takes personal interest. And that's what this psalm really is all about. It's not just about the greatness of God, it's about his personal care for us. He uses all things, especially the painful and hard things, to teach us both of these lessons. And so we see the concept of reflection here. His kind providence should cause us to reflect. Verse 9. We have thought of thy loving kindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple. This is the place where God met with his people. This is the place where his glory was revealed. This is the place where there was a continual reminder that you are sinners and you cannot come into the presence of a holy God without the substitutionary death of an animal pointing to Jesus. And every time they came to that temple, they see the loftiness of God and the greatness of God and the glory and the transcendence of God, but also the personal care of that God. who promised a savior. And they were reminded that redemption was coming every time they thought on what was happening in that place. And then there's this reaffirmation. These moments should reaffirm our confidence in him. Verse 10 According to Thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth. Thy right hand is full of righteousness. He is the I am, He's eternal. He's self-existent. He doesn't change. He created all things and he sustains all things. And that God cares about us. Then that moves us to rejoicing. This strength and confidence should result in everlasting joy. Verse 11, let Mount Zion rejoice, and the daughters of Judah be glad because of thy judgments. But what does that leave us with? A resolve to tell people about him. We cannot allow ourselves to forget this kindness. In verses 12 and 13 he says, walk about Zion, go round about her, tell the towers thereof, mark well her bulwarks, consider her palaces. Put down these reminders. Interact with what God has done. It's like when the children of Israel came into the land of promise and they passed through the Jordan River. What did God do? He had twelve elders of the twelve tribes go and take these massive boulders and put them in a heap. And the reason that heap was there was to remind that generation You walked right through that river on dry land. And when their children said, how did those stones get there? They say, We walked through on dry land. And when their children and their children say What's the deal with all those stones? How did they get there? You say, well, your great-grandfather walked through on dry land. And when you and I have lived through God demonstrating his faithfulness, we need to plant some kind of memorial to remind ourselves of what he's done. Write it down. Do something to remind yourself of his ways. Tell your children what he's done, verse 13, that he may tell it to the generation following. Glory in him forever. This is our God forever and ever. He will be our guide even until death. You know, every generation is going to have opportunities to know God, not just to know about Him, but to know Him. We cannot live on the coattails of our parents or our grandparents. And some of you go, thank God because they weren't Christians. Well they weren't very strong Christians. Man, I could never live like they were. They were so faithful. You and I can't live on their coattails. But we can build on their foundation. If they have learned and they teach, we can interact with what they leave for us as a legacy, and then we will have to experience God's ways very personally ourselves. This passage gives a simple testimony, God is faithful. So how do we apply it? First of all, I'll mention there might be someone who is either here or listening on the live stream. You're not a Christian. And there's one very simple application: turn to Christ and be reconciled to God. The fact is that there are people potentially in our midst or listening on the live stream that when he says he is our God forever and ever. He will even be our guide until death. You can't say that because he's not your God. You've never placed your faith in Christ. There is no personal relationship between you and God. He is your savior and he is your Lord because you've never turned to him. The secular worldview is empty. All a person has is what's right in front of them. It's dark. There is no standard outside of self. It's filled with guilt. There are no answers to the guilt problem. You know, you don't, it's not just Christians that have a conscience, folks. Everybody has a conscience. And the world says, I don't know what to do with this, I'm feeling in my heart. And the answer is turn to Christ. Let him lift that burden off of your heart. Let him forgive you, make you his child. The secular worldview is fatalistic. There's no order to the flow of history. But folks, that's not the truth. There is hope in Christ. There is value. Our lives have value. We were made in the image of God. We can know God and we can enjoy Him forever. There's not darkness, there's light. There's an infallible standard, and God is that standard. We don't have to wallow in the guilt or conceal it or hide it or try to cover it. We can deal with it through the cross. Forgiveness. Our guilt is real because we have to answer to God. He has provided himself everything to forgive our sin. And may I tell you, this is not a fatalistic world. We have a God of providence. And the reality is that history is complicated, but it is filled with unmistakable testimonies to God's merciful intervention for the good of humanity. This nation has experienced it. Our forefathers have experienced it. We experience it. And until Christ returns, he's going to continue to work in and through the lives of people. If you're not a Christian, turn to Christ. But then what about those who are believers? And that's the vast majority, maybe all of us. We should never forget how he has proven himself. We need to be prepared to face hardships that will test our faith because God will use those things to build us. We need to remember that each test is a platform for God to demonstrate his faithfulness. These times of his gracious are his gracious tools to train us. And shape us and strengthen us in the faith. So let's be diligent on the study of his word Let's ask him to open our eyes to see what he's doing. Let's take the time to learn what he is trying to teach us. Let's remember how he's worked. Let's interact with God's demonstrations of faithfulness. And let's rejoice in his good purposes in our lives May God use this to prepare our hearts to remember the Lord Jesus Christ, who is the center of all this. If it wasn't for his sacrifice, we would be without hope in this world. But he has died, he has risen, and he has redeemed us to the Father. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we are so grateful that this psalm has been laid before us this morning by your good hand. And I pray that the things that we have seen And heard, we would experience them. Father, minister to hearts this morning. You know every burden and care. You know what we needed to hear and how we need to respond. And so I pray that you would grip our souls This morning with how we should respond to the word. Those who do not know you as Savior, may they turn humbly to you in repentance and faith. Those who are your children, may we be strengthened By what we have heard in your word this morning, as we take time to remember and reflect on the death of Christ, his body broken, his blood shed. for the remission of our sins. May these truths so deeply warm our hearts that when we leave this place, we are uplifted and strengthened by your personal care for us. We ask it in Christ's name