I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to 1 Peter chapter 1, or excuse me, chapter 2, and for our children ages 4 to 7, you may be dismissed. to the back for junior church. 1 Peter chapter 2. And for those of you who might be visiting with us or maybe have not been here for a few weeks, we've been working verse by verse through the book of 1 Peter. And we've come to a very important section, and I know it's a little bit longer than the sections that I typically preach on, but I wanted us to read it in its entirety because it really has one primary thought And we're actually going to deal with this section in two parts. So today we'll look at part one, and then the next time we come to this text, we'll look at part two. First Peter chapter two, I'll begin reading in verse five. Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ Wherefore also it is contained in the scriptures, behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious, he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you, therefore, which believe, he is precious. But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner a stone of stumbling, a rock of offence, even unto them which stumbled at the word, which being disobedient, one to also they were appointed. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into this marvelous light, which in times past were not a people But are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. When we come to this passage of Scripture, the primary thought really is this statement, you're now the people of God And when he says you're now the people of God, that means there was a day when you weren't the people of God, and there were certain implications for the fact that you were not a part of the people of God. Basically, this section that we're dealing with, verses 5 to 10, is kind of the foundation for what he's going to say in the verses that follow, verses 11 and on. He's basically going to talk about ways that the Christian is supposed to live in this fallen world. And the truth is that we as Christians are to live very distinctly, very differently than the world around us. It's not that we're trying to be different. It's that the world around us has a different value system. The world around us has a different guiding principle when it comes to what is inside of them and what is motivating them to do the things that they do and say the things that they say. The fact is we as God's people who are regenerated, we have new life in Christ. We have the presence of the Holy Spirit inside of us have a new system of values that God places within our heart as we grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. those values begin to cement deeply into our heart. And the way that we live this life becomes very distinct. It becomes very different than the way that we lived before our conversion. So you might ask the question, what exactly is the main point or the main purpose of this passage of Scripture beyond this phrase, you're now the people of God? I'll put it like this. The purpose of the section was to remind these Christians that their new position in Christ was full of rich blessings. And we're going to emphasize today a couple of those rich blessings that we have as Christians. And two, the humbling purposes that God has through us for his glory. The fact is that God has blessed every person in this room who is a child of God with every spiritual blessing in heavenly places. He's put within you and he's put within me certain things that were not true about us before our conversion. And because of our new position in Christ, we have certain responsibilities. And those responsibilities are things that we couldn't do if it wasn't for our new position in Christ. God wants us today to reflect together on these rich blessings. And so today and the next time we come to this passage, we're going to look at four truths about blessings that we have as Christians and how we're to relate to God as a result of those things. The first truth we'll look at this morning is this. The church forms two distinct glorious functions. I'm going to say that again. The church forms two distinct glorious functions. Now it's very interesting as we get into these passages, I think a lot of times people tend to think of them in the singular. Me as a Christian, my walk with God, this is my role. Today we're not going to look at you the individual as much as the part that you the individual plays in this corporate body, the local church. Look down with me at verse number five where we're going to see the statement that really we understand this truth from. He says this. Ye also As lively stones are built up a spiritual house. And holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Now every single word in that statement, every single phrase is extremely important and it's worth our time to look at it. I'm going to read it again. Ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. and holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. You know what's interesting when we come to the beginning of the book of 1 Peter, this is what Peter writes. Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers who are scattered throughout Pontius, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia. When he writes to these Christians, he's writing to a group of people who are scattered all throughout the Roman Empire. They were known as the Despora. Basically, a lot of these people that he's writing to had at one time lived in Jerusalem or they'd lived close to Jerusalem, and they were very familiar with the yearly routines of going up to the temple, offering sacrifice. prayer taking part in all of the various festivals that were part of the Jewish religious system. Many of the people that he's writing to were Jewish individuals who had been converted through the preaching of the gospel. And so when Paul refers to them as lively stones who are built up a spiritual house, the stones and the house that came to their mind was the temple. In fact, many of the people who were probably reading this epistle or hearing it read to them were people that had gone up to the temple many, many times. It was as familiar to them as the building we're sitting in right now in this room. You've come into this auditorium many, many times. Maybe you've sat in that exact location in this auditorium many, many times. It's practically got your name on that little section right there, okay? You're familiar with this place. When he writes this to these people, he's writing to people that were familiar with the temple. They knew what it was like to walk into the temple. They knew what it was like to hear the bleeding of the sheep. They knew what it was like to smell the sacrifices to smell the incense that was burning. They knew what was going on in that place. And when he says, you are lively stones, a spiritual house, he's referring to the temple. And that temple was a very special thing to those people. That was a place that was the center of the worship of God. Yes, God is omnipresent. He's everywhere. But it's also true that God chose to plant his presence in a very unique and special way in that building called the temple. In fact, when Solomon built that temple, the passage tells us that the glory of the Lord inhabited that place, and they had to actually leave it, and it was basically showing God's stamp. of approval. This is the location that God's people meet me every time that those people would take their sacrifices. It would remind them of their sin, the seriousness of their sin. And it would remind them that God was going to send a Redeemer who would be crushed for their sins. and would provide redemption. When he talks about this concept of a spiritual house, he's referring to his temple. And I want to begin with a preliminary thought about God's temple. When we think of the temple of God in the New Testament sense, we tend to think of it in the personal I am the temple of the Holy Spirit. Anybody ever made a statement like that? Or the Holy Spirit indwells me as an individual. And that is true, but I want you to understand, if that's your only understanding of that statement, I am the temple of the Holy Spirit, you are missing part of the doctrine that we find here. The temple of the Holy Spirit is described really in two ways in the New Testament. And for us to see that, we're going to look at a couple of passages together. The first place I want you to turn is 1 Corinthians chapter 3. In 1 Corinthians 3, verses 16 and 17, Paul refers to the individual Christian as the temple of the Holy Spirit. When you trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, when you are regenerated and you had new life in Christ, that very moment instantaneously the Holy Spirit came and he indwelled you as an individual now and throughout the rest of your life. He doesn't leave us. He permanently indwells us as his people. In fact, look at the way that he writes it in 1 Corinthians chapter 3. He says, Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you? If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy. For the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are. Now what's very interesting is in the context, he's trying to emphasize to these Christians That because they're Christians and the Holy Spirit indwells them, the way that they use their body is very, very important. God cares about the way that we treat the body. God cares about the way that we use the body. And these people living in Corinth lived in a very pagan culture, and they were very, very used to some extremely sensual activities. In fact, if we were to read about the history of Corinth, we would find out that it was a city that had a lot of immorality. Immorality that could possibly even make some people today blush. Maybe not as many as it used to, but some. And one of the things that Paul had to emphasize to this church is that when you became a Christian, there were things about you that radically changed. Your position has changed. You have a new nature inside, and you have a function, a responsibility that is very distinct. And because of that, how you use your body is important. And so he addresses the issue of fornication. And he basically says, your body is not to be used for sexual immorality. And when he uses the term fornication, the reality is that is a very general term. That refers to any kind of sexual perversion Not just one isolated kind, but anything that is apart from God's plan for sex within the bond of marriage. In order to emphasize to them how important that is He says, you are God 's temple. In other words, when you go and you sin with your body, you actually defile the very presence of where the Holy Spirit dwells. That kind of makes things a little different, doesn't it? There are some things that people have no problem doing in their house, but they'd never do them in this church Because in their mind this is a really sacred place. This is a place you don't do things like that. And he's trying to say, look, your body is God's temple. When he refers to it in this passage, in every single instance, he's referring to them as individuals, being those who house the Holy Spirit. He indwells them. But when we come to 1 Corinthians chapter 6, we're going to find that Paul actually refers to the presence of the Holy Spirit a little bit differently. And the reason that it's different is because of the context that he's addressing. In 1 Corinthians chapter 3, the context is individual. I as an individual am choosing to sin. I as an individual am beginning to make the temple of God an unclean place. But in 1 Corinthians chapter 6, he's talking about how the church as a collective body can also be defiled. And it's interesting how he refers to the church. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians 6, verse 19. Now this is something that you can't see in our English translation. You have to read Greek to be able to understand the distinction that I'm going to make. So I'm just putting that out there, just so you know. Every time that Paul refers to the people in the second person, I'm going to tell you whether or not it's singular or plural, because you won't know that reading your English translation. But how he uses that is very, very significant, and I want us to understand why. 1 Corinthians 6. 19 says this. What know ye not? That's a plural. That your body, that's a singular, is the temple, that's a singular, of the Holy Ghost, which is in you. That's plural. For ye are not your own. That's plural. Ye have been bought with a price. Excuse me, of the Holy Ghost which is in you, plural, which ye have of God, plural. Ye are not your own plural. Now this is really interesting. When Paul is talking to the church, he basically says this, every single one of you people in this congregation You individually house the Holy Spirit. He indwells you. You as individuals are his temple. And I told you that already in chapter 3, but I want to emphasize something to you about this body. Not only are you as individuals the body. that houses the Holy Spirit. But there's a sense in which the body collectively as a group also is God 's temple. In other words, it's not just that I as the individual am God's temple, but when we come together as God's church and we assemble together and we worship and we meet and we pray, And we send into the ministry of the word, and we encourage one another in the Lord, and we submit ourselves to God's word. As we join together as a collective body, His presence dwells in our midst as well. It's not just that we as individuals have independent lives, but we collectively, in one way, as we meet here today, meet as God's temple. That's why he says, all of y'all are the body singular. You are the temple, singular. The Holy Spirit is in all y'all, plural, which you have of God But you're not your own. He's emphasizing a very, very important truth. And I think that sometimes we fail to think about this When we come together and we meet as a church, we have a very sacred obligation, very sacred responsibility to recognize that we together meet and God's presence is here in our midst. In fact, Peter is making exactly that point in this verse. He says, Ye also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house. In other words, every single person in this room who is a believer, who's a part of this congregation, every person is like one block in that building where the Holy Spirit is indwelling us today. That's an amazing concept, isn't it? It kind of puts in perspective how precious it is when God's people meet together. There's a second fun first of all, I want to mention this function here. We as a collective body function as God's temple Ye as lived lively stones or built up a spiritual house. And I want to kind of talk a little bit about the significance of that for a minute. We, like the temple of old, have a special sense of God's presence. If you go to Revelation chapter 2, verse 1, this is what Jesus says to the church at Ephesus. Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus, write these things, saith he that Holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, and notice carefully the next statement. He walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks. Now when we read this passage, what we begin to understand is that the golden candlesticks are a reference to those individual churches. And when he talks about the angel or the messenger of the church, he's talking about the leadership of those churches. So basically what he's telling the church is, listen, I am in your midst when you gather together. Like that Old Testament temple. There's a special sense of God's presence here. When I think about our meeting together and I pray for our church, one of the things that I pray is that when we gather together, we will have a special sense of God's presence with us. But he'll minister to our hearts in the appropriate ways that we need. Some days we need conviction. Some days we need the comfort of the Holy Spirit Some days we just need to be taught. Some days we need to be encouraged. Some days we need to be warned. But I want God's presence. to demonstrate itself in our midst, in the way that He works in our lives as a body. The second thing is we, like the temple of old, find a special place of repentance And sacrifice and reconciliation. You know, every time we open up the Bible, what does the Bible do? It informs our mind of things. And sometimes these are things that we've forgotten. Sometimes these are things we don't know. Sometimes there are things we don't want to hear. But it's God's word, it's true. When we hear something that we don't like from God's word, we need to repent. That means the way that we think about it has to change fundamentally. When we have forgotten something, we need our minds to be drawn back to the truth We need to be freshly put into our minds. When we don't know something, we need those false ideas to be replaced by truth. All of this is a description of repentance. And when we talk about the concept of sacrifice, we are reminded every time we come to the Bible That the reason that we stand before God as clean and righteous is because of Christ's sacrifice, not our sacrifice. So repentance for the Christian points them to look at the sufficiency of Christ and what Christ has done for them. And that word reconciliation. We are reminded that we are right with God. There is peace with God, and it's through our Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, when we come to the Lord's table, this is a great time that explains exactly what we're talking about. In 1 Corinthians 11 he says, As often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death. until he comes. We do this in remembrance of him. What is the Lord's table all about? It's about demonstrating the gospel. It's about us remembering the death of Christ, how his body was broken and his blood was shed. It's about us remembering him and what he's done for us. It's about us remembering that we're sinners and we're separated from God, but his sacrifice brings redemption and reconciliation. The Lord's table should be a time of worship and joy. Unfortunately, in a lot of Baptist churches, it's like a confessional. And that's really not the intent of the Lord's table. The Lord's table is not about you beating yourself over the head. It's about looking at the one who is beaten and bloodied and crucified for you. That's why he says, you show his death till he comes. We then go on to Ephesians chapter three and verse fourteen. We like the temple of old are a place of communion with God. Paul writes, I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, unto whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named. That he would grant unto you. And he's talking to the church, you as a body, according to the riches of his glory. To be strengthened with might in his spirit in the inner man, that Christ would dwell in your hearts by faith, that ye being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all the saints the breadth and the length and the depth and the height and to know the love of God. Love of Christ which passeth knowledge, that we might be filled with all the fullness of God. Paul prayed that the church would have an intimate communion with God. And the fact is, when people came to the temple, they were reminded of the opportunity to have fellowship with God. And we as God's people gathered together as a body have that opportunity to remember that. It's a place where we worship God as a group of people. Hebrews 12 28, we receive a kingdom which cannot be moved. Let us have grace whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and fear. This thought popped in my head as I thought about this. With all of our diverse backgrounds, gifts. Personality, God put us together. If you're different than the person next to you, that's what God wanted. That's simple. You got different gifts than the person next to you. That's what God wanted. God in his providence assembled this body together, and we as one group have the opportunity to grow in grace in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. We are his temple. That's incredible to think about, is it not? Second function is this. We function as God's priesthood. Notice the phrase, you are in holy priesthood. In 2 Corinthians 5. 18, it says this, all things are of God who has reconciled us unto himself by Jesus Christ. And hath given unto us the ministry of reconciliation, to wit that God was in Christ reconciling the world unto himself, not imputing their trespasses unto them, and hath committed unto us the word of reconciliation Now we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did deceive you by us. We pray you in Christ's stead. Be ye reconciled to God. Now when we talk about a priesthood, we're basically saying this. There is a God in heaven who cannot have direct communication and fellowship with you because you have a problem. It's called sin. And in the Old Testament, God established the priesthood, which was a very selective group of people. If you were not a Jew, you couldn't be a part of the priesthood If you were not of the tribe of Levi, you couldn't be a part of the priesthood. If you were not a man, you couldn't be a part of the priesthood. If you had been injured when you were a young man, you couldn't be a part of the priesthood. If you had been in a situation where your mother and father had had you out of wedlock, you couldn't be a priest. You say that's very isolationist. That's the way God made it. But I want to tell you something. That was God 's way then God was very specific about who could stand between him and the people. By the way, if you were a priest, you couldn't do it your whole life. There's a 20-year period where you could be a priest. By the way, if you were a priest, you couldn't go into the Holy of Holies, but one time in the year And you couldn't go every year. Each priest had their own term. If you came to that time period and you were ceremonial and clean, you got passed over. Yet I want you to think about what the text says. You are a holy priesthood. He didn't say anything about being Jewish, didn't say anything about being a Levite, didn't say anything about being a man or a woman, he didn't say anything about who Who your mom and dad were, you didn't say anything about some injury that you had when you were younger He doesn't say anything about your age. He says you as a believer are the priesthood of God. That's amazing. We stand in a sacred position as God's people. We were created in God's image and for his glory and we were designed to reveal his glory to the nations. We represent his presence in a fallen and crooked world. God has chosen you and he's chosen me to represent him in this world. And sometimes I wonder why he chose us. Because we don't do it well, do we? How many people have been turned off from church because of some goofy thing we said or did? Yet God has chosen to work through us. And that's an amazing concept. We function not only as his temple, but as his priesthood. Truth number two, the church's worship is accepted because of its union with Christ. Notice what it says in the rest of the verse. He says that I've done this to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Don't worry, we don't have four points today. We only have two. Just giving you that heads up. I want you to think about that concept for just a moment We are to offer up spiritual sacrifices that are acceptable to God, but they're not acceptable because we're acceptable. They're acceptable to God because of who we're connected to, the Lord Jesus Christ. That I'd encourage you. Every single one of us who sits down and looks at ourselves, what do we see? We see failures. We see limitations. We see weaknesses. We see sin. We see times where we have messed up and stumbled. But we're acceptable, not because we're acceptable, but because we're connected to Christ. Notice what it says in Romans chapter 12, verse 1. He says, I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God. Now that little statement there, I beseech you, therefore, and by the mercies of God, those two statements are very, very important. Because from chapter one all the way to chapter eleven What has Paul done? , He has developed a case for how every person who is justified stands in God's presence. The righteousness of Christ. It's the sacrifice of Christ. He has made us acceptable. We have not made ourselves acceptable. So he says, on the basis of God's mercy toward us, on the basis of all those things that God has done for us, You must, you must present your body, a living sacrifice to God. And he says it's holy and it's acceptable. When I worship the Lord, he accepts it. Not because I got it all figured out. Not because I've gotten it all figured out and how I live and what I do, but he accepts it because of Christ. He accepts it because of my union with him Our acceptability to God, both personally and corporately, is not rooted in ourselves, but in the perfection of Christ and our union with Him. Think about Matthew 5. 3. It says, This blessed are the poor in spirit, theirs is the kingdom of God. If you think that you can stand before God in your righteousness, you're not a Christian. It's that simple. The only way that you can stand before God is by seeing that you have no righteousness of yourself. And you depend on what Christ did for you. Our positional acceptance is explained in Romans 3. I want to read it to you because it's very important. He says, But now the righteousness of God, without the law, is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ, unto all and upon all them that believe. Let me emphasize to you what Paul is saying. He says that's the righteousness of God without the law. My position before God is not rooted in how I obey the Ten Commandments. It's not rooted in the background that I came from, how much money I give to this church, how good I was this past week. My performance plays no part in my standing before God. It is entirely rooted in the work of Christ. The righteousness of God without the law is manifested. The righteousness of God, which is by faith, is unto all and upon all them that believe. God has provided for every person in this room the means fully to stand in his presence. If we would but receive that gift and trust in His work, He'll accept us. Our positional acceptance is entirely rooted in Christ's righteousness And our practical acceptability is also rooted in the work of God. Listen to what he says in Ephesians 5. Husbands, love your wives, as Christ also loved the church and gave himself for it. Notice the next phrase for this purpose: that he might sanctify it. And he might cleanse it with the washing of water by the word. That he might present it to himself a glorious church. Not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but it that it should be holy and without blemish. I want you to think about it. It's interesting. He doesn't talk about the individual here. Not that the individual's not in view, but he's primarily looking at the church as a body. Our acceptability as individuals, our acceptance positionally is rooted in Christ, and the way we're in which we live, what makes what we do acceptable to God, is rooted in the fact that He has accomplished it in us. He presents it to himself. He makes it without spot and wrinkle. He cleanses it. He nourishes it. He cherishes it. That's what God does In Philippians 1. 11, he says, being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are what? By Jesus Christ. And the glory and praise of God. I want to remind you of something today. We're his temple. Because we're his temple, he dwells in our midst. Not just as individuals, but as a body. And we're his priesthood. Not just as individuals, but as a body. We Serve him acceptably, not because we're perfect, but because Christ's righteousness is our position before him. And he makes our sacrifices worthy. I want to close with some practical thoughts and implications from this text that I hope will encourage you today. The first is this. The Christian life was never designed to be lived in isolation. Please don't miss that statement. Sometimes you have to stand alone. But God's general practice of growing people is in community. Christ's life, the Christian life, was never designed to be lived in isolation. We need each other. We've been providentially placed into this congregation by God for his glory and for our mutual growth in the Christ's likeness. I hope that that thought sticks in your mind and that you chew on it for a while. This body is something that God puts us in for our growth into Christ's likeness. When we meet as a body, God's presence is with us in a very special way. And we're strengthened by his willingness to meet with us in this special way. If I neglect this church, if I neglect corporate worship, I'm hurting myself. I'm removing myself from opportunities to grow and to thrive. Oh, that's my third one. Since he is present with us in this way, we rob ourselves and one another of opportunities to be strengthened by God When we neglect to assemble with his people. You know, there was a time in our culture where everybody went to church. It was culturally expected. If you didn't go to church, your neighbor would have been like, I noticed you didn't go to church today. Those days are done and gone, let me tell you. As a culture, very few people go to church. And many people that do go to church Their neighbors go, ah, you w you wasted a great day to go out and cut your grass and have a good time and have a barbecue. And a lot of people, I think, in the old days used to go simply out of duty. It had nothing to do with Christian growth. It was all about duty. Folks, don't look at the assembly as a duty. Look at it as an opportunity to grow and thrive and be strengthened with God's people. When you miss, see it as a missed opportunity to let God minister to you and allow you to be a blessing to the people around you. Next, we as a sacred calling, we have a sacred calling, both as individuals and as a local church, to represent God's presence and character to the nations, no matter their disposition toward us. Folks, as Christians, we should live distinct lives. That doesn't mean we need to be nasty and weird. And there's a lot of Christians that are. I I'm serious, there are. A lot of nasty, weird Christians. We don't need to be like that. We should be distinctly godly in our disposition. When people around us interact with us, they should say, that person knows God. That person's gracious and humble and loving. The person genuinely cares about the people around them. There is something about them that I wish that I had. Not, oh, it's one of those condescending, nasty Christians. I don't like dealing with these people. We need to be people who recognize that we stand before the nations to represent God. Our acceptability to God and our worship toward Him is entirely rooted in His righteousness imputed to us and the work of His Spirit in us filling our lives with the fruits of righteousness. You know, there are some people who feel God would never accept my worship and praise. I'm too sinful. I'm too broken. I've fallen too many times. Listen, God accepts you on the basis of your connection to Christ. I don't know where you've been, but I want you to know God cares about your soul. And He's provided for you everything you need. To please him and to be accepted by him. And lastly, we should be humbled and mobilized to purpose purposefully, to purposeful, God-centered living in the light of these truths. When I think about the fact that God's presence dwells in our midst when we meet on a Sunday morning, that makes this a very sacred time. When I think about the fact that my body is the temple of the Holy Spirit, that's a very humbling thing to think about. When I think about the fact that we as individuals and as a body represent Him to the nation. That's a sobering reality. May we be people who purpose to live God-centered lives on the basis of these truths. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please Father, we thank you that today you reminded us That your spirit dwells amongst us. He dwells in us, and he dwells within this body. When we gather together, we're in your presence in a very special way. And I pray that we would have an overwhelming sense of that presence. I pray it would humble us, encourage us. It brings peace to our souls. It remind us of how blessed we are as your people. Father, as we think about the fact that we represent you to the nations, help us. To be a good reflection of who you really are. That when people see us, they would see the kind of character that accords with godliness Help us to represent you effectively. And I pray that you'd draw people to yourself through our lives and through our gospel witness. Pray that you'd build your kingdom through us as individuals and as a church. May these truths resonate in our souls today and throughout this week. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen