And I'd like to ask the rest of you, if you could, take your Bibles, please, and turn to 1 Peter chapter 2. And as you're turning there, I just want to say a big thank you to a lot of folks who have put together meals. for our family and uh meals that are coming too. Uh we have eaten well and I'm going to need to spend more time at Gold's Gym. running on a treadmill because of all the food you guys have brought our family. Not that I'm complaining at all. Okay. But uh wanna say a big thank you and uh really our church has been a blessing to a lot of people. Uh we have several folks who've been in the hospital. And um just want to say uh I really appreciate that as your pastor seeing uh the heart of our church reaching out to people. Uh yes, some in the hospital because of the birth of a child, others uh who are dealing with cancer treatments and other things like that. And um it's really a great opportunity for us as a church body to come together and to show love to those who are going through difficulties, to encourage them, to pray for them. And so I just want to say a thank you for our family, but Really, that would be extended through several families who right now are in a position where they're needing that encouragement and that help 1 Peter chapter 2. We're looking at verses 5 to 10 today. We started this section two weeks ago, and we're going to look at the second part of this section. And the title of the sermon is Now the People of God. 1 Peter 2, verses 5 to 10. I'll read it again. Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood. To offer up spiritual sacrifice acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Wherefore also it is contained in the Scriptures, Behold, I lay in Sion a chief cornerstone. He lacked, precious. He that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe, he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient The stone with the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, a stone of stumbling, a rock of a fence, even unto which they stumble at the word, being disobedient For unto you also they were appointed. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. That ye should show forth the praises of him that hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light, which in times past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy. but now have obtained mercy. You know, when we come to a passage like this one, it's very important that we begin looking at the details with the big picture in mind. And so when we look at this passage, here is the big picture, the purpose of the section that's before us. The purpose was to remind these Christians that their new position in Christ was full of rich blessings. This relationship to Christ would put them also, though, in a volatile conflict with the world around them, and would leave them with significant responsibilities. So, really, the main point of this passage kind of hinges on three subplots. The first point of the passage is that we as God's people are in a wonderful position. were full of rich blessings and he expounds those blessings to some extent. But within that expounding of those blessings He kind of contrasts that with how people in the world respond to the same Christ that we as believers embrace and love and rest in. In fact, the world around us, those who have been exposed to the gospel and have rejected the gospel, are not impartial to the gospel or to God's people. In fact, what ends up happening is those who know the gospel and reject the gospel are in specifically a volatile conflict with those people who've embraced Christ. Now, understanding that that's true is something that is very helpful to us because as we go through life, we're going to wonder, why do I have this difficulty with some people? Not all people. Not all unbelievers are equally aggressive and antagonistic towards the gospel, but specifically those who've been exposed to the truth, rejected the truth, are often very antagonistic toward the truth. And that has implications for you as a Christian, for me as a Christian. And also as he comes to the end of the section, he's emphasizing that even though we're blessed, and because we're blessed, Even though there's this conflict that often arises because of our position in Christ, we have great responsibility. And so that's really the extent of this passage. Blessing, conflict, responsibility. God wants us to be prepared to live faithfully because of the position we have in Christ. And that is really the thrust of the passage. So how can we do that? Well the first truths that we looked at the last time we dealt with this passage were these. The church forms two distinct and glorious functions. We're God's priesthood and we're God's temple. The fact that we're a priesthood means that we represent God to the nations. Those who don't know the Lord, those who are not saved, we stand between God and them, and we have a responsibility to represent him appropriately to those people who don't know the Lord. When we talk about this issue of temple, that means that the Holy Spirit personally, literally indwells his people We talked about the fact that God's Spirit indwells the individual believer, but also he indwells the church body when it's gathered together. In other words, when we're gathered together as God's people today, the Holy Spirit is not only personally indwelling us as individuals, but he is also in our midst as a body, as a people. And those truths are incredible to comprehend. In fact, we can't fully comprehend those. Then we saw a second truth. God accepts our worship entirely because of our union with Christ. I think that if any person is even a little bit conscientious, they ask the question, How in the world can God who is holy, who is righteous, who is sinless, who judges sin, how can he accept my worship and my praise and be pleased with it? Because the fact is, even though I'm redeemed, I'm still a sinner. I still violate God's commandments. I still go through seasons where I don't even look like a Christian. How can God accept my worship and my praise? And the answer to that question is it's because of your union with Christ. God accepts us on the basis of Christ and our union with Him, not on the basis of our perfection. And that's a really important principle for us as Christians to understand. Now we move from those two truths to a third, and that's this. A relationship to Christ puts us in constant conflict with the world. Now, I want you to understand something. Just because you're a Christian doesn't mean that everybody's going to be peaceable with you. Just because you love the people around you and you you care about them and you pray for them, doesn't mean that they're going to be the same way towards you. In fact, if someone understands the gospel, rejects the gospel, it's an offense to them, don't think that they're going to love you. Any different than the way they love Jesus. And that's really the extent of what he's saying. Look down in verses six through eight as we'll see what Peter says about this concept. Our relationship to Christ puts us in a constant conflict with the world around us. Wherefore also it is contained in the scriptures, behold, I lay in Sion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious. He that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he's precious, but unto them which be disobedient. The stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, one to also they were appointed. Now I want to begin by looking at the description, a threefold description that Peter gives of Jesus. Now, this is not how you and I perceive Jesus, this is how he actually is. Now you may perceive him the exact same way, but this is a statement about his nature, his character, who he is. The first thing that he states is that Jesus is the focal point of the Christian faith He uses the phrase the chief cornerstone. Now when we talk about a cornerstone, you know, the way that we build our buildings today is a lot different than the way that they did in those days, but also the way they do in other parts of the world. Our construction is different. We don't build out of concrete and stone as often as they did in those days. But in those days, all their buildings essentially would have been built in this way. They were built out of stone. And the first stone was very important because that was the starting point and everything else was built off of that stone. The way that that stone is set will determine the layout of the entire building. It was kind of interesting. I recently put in a wood floor in our house. I'm glad it's there, but I know every single place where there's an imperfection, and it drives me crazy sometimes. That's the tough thing about doing your own work, alright? But I remember when I first started putting in that floor, the first thing that I did was I measured all of the walls to try to find out if they were square. Now you know every good builder builds a square room, right? Well, not every builder is a good builder, okay? And even good builders don't always build it entirely square and time takes its toll on your building. It's amazing all the curves I found in walls and all the places where they were out of sync, list a little bit. And the fact is that when you're laying out that building, you have that that floor, I had to figure out how am I going to compensate for the places where this thing isn't square. Overall, it was okay, but it wasn't perfect. But the idea is that first piece that you put in, that first row, if that thing is out of square, everything else is out of square too. And it doesn't get better the longer you build. It gets worse. If that rim's five feet, it's not going to be as bad as if it's twenty feet. If it's thirty feet, you're really in trouble. The fact is that that first piece is important because everything else is connected to it. And when he says that Jesus is the chief cornerstone He's saying every element to the Christian faith is tied into the Lord Jesus Christ. He is the first and foremost peace, and everything flows from him. Or understanding of Christ is extremely important. He also mentions that he's well favored Something that is choice. He uses the term elect. And when we think of the term elect, we tend to think of an election where we choose who we want to vote for. But the truth is that word elect has the idea of choice. It's interesting if we go to Genesis 41. There's a dream that Joseph is hearing from the Pharaoh. And as the Pharaoh talks about his dream, he uses the same term. Now I'm talking about the Greek septuagent here. But the same Greek term is used six times as he's ex explaining that dream. In that dream he talks about cattle that are elect, they're well favored, they're fat. That's the way that we would use the term. And have others that are lean. They're not well favored. Six times he uses that term. The idea is he's emphasizing the fact that Christ is precious, is well favored. There is none like him. He is special. He also uses the term precious. That is priceless. This is something that's immensely valuable. It cannot be purchased. You know, you can put a price tag on a piece of property. You can put a price tag on a house. You can put a price tag on a car. You can't put a price tag on your children. The fact is that your children are precious. When a child is born into this world, it's a gift from God. You don't buy that child. God gives it to you. You can't put a price tag on it. And so when he talks about Christ, he says he's the chief cornerstone. Everything else is connected to the Lord Jesus Christ. He's described as elect, he's well favored, he's priceless. Then he contrasts the way that the world looks at Jesus and the way that the Christian looks at Jesus. Look down in verse seven. He says, unto you therefore which believe, he is precious But unto them which be disobedient he is, and he lists a whole bunch of different ways that people who reject Christ view Christ. He uses the term precious, as in how the believer looks at Jesus. He's immensely valuable. It says that he won't be confounded. That means this person will not be ashamed. But then he talks about how the unbeliever views him as a stone of stumbling, something that causes you to fall. Think about when you go hiking up in the mountains. Maybe you haven't done this in a while. But I remember when I was in college, I took a trip to Romania with a friend. And we went up and we climbed a mountain. We decided we were going to climb this mountain in one day. Left in the dark. Returned in the dark. In Romania in the summer, July, it was a long, long day. I believe that we climbed and hiked over 30 miles that day. And I remember as we were going on that trail, it would get higher and higher and higher, and then we started seeing snow on the ground. It was it was really wild. We we bit off more than we thought. But I remember there are places where it was very narrow , was very steep, and if I stepped on a stone I could have fallen to my death or to a very bad injury. Someone would have had to pull me out of there. When he talks about Christ being a rock of a fence, a stumbling stone, he's basically saying that there are people that rather than embracing Jesus, they stumble on him and they're wounded by him. When he uses the term a rock of offense, the ideas, it's something that is very offensive, even causes anger. It's kind of interesting the Greek word used there is scandalon and has the idea of a scandal to people. It's something that bothers them. The reason that people stumble over Christ is because they are not kindly disposed towards who He is. He's offensive to them. He even causes them to be angry. You know, there are some people that if you brought up the fact that you're a Christian in your workplace, that would make them very angry. You could see their disposition change. If you began to relate how much you love the Lord and how much he's encouraging you and blessing you, talked about salvation. There's some people that would become furious with you. And if they had the opportunity to be antagonistic, they do it. Why? Because they stumble, because he's an offense. And ultimately it says that they're disobedient. They reject him because of the offense that he is to them. The fact is that if you look at Christ and you reject him knowing who he is and you do it because you're angry, ultimately you're going to be disobedient to him and you're going to be punished as a result. What is the application here? Folks, Christ is the center of all that we hold dear as Christians. All Christian doctrine flows directly from an understanding of Him. And let me mention a couple of ways that this works. Think about how God reveals Himself. Jesus is called the what? The Word of God. He is the in-flesh revelation of God the Father. If you want to know what God is like, read about Jesus and how he responded to people and circumstances. And you see the revelation of God in flesh. How does God save people? He saves them through the work of Christ. Jesus Christ is alone, the way, the truth, and the life, and no one comes to the Father but by Him. There is no person that can be saved apart from the work of the Lord Jesus Christ. His death on the cross, his righteousness, his resurrection, they cannot be saved apart from him. He's the chief cornerstone. We think about God's nature. We talked just a little bit this morning in Sunday school about what we mean by Trinitarian doctrine The fact that God exists in three distinct persons. These are not three distinct persons that have been exposed at different times in history, but all three have always been Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. When we talk about Jesus, we're talking about the second person of the Trinity. It's interesting. We look at Bible doctrine, we talk about every aspect of Bible doctrine over and over and over again. We see this emphasis on God's nature. The Father has the plan of redemption. The Son is the one who comes and accomplishes is our redemption. The Spirit is the one who draws us and convicts us. He regenerates us. Salvation is the work of God in three persons. He's the chief cornerstone. How does God order his people? We talk about the church. Jesus is the head of the church. He's the Savior of the body. He's purifying unto himself a pure bride's without spot or wrinkle or any such thing Jesus is even the center of the doctrine of the church. And when we talk about how God will ultimately deal with this creation, What do we see? He is the rightful owner of creation. And he is coming at his second coming to judge the world in righteousness, to establish rightful rule to the nations. to restore the creation to the original beauty and glory. All Bible doctrine is focused on Christ. He is the focal point. We see that he's precious. We feel as God's people a sense of indebtedness too. You know, the more that I think about the gospel, the more overwhelmed I am. The older I get, the more I realize how bad I am. How truly nasty there is inside of my heart. You get in circumstances and the things that you want to say, the way you want to respond, you go, is that really in me? Of course it is. Hey, God saved us. And we think about what was accomplished for our redemption. Jesus died for our sins and he was nailed to that cross and he was beaten and he was bloodied so we could be saved. And I stand righteous in Christ. I think about that song we sing, complete in thee. No work of mine can take Dear Lord, the place of thine. Thy blood hath pardon bought for me, and I shall stand complete in thee. Justified, sanctified, glorified That song is an amazing song. The fact is, we have this incredible sense of indebtedness because of what God has done for us. We have this overwhelming sense of our need to submit entirely to his authority. I know as a Christian internally that I need to submit to Christ's Lordship. I understand when I open the Bible that I need to obey it. And I understand that because of his authority and who he is. And we have this overwhelming sense of his value. We are gathered together today to worship God. To glorify him, to magnify him. We aren't here just because we're fulfilling a duty and an obligation. Well, maybe some are. I don't know. I hope not. We're here to worship gods. To magnify his beauty. But on the other side, he's an offense to the world around us. The concept of the cross is highly offensive to the world. You know, we we know the song The Power of the Cross. We've heard that song. You realize there was incredible pressure on the writers of that hymn to remove some of the lyrics of that song that talked about God's wrath being satisfied. And believe it or not, they said no. That's what the Bible teaches. That's what the song is going to say. The fact is that the cross, Paul says, is foolishness to those who don't believe it. The concept of the need for the cross. You mean people are sinners and broken and they need a savior? The Bible teaches that, but the world doesn't want to acknowledge that. The world doesn't like the commandments of Christ. The world vehemently rejects his person and work. And if you are associated with him , Then you by default will face the same feelings. Folks, this passage is about magnifying who Jesus is About talking about the fact that we as his people love him and worship him. And he is everything to us. He is the center of our faith. Yet there are people out there who viciously hate our Savior. They're antagonistic towards the Savior. And if you represent him, it will not go well between you and them. We come to truth number four. And that's that the church's relationship to Christ should humble and motivate and mobilize it. Look in verses nine and ten, it says this. But Ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him that hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Which in times past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy This entire section is Peter emphasizing the mercy of God towards his people. And we talk about God's mercy. Basically what we're saying is this. When God looks at me and when God looks at you, he sees a sinner and he has compassion for the sinner. Notice the way that he describes it. I'm going to walk through each little phrase here so you can get the sense of what he's saying. The first word of these verses is but. He is emphasizing that you and I are in a different position than the world, and it's all because of the work God did in us. But there's an incredible contrast. Two, we are well favored. He mentions the phrase, you are a chosen. Generation. The idea is that we are the recipients of God's favor and God's goodness. We are choice servants of Christ. Now, I gotta say this, I don't feel that way sometimes. And you probably don't feel that way as well either There are times that you say, why in the world did God put me in that place? He could have gotten somebody a lot better. But the fact is, when God looks at you He sees somebody who says, I've appointed you for that calling and that position. And you need to do it favorably. Three. He set us aside to rule and to represent him. He says that you're a royal priesthood. That word royal means that you have a position of authority. You're going to exercise some level of sovereignty. Now it's interesting when God created the world, the first thing that he did, that he told Adam to do was he said, you need to take dominion. That word means rule, authority, sovereignty. You have dominion over the creation. In other words, God makes the world. He puts Adam in the garden. He says, you take care of it, you manage it, you rule it. Being in a position of rulership is something that God made. It's a part of why he made us. And the bottom line is that when we stand before God for all of eternity as his people, we will have positions of rule and authority and responsibility forever. Someone says, I thought heaven was sitting around on a cloud playing a harp. Folks, the Bible never indicates that that's what heaven will be like. Never. Maybe a Sunday school teacher 45 years ago did that. Hopefully not. But heaven involves taking care of God's creation. We are going to have position of rule forever. And he mentions that word priesthood We represent Jesus to the nations. You know, it's kind of interesting. As a believing father When I sit my children down and I teach them God's word, I am in a position representing a priesthood to them on some level. In other words, I represent Jesus to my kids. I teach them God's word. I call them as an ambassador, as a representative, to see their sin, to see the Savior, to place their faith in Christ. I represent Jesus. To those kids. Anytime I sit down and open up my Bible and I present the gospel to someone, I am fulfilling that rule, that obligation. There is no man that stands between me and God save the God man Jesus Christ. Yet in this passage, he emphasizes the fact that we are a royal priesthood. We're going to have authority and we represent God to people who don't know him. Next. We are set apart to him. He says, you're a holy nation. We are to live in a way that is distinct. That's different. Now that distinction, that difference isn't simply for the sake of distinction and difference, but it's to represent a holy, righteous God in a world that is not holy. And that is not righteous. We then see the phrase a peculiar people. We are his own special personal possession. When we use the term peculiar today, we tend to think of someone that's odd. But that was not the sense that this word was being used in. That word peculiar meant special, unique , precious. When it talks about a relationship to God, we are his people in a very precious relationship. And he's emphasizing that in this passage. He then goes on to say that we're rescued from darkness and spiritual blindness into a knowledge of God and clarity about the world we live in. He says you're called out of darkness. into his marvelous light. Probably my favorite proverb is the proverb that talks about the facts. That the righteous are as the shining light, and the wicked's way is as darkness Say, why is that? Because the idea is that when we walk in darkness, we stumble because we can't see, we can't perceive, we don't have a good sense of the realities around us. But as a person grows in a knowledge of God, he's going to begin to have greater clarity. He's going to see things more clearly and more accurately, and what is around him, he's going to relate properly to it. And that's really the sense of what the Proverbs is saying. He's saying a person that doesn't know God stumbles. They don't understand life. They don't understand what's around them. And the person who knows God has clarity. Has discernment, has the ability to recognize and perceive. And what does this passage say? It says, God reached into you in the darkness, and he called you out of the darkness into the light. You can know God. You can understand his ways. You can understand the world that you live in. I don't mean you're going to figure it all out. Okay, there ain't anybody here like that. Nobody's got it all figured out. I think you learn that when you're like 35 or something 40. I don't know. You certainly don't learn it when you're 15 or 20. But the idea is that God takes us in our blindness and gives us the ability to see. And he's emphasizing this. He says, we're his people. In times past, we were not a people. But are now the people of God. Now this is really interesting. He says we were not a people What Paul or what Peter is referring to in this passage is the body of Christ, a body of Jews and Gentiles, a people that were slaves, a people that were rich, a people that were poor. The people that were men, the people that were women, people from all different backgrounds. He says, in times past, you all were not a people, but now you are. And what makes you a people is your position. in Christ. God took people from every single portion of society, from every single portion of the globe. And God took those people and he placed them into a body and he says, You are that people. And the question is, what drove God to do all of that? And here's the answer. You had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. It's all because of God's mercy. You know, when God created the world and God put Adam and Eve in that garden and God said, don't eat that fruit, and if you eat that fruit, you're going to die, God had every right to walk away from mankind when they did that. Some people think that he did. He did it. What does he do? As soon as they sin, in the cool of the day, hey Adam, where are you? Where are you Why are you Adam? Why are you hiding? He asked them these questions. Because God didn't know? Of course God knew It's his way of reaching to Adam. As Adam has isolated himself. God didn't turn away from Adam God pursued Adam. We talked about David today when he sinned against God and Bathsheba. Perhaps the greatest low point of David's entire life. David did not call Nathan. God sent Nathan to David. And Nathan lays out a story and then looks David in the eye and says, you're that man right there. And that's how God deals with us. He pursues us. He loves us. All of these blessings that we have enjoyed in Christ and continue to enjoy us. To enjoy in Christ. They're the results of the tender, compassionate care of God, His mercies. Our relationship to Christ should absolutely humble us Because we didn't earn it. We didn't deserve it. It's all of his goodness that we are saved. But here is the key of the whole text. The end of verse 10 he says this. That we should show forth the praises of Him. The whole reason that Peter lays out all these blessings and the contrast and all those things. is to say that you have a responsibility. You know, as we sit here today, I want to encourage you to remember your responsibility. God is good. He's dealt mercifully with you. He's dealt mercifully with me. He's dealt lavishly with us. Because he's dealt with us in this way, we've responded in repentance and faith towards the gospel. We treasure him. Those who are disobedient to the gospel, who've been called to repentance and faith, they've rejected it. They're troubled by Christ, they're troubled by the cross, they're troubled by his authority. They don't want him. What's he gonna do? It's gonna put us in contention. But because he has dealt lavishly with us, we need to proclaim his excellencies to the nation. That's what it's all about, folks. In your individual walks with your children, in your community. I'm not encouraging you to, you know, ram the Bible down the throat of every person you meet on the street. That is not what I'm saying. Don't do that. They might hate you just because you're being offensive. Don't give people reason to reject the gospel. But God will give you opportunity. The people that you work with, after a period of time, they're going to begin to know where you Stand. You don't even have to tell them. They know you're different. The way you respond to circumstances, the way you think about situations, they will begin to recognize. And what does that do? It opens doors. Of opportunities to proclaim the excellencies of Christ. With your children, with people within this congregation, people in our communities. God puts us in places to represent Him. And I want to encourage you, be faithful. Don't compromise the opportunity by the way you live on a daily basis. If we will live as we ought, God will open doors to proclaim his truth. And he will work through those opportunities. Through this passage of Scripture we've been reminded of our position in Christ. It's full of rich blessings. This relationship to Christ is going to put us in an inescapably volatile conflict with Christ. I wish that wasn't true, but it is true. And I will tell you this: that volatile relationship is sometimes the very thing God uses to bring people to Himself. Don't forget the Apostle Paul was going to Damascus to drag Christians back to Jerusalem. And what does God do? He erupts his life. He says it's hard to kick against the pricks. You're fighting what you know to be true. In other words, it was the conflict that ultimately made Paul the man that he was. Some people who you rub shoulders with who may be very antagonistic to the gospel today may one day be humbly worshiping beside you. You have no idea. But we need to be reminded that this is true and it will happen. Let us purpose today by God's daily grace to proclaim his excellencies in the gospel. May God help us to do this effectively. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, please. Father in heaven, we were reminded today of some truly amazing truths. We as your people stand in this position simply because of your mercies. And your grace. Entirely in the work of Christ. His death for us that satisfied the payment for our sin, his righteousness. That gives us the right standing in your presence. And Father, we glory in our Savior, your Son, who died for us and purchased our remote. Redemption. We marvel at your goodness. Father, help us to be ready to face the challenges and the oppositions that we will encounter. Because of our relationship to Christ. Help us to be faithful. Help us to stand fast. Help us to be ready always to give an answer of the hope that lies in us. In meekness and fear. And I pray that through this congregation, we would have been encouraged today and we would have been mobilized to be faithful representatives of God. Of our Savior. We ask these things in Jesus' name, Amen