Okay. All right, well good evening. Lively bunch tonight. Good to see each of you. And uh let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer. And then we will dig into part two of a very important topic on part of the mentoring roles of ladies in the church. So let's Go ahead and bow for prayer. Father, we are so grateful for the opportunity to gather. Help us as we get into the word tonight to uh to understand the weight of the truths that we'll talk about. I pray especially for younger ladies. I pray that they would have hearts that are desiring to be mentored by older ladies in the church, ladies who have maturity. and have been walking with you many years. I pray that you would develop strong relationships in these areas. And I pray that you would help us just to see strong families as a result of the teaching that we have in your word. Here. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, please let's turn together to Titus chapter 2. Titus chapter 2. And the section that we're looking at is dealing with mentoring in the church. of older men to younger men and older ladies to younger ladies. And we've already dealt with the section of older men teaching younger men. And so now we're getting into the section dealing with older ladies. Teaching younger ladies. And one of the things that I said last week is that when I say older, don't think elderly Okay? We're talking about ladies who have more maturity, spiritual maturity, um, than someone else. Uh you might be forty years old or thirty-five years old. You can mentor a a a young mother, okay? Um if you're uh A person who's been a believer for ten or fifteen years and someone becomes a brand new Christian, you have an opportunity to mentor them and you may be similar in age even to a to a person that you're mentoring depending on how long they've been a believer or something like that. Um so don't think that someone has to be uh seventy-five or eighty-five years old to be able to mentor younger ladies. This is someone who is further in life has some experience. Titus chapter 2, verse 1 says the following. But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine. That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, and charity and patience. That the aged women likewise that they be in behavior as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine. Teachers of good things, that they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands. That the word of God be not blasphemed. Now, last week we gave you a summary statement. I'll remind you again of what it was. Titus 2 teaches us that older women need to mentor younger women in the church. To help prepare the next generation of women to be successful in their daily calling. Mentoring is an important topic in the church. What we're basically saying is that younger Christians Younger people need older people to invest in them. They need that experience. It's one thing to have knowledge. It's another thing to have that experiential side to that knowledge. And that's something that mentoring provides. And so we talked a good bit about that. Last week our focus was primarily on the responsibility of older women to be spiritually mature. And so in verses three and four it says the following: the aged women likewise exhort to have a behavior that becometh godliness. Not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things. The idea is that they need a reverent demeanor, slow to cast judgment. not controlled by substances that would alter their judgment, and to have the ability to teach people what is right. The whole reason is that they can invest in the next generation. Well, tonight I'd like us to pick up with what godly women are supposed to actually teach. What is the responsible thing that needs to be communicated to the next generation? So, key number three: godly women must call younger women to embrace their God-given duties skillfully. Here's what it says in verses four to five: that they may teach the younger women to be sober. To love their husbands, to love their children, to be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands Now what I'd like to do is I'd like to kind of dig into each of these statements Because they're very rich statements. And there's a lot of practical things. There are many practical things that we kind of need to develop in each of these statements. First of all, I want to zero in on this statement. They must teach the younger women to be sober. Now you don't realize this, but in the Greek text, the phrase, teach the younger women to be sober, is actually one word Okay? So this is a very rich word that we can't just communicate with one word. In fact, there are a lot of different Greek terms. That are used in the New Testament to communicate teaching. And each of those words has kind of a different nuance to it, a different kind of aspect that's being communicated. For instance, one of the words that's used, PyDia has the idea of training someone. So when we talk about training, we're saying we're we're trying to help them to develop a skill through repetition. And this is a part of what we do sometimes in a classroom context when we're teaching uh it could be your kids or in a in a in a classroom context. A second word that's used is the word catecha -o and that word catech is what this word is coming from. And so it has the idea of communicating something orally that's being memorized. And so Maybe you grew up in a tradition where you were asked a doctrinal question and then you gave a doctrinal answer, and there's this rote memory. In our church, when we have truth trackers in the back, there's a sense in which there's a kind of catechizing going on. We ask a doctrinal question, we answer the doctrinal question. with a statement and then a scripture. So that's a form of teaching. One is helping someone develop a skill. That's padeya. Helping somebody memorize something that's katakato. The third one is the word didasco. It has the idea of instructing like you would teach in a schooling context. Now those three terms are not the term that's used here. The term that's used here has the idea of restoring someone to their senses or calling someone to have self-discipline or earnestly exhorting someone to embrace a duty. It's actually Quite a bit more uh rich than some of these other terms. One has the idea of just memorizing, developing a skill. This has the idea of coming alongside of somebody Like a coach would come alongside of someone and say, hey, you need to step up to your responsibility. And I'm here to help you through the process. Now isn't that a great description of what it means to mentor somebody? That's exactly what it is. You're coming right alongside of them You're giving them information. You're calling their attention to areas where they need to grow and mature and step up. And that's exactly what he's communicating here. So all of these things that older women need to teach younger women, it's to be taught in that spirit. Not just, oh, I'm going to help you learn this skill. Or I'm going to help you memorize this truth. I'm going to come alongside and tear you in the process. Do you see that? That's a really rich concept. So there are some very unique duties that are exclusively stated to women that are not stated to men. And then there are a couple of other areas. where there's overlap. And so what I'm going to do as we work our way through these is I'm going to state what he says the older women are to teach the younger women. And then I'm going to say, and let me give you kind of the male counterpart to this same concept. Because there is a male counterpart to these these statements. So the first thing I want to do is just remind you what he says to the men He said that men need to teach younger men to be sober-minded. That's the idea of being sensible, self-controlled, clear-headed. Yes, our teenage boys Need to be taught these things, showing a pattern of good works, living in a way that is observably commendable and worthy of being followed. We desperately need this in the next generation. Of young men. Showing doctrine that is uncorruptness. The idea is that our young men need to be students of the word. Gravity, conducting ourselves in a way that's worthy of respect and dignity. Sincerity, being genuine, sound speech that cannot be condemned, speaking in a way that doesn't deviate from the truth, having a blameless character. That's what he says to the younger men. Now we're gonna shift over to the ladies. What you're gonna see is there's gonna be some overlap. But then there's gonna be some very unique Statements made specifically for our younger women. So, first of all, the first statement that he mentions is this: they need to be taught to love their husbands. Pretty interesting statement. Another one is how to love their children. Another is to be a keeper at home. Here's what's unique. He doesn't ever give that instruction to to men. He doesn't say, hey, older men teach the younger men how to love their wives or how to love their children or how to keep their house. Why is that? Because there is a difference of function that a man has in his home in the role that God's given him than a lady. However, there is a counterpart on some way, but it's unique, it's different. So let's talk about each of these statements. First of all, to love their husbands. This is a compound word. So if you were to look at this in the Greek text, he basically takes the word love. Philet oh, what we talk of as brotherly love, and then he has the word husband, and they put them together, and so basically what it's saying is this is the way that a person loves their husband. This is the way that a wife loves her husband. That is a unique relationship that's different than any other relationship out there. You know, when we talk about the the the kind of love that we have, brotherly affection for a brother and Christ. That's a certain kind of love. Or when we talk about the love that a parent has for their child, a certain kind of love. When we talk about the love that a wife has for her husband, very unique. So the love that is oriented towards that relationship, how does a wife love her husband? I don't know if any of you can remember going through premarriage counseling. Anybody here go through premarriage counseling? Was that even a popular thing? Okay, we have a couple of we have a hand or two. All right, good, all right. One of the reasons that we encourage premarriage counseling is so that we have less post-marriage counseling. Okay? All right? Well, the idea of premarriage counseling is that you sit down with this couple and you're like I know you all love each other, okay? At least that's what you're saying and that's what you believe. But in this relationship, you're going to find out that it's not just going on a bunch of dates. Okay? There's two lives becoming one. And there's a relationship that is going to be tested because you're totally different people. There's going to be all kinds of challenges. And so premarriage counseling is supposed to kind of in a very general way help prepare this couple for some of the things that they're going to encounter. So here's how you deal with conflict resolution. This week I had uh premarriage counseling with uh Hansel and Mary, because they're getting married in December. And you know what we talked about? Communication. We talked about why communication is important. We talked about the kinds of things that cause communication to be undermined, the kinds of things that help communication to be improved, the kind of Mistakes that we make in communication. How just because we're talking doesn't mean we're communicating, or sometimes we're communicating more by the way we're saying something or by the way that we're not listening than by what we're saying. Premarriage counseling is very, very important. Many aspects of being a wife must be taught to a younger woman so she will learn Well, not have to learn the hard way, the painful way, simply because of an experience The truth is there are certain conversations that if an older, mature, godly woman has them with a young woman who's about to get married When she encounters a challenge early on in her marriage, you know what? She's going to remember that conversation. It's going to help her go smoothly through that issue. It's going to help shape her perspective. If she doesn't have that conversation, guess what? She's going to be carrying this huge burden and she won't know how to deal with it. Expectations going into marriage. How to communicate. How to resolve conflicts. How to manage a household How to meet the needs of a husband. These are some of the areas that an older woman is going to need to teach a younger woman. Now, by the way, I believe That in a godly home, mom should be teaching these things to her daughters. Okay? But let's be very frank about this. Fewer and fewer young women are growing up in godly homes. And so there's a great need for godly women in the church to mentor and come alongside Some of these younger women who do not have a godly mom who's saying, Let me talk to you about expectations, how to communicate, how to meet your husband needs, how to manage your household, some of these kinds of issues. Because these things There's a lot of practicality to these matters. Now there is a parallel statement for men as well. Listen to what it says in 1 Peter It says that husbands are to dwell with their wives according to knowledge. Okay? So it's not like, oh well, women need to learn how to love their husbands and men. They don't have to worry about this. Hold on a second. Men have a job too. They have to dwell with their wife according to knowledge. And you know what? There's older men that need to come alongside a younger man sometimes and say, hey, let me let me give you uh some some practice Cool advice here, young man. You're getting ready to get married. Let me talk to you about some things that you need to be aware of going into marriage that are going to help you be a loving husband who loves your wife the way that Christ loved the church. So it's not like this is only devoted to ladies, but he's very specific about this issue to ladies. The second statement that we see here is to love their children. Now you might think that one of the most natural things in all of the world is a mother loving her child. How many girls grow up and they hold their baby doll and they want to be a mother and then they have a baby and they realize this this this kid like wakes up every hour and a half to two hours. And I'm exhausted. And my brain is fried. And another diaper? Are you kidding me? My child has a fever. Do I go to the hospital? How do I know how much uh Sick is enough to go to the doctor? And how do I know how to treat all these kinds of issues? And how do I deal with the pressures of not getting enough sleep at night? All kinds of things that you know what when when a little girl's rocking a baby, she has no clue of all these things. Ah, but one day you learn Wouldn't it be really great if some of our older ladies who love the Lord and have gone through the season of life and have a matured and godly perspective could sit down with some of these younger ladies and say, hey, you want to be a mother and that's good. Let me talk to you about practically some of the challenges you're going to face. I want to help you. Or there's already been an open line of communication, and because there's an open line of communication. That younger lady feels comfortable, she can come and she can actually talk to this older lady because they've already had some conversations and she knows it's safe I can have this conversation and she can really help me work through this thing. That is so very important That word there is a compound word. It's the kind of love that a mother has for her children. And so when we talk about this issue, the issue of expectations is very important. When I say expectations, like at what point should a child learn how to start being potty trained? I mean, like, where in the Bible does it tell you how to do that? You know what? An older mother can probably help you with that. Hey, how do I know when a person is like deathly ill or when I need to just, you know, give them some cough syrup? How do I know the difference between those things? Hey, when should I start getting worried about my child's having a hard time learning how to talk or my child's having a hard time starting to walk? Talking to someone who's raised children, you know what, they can really help with perspective. Anybody ever remember being the first the first time mom and you had figured out everything that had to happen and just like that child like totally destroyed all your expectations? This is a really practical thing. This is something that we need. First aid training, healthy habits. You know, do our kids need to be on a schedule? How rigid do we need to be on this kind of a schedule? Child developments, what's normal for a child physically in their development? What's normal for them emotionally? What's normal with discipline? Like, how firm should I be with a child at this stage? When do I start having a conversation? When am I just purely an authoritarian? These are conversations that are very, very important. Age appropriateness in communication. When should I have a conversation with my daughter about? Perhaps having a conversation with an older mother who's been through that season would be very, very helpful. How do I educate my children? How do I help them develop life skills? When do I start having my daughter work with me in the kitchen? When I start having or learn some of these skills that are so very important. Social grace. Like your kids need to learn how to actually interact with other people in a healthy manner. how how to rel how to relate to adults, how to relate to their peers. These are all the kinds of things that are very important. Risk management. We can't protect our kids from everything. Some things we need to protect them from. Well, what's the balance between those things? Older parents can give a lot of insight. Preparing our children to be independent. I'm just mentioning the kinds of things that really should be discussed in these conversations. And so we talk about something like a wife learning how to love her husband. There's so many practical areas. A mom learning how to love her children, so many practical areas. We need mentoring. The third statement: to be discreet That's a very interesting word, isn't it? It's a word that we don't seem to use in our culture anymore. Discretion is falling by the wayside rapidly The idea is being self-controlled, being sensible, allowing good judgment to shape what we do or what we choose not to do. Maybe another way to put it is that discretion is guided by thinking clearly as opposed to I feel like doing this You're not just responding emotionally. You're processing something and you're making a good judgment decision. We all understand that in our youth, we do not make good decisions naturally. We have to be taught how to do those things. We have to be taught how to work through matters, how to control our emotions. And having an older lady to teach in these areas is very, very helpful. By the way, this term is used in other parts of the New Testament. For instance, in 1 Timothy 3. 2, it says that a bishop must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant Sober. That word sober is the same word that's used here to be discreet. Titus 1. 8. A lover of hospitality, a lover of good men. Sober. These are pastoral qualifications. Titus 2, 2. The aged men should be sober and temperate. This is what he's talking about. So it's not just teaching someone how to practically love their spouse and teaching them how to practically love their kids, it's teaching them how to make good decisions, discretion. The fourth is the word chaste. Chaste. It's not a word used very much in our culture anymore, is it? Discretion, being chaste. I don't mean getting chaste. I mean being chaste, okay? What does this word mean? Well, the idea is it is a reverence that flows out of an exclusive dedication to one's spouse. The reason is because they recognize the sacredness of faithfulness to one's marriage. By the way, this term being chaste is not just a term that's used in reference to women in the pastoral epistles. In 1 Timothy chapter 3, verse 2, he says that a bishop, this is again pastoral qualification, a bishop must be blameless. And then he says, the husband of one wife. You know what that means? A one woman kind of man. It's the same concept. First Timothy chapter three, verse twelve, he talks about deacons. Let the deacons be the husband of one wife. Same idea. So when he uses the term chase, what he's saying is, when you look at this person, you can see there's no question this is a person who is faithful to their spouse. They're faithful in how they relate to other people. They're faithful in the way they present themselves. There's no question that they value their marriage and they are faithful to their marriage. This is such an important quality for men and women both to have. This isn't just, oh, the women need to be uh having a chaste demeanor. Well, the men need it as well, okay? Don't you expect your pastor and your deacons and and and people who are in leadership in the church to be people who are unquestionably faithful to their spouse? And there's no question of them being that kind of a person. The answer is yes, absolutely. Well, women need to be taught how to conduct themselves. Men do as well, okay? But let me give you some very practical things. to consider under this topic. And by the way, if I was preaching through the uh the the the passage dealing with pastoral qualifications or deacon qualification A lot of these things, there would be a parallel side in talking about how a man should conduct himself when it comes to these offices. And by the way, The fact that there's pastoral qualifications and deacon qualifications doesn't mean that God's going, well, you know, in the church we need to have some people that are really serious about these areas. And everybody else just don't worry about it. That's not what the point is. The point is, we have to demand, we have to expect this of those who are in leadership. So let me give you a couple of thoughts. These are practical, and I hope that you'll tune them a bit. We need to be honest. About male-female relationships. We need to be honest about this. Okay? If God designed One man to marry one woman and be united in marriage, there is something very unique about the relationship and the attraction that develops between men and women. This is a no-brainer, is it not? Why are there so many warnings in Proverbs about sexual infidelity? So many. Proverbs 5, Proverbs 6. Proverbs 7, three solid chapters dedicated entirely, as the book of Proverbs, three entire chapters dealing with this issue. Why? It's because there's a huge area of temptation for everybody, for men, for women. And so we need to be honest about male-female relationships. Let me break it down this way. Men and women need to be extremely vigilant about how they interact with the opposite sex. Whether you are single or whether you're married, it doesn't matter. Someone who is single needs to be vigilant, someone who is married needs to be vigilant. We need to be so very cautious. There are certain lines that we must prudently maintain in our relationships Uh everybody knows uh famously Mike Pence has a rule that he follows, which is called the Billy Graham rule, which basically is he's never alone with a woman except his wife at any time for any reason. And people laugh and they mock this man for that rule. Now listen, there's nowhere in the Bible that says here's the Billy Graham rule, okay? But let me tell you something. That's wisdom. That's wisdom. You know how easy it is for somebody to throw an accusation at at somebody? And they have absolutely no basis to be able to defend that accusation. Why? Because they put themselves in a position position where they cannot defend themselves. You know how many times a person develops a close friendship with someone that it never was intended to be anything more than just an acquaintance friendship. And as time goes on, that relationship becomes You know how many times that's happened You know where it starts? It starts with not establishing practical common sense boundaries. And so I'm bringing this issue up, very important. Many mock this prudence as old school and unnecessary, but I call it honesty and common sense. There's a verse in the New Testament that says, let him that thinketh he stand, take heed lest he what? He fall. There is no temptation taking you, but such is his common demand. God is faithful, he will not suffer you to be tempted above that you're able. He will with the temptation make a way of escape, that you may be able to bear it. Make no provision for the flesh. You know what making provision is? It's setting yourself up to do something that's very destructive. That's really what it is. Setting yourself up isn't the sin. It's the folly that leads to the sin. But once you do it, guess what? That's where you end up. Don't develop exclusive relationships with someone of the opposite sex who's not your spouse. That is a very common sense thing. Don't do it. If you don't do that, you won't have an issue Not everyone who does this is going to end up committing adultery, but a lot do. And a lot play with it in their minds. Don't text something that a godly person who is objective would question. Like if somebody picked up your phone, they saw a text between you and another person, and they went, What in the world? Ooh, that makes you feel uncomfortable. Totally inappropriate. Totally inappropriate Don't engage in any behavior that a godly spouse would feel comes close to the line of prudent boundaries. What I have seen many times on these kinds of issues Is that we all know that right here is crossing the line. Okay, we all know that that's crossing the line. And some people say, you know what, I don't want to get near that. I'm gonna be faithful over here and not even get close. There's other people that are going, hey the line's right here. I I can stand here and I'm good. I got this much space. I can go over here a little bit. And they just get closer and closer and closer and then guess what That arrogance destroys the relationship. Don't engage in any behavior that would bring your reputation into question in private or in public. If you feel you need to hide certain interactions, then you need to stop those interactions. I think these are some very simple rules And I say rules. I mean like I can't go to the Bible and say, here it is. I'm trying to tell you that I think that this is a practical way to look at this issue of being chaste. It's basically saying, listen, I love my wife. I love my husband. I value the sacredness of that bond that God has established. And because I value the sacredness of that bond, because I love my spouse, I do not want to entertain anything that is going to ultimately bring that into question. I don't want to entertain anything that's going to undermine that relationship. I want to be very, very vigilant. I want to be very, very cautious. I don't want to be proud and arrogant and say I'm strong enough, I can do whatever I want to do. We have to be very, very cautious. Sometimes we need someone to speak honestly to us about how we're conducting ourselves. What I mean is not somebody that says, pa, gotcha. It's somebody that says Friend, I feel uncomfortable bringing this up to you. But I have noticed your interaction with this person. And it makes me uncomfortable. If you have a friend that'd be willing to say that humbly and not not in a nasty way, but because they genuinely care about it, you ought to be thankful for a friend like that. It would not be an easy thing for someone to bring up something like this, but it would be for your own good. Sometimes we need someone to speak honestly. Sometimes we need to ask a person, hey, this interaction with this coworker. or this friend of my my wife's or my husband's or uh this friend uh this parent of one of my kids uh friends Do you ever think that maybe our interaction is not healthy? Ask somebody that you really trust, somebody you really value, and let them speak to you honestly about it. Another area that's so important is women need to be careful about how they dress and what their dress is communicating. I'm sure there's no lady in here who want another man to come uh a man to come up to you and be like, I think that the way you're dressing is off That 'd be very awkward. But you know what? You need to have older women that can honestly talk to you about something that it's not helpful. One of the biggest issues about dress is it's what we're communicating. I mean it's uh it's true that if you're going to a job interview and you want to get the job, You will dress in a way that's going to help you get the job. Some people that means they want to dress a way that demonstrates I'm serious about this. Okay? Some people go to that job saying, I want you to know you'd enjoy working with me. There's a difference between those things. Some people dress as like I could care less. It comes out because dress communicates something. And so when we talk about being chaste, that would fall this would fall into that category. Godly older women must mentor younger women. In these areas. And I think it's far more healthy for these conversations to be going on, so that it's what do you think about this as opposed to, hey, I'm concerned about this. Far better the first than the other. Far better. The next one. Should I get into this one tonight? Keepers at home. Hmm, should I wait on that one? Ah, time is running. I'm gonna introduce it. But this is a really important one. And by the way There are three primary relationships that a mother would have. Number one is her husband. Number two is her kids, and number three is her household. Amazing how he addresses those three areas. That phrase keeper at home has the idea of work that's connected to your house. And by the way, there's a lot of different ways that people will communicate this concept. I think one of the things that's very helpful for us is to recognize that there are passages that give us a lot of information as to what a virtuous and godly woman does for her work and her relationship to her household in that way. And that's Proverbs 31. So I'm gonna I want us to spend some time in it. But before we do that I'm just going to mention it this way. The word keepers at home has this basic concept. A woman needs to manage her households. She needs to be managing her household. That involves areas like knowing what expenses are going in and out. Managing how things are used, making sure that a house is a home. How many of you men, if you weren't married, your house would look like a dorm room? Okay. Yes, I see a hand over here. I I'd probably like that too. Like my wife will come to me and she'll be like, Hey Joel, we really need to paint the walls. I'm like, Oh, they're fine. She's like, We've lived in this house for how many years? We've never painted the walls. Like, ah, don't worry about it The truth is if my wife never brought it up for 20 years, I don't think I'd ever bring it up to her. Why is that? Because we just we think it different And so when we talk about keeper at home, the idea is management. This is someone who who is savvy when it comes to financial decisions, savvy when it comes to keeping their household in order, managing the things that are eating, scheduling correspondence, looking at a child's education and their development. A wife and mother's work is an intense work and it's irreplaceable. And I'm going to just read Proverbs 31, and I'm not going to get into the details of it tonight. I want to introduce it to you because next week, Lord willing. We're going to actually break this down because when we see the statement, keep read home, I believe that Proverbs 31 actually explains to us exactly what this looks like. And it's not just a lady sitting in her house and she's cleaning the dishes and she's making the food and then she sits on the couch and waits for her husband to come home. That's not what this is This is someone who is industrious, they're wise, they're business savvy, they are trustworthy, they're making sure that things are in order, and there is this wonderful partnership of labor between a godly husband and a godly woman, a virtuous man, a mighty man of valor, is the way that it would be sayed in the Old Testament. and a virtuous woman. There's this wonderful partnership, and that's a strong household where children thrive. Proverbs 31, 10. Here's what it says. Who can find a virtuous woman? For her far her price is far above rubies. The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil. She'll do him good and not evil all the days of her life. She seeketh wool and flax and worketh willingly with her hands She is like the merchant's ships. She brings her food from afar. She arises while it is yet night and giveth meat to her household and a portion to her maidens. She considereth a field and buyeth it With the fruit of her hand she planteth a vineyard. She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms. She perceiveth that her merchandise is good. Her candle goeth not out by night. She layeth her hand to the spindle, and her hand holds the distiff. She stretches out her hand to the poor, yea she reacheth forth her hands to the needy. She is not afraid of snow for her household For all her household is clothed with scarlet. She maketh herself coverings of tapestry, her clothing is silk and purple. Her husband is known in the gates when he sitteth among the elders of the city. She maketh fine linen and selleth it, delivereth girdles to the merchants, strength and honor her clothing. She shall rejoice in time to come. She openeth her mouth with wisdom, and in her tongue is the law of kindness. She looketh well to the way of her household, eateth not the bread of idleness. Her children arise up, call her blessed. Her husband also he praiseth her That's what a keeper at home is. That's what one is. That's someone who manages their household in an excellent manner. And by the way, a woman that manages her household in an excellent manner hopefully is married to a man who is an excellent person in his household and in his work as well. So it is a strong and a vibrant household where their children are growing and maturing, and they're the kinds of people that are going to establish strong and healthy households as well. Well, that's really the sense of it. And so don't run from this statement teaching how to be a keeper at home. Don't think that is in any way a demeaning statement It's actually a very rich concept that, Lord willing, next week we will break down in a good bit of detail. Let's go ahead and bow together and ask the Lord to help us to really digest what we've talked about tonight. Tonight, and that we'll see these kinds of qualities being developed in our young ladies and that they'll be instructed by our older women. Father, I thank you for the time we've spent in the Word. We desperately need strong families. We need places where our children can thrive and grow and mature. Father, help our men to be godly husbands and fathers. Help our ladies to be godly wives and mothers. Help our older men to be mentoring our younger men. Help our older women to be mentoring our younger women. I pray that we would be a church that has vibrant, strong. families. Families that are being used mightily in your service. We ask all of it in Christ's name. Amen.