Turning to Luke's gospel in the tenth chapter, please. Luke chapter 10 is where we'll spend our time this evening Pastor told me just before the service that you're in a study through Luke. And so I'm sure you're enjoying that. You know the book of Luke. Well, if you've attended the services here and heard pastor preaching through this series, but excited to take a look at a portion of Luke chapter 10 that I trust will be a launching point for our time together this week. Luke is a wonderful gospel, as many of you know, given to us by this doctor on the life, the ministry, the miracles, the teachings of the Lord Jesus Christ. And in all of the gospel accounts, there's an emphasis. That the man that we're reading of in the Lord Jesus Christ is not just some man, he is God in the flesh And you can't miss that as a theme through Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. He's the Son of Man. He's the Son of God. He is the King. He is the Messiah. And in Luke's gospel, specifically reaching out beyond just the Jews to the Gentile world. And Luke accounts for that in his gospel and in the Acts of the Apostle that he pens as well. And we're coming to a point in Luke's gospel that really becomes, and we'll see this as we study this tonight, a pivotal point in his teaching on the life and the ministry of the Lord Jesus. There's a big transition that takes place in the narrative in this specific portion of Scripture, and it's pivotal for the reader to understand that that transition is taking place. And we'll emphasize that as we come to understand this text more in depth. But would you notice with me tonight, beginning in verse 38, that the Bible says this in Luke 10 and verse 38? Now it came to pass as they, that would be speaking of Jesus and his disciples, went, that he entered into a certain village, and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house. And notice this in verse 39, Martha has a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet. Would you read out loud with me the next four words together tonight and heard his word? Together again, and heard his word. If you'll allow your eyes to drift down to verse 42, Jesus is going to look back on that posture. On that place that Mary is found, and he's going to say, one thing is needful. And Mary has chosen that good part which shall not be taken away from her. Jesus looks at this posture of sitting at Jesus' feet, hearing the words of Jesus, and he says this, one thing. This is really a statement of priority. Jesus is not saying in verse 42, there's only one thing that you need to do with all of your life. And it's only one thing. And all the other things you can cast to the side. And this is the one and only. No, this is the one in the list of priorities for the disciples of Jesus Christ. Isn't it true that in our lives we love to think about and talk about priorities? I think we would all be willing to say tonight, priorities are important, right? Maybe you've had a point in your life where you've sat down with your husband or with your wife, or maybe even some of you kids with your mom, and they spell out for you, here are your priorities. And they'll give you a list. This is the most important priority. That means it's the most important, right? And this is another priority. It's also important, but not as important as the number one priority. Uh as a kid, I'll never forget my mom often leaving the house with me and my three younger siblings. I'm the oldest of four. So it's Micah, Malachi, Michaela, and Mekna, a younger brother and two younger sisters. And when my mom would leave the house, she would often leave us with a list of priorities. And she called them a list of chores. You gotta do all of these things. You've got to make sure this happens and this happens and this happens. And often it was prioritized. You know, this is the most important. And if you get to this, great. But if not, no big deal. Listen, we're all familiar with priorities. But did you know that in the Christian life, there is a list of, there are priorities for us in our Christian walk. And many of those priorities are very, very important. We could sit around tonight and discuss those priorities. The raising of a godly family. The being in church. The being active in service for the Lord. Soul winning. Missions. Fill in the blank. Many, many priorities. But what Jesus declares to you and to me tonight is that we can't get lost in that list. We can't confuse the most important priority with another priority that while it may be good is not the most important. That's why Jesus says in verse 42, one thing is needful. That word one simply means one. This is not take your pick, disciple. No, Jesus says here is the number one priority amongst all the Christian Priorities. Here's the number one priority, and it's looking back at the life of a woman named Mary. And I want you to notice this tonight, first of all, the priority demonstrated. the priority demonstrated. If you know much about Jesus' life, you know that he was often busy preaching and teaching and healing and going about all of the different cities and villages and Even the text of scripture says he didn't have a home. He didn't have a place to lay his head. And he was very dependent on individuals to provide housing and to provide food for him. Well, this is one of those homes, the home of Martha. And we're introduced to Martha in verse 38. And then verse 39 says that after Martha has received the Lord Jesus and his disciples into her house. The Bible says in verse 39 that Martha has a sister called Mary. And I want us to take note of this tonight, which did two particular things that are connected. But we really want to break this down into two parts. She sat at Jesus' feet and she heard his word. This is the priority, my friend. Disciple of Jesus Christ, this is the number one priority that Jesus lays out for you and for me in our walk with him. Sitting at Jesus' feet. and hearing his word. Now the first time I read this and began to study this text, I thought to myself, all right, what does this statement to sit at Jesus' feet mean? You know, should this in my heart like conjure up kind of like some emotional appeal, like, oh, just get close to Jesus. Just be there at his feet and just he Should I just feel good about where I'm at in this posture? And really that is not the emphasis of this statement, to be at the feet of Jesus. This is actually a New Testament discipleship term. Used of a student, a follower in relation to his master. This is used of the Apostle Paul in Acts 22 and verse 3, where he gives a personal testimony of his own upbringing. He said, I, Paul, am verily a man which am born a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in this city, and here's the term, at the feet of Gamaliel. So here's Gamaliel, who's the rabbi, who's the teacher. And Paul says he was brought up at the feet of Gamaliel. Now, not literally, right? You can't literally go from infancy to 18 years old at somebody's feet. No, this is a figure of speech to describe his posture towards his master. There's only other one other place in the New Testament where this terminology is used, in addition to Acts 22 and Luke 10, and it's in Luke 8. What I want to encourage you to do is spend some time tonight, even after our service, looking into this account because it's an amazing account. Because we want to ask ourselves the question, what is it that pushes somebody to this position, to this posture? And if you read in Luke chapter 8, you're going to read of a man who is absolutely insane at the beginning of the text. possessed with demons, the legion of demons, some of you may remember. And Jesus comes to that city and he casts out those demons. He casts them into a herd of pigs. Maybe you remember the story, and those pigs go crazy with the demons, and they run off the cliff into the ocean, and they're gone, they've disappeared, and that man is literally set free from bondage. Set free from demon possession. And all the people that saw it, they run off in Luke chapter 8 and they say, You've got to come see this. You remember the guy that's kind of, you know, crazy, he's got the demon-possessed, he's the demon-possessed man. Jesus just set him free and all of the people come back and in that text in Luke 8 and verse 35 All the people come back and they find the man that has been healed, that has been redeemed, that has been set free in this position at the feet of the Christ. of Jesus. So you say, Michael, what is it that puts a person at the feet of Jesus? It is this, folks. It is your redemption. It is your being set free that enters you into this relationship, Master Jesus Christ, our Lord and Student Rabbi, authority, leader, disciple, follower Student. Learner. That's what this means to be at the feet of someone. And I just want to emphasize to you that every one of us in here this evening are at the feet. of someone or something. My question for you tonight is, whose feet are you at? Who's your master? Who's your rabbi? Who are you following? Is it some trend? Is it some thing of this world? Is it some job? Or is it the Lord Jesus Christ? The gospel teaching is that if Jesus Christ is not your Lord, he is not your master. Then Jesus teaches you are not really one of his. He says, my sheep, my people, hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. If you're here tonight and you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as your personal Savior, you're lost in your trespasses and sins. You're dead, the Bible says, in your trespasses and sins. And I realize you're here on a Wednesday night, and that's wonderful. I'm glad you're here. But it could very well be that there is somebody in here who has played the part for many, many years. Who comes to church, who carries the Bible, who sings the songs, who says the amens, and you are in your heart of hearts, no, you are not truly a disciple of the Lord Jesus Christ. You are not redeemed. Then you, my friend, are not at the feet of Jesus. Because this is where disciples are found. They are found in a rabbi, leader, teacher-to-student relationship. Notice how the text goes on in verse 39 of Luke chapter 10. Not only do we find this Mary sitting at Jesus' feet, but absolutely 100% connected to that posture is the next statement. Hearing his word. I want you to imagine with me tonight for just a couple minutes what it would be like if you had a high school student, junior high student, college student, any type of student who wandered into the classroom and there's the teacher sitting up front. lecturing away, opening the textbook, and that student decided, you know what, I'm going to put in the earbuds. I'm going to listen to my own music. I'm going to write my own study material. I'm just going to go my own way. We would look at that and we'd say, that is really not a student, isn't it? No, this is what the student does. The student listens. The student takes the information in and humbly hears. the lecture, humbly hears the teaching, knowing they don't know it all. Can I remind you tonight as a believer, you don't know it all. None of us know it all. From the pastor to the youth pastor to this preacher, none of us know at all. We are all students of this master, the Lord Jesus Christ. And it takes, notice this, it takes a careful hearing of his word. And folks, I just want to remind you, Jesus is going to look back on this posture in verse in verse uh 39 and say in verse 42, that's the one needful thing. That is the most important priority in all of the disciples' life. The sitting at Jesus' feet and hearing his word. And Mary, in verse 39, exemplifies that to us, demonstrates that posture to us. We go on in the text, and I want you to notice not only the priority demonstrated, but number two, the priority dismissed. the priority dismissed. This is so encouraging because if we were to end the account there, end the reading there, we would all think, man, we're never going to be like Mary. This is a tall task. This is a great responsibility. This is a high priority. But notice how the text continues in verse 40. Here is Martha, verse 40, cumbered about much serving. And she comes to the Lord and asks this question, don't you care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? Bid her therefore that she help me. So here's this dichotomy. Here's the two two options that are presented in this text. Here's the one sitting in the life of Mary demonstrated to us this one needful thing. And here's the one serving. Martha, busy, going about her service, serving the Lord. Doing all the difficult things. We don't know exactly what she's doing, but I in my mind's imagination just see her in the kitchen, you know, cooking up the food. Maybe preparing the place for Jesus and his disciples to rest, to relax, cleaning the living room. Man, Jesus is coming. The disciples are coming. We've got to have everything in order. And there's nothing wrong with their serving, but this this text is very, very helpful to us to see the direct turning away from the priority. Because it says in verse 40 that Martha, and here's the key word, was cumbered about. This is an intentional word. That has the idea of turning one or directing one's attention away from one thing intentionally to another thing. This is the only time that this word cumbered about in the original language is used in the New Testament. Folks, we have to say Martha was doing a wonderful thing. She was doing something that was needed. She was serving the Lord. And who of us in here is going to say tonight, you shouldn't serve the Lord? You should. Here's the problem. Martha replaced the one needful thing with a less important priority. So we look at this and we see this distraction that literally leads her to the dismissal of the priority. She says serving. This is what I need to do. And then that dismissal leads to doubt. Look at the question that she asks the Lord. She literally doubts the very care and kindness of the Lord. Lord, don't you care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her to come in here and help me with the kitchen. Tell her to come in here and help me with the dishes. I need some help. And Martha exchanges the priority for a lesser priority. Now folks, in our lives, can't we, and isn't it so easy to do the very same thing that Martha did Even in our Christian lives, we have other things that take the priority of sitting at Jesus' feet and hearing his word. Sometimes it's very good things, but I think many of us in the 21st century in Christianity here in the United States of America, we are replacing this priority with less than ideal priorities. With less than biblical requirement priorities. We could sit here on a Wednesday night and say, Praise the Lord, brother. I know this is the priority, but isn't it true? Oftentimes. Our study, our personal study and reading of and meditation on the scripture is clouded out by things that literally have no eternal weight. We'll sleep in 30 minutes, 45 minutes past our alarm, and wake up in a hurry and not have time to spend time with the Word of God. We can come to church and sit through a 45-minute sermon from the pastor, and what are we all doing if he goes two seconds over? Good night. Doesn't this guy know I have places to be? Doesn't he know that I got a meal in the oven. I got to get back to the house. Doesn't he know the Baltimore Ravens, man, they come on here in just a couple seconds? And yet we'll sit down and watch that football game. We'll scroll the social media pages hour after hour after hour and never once blink an eye. Here's what I'm trying to illustrate. Maybe tonight. As we kick off these meetings, it would be that in your heart you would have an evaluation, a thorough evaluation, and an honest and humble evaluation as to your priorities. My friend, what is important to you? What is it that you prioritize in your day-to-day life? Jesus says, this is the one needful thing, and yet we dismiss This priority. We doubt God's goodness when we do this. We demand things of the Lord like Martha does. And even in our very service, sometimes we can miss this priority. I grew up in an evangelist home. My dad traveled for 15 years in evangelism with his twin brother Mark. So my dad's name is Mike. His twin brother is five minutes older than him. His name is Mark. My mom's name is Amy. My uncle's wife's name is Amy. And all of the kids start with the letter M. It's crazy. Micah, Malachi, Michaela, McKenna, that's my family. My uncle's family, Megan, Madison, Morgan, and Meredith. We even had two dogs, Molly and Maggie. I mean, it's just crazy. In evangelism, we pulled 55-foot RVs with red Volvo 770 semi-trucks. We were like the circus every time we pulled into town. It was pretty crazy. And I'll never forget learning this gradually, and honestly, even to this day, often being reminded of this important lesson That there is no, listen, there is no substitute for a personal walk and relationship with Jesus Christ. Your dad could be the greatest preacher in the world. Your dad could have been at the church the longest. You could come from whatever home situation, you could be raised in whatever Christian school, you could have gone to whatever Bible college, you could have gone to whatever church. All of those things are wonderful and in their place, important. But if those are the things that you're depending on, if those are the things that you're prioritizing, engaging your walk with God on, folks, that is not the most important thing about you. This is the priority. And we got to do a thorough analysis and evaluation of our life this evening and really ask ourselves this difficult question. Is this my priority? Could I ask it this way? Are your priorities aligned with Jesus' priorities? Do you see the sitting at Jesus' feet, hearing his words? Really helpful for us to know, like what that looks like practically, the daily reading and meditation of Scripture, maybe scripture memorization. The being in church, the being in Sunday school, the being at a Wednesday, Thursday, and Friday night service like this. Every time the doors of the church are open. The listening to the podcasts and the sermons. The personal study of Scripture. And not just that, the personal obedience of Scripture. Because hearing in the Word of God is never detached from our behavior. So it is not just hearing, it is obeying. Right? James says, don't just be hearers of the word. Be doers of the word. And if you're not a doer of the word you're hearing, James says, you're deceiving yourself. You're a fool and you don't even know it. No, disciples of Jesus Christ have this posture. Listen, they have this priority. They sit at Jesus' feet and they hear his word. Martha, she missed it. Serving over sitting. Mary, she got it. She sits at Jesus' feet and she hears his word, and then it's Jesus. In verse 42, that declares this priority. So Martha dismissed the priority. Mary demonstrates the priority. Jesus declares to us the priority. Because we have two good things up against each other, serving and sitting. And it's not until Jesus really clarifies this for us that we come to a full understanding of what it is that He wants the most. What it is that is the priority, and Jesus says this in verse 42. Notice this: one thing is needful. This is, first of all, a singular priority. This is not a shared priority with some other priority in the Christian walk or some other priority we think is important. Folks, we don't have to do a thorough evaluation of this, Jesus makes this so plain to us. This is the one needful thing. He's declared this priority and it's a singular priority in the first spot. It's declared to be singular. Second of all, it's declared to be a selected priority. He emphasizes this by saying that Mary has made this decision. She's chosen this good part. And then it is a superior priority. You see that there in the text. One thing is needful. Mary has chosen. There's the selection that's taking place, and that is a good part. In the original language, that statement right there, that word good. It's a double positive. We know what double negatives are, right? No, not nothing, you know. This is a double positive. This is the very best for the Christian. This is the very best that you could have in your home and in your life personally. It's this type of posture, sitting at Jesus' feet and hearing his word. So here's a question for us on this Wednesday night. Where would Jesus find you in this home? Where are you in your priorities? Is his word the most important Is the hearing of his word and the obedience of his word more important than anything else in life? Could I ask it this way? Is this your standard? Is this your guidebook? Is this your rule book? Is this where you're going for your needs? Is this where you're going for your spiritual encouragement? Is the Word of God and specifically the life of Christ and the ministry of Christ and the Word of Christ and the teaching of Christ what's guiding you and directing you in the decisions that you're making on a daily basis? This is where it all begins. And my friend, if we don't get back to the book, how could we ever expect God to do anything in our life if we're not willing to make this Book, the Word of God, the words that Christ has given to us, the most important. I love what Charles Spurgeon said about revival. He said, if we want revivals , We must revive our reverence for the Word of God. And this is why we're starting here tonight. Because we can grow cold and complacent and calloused towards the word of God that we hold in our hands. And neglect it and forget it on Monday, Tuesday, half of Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday, and show up on Sunday and expect God to do great things in our life. And I'm just telling you tonight, there is no spiritual vigor, there is no spiritual vitality apart from the meat and the milk of the word This is the one needful thing. A wonderful study for you if you have time tonight, tomorrow morning, tomorrow afternoon. Would be to read through the 119th Psalm and note all the times that the psalmist prays, Lord. Quicken me. Make me alive. Literally could be translated. Revive me according to your word. Because just because somebody from Louisiana shows up in the pulpit, just because we have these revival meetings Doesn't mean we're going to know revival. We're going to know revival when we get back to the Word of God. And we get serious about making the Word of God our rule book. Our lifebook, our guide, our meditation all the day. You remember how I said at the beginning of our time together this evening that this portion of Scripture is pivotal for Luke's gospel account. If you have a red letter edition Bible, you can see this visually. And this is kind of neat. If you flip back through the first ten chapters of Luke's gospel, you're going to see a lot of black ink on the page. A lot of miracles that the Lord performs, a lot of kind of the navigating of his ministry, the beginning of his ministry. And then if you look past Luke chapter 10 and the preceding chapters, you're going to begin to see a lot of red ink on the page. Because at Luke chapter 10, what we're entering into. The final months of the Lord Jesus Christ's ministry on earth. And in those final months, there's a heavy emphasis on teaching his disciples how he wants them to be his disciples. Here's how you ought to live. Here's how you ought to think. Here's how what you should value. Here's how you reach the law. Here's how you live the Christian life. And so in Luke chapter ten, we're there's really the subtle shift into the final moments, the final The final teachings of Jesus to his disciples. And Luke 10 and verse 38 through 42 are not teaching us exactly what to learn. They're teaching us how to learn. And this is amazing for us even today as disciples of Christ. If Jesus Christ has our ear, then guess what? He's going to have our money. And he's going to have our time, and he's going to have the raising of our children, and he's going to have all the other priorities that fall under the hearing of his word and sitting at his feet. If we'll posture ourselves at the beginning of these few days together with this attitude, Lord, teach me your way. Not my way. Not my will. But your way. May your will be done in my life. Will we lay open and lay bare our priorities this evening and allow the Lord to pinpoint specific portions of our life that are not aligned with his priorities? Because this is the one needful thing. Jesus said. Sit at my feet, be my disciple. And hear my word. I believe if we can get to that place tonight in our lives, as we meditate on these things, the Lord can awaken us and revive us. And speak to our hearts in the coming nights as we are sensitive and honest and humble, not to what its preacher has to say. but to what God Himself has to say. Would you bow your heads and close your eyes this evening? Thank you so much for your attention to the Word of God At the end of our service tonight and tomorrow night and Friday night, we're going to take a minute, two minutes. Three minutes to just have an opportunity to respond. Many of you have had a busy day. Tomorrow is going to be another busy day. The service is a busy time, and you've listened to a lot of information and a lot of material, and you've heard the Word of God even this evening. I think it's helpful for us to just quietly sit. And in our hearts, allow the Holy Spirit and the Word of God to wash over our minds and our hearts. For us to have a thorough evaluation. of our priorities and allow the Lord to speak to our hearts and for us to then commit ourselves to aligning our priorities with His. So what we'll do is I'll have a word of prayer. Emily will begin to play on the piano, and we can just remain seated as we speak with the Lord. Ask him to help us and respond to the text. Let's pray together. Lord, we thank you for these verses. The one needful thing, the priority above all priorities. Not to negate the other priorities that you've given us and the responsibilities in this life, but Lord, may we not in the busyness of life Miss this priority. Neglect this priority. Dismiss it for some other priority, even though that other priority may be good. May you help us, Lord, to evaluate those priorities this evening. And to hear the word from Jesus Christ that this is the one needful thing. It's important. To sit at your feet, to be a disciple of Jesus Christ, to hear his word, to live and obey and follow. What He's commanded us to do. Lord, in this time of response, we're praying that you would speak to our hearts, pinpoint particular areas of our lives, our priorities. That are out of line with your priorities. Maybe there's someone here tonight who has sports, money, wealth, popularity. etc on the throne and that's the most important maybe it's something more spiritual like serving as we see in the life of Martha May you help us to do business with you, to change our ways, and to bring this priority that you've declared to be the Most important, back to that number one spot in each one of our lives, hearing your word, sitting at your feet. Speak to our hearts now, I pray, in Jesus' name. Amen.