If you have your Bibles, please take them and turn to First Timothy chapter two. First Timothy chapter two, and the reason that we were dealing with that song, The Church is One Foundation, is because we are dealing with the pastoral epistles. And we are specifically looking at the topic of order in the church and how God has ordered his church. Now we're looking at part two from a topic dealing with appropriate church order. What I'm going to do is I'm going to read the text. And I'm going to look at the main purpose of the passage and then give you a couple of quick reminders from last week, and then we'll pick up where we left off last time. 1 Timothy 2, verse 8 says this: I will, therefore, that men pray everywhere, lifting up holy hands without wrath and doubting. In like manner also the women adorn themselves in modest apparel, with shamefacedness and sobriety, not with embroidered hair or gold or pearls or costly array, but that which becometh women professing godliness with good works. Let the women learn in silence with all subjection, but I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence, for Adam was first formed, then Eve. And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression. Notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety. Now I mentioned this last week that this is a very uh hotly debated passage of Scripture. In fact, there are some people within Christianity in a general sense that actually really want to attack Paul's apostolic authority and even the fact that he was the one who penned these words because they don't want to put into practice within the church These instructions. There are a lot of folks today who believe that Paul was biased when he wrote these things. If he's the one that wrote it, then he was biased against women. Or basically he was looking at a cultural situation that was going on in Ephesus, but it doesn't apply today. What we're going to see today is that Paul is going to explain why. Men are to be those in leadership within the church. And when we say within leadership, we're not saying that there aren't some places where women can have leadership, delegated certain responsibilities. But there's a very specific type of leadership that women cannot be a part of within the church, and that's with the preaching ministry where men are in audience. And basically the reason for that is because God expects men to function in a role of leadership within the congregation. It's got nothing to do with ability. It's got nothing to do with giftedness. There are there are ladies that clearly have the same giftedness in many ways as men who are pastors. They have a pastoral heart if you want to put it that way. They have an ability to teach. They have tremendous discernment. They have very good skills when it comes to administrative things. And those ladies can have an incredible ministry in the church, but they can't be a pastor, elder, bishop. That That office is something that biblically they're not to have. And so the purpose for this section was to establish appropriate order within the local church worship so that men and women would function in the way that God designed them to function in that body. And so that statement really indicates that God, when he created male and female with the distinctions, the differences between male and female. It wasn't just some arbitrary difference that he puts there. Those differences serve a specific function and purpose. And so when we talk about issues of family, we talk about issues of church, we realize that those functions begin to really really begin to show up in those areas. God wants us to soberly follow these instructions. And so we asked the question, how can we do it? The first thing we did is we talked about perspective a little bit. And one of the statements that I made that I think is extremely important is that this section was essentially universally accepted without any controversy for 20 centuries of church history. So if you read the the the church fathers, if you were to read men during the Reformation, if you were to read from any time in church history save the last forty years. you would find that the universal view of women's roles in the church was that they could not be a pastor or deacon. A second statement that I made that's very important is that a rejection of the traditional understanding, or we could say what has been the understanding of the church for 20 centuries, we'll put it that way. Has nothing to do with exegetical or contextual arguments. In other words, the text will not tell you something different than what people have understood for 20 centuries. The difference is that people allow emotions, cultural arguments, straw men basically saying, if this is true, then this is what you mean, and they'll attack those views. That's really where the differences come. Part two, we looked at three important questions to reflect. Do we believe that God has the right? to be the final say over how the church is ordered? Do we believe that the scriptures are our final authority on these matters? Do we really believe that God's design is best? And the answer to all of those should be yes. We believe that God has the right. If he ordained the church, if he established the church, he has the right to order it how he sees fit. And because this book is the sole authority of the church, we need to obey what it says. And God's design is best. His reasons are good. And we need to recognize that. So then we got into this to the content a little bit. First of all, we talked about the fact that men are to be leading in prayer. We talked a little bit about the kind of attitudes that men should have, the character that men should have. Then we moved into what Paul writes about the character of ladies within the church and how there's a distinction and how they should conduct themselves as well. The last part of that section was very, very important. It indicated that when we look at church order Ladies are not to be teaching in the church setting here, but that they're to be listening. And when it talks about being silence in all subjection, I don't want you to read into that something harsh. The idea is that every person in this room right now is obeying that text, okay? Nobody's talking out loud. Everybody's sitting here and listening to the authoritative teaching of the Bible. And so that statement is basically saying what you're doing right now is what ladies are to do in the gathering of the church. We do have other texts that teach that ladies are to be teaching other ladies. And so we do know that there are places where ladies can teach and they can teach effectively and they need to teach. But not in the gathering together where men and women are present and the authoritative teaching of Scripture is going on. So then we get into this question of why. Why does Paul state this? Obviously he's stating it because that's what God wants him to do. Okay, so he's writing under the inspiration of Scripture. But what is the purpose that God moves Paul to address, to say, here's the reason why the church should be ordered in this way? I want you to look down at the text and notice what it says in verse number 13. He says, for. That word indicates that this is the reason that Paul is giving the instructions that he's giving. He says, for. He doesn't say, because in your culture, at this time in human history. Men are leaders in their homes, in government, wherever, and ladies are not, and so that's the reason why the church needs to be ordered that way. In fact, I would even venture to say that wasn't necessarily the case. In fact, when we look at uh certain ladies mentioned in the Bible, they were perhaps the breadwinners of their homes, Aquila and Priscilla. In that arrangement, it's likely that it wasn't Aquila, it was actually his wife, who was probably the one who was the more industrious one who had the business. We talk about Lydia. It never mentions her husband. It always talks about Lydia's household. So, and we know that she was a very industrious woman. She had a business. So We need to understand that even within their culture, it wasn't necessarily that the men ruled in every single area of society. This was not a cultural issue. He didn't just say, well, I'm cranky and I don't like women, so I'm just going to tell you this is how we're doing it. It's not what he says. Here's the reason. For Adam was first formed than Eve. Now, to our ears we go, who cares? Adam was formed first than Eve. But you know what's interesting to their ears? That stated something. When God created male and female, he chose to create the man first. And from the man create the woman, and then he was going to establish this concept of family. God did it that way for a reason, and it was to establish order. Now when we talk about order, we need to understand that order says absolutely nothing about aptitude, and it says absolutely nothing about Giftedness and it says absolutely nothing about value at all. You know, we have several veterans in our in our church. The fact that you had a higher rank than somebody else didn't make you more valuable than them. Didn't make you smarter than them It didn't make you more gifted than them. Didn't make you a more important person than them. It simply was your rank. It was the order. It meant that when there was an issue Their chain of command came to you, and then you had somebody over you, and you went to them, and basically when there was a problem, whoever was above you in the chain of command, he got it before you did. Okay, that's the way it worked. In other words, there's an order there. And God basically says in his word, the concept of order is something that I created. It's something that I expect to be there. Not saying that people don't abuse that order. And God has a lot to say about those who do abuse that order. But the reality is that he starts with this statement: God created Adam first. This command is not rooted in cultural expectations or Paul's personal opinion, but rather in God's design from the creation for the separate functions of men and women. He then moves on to a second statement that I think can be confusing, so I need to explain exactly what he's saying here. He says in verse 14, and Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived. was in the transgression. Now that little phrase, being deceived was in the transgression, is a little bit complicated, it's a little bit tough to translate. But here's the idea. The idea is that because Eve was deceived and she pressured Adam to do this, she actually ended up leading him to make the decision rather than him in his proper role as the leader to say no. This is wrong. God said, don't do this. We're not going to do this. In other words, what's actually going on here is that Paul is indicating that not only was Adam created first , And he had the responsibility by God in the order of the family to answer to God. But when Adam and Eve sinned There was a reversal of the roles. And during that reversal of the roles, rather than Adam saying, no, we don't do this , She led him to do that. In fact, it's also very interesting when we look at the scriptures theologically, it doesn't say that when Eve sinned, all of humanity fell. It's very interesting. It says in Romans 5, by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, and so death passed upon all men for that all have sinned. Yeah, I I know that's something that probably when you read it you go, well, Eve sinned first. Why didn't we all fall when Eve sinned? It's because of the issue of order. In other words, because Adam was in the role to lead that home of two, and he didn't do it, he was the one who bore the responsibility of the sin In other words, we see that this concept of order tells us the person who's held accountable is the one who's in authority. It's an interesting concept. In other words, what Paul is stating here is that from the very beginning of creation God established that men are responsible in whatever area God has placed them and stated that they are. For instance, in the home. For instance, in the church, those two areas are clearly stated in Scripture. I am responsible to God for how I lead my home. Not saying that there aren't areas where my wife is responsible. But ultimately, God is going to look at me and hold me responsible for the things that are going on in my home. And within the church, we see the same concept. Basically, what it's saying is this. The one who carries the heaviest weight of responsibility before God, the one who is going to be the most answerable to God, is the one who's in charge. Within that chain of command, and God has ordained that the men in the home and the men in the church bear that responsibility. The reality is, we tend to look at this issue from the standpoint of, I don't think it's fair that I can't do this. Perhaps we should look at it more like, I'm kind of glad I don't have to be the one who bears the weight of that responsibility. The reality is as a pastor. There's going to be a day that I stand before God, and God is going to hold me accountable for how I led this church. He's not going to hold all of you accountable for how this church was led. Because you didn't have that job. He's going to hold me accountable. And that is a very sobering thing. The same is true about our family life So when Adam taught or when Paul talks about this concept of headship, authority, differences of roles within the church. The whole purpose is to go back to the creation, and he's emphasizing it's about God's design. It's about the way that God created it. He has the right to order it the way that he does. Then we move on to a really interesting section. And I have any has anybody ever read verses fifth verse fifteen and gone, what in the world is that talking about? Let me read it to you, and I'm going to ask the question, okay? Notwithstanding She shall be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith and charity and holiness and sobriety. Have you ever read that verse and gone? What in the world is that talking about Oh come on, don't be bashful. Raise your hand if it's true of you. Okay. All right. Yes, we've all read this verse gone. What in the world is that talking about? Well, today I'm going to venture into this discussion. And I'm going to do that because that's what expositional teaching does. You deal with what's in the text. Well, the first thing I want to say about this is that this statement is clearly connected to this discussion about the distinction of the roles between male and female within the role of the church. He's basically stated that men are to be the leading ones in the church, that they bear the responsibility, they bear the weight, they're going to be answerable to God. And one of the things that we need to realize is that whenever we're in a position where we're under authority, when we are in a chain of command, There is a tendency, because we live in a fallen world, because we're fallen creatures, and the people that are in that chain of command are fallen people, that we get frustrated. If you've had somebody in authority over you, you have at some point been frustrated with them. Anybody like that? Okay? Yes. If you have been in a position of authority, you have also frustrated the people under you. That is reality. It's not good. It's not something we should try to do. It happens because we're fallen creatures. And this thought many times pops into our heads. When we are the one who is below someone in the chain of command and we say, I can do it better than them. We want to take their job. We want to kind of move outside of their responsibility, somehow go around them or over them or somehow undermine them, and through that, maybe then we can take that position because we know better, we can do better. I'm sure nobody's ever thought that way at all. Well, truth be known, it's happened. This is part of the context. Paul understands that within the church situation, there will be people who will struggle with this concept. And there will be something within them that says, you know what, I don't like this. I kind of feel like I should be in that role. And I don't like what it's saying, and there's going to be this temptation to really usurp or overtake that role. In fact, it's interesting the way that the way that it's stated in verse 12 he says, I suffer, I don't allow a woman to teach. or to usurp authority over the man. The idea is that she's going to take a job, a role, a responsibility that really was not entrusted to her He's concerned that people are going to do that. Well, in verse 15, basically what Paul's doing is he is giving an antidote to ladies who have tremendous abilities. But are going to be tempted to take a role like that. And this is what's interesting. He's going to emphasize the privilege that ladies have to bear children and to raise their children. The truth is, as a dad, I cannot biologically have a child like my wife can. I can't biologically carry a child for nine months And understand the connection that a mother and a child has. Why is that? Because God didn't intend for me to do that. And if you're a man, he didn't intend for you to do that either. He had a different role for you, a different function. And the reality is that that responsibility and that privilege is something that in God's eyes Is a very valuable thing. You know, we live in a generation where children are not viewed with the kind of honor and dignity that they should. I say honor. We don't view them as the treasures that they are. Okay? It's interesting. In the Psalms it says that children are a heritage of the Lord, and the fruit of the womb is his reward. Yeah, we live in a culture where people don't view children as a reward, a heritage. It's a burden. It's keeping me from being able to do the things that I want to do. I want to travel. I want to make money. I want to have power. I want to set my own agenda. I want to do all these things. And what's interesting is rather than people viewing A next generation of young people that God has entrusted to your care, rather than viewing them as an incredible treasure, incredible blessing, an incredible opportunity, they are viewed as a burden. And I will tell you that what our culture is teaching us about children, it's very destructive. The reality is our culture will cease to exist if we continue with the same mentality. It's true. I absolutely believe that. Probably not in my generation, but eventually our culture will cease to exist because we are not having a generation coming behind us. The reality is that God created the concept of marriage, the concept of male and female. The sexual union, producing children within the bounds of marriage, he created that for a good purpose. And when we decide that we don't want to do it God's way, we are actually taking from ourselves a blessing that God wants to give us. People that say, I don't want to get married, I don't want to have children, I don't want that burden, they are stealing from themselves a blessing that God wants to give them. And it's not just unsafe people that have that mentality. I hate to say that, but it's true. A lot of Christians have that mentality too. The truth is we should look at marriage, family, children from God's perspective. We have a blessing available to us. When God gives you a child, he has given you something that is priceless, something that is wonderful. And that is really what this verse is all about. It's about emphasizing that through a woman fulfilling the role that God created her to fulfill, The function that God created her to function, by her being faithful in that role, God is going to give her something that is very valuable. And this is the way he puts it. She shall be saved in childbearing if they continue in faith and in charity. A couple of questions that we should ask. Question one, is he saying that she's saved in childbearing or through childbearing? You might say, well, why does that even matter? I'll tell you why it matters, because it's the way that the Greek tri preposition is translated here. The Greek preposition has the idea of on account of or through. And so if if he's saying that she's saved in childbearing, then he's basically talking about something like this. A woman has a uh going through the birthing process, she's in pain, and she comes through it. She's saved from some type of a problem. That could be uh the idea. And some people have tr uh interpreted it that way, but that's really not what it's saying. He's basically saying it's through child bearing that you receive a certain kind of salvation. Is this salvation taking place in the childbearing process or after? It's really after. Question two, in what way is she being saved. And we've got to think about it this way. When we talk about the word saved, we understand that saved is a very general term. Okay? Let's say somebody is drowning. And you go and you rescue them. You can say, I saved them. All right? That's not illegitimate at all. Okay? You could have somebody who is going through uh A lot of problems in their classroom setting. And the teacher shows them grace and they say, My teacher saved me from failing a class, okay? Saved. I mean, it's a totally appropriate term to use But we know that salvation from failing a class is different than salvation from drowning in a river or a lake. And when we talk about salvation as it relates to our souls, Even the way the term is used in the Bible is used in different contexts. For instance, we could say somebody safe from God's wrath. That means he's not going to be judged and cast into the lake of fire. We can say that somebody is being saved. From the power of indwelling sin, and we're talking about sanctification. He's growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. That kind of salvation is different than the other kind of salvation. We talk about the fact that we're going to be glorified and stand in God's presence and receive a a new body. We talk about salvation in the sense of glorification. The reason I say that is to say that look, the word saved is a generic term and context determines the type of salvation that we're talking about. Is this a justification kind of salvation? Is he saying that a woman by having children goes to heaven? Of course not. I mean the Bible is very clear on that issue. I mean, if that was what it was saying, then what do we do with Ephesians 2, 8 and 9? If that's what it's saying, then what about a lady that can have children? What about men? Can they be saved? Well, obviously that's not what it's talking about Is it talking about a preserved life? In other words, she's going through the birthing process and she survives. Well, what about ladies that that don't survive childbirth? You know, we live in a time where many, many times uh we forget that when a lady had a baby a hundred years ago, two hundred years ago, lots and lots of women died in childbirth. Watsted. Even in Ghana and around the world, there are places where the mortality level is very high. Is that what he's talking about? The answer is no. He's not talking about a physical salvation. He's not talking about justification and salvation. He's talking about something that is connected to the context, and this is what I think he's talking about. He's talking about salvation from the temptation to reverse God's order and purpose for these role distinctions. In other words, basically what he's saying is this: within the heart of a person that's under authority, within that chain of command, there is this tendency to want to usurp that order and be in a different role. And that temptation is with all of us. In fact, it's interesting. We go to Genesis 3 and it talks about the fall. This is what he says. Unto the woman I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception. And sorrow shalt thou bring forth children. And then he makes a statement that's very interesting. He says, Thy desire shall be to thy husband. And what that means literally is this. You will want to dominate your husband. You will want to take his role. You want to take his responsibilities. And then he says, and he shall rule over thee. That literally means that the way that he exercises his authority will not be gentle, and it will be harsh, and it won't be appropriate. And why is that? Because you're a sinner, he's a sinner. In other words, we understand that because of the fall, there is that temptation for those in authority to abuse authority and those under authority to circumvent authority. And that's what he's addressing here. And basically, what Paul is saying to these ladies is this: if you want to live a fulfilled and satisfied life, Then function faithfully in the role that God has put you in. And that really goes to all of us with whatever situation we're in. Okay? There are men who would love to be pastors, but they absolutely shouldn't be pastors. Okay, so it's not just men who are not just ladies who are not able to be pastors or deacons. There are lots of men in the church. Oh, a church of 500 people might have two or three men in pastoral ministry. So it's excluding hundreds of men in that church congregation. The reality is that there's a temptation for us not to be satisfied with the role that God has given us Not to be faithful in the role that God has given us, and to not realize that by faithfulness in that role we will have the truest and greatest sense of satisfaction. In other words, if someone will seize their job and seize their role, God will save them from this temptation. And it's interesting the way that he puts it. He says, if they, meaning their children, continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety. In other words, he's not just focusing on the fact that you had children, but that those children were invested in in such a way that there was a continuation of faith. They embraced the faith. They grew as disciples, they live responsible lives, they love Christ. I'll put it like this. We have a lot of young mother I A lot of moms with young, young children, I'll put it that way. And we do have some young mothers too. But we have a lot of small children in the church. Like fifteen of them were sick this week. Okay. Fifteen kids were sick on Sunday. That's crazy. You know what that means? That means that the mothers of those kids had a really rough weekend. And I've had a really rough week. Okay? When I came home uh this afternoon, the kids were very fussy. And I just thought, man, my poor wife. The truth is this. Being a mom and being a dad, but particularly being a mom, means that they're going to be some very long nights feeding babies. Listening to screaming babies, rocking babies , rubbing uh wiping dirty noses of babies, cleaning up puke from babies Cleaning up diapers from babies. And our husbands should be helping their wives, but the reality is this: wives carry a huge role. Huge responsibility. And that is an extremely discouraging place to be. I I know for a fact that is, because that's the stage where our family is, okay? So I know having conversations with my wife And the conversation she has with other ladies on the stage, that it's difficult. And there is a tremendous temptation. When you're in that season to say, you know what, I'd like to take these kids, put them here, let somebody else deal with them, and I'm going to go and live a fulfilled life. And you know what the text is telling you? You want the fulfilled life. Invest in those little kids. Pour your life into them. Lead them to Christ. Teach them what it means to live for Jesus. Invest in shaping their worldview. And if you do that, as hard as that season of life is, there will be a day when those kids are blessing you in ways you can unimagine. Because they have been raised right. Because they have embraced truth. Because they can do far more than you can do as one person. The greatest investment that you can have in this lifetime is in your kids. And that's really what this passage is indicating here. That desire to usurp authority, to step outside of the boundaries that God has created within the church. All those gifts and all those talents and those abilities, if those are channeled within the areas that God has placed you, and you are faithful there, there will be a day that you will reap incredible reward and blessing As a result of that investment. And so that's what he means. When he says, You'll be saved in childbearing if they continue in the faith, in love, and charity and steadfastness and those things. That passage should be a real encouragement to our to our ladies. It ought to be encouragement to our men, too. The reality is that The role that we play as a father, as a husband, it can really make things more difficult for our wives, or it can also encourage them. Some of our older ladies who have kind of gone through that season of life, encourage those young moms with those small kids, invest in their lives. Encourage them that the investment's worth it. And when they get through that season, if they've done it well, there'll be incredible blessings. Folks, God's ways are not meant to press us down, discourage us, frustrate us. His ways are not evil. His ways are good. I mean the concept of male and female isn't a bad concept. The concept of a distinction of roles within the home and within the church, it's not a bad concept. The fact that God has chosen to create a family so that the sexual union produces children in a family, in a marriage, is a good thing. It's what God wanted it to do. And the reality is God knows that if we will fulfill those roles he's created for us and we will do it faithfully, then we will be blessed by that. I can't tell you how many times when I sit down with an older person who has young you know children, grandchildren, great grandchildren, they're living for the Lord, they just look at you and they say, I am so blessed. I don't deserve this. And they have so much blessing as a result of it. And the truth is that If we don't seize the opportunities of that season, when that season passes, it won't be what it could have been in the future. I want to encourage you with that. Here's some practical implications from this text. Number one, God's people are to live distinctly, God-centered, God-ordered lives. Two, God alone has the right to dictate to the church the order that He has designed for its function. 3. Men and women, though equally valuable to God and often equally suited for similar roles in life, are appointed to a distinction of roles in the church Next, the scriptures not culture or necessity should be the final rule for our faith and practice. God's ways are best and should be happily embraced. And lastly, We will be most fulfilled in life when we faithfully fulfill the purposes for which God has created us. This text doesn't just speak to our ladies, it's to our men too. The reality is that where we are in life, it's by God's design, and we need to seize those opportunities. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, we are thankful that you are infinitely wise and you are fully good. And Father, you do all things well. The concept of marriage and home and children. Gender, male-female distinction. It's all part of your plan. In fact, Father, I'm I'm so saddened by how our culture has lost The beauty of what you have made. People living empty lives. No purpose. And Father, I pray that as your people who have truth and have opportunity, we would not live in emptiness as the world around us. Father, I pray that we would faithfully serve in the roles that you have ordained for us, that we will happily submit to you, and that we will be faithful. And Father, I pray that as our families invest wisely in their children, that they will be able to reap the wonderful blessings of that faithfulness when they're old. And I pray that you would greatly impact your kingdom through the families that are in this church. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.