1 Timothy 2, we're looking at verses 8 to 15. And as I mentioned earlier, this is an extremely controversial passage. And also within the passage that we're dealing with tonight, there are a lot of interpretive challenges. So I'm going to be a little bit more technical on a couple of aspects of this discussion. than I would have been in most of our other lessons just because I think that we need that for this passage. But but the passage that we're dealing with is dealing with the order that God has designed for the So with that in mind, let's look at First Timothy chapter two and we'll look at verses eight to fifteen. I will therefore that men pray everywhere. Lifting up holy hands, without wrath and doubting. In likewise manner also that women adorn themselves in modest apparel. with shamefacedness and sobriety, not with broided hair or gold or pearls or costly array, but which becometh women professing godliness, with good works Let the women learn in silence, with all subjection. But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be silenced For Adam was first formed, then Eve, and Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression. Notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing, if they continue in faith. and charity and holiness with sobriety. Now I can see a few smiles here. This passage is full of lots of interpretive challenges It's full of some instruction that, let's be very honest, in the 21st century, there are a lot of Christians professing so in churches that really do not want to practice. what the Bible has in this passage. And so what I'd like to do tonight is I'd like to simply expound what the text says. And I'd like you to see really from this text that God has the right to order the church how he chooses. And he has a purpose. He has a reason for it to be ordered exactly how it's ordered. So what is the purpose of 1 Timothy 2, 8-15? Here is the purpose. The purpose of this section is to establish appropriate order within local church worship so that the men and women will function in a way that God designed for them to function in that body. What's very interesting is in this passage, Paul is going to indicate that men and women within the local church have some things in common that are expectations of all. And there's some distinctions, and those distinctions are very significant, and we need to observe those distinctions, and we need to live in the light of those distinctions. Basically, the reason that Paul gives us this instruction is because God wants us to soberly follow these instructions in the text. God wants this church and He wants every church that professes the name of Christ, that claims the gospel that claims it's biblical and it's practice and its functions. God wants us to order the church according to his rules and expectations. In fact, it's interesting. One of the things that we talk a lot about when we talk about church life is that when we talk about worship and order, we follow what we call a regulative principle. Basically, it's this. If the scripture doesn't tell us to do it, then we should be cautious not to do it in the local church If the scripture tells us to do it, then we absolutely have to do it. It's an integral part of worship. In other words, we shouldn't add to what the New Testament says about worship in the local church, nor should we cut away from. What the New Testament gives us for instructions related to worship in the local church. And so that's really what we're dealing with today. How does God say the church should be ordered? And a little bit as to why. So how can we do what the passage is telling us? I want to begin with this illustration. I know a couple of people in our church have some engineering backgrounds. Or maybe it's not even background, maybe that's just what you do. If you're an engineer, your job involves developing a system, okay? And you're working with other people, and as you're working with those other people You're trying to take something that doesn't exist or something that exists and you're trying to either make it better or you're trying to create something that is usable. And so engineers sit down and using masks and using basic, all kinds of basic physical laws and different things like that, they sit down and they put those things to work And they design a system. Let's take something like a car. Every single car is full of thousands upon thousands of parts. And all those parts are different, and they serve a specific function within the main purpose of that car, and the engineer knows exactly why he wants it created the way that it is. how it's to function and how it plays a part in the whole. In other words, the fact that two parts of the same car are different doesn't mean that one's inferior to the other. Or that one is better than the other, or that one is less important to the car than the other. The fact that they're different and put together means that they serve a function that's very practical. When we think about the engineer, if you were to ask him why is that part the way that it is, he'd say, well, it's because it's designed that way to accomplish this and this and this. What happens if you remove that part from the car? Well Here's what's going to happen to it. What happens if you decide that you want to change the way the part is being used? Well, here's going to be the outcome of that. In other words, it's designed a certain way, when you stop using it that way, you have problems. That's the way we should look at this text. God designed the church to function a certain way. God designed for men and women to function in different roles within the local church, and it's his idea Not my idea, not some other man's idea, and he's going to lay out exactly what those distinctions are I want to begin with this first part, three important statements to help shape our perspective as we look at this very important text. The first statement is this. This section of 1 Timothy is one of the most controversial sections of Scripture in the modern church. I guarantee you, knowing that our service is uh on the live stream and knowing that this will be broadcast on the internet there will be people who may come across this message who will not like things that will be said It's true. There are people that you know, it could be family members or friends, neighbors, who would say this is not for the 21st century. This is old school, this is ancient, we don't do it this way. It's controversial. But it stands, it's true. Second, this section of 1 Timothy was essentially universally accepted without controversy for twenty centuries of church history. Please get that in your heads. For twenty centuries. If you were to ask Christians, should women be allowed to be pastors in churches, the universal answer for 20 centuries would have been no. There wouldn't have been any question about it. Here's my question. Have we in the 21st century arrived to a new state of knowledge? Do we know something that Christians for twenty centuries didn't understand? Or have we come to a different opinion on this In a way that has nothing to do with Scripture, has nothing to do with God's will. It's not about interpreting the text of Scripture. It's another purpose. Third, the rejection of the traditional understanding. And when I use this term traditional understanding, what I'm saying is the way that Christians have understood this text to be read and understood For twenty centuries, a rejection of that very common understanding has nothing to do with exegetical or contextual arguments. What I mean by exegetical is the words If you look at what they mean, you will not come to a different conclusion. If you look at the context, And you ask the question, why did Paul give this instruction and what did he mean? And how was the original audience to understand these instructions? You would not come to a different position than the church has for twenty centuries. The amar the arguments that people bring are emotional arguments. They're cultural arguments And many times strawman arguments. In other words, instead of actually looking at what the Bible says, they'll say, well, if you're saying this, then this is what you actually mean. And that's not true. Part two. There are three important questions that I think we need to ask in personal reflection as we approach the passage as well. First question is concerning God's authority. Do you believe that God has the right to tell us how to order the church? It's a pretty simple question, isn't it? Do you believe that God has the right To tell us what we can and can't do when we meet together to worship on Sunday morning. I would say he does. He purchased the church with his own blood. He created this concept of the church. He organized it and formed it and in his providence brought us together. He has the right. Question two It's concerning Scripture's authority. Does God's word stand as our ultimate authority for faith and practice? In churches That have thrown off the biblical understanding of the distinction of roles of men and women in the church are churches that have thrown off the authority of Scripture. The same thing that led us to need a reformation in the 1500s, the fact that the scriptures had stopped being the sole authority of Christians in Europe. It's the same principle that leads people to reject what this text is saying. And the third question concerns a trust in God's design. Do we really believe that God's design for the order of the church is better? than our culture's new ideas. There are some people that would say, well, you know, Paul was biased against women. In those days the culture was a very male-dominated culture, and so that's why these instructions are here. Well, I actually go to argue that that's not really true. So you could find a lot of ancient cultures that were very matriarchal, not patriarchal. This has nothing to do with culture And we'll see that as we deal with the text. Part three, four simple statements for the sake of balance. And I think this is important to say on the front side before we look at the context itself and the passage itself. The first is this, the roles of men and women within the local church are clearly different, and this is by God's design. You cannot read this passage of scripture and walk away and say men and women have the exact same roles in the church. You can't. It's not honest with the text of Scripture. In fact, after we get to this passage, it's going to talk about what a a deacon is and what a pastor is and what the qualifications are for someone who is called a pastor, elder, bishop. Someone who's called a deacon. And the first word it says is if a man desires the office of a bishop. It doesn't say if a person, it says a man. It says that a bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife. It clearly is articulating that this person has to be a man. It says the exact same thing when we come to the role of deacons, the qualification of deacons. And so we can understand from this passage that God has different roles for men and women. And that's not a bad thing. It's actually a wonderful thing, it's a glorious thing. God's purpose is a good thing. Two. The passage is only addressing the roles of men and women within church life. This is really important. This passage is saying nothing about whether or not a woman could be president of the United States. It's not. It's about the local church. It has nothing to say about whether or not a woman could be a CEO of a corporation. It's dealing with one specific area of life, the local church. If we talk about family, the scripture is very clear about who is to be the head of the house. But this is not dealing with many other areas of life. And so let's not force this text into say, can we vote for a woman for president or for senate or house or County council or something like that. That's a separate question. It's got nothing to do with the text in front of us. Three. The passage is about the design that God has for order within the local church, not value. Aptitude, giftedness, or spirituality. The fact that my wife is not biblically qualified to be a pastor has nothing to do with her value. She's creating God's image. I'm really thankful for her that she's my wife. My kids love and respect and honor her. Her salvation came the same way that mine did. The reality is it says nothing about value at all. Says nothing about giftedness. There are women within the church, frankly speaking, that can teach better than some of the men who stand up in Sunday school. I promise you. The way that they can open up the Bible and the way they can understand the Bible, the way that they can communicate it, this text says nothing about it's got nothing to do with giftedness at all. It's got nothing to do with their spirituality. The reality is that some of the godliest people in a church may never be qualified to be a pastor. In fact, biblical qualifications for pastors don't just go into the male-female issue. It also has to do with a lot of other issues They're godly people who God uses mightily who will never be pastors. They were never fitted for that purpose, but they're very godly people. The reality is that the fact that God says This is a qualification you cannot, because you don't meet that, has nothing to do with those issues of value, aptitude, giftedness, or spirituality. And I think it's very important that we keep that in mind. And lastly, this passage does not exclude women from all areas of ministry or leadership within the local church. For instance, there are lots of ladies who are teaching Sunday school right now at Anchor. This passage does not tell you you can't do that. Okay? It's interesting when it talks about a man. It doesn't use the word that's just referring to male. It actually is very specific. It's talking about someone who is a man. In other words, he's matured. He's beyond a certain age where he's recognized to be a man. There are areas of teaching ministry within the church for ladies, amongst our youth, most certainly amongst our women. The reality is when we have a ladies' meeting and one of the ladies in the church gets up and teaches, and some might even argue is preaching in some situations. They're not violating scripture at all. There is nothing morally wrong with that arrangement. Women can have valuable ministries of helps and ministry. In fact, we have we have a great example of this going on. We have a lot of folks in our church right now who have either been in the hospital, just got out of the hospital, are in the hospital, these kinds of situations. And we have lots and lots of ladies who are writing cards. For coming alongside, encouraging, praying with people, sending them meals. There are all kinds of areas of ministry that this passage does not forbid at all. I think of the ministry of prayer, the ministry of hospitality. The reality is the Bible never forbids women from praying publicly in the church. I don't think we've ever, to my remembrance, asked a lady to close in prayer, but I don't think the Bible command uh tells us not to do that That might shock you. I don't know that you would think that I believe that, but it's true. In fact, the Bible gives us specific explanation on how a lady is to pray in the corporate worship. My point is this. Let's not make this passage say more than it says, but let's not cut it short from what it's saying. So let's look at the details of the passage together, please The first thing that we're going to look at is two phrases that tell us that the character and conduct of church members is something that's important to God. You know, God cares about how you live as a Christian. We as a church should care about how our church members live. The reality is that if we have members in our midst who are living in a disorderly way, We should come alongside of them and encourage them and challenge them and even confront them at times. Help them to be restored to a right walk. God cares about how we live as Christians. And he cares about how men men in the church live and he cares about how ladies in the church live. And there's two phrases that he uses that tell us that The first word the first phrase is this. He says, I will, or I desire therefore that men, and then he lists a number of things that men are supposed to do and men are supposed to be and how men are supposed to function. in the local church. Then we skip down a little bit further in the text, and he says, in like manner, just like the men are supposed to conduct themselves in a certain way within the local church, in like manner also the women. And then he lists expectations for those ladies. The point that I'm making is this. God expects men, women, it doesn't matter who you are, if you're a member of the church, he expects you to conduct yourself in a godly manner. So let's see how he breaks it down in the text. There are four important phrases that we're going to look at in relation to how men are to conduct themselves in the local church. Now that we're just looking at this passage, obviously we could go to a lot of other passages, and we could further develop these concepts. But he's thinking specifically about this issue of local church corporate worship. How should our men conduct themselves when they come into this place, when we meet together? Here are the phrases. One, I will that men pray everywhere. What does he mean by that? First phrase, very important. Second phrase. That they pray lifting up holy hands. Now this is an interesting question. I I we don't typically raise our hands and However, we don't do that. But the text says that men are to pray, lifting up holy hands. And the question is, what does he mean by that? Third phrase. Without wrath and doubting. What does he mean by that? And then the fourth phrase that's very important, he says, I suffer, or I allow not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man. So what is Paul trying to teach in these statements that we find in the text? Let's take them one by one. The first statement is this, men ought to pray everywhere. I'll break it down this way. The men of the church are to live prayerful lives and are to be the ones leading in the prayer. Now that doesn't mean that ladies can't pray openly in the church. Doesn't mean we couldn't have a lady come and actually close our service in prayer. Okay? That might make people uncomfortable if we did that, because we don't do that. But the scripture doesn't forbid that. But there's a group within the church that are to be the leaders in this area. That means when it comes to prayer, it's not the ladies who should be the leaders in the church. Though that oftentimes is. We think about ladies' prayer meetings and And when we look at church history, a lot of times there were revivals associated with ladies who got down and prayed. And God blesses women who pray. But you know what God really wants in the church? God wants the men, the heads of households, the leaders of the homes. He wants them to be the ones who lead in this area. He wants them to be the first ones who say, Let's pray together. He wants it to be a normal part of life. I will that men pray everywhere. In other words, it's not just in the corporate worship of the body. We should be praying in our homes. We should be praying privately ourselves. We should encourage one another to meet and to pray. You know, it's something that should be a part of our of our church DNA. Men ought to pray. It's a first ex uh e it's the first thing that he expects of men's character and conduct. The second is he says they should pray lifting up holy hands. And it's interesting, this is a phrase that's been discussed a lot. In fact I know some people say, Oh, I know what he means by lifting up holy hands. You remember the story of of Aaron and Hur and when the nation of Israel was was being attacked and they're in the wilderness. And when Aaron's hands were up, then they were victorious. And when his hands got weighed down, then their enemies were able to overcome them. And I know that sometimes people go to that passage. It's possible that he's talking about something like that. Where the fact is that our prayers uphold people and they strengthen them. They can't see us doing it, but God is using our prayer to uphold them. It's possible that that's what he's talking about. But this is what I think he actually is saying. When men pray, they need to be praying with a life that is characterized by godliness. In other words, when a man gets on his knees When a man lifts up his hands and he prays to God in heaven, he should be doing it from a life that is characterized by godliness and by consistency. Do we have men like that? Are we becoming men like that? The reality is that God wants us To be leaders in this area of prayer. God wants us to live exemplary lives. He wants that kind of a leadership within the local church. The third phrase that he mentions is without wrath and doubting. And this is not just talking about the way the person lives, a life that's consistent with the gospel, but the idea is that what's going on within the person The internal workings of the heart, it's right, it's godly. Without wrath means that he's not unsettled in the sense that he's explosive and angry. He has a settled, controlled disposition. How many men struggle with this issue of wrath? And really, when we become angry, a lot of times it's an indication of the fact that there's a lot going on under the surface, inside of our hearts. What's going on under the surface, it boils up when the pressure gets just right. When we pray, man. We need to do it without wrath, having a subtle, controlled disposition. And when he uses the word doubting, that word doubting has the idea that there's this internal deliberation going on in the heart. And that internal deliberation is being dominated by doubts and by distrust. And he says, when you pray, don't pray with a heart that's divided and that's encumbered by doubts. I think of what James says when he talks about when a man prays, let him pray in faith, without any wavering, and he says that a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. And double-mindedness basically means There's two minds inside of that person, two souls, and one side is wrestling with the other side and and one has confidence and one has doubt. And the reality is that that that heart is divided and so that person struggles to Pray. In other words, when we lead in prayer, we need to be settled, confident, controlled. These are the qualities that follow people that have a genuine, healthy walk with God And then the fourth statement, I suffer, I don't allow a woman to teach or to usurp authority over the man. This statement needs to be understood within the context of a very specific situation The local church. Okay, if I'm working in the corporate world and my my my boss is a woman, I can't go to this passage and say, you know, you can't you can't be my authority because the Bible says That I'm not supposed to allow a woman to have authority over me. That's not what the passage is talking about here, folks. He's talking about a spiritual authority in the context of the local church. You know, the most authoritative thing that I do in this church is not leading a business meeting. It 's teaching the word. Because when I stand up and I give the scriptures, I'm telling you God said this. It is the most sobering thing that I do as a pastor. And when you open up the Bible and you teach the Bible, there is no higher position of authority that you have in the church. than the communication of the word of God. Because there are people that are going to say, I do this because you taught from God's word, I'm supposed to do this. I'm choosing not to do this because what you've taught me from the Word is God says don't do it. In other words, there's no higher authority matter in the church than this issue of the instruction of God's Word. And he basically says this, God has ordained that those who handle the word in the church Need to be men. You see, I don't think that's fair. It's what God said, folks. That's the way that God ordered it You might say, well, I I I think that there are a lot of competent women who have the ability to teach. I don't disagree with you at all. There are ladies. who can handle the word very well. When my wife and I talk about what she teaches in ladies' meetings, I'm amazed at the illustration she comes up with. When we discuss scripture together, I'm amazed the interpretive understanding that she has. I'm amazed at the practical insights. It was interesting. We were discussing uh with our deacons. We were having a discussion about uh things like our missions committee, and I remember one of the men said, I really think that we should consider having a few of the ladies in the church on that missions committee. We talked about it. I said, you know what? It's true. There are insights that these ladies have that, not saying that men can't have them, but there's some things that they're very aware of. When this passage makes a statement like that, it is in no way suggesting that ladies have an inability to teach, or that ladies have no qualities of leadership. It's simply a matter of God's right to ordain how the church functions. Very important. Now let's move to a second area. We will probably only get through this here. The character and conduct of women within the local church. Not only does God expect men to conduct themselves in a certain way when it comes to meeting together as a body of Christians. He expects them to lead. He expects them to live godly lives. He expects them to handle the teaching and preaching of God's Word He expects them to be prayerful. He expects them to be praying in a way that is with confidence in the Lord, without wrath and angry. How does God expect ladies to conduct themselves in the local church? Here's the phrases that we're going to focus our attention on tonight. The first phrase is adorn themselves in modest apparel. I'm just going to make a statement here. That word modest as it was used. 400 years ago has changed in its understanding on some ways. And so I want to explain what the Greek term that's being used here, translated here, actually means. The second phrase, without with shamefacedness and sobriety, not with embroidered hair of gold or pearls or costly array. You might say, well, so is it wrong for for me to get my wife jewelry for her birthday? We talk about that in a second. Why not? 3. But, which becometh women professing godliness with good works. 4. Let the women learn in silence with all subjection. That really sounds pretty harsh, doesn't it? Let me explain exactly what Paul is indicating here. And lastly, I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. What does God expect of ladies in the local church? And what is this passage teaching? So let's take them one by one. The first one is this: adorn themselves in modest apparel. The idea is that women are to dress in a way that is seen to be appropriate, well-ordered, but not showy. Let me say that again. Women are to dress in a way that is seen to be appropriate, well-ordered, and not showy. You say, well, Pastor, can you give us some rules associated with this? And I'll say, no, I can't. You say, why? You just you don't want to go down that road, huh? No, it's really not that. The reason I'm not going to give you rules is because the Bible doesn't give you rules. It simply gives you this principle. The way that a lady should dress Should be appropriate, well ordered, and not showy That word modest basically means don't be showy. And here was kind of funny. There's a passage in 1 Corinthians where it talks about ladies having their hair put way up Now, you know, we we don't have hairdo 's like that today. There might have been a few times in American culture where we did. Okay. But that's not in the culture today at all. But you know, there are things that there are ways that a person can dress that you say, you know what, they are really flaunting themselves They might be ex like flaunting themselves in a sexual manner. They might be flaunting themselves when it comes to kind of their status or how much money they have. And really I think when Paul is talking in this particular context He's not so much thinking about a woman being showy in a sexual manner as much as he's worried about a woman being showy in the sense that she's showing off her status and her wealth within society. Why do I say that? Because he says Not with broided hair or gold or pearls or costly array. The idea is that these ladies were coming to church to pretty much show off their status I actually haven't really seen that around here too much. But if we go down south, the tables have turned, my friends. The tables have turned. It's a different culture down there. But the reality is that when ladies dress, they need to ask the question, what am I really showing by this? What am I communicating? How am I affecting the people around me? I think it's an honest question that really ladies should ask. And it's not just ladies too. I think men as well Am I dressing in a way to demean other people? To build myself up and to really show off? That's really the idea that's there. Modest really has a lot more to do with not being showy and being well-ordered and appropriate. Number two, he talks about being with shamefacedness and sobriety. The idea that their dress should reflect a carefully considered respect for others that does not flaunt their wealth or status in society. The purpose of clothing is to cover our bodies. Bottom line, right? That's the purpose. I mean, that's why God gave Adam and Eve clothing in the garden. There's nothing wrong with a person dressing in a way that's flattering to them. It's not wrong for them to dress in a way that's attractive. In fact, the word translated modest is actually from the Greek word kosmios. And it does have the idea of being well ordered. The truth is that we shouldn't teach our ladies that they need to dress sloppy or something like that. In fact really being sloppy could probably be a violation of this text. The point is, we don't dress in a way that puts down and demeans others and makes us look like the show of the party. Here I am. I'm now at church. We can start now because I'm here. I've made my grand entrance. We need to be cautious about this issue. Third , But that which becometh godliness with good works. The idea is that a godly disposition and pattern of life should be the most prominent characteristic of a person, a lady's adornment. In other words, when somebody meets a person, what they begin to notice is not, well, that person is really affluent. That person's really powerful. That person has a godly spirit. There's something about the way they carry themselves. That really speaks of their character. You ever met somebody like that? You interact with this person and you go, you know what, this person's the real deal. I can tell in their spirit, in their character, and the way they carry themselves. Basically, what Paul's saying is this: that's really what ought to attract people to us. That's really what people ought to notice and what ought to catch their attention. The fourth phrase, let the woman learn in silence. With all subjection. Please don't read into that more than it's saying. It's simply saying this, rather than teaching, she 's to listen. When it talks about subjection, the idea is she needs to be under the authority of those teaching the word. I'll put it like this. Their responsibility in corporate worship. is to allow scripturally qualified men to assume the responsibility to instruct, teach, and to lead. In other words, we understand if somebody is given the opportunity to preach the word, they should be the kind of person that can handle the word And I should sit there and I should listen attentively. I shouldn't be sitting there in my seat going over to my neighbor going, pfft, that guy didn't know what he's talking about. You hear what he just said there? Let me tell you what that really means. That's basically what he's saying. Just listen. Take notes. Pay attention. Internalize Rather than the lady being in the position of the teacher, she's in the position of absorbing and learning. By the way, the exact same statement could be made of any person in the church that's not a pastor. The reality is every person in the church who 's not handling the word is sitting under the authority of the scriptures, quietly listening under that authority. The reality is it's not just isolated to ladies, but anybody who's sitting in in some in some sense we could say it this way, every person in the room right now. Is sitting silently in subjection to the word. That's what he's saying. And then he states it a second time. I suffer not a woman to teach, nor usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence. Women are not to hold positions of spiritual authority or instruction over men in the church. Because it is a reversal of God-stated delegated authority in the local church. Now, I've done a fair amount of reading on this passage I understand what's written in journals and magazines. I understand what's going on in the discussion in our world today. For instance, John MacArthur is in a huge conflict right now with a very prominent Christian writer, teacher, lady And the reality is that there's a lot of talk in Christian circles about this passage. One of the arguments that people will make is: well, Paul was just talking of his own opinion. Paul was just talking out of his woman-hating tendencies. Paul was just talking out of his culture. Next week I'm going to explain to you where Paul goes for the source of his teaching. And so, if you want to read ahead, the phrase, for Adam was first formed, then Eve, is where we're going with that. Paul doesn't appeal to culture, he doesn't appeal to his personal opinions. He appeals to the order of creation and how God designed male and female in his plan in his world, he goes back to the creation account. And we'll see that God's God's design is a good thing and it's a good purpose. You know, I'm sure that a a passage like this one probably will stimulate questions. I'm open for questions. Okay, after we have prayer time, I'd be glad to sit down and discuss that with you. But this is a very important text. If we believe in the authority of Scripture, which we certainly say we do, if we believe that Christ has the right to tell the church how to order itself, this passage is very clear. You can read it in ten different English translations, and I promise you they all say the same thing. Even the Geneva translation. Okay? So it's very clear and simple. But not always easy to follow. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to help us to internalize this instruction and to live in the light of it. Let's pray. Our Father, we thank you so much. That you're not just a God who haphazardly created the world, but you created male and female Church, family. You've ordered this world according to your infinite wisdom. The differences, the distinctions between men and women, and the various roles that you've ascribed To us, our responsibilities. They are by your perfect design. And I pray that we would recognize the goodness of the way you've created us. That we would embrace that, we would live in the light of that, and that we would glory in your good purposes. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.