Okay, well good evening. I want to welcome to our service tonight and uh let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer and then uh look forward to a great service. Let's let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you again for the Lord's Day where we can set aside all the cares of life and the frustrations and the busyness of our lives and we can focus on I pray that you'd help us to be able to do that tonight. Help us to be able to focus our attention on uh the work that you want to do both in us and through us. And uh pray that you'd calm our hearts. Uh just bless our time. Time of sharing testimonies and our singing. May it be very Christ honoring and focused on you, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's begin our worship this evening by turning in our hymn books to hymn number 537. Hymn number five thirty seven, and let's stand for Jesus' saves. Everything Amen. Let's turn over to Just a few pages to 530 in our hymn books. Hymn number 530, we'll sing all four verses of rescue the perishing. Ras to the perishing and for the dying , five them things are grave. We for the early part may have been. We have the mercy of God , Jesus waiting, waiting on the child to receive. Amen. You may be seated as we Turns us one page over to hymn number 529. There shall be showers of blessing. Now I was hoping that I believe now I 've done how you want me, but I believe. Да нет и шамотом пожалый, раю вами горга , но продает замета в летит для этого продарить. I'm I was like , I was not the brain that gave , but we don't know if we 've got more shot. Для меня кричал уже полезный, Смейна подготовка , как минут легко , что я не могу. There is not each house of mercy, for that we may be right in all the word every those we call the water. Okay, well on Sunday nights we'd like to give you an opportunity to share test All right, a servant's heart. Make me as well as why you are Le béton I bought the Alright, jump over to the red book now. That's 265, verse 2. Alright. Now their voices are sharp. Uh number ninety three. How did it? I sang this first verse, didn't I? Maybe you sing the right oh. You sing the second verse, I sing the first verse. There we go. Alright, nine and three in the blue. People on the live stream are going to be utterly confused now. Alright, bow the knee. Donat her All right, one fifty-four now, and if we look. Yes, I said one fifty one. Oh, okay. I'm glad we keep each other. Accountable. I appreciate it. And now two fifty two in the red book. Nothing but the blood And lastly, we're going to go to thirty-nine in the blue book. All right, let 's Stand for the first and last verse of one day. Cuando se le pueden las obras, todas las olvidas. Ради командира , немає. Thank you for that. If you could, let's all turn together to Exodus chapter two. And uh I love the cello actually when I'm studying I listen to cello music, believe it or not. So not all the time, okay, but that's kind of been the thing that I've been enjoying lately. So while I was preparing for this message, I was listening to cello music, hymns being played on the cello. Exodus chapter 2, we're looking at verses 23 23 down into chapter 3, verse number 10. And we're going to be looking at continuation of our study through the Old Testament. We're looking at the story of redemption. And last week, uh, Pastor Chris talked about how God providentially preserved the life of Moses. And that's an absolutely fascinating passage of Scripture. We see how God works through all kinds of different circumstances. And in this passage, we're going to see the continuation of that. How did Moses get from being a young man whose life was preserved through just happening to be found in the river? uh to eventually running for his life because uh he had been found out that he had killed a man uh who was fighting with an uh with an Egyptian And then he ends up back in Egypt. How in the world does this happen? And by the way, he went from being a 40-year-old man who would have been in the prime of life, I guess he might might say that. Um he was at a time when you think he would be well positioned to lead the nation of Israel out of Egypt and then for forty years He's in this obscure place in the back of the desert. He's taking care of sheep. And as an 80-year-old man, he comes back Fascinating story, but the details of the text we're going to look at tonight, I think, are extremely practical in helping us appreciate how God takes the lives of ordinary people. And he graciously uses them for his glory. Exodus chapter 2, verse 23 says the following. And it came to pass in the process of time. That the king of Egypt died, and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage. And God heard their groaning. And God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob. And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto them. Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro, his father-in-law, the priest of Midian, and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and he came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush. And he looked, and behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed. And Moses said, I'll now turn aside and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt. And when the Lord saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush and said, Moses, Moses. He said, Here am I. He shall draw not nigh hither, but put off thy shoes from off thy feet. For the place whereunto thou standest is holy ground Moreover, he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face, for he was afraid to look upon God And the Lord said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmaster. For I know their sorrows, and I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of the land into a good land, a large Unto a large land flowing with milk and honey, unto the place of the Canaanites and the Hittites and the Amorites and the Perizzites and the Hivites and the Jebusites. Now there, behold, the cry of the children Of Israel has come unto me. I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them. Come now, therefore, and I will send you. I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. Now, I don't know about you, but when we read this passage of scripture, there's so many fascinating details that really come to my mind. For instance, one of the things that really comes to my mind is When God is talking to Moses, he's talking as if uh he's unaware of what's going on, and then he's like, you know, I've heard some noise down there in Egypt. And I'm going to go see what's going on. Or, you know, it's almost as if he speaks like he's forgotten that the nation of Israel was in bondage. And he says, I remembered it. But that's not what he's trying to communicate. When he says I've heard, and when he says things like I'm going to see, and he says that I've remembered, he's emphasizing the fact that he is personally concerned and involved in what's going on in the land of Egypt. And by the way, what's going on in the land of Egypt is Something that he predicted was going to take place several hundred years before it actually happens. But that's really not the focus of the message that I like us to look at. We're going to deal with those a little bit, but I'd really like us to focus our attention on this interaction between Moses And God, and I want us to think about how this really has implications for our own lives personally. And by the way, nobody, I I'm not predicting that anyone's going to In fact, we actually kind of have to address that issue a little bit because we need to understand how God actually works in our lives. What should we anticipate? This is a very unusual circumstance. In fact, we only have one example in the Bible of God dealing in this specific way. But there's a lot that we can unpackage here. So first of all, let me give you a summary statement, kind of remind us of where we are in this storyline, and then dig into some of the details. So first of all, the summary. Exodus two and three illustrate God's faithfulness to his word and the persistence of his gracious work through ordinary people, even when they doubt him. Now some of you might go, Moses is no ordinary person. He's an ordinary person. He's made of the exact same stuff that you and I are made of. When God speaks to him and God says, I'm sending you, Moses said, No. And God said, No, you're going to. And there's this back and forth. And I want us to see this. Moses is an ordinary man that God used in an absolutely extraordinary way. But the reason that God used him in an extraordinary way is not a testimony to the greatness of Moses as much as it is to the patience. And the persistence and the grace of God. God wants us to study his ways so that we can marvel ultimately in his grace. And that's what this passage is all about. So let's keep the big picture in mind. First of all, God called Abraham and promised to make him a great nation. We know that story. And the heart of that promise was actually that God would bless all the nations of the world through Abraham's seed. And that really is a gospel promise. In fact When Abraham believes the promise that God has made, it says it was accounted unto him as righteousness. That means that that promise that God was going to bless all All the nations of the world through his seed was ultimately connected to the promise of the Redeemer. And this man, Abraham, believed it. We saw later on after that promise that God predicts the events that would unfold, and he explained the significance of why there would be a 400-year period of time that the descendants of Abraham would be in bondage in Egypt. He did not name Egypt, but clearly that is what's been going on in these verses. This is all a part of what God is doing in the life of the nation of Israel and in the life of Moses. We also see that God preserved Moses. Who he would ultimately use to bring his people out of bondage in Egypt. And the way that he did it is an absolutely amazing story. Here is a mother who's afraid her child is now beginning to cry and make enough noise that people are going to know that she has a little boy and she gets this where this idea comes from to basically get a basket and put her child in the basket and then float it down the river. Any mothers in here, would you have done that with your child? And then her her daughter watches to see what's going to happen. Can you imagine what was going through Miriam's mind? As this little basket's floating around in the river. And then she sees all of these people from Pharaoh's household going down to the river. And then she sees that the basket 's found. You can only imagine what she would have been thinking at all during that whole time. But God is preserving this child's life. But this is what I think is very fascinating about that story. God chose to use Pharaoh's household to preserve Moses ' life, but he did not use Pharaoh's household to prepare him to lead the people out of Egypt. Think about that. If that was God's plan, then he would have said at the end of that 40 years, all right, Moses, you go to the Pharaoh, you know him personally. And you tell him that I'm telling you to leave, that you're going to take the children of Israel out of Egypt. And then there is this authority struggle. That's not what God did. God allowed Moses to end up being a shepherd for 40 years in the wilderness. It's almost as if he had to remove all of that stuff that he learned and all of that positioning that he had there in the land of Egypt and he's got to make him an ordinary simple guy who's afraid to go and do it, and God says, Now I'm gonna demonstrate my power for you. Your life. Fascinating thing to consider. So the first part of this passage that I'd like us to look at is the hardship that Israel faced. Look down with me in verse 23 and how he describes this. It says, And it came to pass in the process of time that the king of Egypt died, and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came out unto God by reason of the bondage. Three phrases I want you to notice. The first one is this, in the process of time, the timing of this moment was not a random thing. God was looking at this event, and he said how long it was going to last from the time that Israel was going to go to Egypt, the descendants of Israel were going to go into Egypt. And that they were going to be in bondage in Egypt, and then they were going to be released out of Egypt. So the timing of this event is not a random matter. The second thing that's important is he says the children of Israel sighed. The idea is that they were groaning because they were suffering. And it wasn't just one generation of people that was groaning and that was suffering. Several generations of the descendants of Israel had grown up and lived their entire life They were in. The third phrase. They cried. Now I'm going to make a point here that as I was reading this text really caught my attention. The text never says that the people cried to God. It says that they cried. It says that God heard their cry. But it never states that they cried to God. Keep that in the back of your mind. And I'd encourage you, you might say, Pastor, there's no way that's true. Go back and read the text carefully. Work your way through it. It never states that they cried the God. And there's a reason for that. It's because, generally speaking, the descendants of Israel were not worshiping the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, their father. In fact, when Moses said, who do I tell the people is sending me? He says, tell them that I am ascended. Why would Moses say that? It's because the people didn't know who this God was. They had no idea who the God of their fathers was because they weren't worshiping him, they weren't serving him. And that's a really important thing. What we see here is that God's grace persistently goes after the people. He preserved them despite their lack of conviction concerning who he was. The second thing I'd like you to notice tonight is how compassionate God is towards his faith. Verse 24 and 25. And someone might say, well, hold on. If God was compassionate, then he wouldn't have let them be there for four hundred years. If God was compassionate, he would have intervened the very moment that they were beginning to be oppressed. But we've got to recognize that when God is working in the world, there's not just one simple factor that he's looking at. God is looking at every single factor that's involved. As much as God doesn't want to see his people suffer and face persecution and difficulties and all those hardships, he also is being patient with the people in the land of Canaan who he's ultimately going to judge. And God is being patient and extending his mercy to those people while this whole thing is playing out. So there are lots and lots of different factors that are involved in why God chose to order his steps the way that he did. It says in verse 24, God heard their groaning. God remembered his covenant with Abraham and with Isaac and with Jacob. And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect. Unto them. Now, I did remind you earlier that there is no indication in the text that the children of Israel cried out to God. In fact, if you go ahead to chapter 3, verse 13, it says, When I come to the children of Israel and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers has sent me unto you, and they shall say unto me, What is his name? What shall I say unto them? That's a very significant statement, is it not? Let's not forget that when God met Abraham, he was an idolater. When God met Jacob and said, I'm going to make a covenant with you, Jacob makes this deal with God and he says, if I end up back here alive Then you'll be my god. Do you remember the story of when Jacob is is running away from Laban, his father-in-law, and it says that he stole the idols of his father-in-law? Why do you think Jacob did? That. Later on in Jacob's life, it says that he went to all of his servants and his children and his wives, and they destroyed the idols that they had been serving. You know what this tells me? This tells me that even in the lifetime of the patriarchs, there was a lack of conviction amongst many of their family members of absolute service to the one true God. And so when these people say, What's the name of the God of our fathers? it's basically their way of saying we don't know this God at all. And Moses is saying, It's the God that you don't know about, but made all these promises to Abraham And by the way, when we read the Pentateuch, we have to recognize too that Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy, these books were written to the nation of Israel to help them to understand their history. To understand the covenants as they're about to go into the promised land. So that's an important dynamic there. God responds in compassion. We see the statement, he heard their groanings. It means he listened. He wasn't disconnected from what was going on. He remembered their covenant. The idea is that he personally rehearsed these matters to himself. God looked upon the children of Israel. He gazed intently with compassion on them. And it says he had respect unto them. That means he took a special personal interest in them. You know what that tells me? God cared. God cared. He wasn't disconnected from their situations. And by the way, God cares about our situations When we are suffering, it's not like God is standing back and he's looking at us from a distance going, well, you know, it's really too bad you live in a fallen world and you've made some really foolish decisions and he's just cold and callous and looking at it. That's not the way that our God is God is compassionate. He's even compassionate toward us when we've created our own problems. That's what his mercy is. And so God looks down at these people, and his grace is demonstrated in his tremendous compassion. Principles that we've looked at are very important and we can unpackage them much further than we did. But here is the part that I really want us to focus our attention on And that is how Moses responded when God said, Here's what you're going to do. In verses 7 through 11, it says this. people which are in Egypt. I have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters. I know their sorrows. I'm come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, to bring them up out of the land unto this this good land. Therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me, and I've seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppressed them. Now, pause for a minute. And I want us to take what's going on, and I want us to kind of take it into a modern contemporary context. You would think if Moses loved his people , If Moses was a man of compassion, as God is recounting all this information to Moses, he'd be sitting there going, you know what, God, you need to do something about this. Hey, can I go back and can I bring these people out? You'd think that's the way Moses would be thinking. That's not how he's thinking It's almost like we're in missions month. Maybe somebody's experienced this before. And we're watching this video presentation. And as you watch this video presentation, it shows you all these pictures. of people that are in very difficult situations. It gives you all these statistics about the spiritual darkness in the place where someone is going. And as you're watching this thing, you're like, somebody needs to go and help these people. And then a song is sung, and all of a sudden everybody's weeping and they're all ready to go, right? It's almost a little manipulative sometimes how this can go. That's not the way Moses is responding. God is giving him a bleak picture and Moses is like, that's too bad. Kind of used to the shepherd saying, because this is what happens. God says, Come now, therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring out my people, the children of Israel, out of Egypt. And Moses said unto God, Who am I that I should go? I'm not gonna do it. I can't do this. Now some of us might be going, you know, that's really great. Moses is this very humble person. He understands that he's not really well equipped to do this. And so He's just expressing his humility, and that's really a good sign. No, God said, You need to do this, and he said, I can't do it. You know what that's called? Not humility. That's called disobedience. Don't miss that. That's called disobedience. Humility is saying, God, I can't do this in man's strength. But if that's what you want me to do. Okay. I'm afraid. I'm nervous. My heart's pounding right now. But I'm going to do it. You told me I need to do this In fact, as we look through this passage of Scripture, we're going to see that Moses doesn't stop with just that one interaction. In fact, there's a lot of back and forth. Five times in the following verses, God's going to make a statement to Moses, and Moses is going to count him with an excuse. Let me show you what I'm talking about. In verse eleven, we've already seen this. Who am I that I should go unto the Pharaoh? That I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt. I'm a nobody. I don't have I don't have the power to do this. I don't have the wisdom to do this. I can't do it. And what does God say? Certainly I will be with you. He says it doesn't matter because I'm going to be with you. I've told you you need to do this. You need to step forward. I'm going to be with you. Why are you worried? Then Moses says, Hold on. When I come to the children of Israel and say unto them, The God of your fathers has sent me unto you. And they say, What is his name? What am I going to tell them? Verse 15. The Lord God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, hath sent me into you this my this is my name forever. This is my memorial unto all generations. The idea is he says, listen. When I speak to them about this, they don't even know who you are. What am I going to tell them? Well, remind them who I am. Remind them of my character. Remind me of my remind them of my covenant promises Verse 1 of chapter 4, he says, They will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice, for they will say, The Lord hath not appeared unto thee. He says, I'm not going to be successful. Does God know what he's doing or not? Is Moses just being humble or is he being stubborn? He's being stubborn. In verses 2 and 3, God says, Well, what is in your hand? He said, A rod. He said, Cast it on the ground, and he cast it on the ground. It became a serpent. Basically, God said, I'm going to validate your message. I'm going to give you the ability to prove by signs that I have truly spoken to you. And that this message isn't from you, but you're the messenger and it's from me. Then in verse number 10, Moses says, I don't have the ability to communicate. He says, I'm not eloquent. Neither heretofore nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant, I'm slow speech and of a slow tongue. Now, there's lots of different explanations as to what Moses is saying. Some people say, well, Moses had a stuttering problem. We really don't know what he's talking about. It more than likely means that he's saying, you know what, I lived in Egypt 40 years ago and I don't speak Egyptian the way that I used to. That may very well be what he's saying. When I go into the palace, I'm gonna stumble over my words and they're gonna mock me and they're gonna laugh at me and they're gonna say, oh yeah, you were here 40 years, you can't even speak our language. What are you doing here? In verse eleven he says, God says, Who made man's mouth? Who maketh the dumb or the deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? Have not I the Lord? Now therefore go, I will be with thy mouth and teach thee. What thou shalt say. Moses says, I can't do it. God says, I'm going to enable you. You might think, well, that's the end of the story. No, it's not. Because in verse 13, Moses basically says, You can send anybody but me. O Lord, send I pray thee by the hand of whom thou wilt. Not me. What do we see here? We see that a person who God used in an absolutely incredible way, who we would view to be one of the greatest men in the Old Testament A man who was validated by signs and wonders, he literally spoke to God, and God spoke to him. When it came down to stepping out and making this decision, he was terrified. He was afraid. He came up with all kinds of excuses. And the truth is that what we see in Moses is a tendency that we see in ourselves too. God basically says, Moses, whether you want to do this or not, whether you think you can do it or not, I'm going to make this happen. That's really what he did. By the way, I have learned in my own life that sometimes God has to do this with us. Sometimes when God is moving in a situation, we say, oh, I don't feel comfortable about this, I'm struggling. And he says, It's because you doubt me. It's because you're afraid. It's because you won't take the objective truths of Scripture. You won't trust me with the unknown. And so God has to persist persistently move and work in our lives to accomplish the purposes that he's going to accomplish. What we see is that God's grace was persistent in Moses ' life even when he was extremely resistant to And I am so grateful that God is this way. I'm so grateful that God doesn't just kind of like, okay, I'm going to give this a try and see how it works. Oh, that didn't work out. Let's let's let's let's move on and find somebody else to do. God doesn't do that with people. He is so persistent with them. He just continues and continues and continues to work in their lives. Because he wants to work through them and he wants to work in them. And if it wasn't for the persistence of God, if it wasn't for his grace and his kindness, none of us would get anything good accomplished in our lives. None of us would be Christians. None of us would be growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Because God's got to be persistent with us. Because we are flawed people. And troubled people. So I want to ask a simple question. What do you take out of a passage like this? How do you take this and apply? And by the way, I think there's already a lot That we can really glean and pull from this, but I want us to really focus in on this interaction with Moses and God to see what we can pull from this. First of all, this is not a typical interaction. However, there are many lessons to be learned. What I want to do is I want to break this down into what's similar, what's different, and some cautions to consider when it comes to this issue of looking at this passage. First of all, the similarities. In these verses, we see that God had a very definite purpose for who he was going to use. How he was going to use him and how it was going to work out. He had a purpose. He had a will. You might say that God knows exactly what he's doing. And by the way, when God is working, Moses isn't coming alongside and think, I'm ready to go and I'm ready to do this. Moses is resistant. And you know, many times we're like this too. Many times in our lives, God's got a very definite purpose of what he is purposed to accomplish, and he's going to do it in our lives, but we resist him in the process. Secondly, he purposes to use us in all kinds of different ways and throughout all kinds of different seasons of life. You know, here's Moses, an 80-year-old man. From his perspective, he's had 40 years pass since he was in Egypt. I don't know how much he thought about his family and how much he thought about the plight of his people there in Egypt. But the fact is that Moses , it appears, was pretty much willing to just live the rest of his days as a shepherd. He didn't want to go back to the palace. He didn't want to be involved in all these difficulties. But God said, no, that's not what I'm doing. God preserved his life. He allowed him to be in this place of influence. And then God allows him to be in obscurity for 40 years. And they bring Brings him back. And he used the same. And you know what? God does the same thing in our lives. God allows us to go through seasons that really all that's happening is we're learning. We're growing. Doesn't appear that we're doing a whole lot on paper, but we are being shaped into the image of Christ, and that is an absolutely incredible work that He's done. Some of the great conflicts that we deal with in life, interpersonal conflicts, uh personal issues that we we're dealing with in our in our own walk with the Lord. A lot of times what God is really doing is He's allowing those things to shape us as people. And the reason he doesn't just pull us out of those situations is because he says, I'm not done making you a more humble person. I'm not done making you a more godly person. I'm not done working in your life and shaping you who I want you to be. And so what does God do? He persists in these things. A third thing, we like Moses often muddy the waters and spiritualize our fears. There are times that God in his word will say, This is what you need to do, and a person will come up with some spiritualized excuse to say, I can't do that. Now, to them it sounds good. And maybe to some people they're trying to convince it sounds good, but to be very honest, it's just an excuse It's a lame muddying of the waters. Someone instead of just taking the clear-cut truth is making it uncertain. Sometimes, like Moses, we're indecisive and we're unsettled in our hearts because we're not willing to trust him with the unknown. There are so many different areas of life that we experience this. God does not give us absolute confirmation on how something's going to play out before we take steps in life. So when a person's making a decision about going to college or not going to college, it's not like God writes in the sky and says, here's where you need to go. And here's how it's going to work out. And after you've read all these things, you go, I think I can handle that. I'm going to go ahead and take this step. That's not the way that God works. Or oh, this is the person I'm supposed to marry. Well, let me tell you how everything's gonna play out. Well in year up to year five, it's gonna go this way, and then from years five to 15 is going to go this way, and from 15 to 25 it's going to go this way. And they just he just lays it out and you say, oh, I can do this. I can handle that. That's not the way that God works. That's all unknown. It's all unknown. The occupation that you choose, the person that you marry, what you decide to do with college or not. Where you move and what you work, when a person steps out into ministry, when a person goes to the mission field, it's all unknown. All they know is that God seems to be moving me in this direction. I'm willing to do it. I'm going to step out. And you know what? There's a lot of don't know. By the way, I think there are a lot of things in life we would choose not to do that we should do if God gave us the early explanation of what's going to happen. God didn't tell Moses, here's all the details. In fact, it's very fascinating. If you go back to this passage, Moses is like, How am I going to know? He says, When you come back to this mountain, then you'll know that I was with you. That's a pretty amazing thing. In other words, when you obey me and you trust me, even though you're afraid and you're doubting and your heart's unsettled, when you end up back here at Mount Sinai. That'll be the confirmation that I called you. I sent you. And everything I said I was going to do, I did. Like Moses, we often expect God to provide an absolutely unreasonable level of verification, and we still find reasons to doubt him Folks, if Moses could have the God of the universe light a bush on fire and talk to him out of the bush , And tell him you're gonna go, and he still has all these arguments, and he still has all these objections. Do you not think we might do the same thing sometimes If God gave us absolute confirmation to this level of everything we're supposed to do , we would still find areas of doubt and question. We talk about faith, God gives us a compelling reason to believe. But he does not answer every question. He says, trust my character, trust my ways. So these are some similarities. But there's also some significant differences. For instance. We do not have an objective call from God about any matter in life beyond what is commanded in Scripture. Please get this clear. We do not have an objective call from God about any matter. In life, apart from what's commanded in Scripture. You will not receive an objective call from God about what church you're supposed to pastor if God calls you in You won't. You will not have an objective call from God about what mission field you're supposed to go to if you're supposed to be a missionary. You're not going to have an objective call from God about the person you're supposed to marry. It doesn't mean that God doesn't have a will on those matters. It doesn't mean that God doesn't have ministries for people and somebody to marry and places to go and all those things. I'm not saying that at all. But what I am saying is this, you do not have something objective to go to. Beyond scripture. Lots and lots of people give you the impression that they do. Well, God has spoken to me. How do you know that was his voice? Oh, I have this internal peace. Based on what? Hey, I have this scripture. And they read you the scripture and you're like, ah. I don't think that scripture has anything to do with the decision that you're making. I mean, I hate to really burst your bubble, but that's the truth. I put out this fleece and God gave me this confirmation. Now why do I mention those areas? Because I've been guilty of every single one of those. Now I gotta ask this question. From the Bible? Not a chance. None of those are biblical ways of making Decisions. None of them are. None of them. We have no guarantees that God will persist with us the way He did with Moses. God was under no obligation to continue to work with Moses the way that he did. He did it because he's patient and he's kind. And if he didn't do that, guess what? It wouldn't have happened. But God is not under obligation to work with anybody in such a way. Let me give you some cautions. We need to be careful about how we approach passages like this one and this issue of making decisions. The very simplest way to put it is this when it comes to making decisions in life, we need to walk in godly wisdom. The book of Proverbs is full of rich wisdom. Not here's how you know when God's talking to you. And here's how you can tell if it's if it's a godly peace or if it's a fleshly peace. Or here are the kinds of of tests that you should give to God so that you'll know that this is confirmation that you're supposed to make this decision instead of that decision. Or here's how you can abuse Scripture and you can pick out a verse that'll be the thing that you build this decision on. He never does that in the book of Proverbs. Why is that? Because that's not how you're supposed to make decisions. It's not godly wisdom. We need to be so careful that we do not fall into these, could I say, popular false paradigms. That are from our time period. And by the way, sometimes we don't realize this, but but popular thinking in the context where we are is not popular thinking everywhere else. The reason that it's popular thinking in our context is because we're influenced by a very small group of people. Okay? So, you know, the college that you attended Lots of people that go to that college probably think the same way about certain areas. And the question is why? Is it because it's the Bible? Well it could be, but it could be because that particular institution's been uh exposed to an idea that's not necessarily true or biblical. Every single one of these areas that I'm going to mention are things that I have personally done myself, and I look back and I recognize the tremendous fallacies and the dangers of these things. And I've seen them play out in the lives of others in very detrimental ways. In other ways, God's patient, and thankfully, it hasn't been a very detrimental thing. The first is the hunt for a verse out-of-context approach. Nobody's ever done this. It's kind of like this. There's something I really want to do. I really want to do it. And I want to have God's validation that I'm supposed to do it. And guess what? If I want to do it and I want God's validation that I'm supposed to do it, I guarantee you, you search the Bible enough, you'll find the verse that you believe is the validation. But if you go to that passage, you'll discover something. That passage wasn't intended to give you such a confirmation. 2 Peter 3:16 says, They that are unlearned and unstable rest the scriptures. That means that there are people that go to the Bible and they twist them Because they're unlearned and they're unstable. And you know what unstable means? It means they vacillate They can't make decisions because they're on this side emotionally and then they're on this side emotionally. And they just go back and forth, back and forth. Why is that? It's because they're not looking at the Bible objectively. They're using it rather than submitting to it. Very big difference. A second, the search for a sign to confirm my decision approach. Oh, I know I'm supposed to do this because I prayed that this would happen and it did. I've had many people tell me this. Yeah, I've had people tell me, oh man, when I think about the person I'm going to marry, I wrote down this long list and then you know some of these guys, I look at their list and I'm like, what in the world are you doing here? Hey, don't forget the girl's got a list too. And I and I've heard this many times. I'm just amazed. Like everything that I that I believe I wanted in my maid is it's right there on that paper. It's absolutely incredible. Come back ten years later and ask them. Were you right or wrong? Because you're going to find out who you're really dealing with. Now look, I'm not trying to be uh trite and mock people. It's actually really sad. It's really sad because it's a form of mysticism. It's abusing the Bible. In John chapter 6, verse 30, Jesus has clearly demonstrated who he is. And the people say to him, What sign showest thou then that we may see and believe thee? You 've got to prove to me that I'm supposed to believe this A third example. The arbitrary test approach. Anybody ever heard the story of Gideon explained as a good idea? Like you should try this? I don't know. Don't raise your hands, okay? Read that passage carefully and ask yourself the question. Did God make it clear what Gideon was supposed to do yes or no? No. Yes. So why did Gideon demand from God multiple signs? It's because he didn't believe what God stated It's like a person who opens their Bible and it gives them very clear instruction about a decision that they should make. It is objectively true. It's clear, it's black and white. And they read that verse and they say, you know what, God, if you really mean this, then I want you to make sure that when I put my blanket out in the backyard, that the ground around it is wet and it's bone-dry. Like, shouldn't you just take the word for what it says? Shouldn't you just accept that when God says it, it's true and I need to do it? It's exactly what it was. In other words, this is not a great example of how we should make decisions. It's actually a terrible example of someone who doubted God. But you know what we see in that? God's still patient with them. This issue of subjective peace. There are times that when a person comes to make a decision The decision they should make, they feel very internally troubled about it. And that doesn't change the fact that they should do it. It changes the fact that they should look at it differently. Why does someone struggle? Sometimes it's because they're just flatly afraid. I've had decisions in life that I've looked at, and I really, frankly, knew I was supposed to make it But I started thinking about all the implications and it started making me really nervous. And it really weighed me out. Anybody ever been like that? I've had times in life that their decisions I wanted to make and I knew I shouldn't make them And I was going to convince myself eventually to have a settled heart about the matter. This is a very dangerous approach to making decisions. It's nothing more than depending on our emotions. In James chapter 1, verse 5, it says this if any of you lack wisdom, Let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally and abrateth not. It doesn't say if any of you lack a sign, let him ask of God Of God, or if any of you lack a test of confirmation, or if any of you lack peace, then let him ask of God. He says, if any of you lack what? Wisdom. How does God give wisdom? From the word. He tells us what's right and what's wrong. He gives us people in our lives who have a lot more experience than us. They're not emotionally entangled by our situations. And we go to those people, we say, What does the word say about this issue? They may say, well that's a tough one, but here's a principle that I think you should consider and here's a very clear command about this issue. And all of a sudden you start thinking about these things and it gives you clarity. If anyone lacks wisdom. Let him ask of God who giveth to all men liberally. And then it's very interesting what it says. Let him ask in faith nothing wavering. He that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. A double minded man is unstable. in all his ways. People who make decisions based on what is objectively true stand on something that's solid. People that make decisions based on emotions go back and forth. You know why that is? Because emotions are not stable. Our internal feelings are not stable. The word of God is stable. We need to walk in wisdom. And so when we come to this passage of Scripture, what's very helpful for us to recognize is here is Moses. He has an objective thing that God tells him to do. God constantly goes back to all of his questions and he takes him back to here's what's true about me, here's what's true about what I'm doing, here's what's true about my character, here's what's true about my He's constantly going with his questions back to truth, truth, truth, truth, truth. And he's still, still questioned. We need to be careful about this issue. How do you walk in wisdom? I just give you some simple thoughts. Walking in wisdom begins with: well, what do you want to do? Do you the things that you want to do, are they right or wrong according to the word of God? Well, if I want to do something that God says not to do, whether I want to do it or not, I shouldn't do it. If I desire to do something that God says is clearly right, then the next question is, well, has he given me an opportunity? Sometimes there's things they want to do. There's nothing right or wrong, there's nothing wrong with them, but God in his providence does not give us the opportunity. Well then don't fight it. Don't fight it. We should ask the question, what's the wisest approach possible with the opportunity and the desire that is clearly not in violation of Scripture? Does God have the right to disrupt our plans? Absolutely, he does. We need to trust him with what's uncertain. This is how we should make decisions. What do you want to do? Does it violate the scriptures? Has he given you opportunity? What's the best, wisest, godliest way to approach the issue? Is God moving in this direction or is God stopping this direction? Why am I afraid? I need to trust God. We go back to the story of Moses, and I ask this question: Can you see yourself in Moses ' life? I can. I can see myself there. And you know what I think the greatest takeaway of this passage is? God didn't stop working with a very unsettled man. That's grace. When we are kind of caught in these tough situations and we vacillate back and forth and we're really not thinking clearly about stuff and we're afraid and we're troubled, God's not done with With us. He's persistent. He keeps working. God's purposes won't be thwarted when his word is on the line. All the confirmation the world won't settle a fearful heart that won't trust in the unknown. There's no end to the objections we might raise if our heart is not trusting. When God is moving, let's submit to his ways. Let's be grateful. He doesn't give up on us. Let's be grateful he doesn't give up on us. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you for the text in front of us. I thank you that when Moses doubted you, and we brought all these objections. You didn't say, okay, forget it. You just kept working on him. Father, help us to learn from his life. Help us to recognize that when we're fearful, we've got to trust in your character. We've got to trust in how you work. We need to be grateful for how patient, persistent you are. Father, I thank you that Moses eventually went And you work through his life in spite of his objections and his frailty. I thank you that you work in our lives in spite of our weakness. Foolish ways that we approach decisions, the complications sometimes going in our own hearts, the bad choices we make. I thank you that you just continue working in us. Help us to glory in that simple principle. We ask it in Christ's name, amen. If you could, let's turn in our hymn books to hymn five hundred and forty eight, a servant's heart. 548, a servant's heart. Moses didn't go to Egypt to be a hero. He went to Egypt because God didn't give him any other choice. It's true. It's true. Let's stand and let's sing this song together, please. Verse 1 and 2 of a servant's heart. Make me a servant like you, dear Lord. Living for others each day well. With my life and record, give me more. That your life can shine good , then we 'll Make me of representatives Okay, uh we have a business meeting. Meeting after, so let's take a couple of minutes to uh break before we come back. And also I wanted to mention my wife reminded me before the service and I I forgot to mention earlier. Uh but um there is a ladies' meeting on Thursday night, and that is when we're planning to not we She will be put be passing out the SOS um assignments. And so please do if for some reason you can't make it to that ladies' meeting. Um we can get that to you at another time. But we really would like you to try to go to that ladies' meeting so that we can get those. So please sign up in the back for that so that they can prepare for that. But that's when we're planning to do that. So if you haven't filled out your SOS uh ladies and you're planning to do that, please do that or let me know because I'm gonna be putting those together. Um my plan is early in the week, but you know, things happen sometimes, but that's the plan. So let's bow for prayer, and then uh we'll be dismissed for a short break, and then we'll come back and we'll have our meeting. Father, thank you for your word and uh thank you for the opportunity to share it tonight. I pray that you'd help us as we think about the truths that are in this text and some of the Contents that were presented tonight. I pray that you'd help us to be objective and open to what your word says about these issues. Help us to be wise in how we approach decisions. Decisions. Help us to learn to trust you when we are fearful and we're facing uncertainties. Father, help us to be obedient even when it makes us I pray that you'll bless our meeting that we'll have in just a little bit and bless our fellowship between now and then. We ask all of this in Christ's name, Amen.