Oh my god. Oh look at the black. Aramit Well , dear Um Oh God, God now take free. And before the water freed by Oh yeah, it was a good one. Shall come to the Oh no, well I can have around. Shall come to thee only Welcome you to our 2020 cantata. And if you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a very long time, we want to warmly welcome you. And uh if you're a visitor, I hope that you received a welcome packet and inside that welcome packet uh there's a little card and that's a way that we're able to connect with you so if you'd like to uh have us reach out to you and connect with you please fill out that card and put it in the little box in the back before you leave the service. We're so glad that you could join us this morning This morning our opening scripture is going to be from Isaiah chapter 40, and we will read verses 1 through 3 together. Again, that is Isaiah chapter 40, verses 1 through 3. Here's what the scriptures say. Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem and cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished. That her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath received the Lord's hand double for all her sins. The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness. Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make straits in the desert a highway for our God. This morning we're going to hear the story of the fulfillment. of this passage of scripture that we just read. Ian is going to come and he's going to lead us in our congregational hymns, so please pull out your hymn books. And we'll all turn together to hymn number two hundred and one as we sing together, O come all ye faithful. Let 's go me over me to her. We hold him for that bear. Oh come there that I do. Oh God , speak by the angel Single I thought is not his Oh come back, oh come back, come Yeah. And the Lord be great, please, for me that be more being seeking the Oh, come on. Congregation, you may be seated While I just teach the watch that time, glad tidings for an angel pride , I'll bring our joy Joy, joy, joy. There shall be boys of eating faith. Give us one of my child today, I'll bring our joy Joy, joy, joy. Fake it alone in the joy in. Shepherds on the hillside, dear thee, and just me. Glory, honor, pray, with a student and the king. Speak me now a prayer , speak me on no well Strappers in the field of dining, party no , oy, far, my heart. Comment worship, comment worship, birth, price under 19, version, price. I will go a breathe and joy, brave and joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, joy, joy Make me the Lord in my It was chaos in Bethlehem. I mean so many people out of town here to pay their taxes and we have sold out every last room in our little inn and then this happened Eli Eli come here. Sorry, what is it, Sarah? I'm very busy. There's a couple at the door. They need a place to stay. Well, we have no more rooms. You know that. Send them somewhere else. They've been everywhere else. And the woman's growing with child. How great. Oh my goodness. Oh my goodness. But we don't have any more rooms. The stable. We can give them the stable. Oh yes. It would be shelter at least. Alright, I guess that'll do. We didn't know it at the time, but this baby about to be born was the savior we had all waited for. The prophet Isaiah said, the people that walked in darkness have seen a great light. The light of the world. His name shall be called wonderful. Count Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. What all this thing they do every time every three Angel Sweet Bath Sweep was From a touch of heart of gold. He's all we 're the man for creation. The world is so just waiting to give the angel feel The whole world was lost in the darkness, thus they bring her. Like sunshine and illuminators, glory shines, a bringer of life is being out of all your And before nobody, the bringer of life is Can you tell us again of the night when the angel came? Again? I've told you the story so many times. But it's such a Good story. Yeah. All right. There we were, abiding in the field, keeping watch over our flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon us, and the glory of the Lord shone round about us. Were you scared, Auburn? No, I wasn't scared. I was maybe a little nervous. Alright, I was terrified. What did the angel say? I remember he said, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. For unto you is Born and saying in the city of David Savannah, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. You shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes and lying in a manger. You three could tell the story yourselves. What happened next, Saba? Suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, goodwill, towards Very good. And then they disappeared. Yes, and we said to each other, Let us go now even unto Bethlehem and see this thing Which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. That's right. And we went with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in the manger. For she loves the crowd is more, and she loves the light is given. For aren't you on the shouted for? I do not have short and you All the world nature of beautiful Look down where he lay. The land means that we on the hand He shall be called you well wonderful Come on , please don't keep many for such a one as you want to. Why me? Why us? How are we ever to raise the God of the universe? We're nothing. My thoughts are not your thoughts, nor are your ways my ways, declares the Lord. My soul doth magnify the Lord, and my soul Spirit hath rejoiced in God my Savior, for he hath regarded the lowest state of his handmaid. For behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed. He that is mighty hath done great things. Holy is his name. Well I was born to see the grace with the age of sun. From the beach of glory deserts so much as a baby, my nature. So for this time, the bright nature's not done. I love the morning , all I mean, and I got me to run another morning. By the way , we were replaying Why is the death of the stars of the morning? So by the point , I will ever be Shall we not say a little big boy for the children? Star women Love of that word of the day , for me , trouble I did not need, I will give the When the star first appeared, we wondered if it could be a star Sign that our long-awaited Messiah was born. We knew it he would die because of the prophet Daniel. Seventy weeks are determined unto thy people and upon thy heart. Be born. So we followed the star. It led us to Jerusalem. We asked everyone we met, where is he who is born the King of the Jews? We have seen his star in the east and are come to worship him. King Herod found out and called to him his priest to find out more. They had scriptures from the prophet Micah that we had never heard of, and they said unto him, Bethlehem, in the land of Judah. Herod called us to him and showed us the scriptures. He asked that we search diligently for the young Child in Bethlehem, and that when we had found him to bring word to him that he might come and worship also. As we traveled to Bethlehem, the star that we saw in the east went before us again, and stood over where the young child lay. When we saw the young child and Mary his mother, we fell down and worshipped him. We opened our treasures and presented unto him gifts, gold, frankincense. And Myrrh. We would have returned to Jerusalem to tell King Herod the wonderful news, but we were warned of God in a dream that we should not. So we went back to our own country a different way. Through the ages , told about his birth, a virgin will conceive this event, and God will send you. We shall know that evil choosing what is right , heaven shiny brings us, as darkness becomes God Live up , live up to My wing with the parcel from the border above. In the moment of time, we can Then one more witness of the mighty love. Be told now Jesus Christ would be rejected by his law. But the tour is even knowing Christmas ignored the life no way In the fullness of timing, with the world on his mind With his heart filled with God from the Father of God in the fullness of God With the sort of the birth common at all in the forest ratha. What wondrous things we have seen this day to think that God would become Oh baby! But he won't stay a baby. He will grow up as a tender plant and as a root out of dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see See him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows acquainted with grief. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace is upon him, and with our stripes With his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was a person Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. That at the name of Jesus every name Should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth. And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. This shall the child in our stone, this shall we be my song, how great our joy Joy, joy, joy. And every joy our heart shall fill our brain of joy Joy, joy, joy. Safety the boy had on my safety of the. To God be a glory, great thing he has done. Redemption has come in of the life. The whole of the earth and the giver of light Sing the world, sing the world , let the Lord and Green , Sing the Wild, Sing the Well , all right , Lord and King Praise as a gift that comes down from above , the give God 's salvation , and How great God, how great I call. That was a wonderful, wonderful blessing. And for all of those who were involved in this program, I just want to say a big thank you. A lot of work went into the choir, a lot of work went into what was done with this cantata portion. And you know, during the Christmas season, it's the winter, and so a lot of people deal with sickness, and so some people had to kind of scramble in and take some parts at the last minute. And so uh we want to say a big thank you to everyone uh who played a part in this program. this morning. Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back at this time. And the rest of you, I want to ask you to take your Bibles and for a few moments this year this morning, I'd like us to look at Isaiah chapter 40 again. In fact you may not realize this. But this morning, as you were watching the cantata, this passage of scripture was actually quoted. Now it wasn't being quoted necessarily in the context here, but it was being quoted uh in part of the dialogue. Isaiah chapter 40, here's what the scripture says this morning. It says, Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. Speak he comfortably to Jerusalem, crying to her, that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins. The voice of him that cries in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God Every valley shall be exalted, every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. I'd like us to bow together for just a moment and ask the Lord to help us to understand this passage of Scripture and how it relates to what we just witnessed this morning, which was really the retelling of the birth of Christ. This passage explains the significance of that story, what took place 2,000 years ago. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for every person that's here this morning. It's a privilege to be able to host this moment, to be able to present. the retelling of the birth of Christ and the significance and the weight of all those things. Thank you for all the beautiful music that reminds us of your glory. Music is a powerful gift. We can express worship to you. I pray that as we look at this text, you'd help us to understand it, understand why it's significant, understand why it matters. And Father, if there's someone here this morning that does not understand the gospel, that has never turn to the Lord Jesus, this Savior that died on a cross many years ago, but today would be the day they humble their hearts in your presence. They acknowledge their guilt and their sin, and they place their faith in the risen Savior who died for their sins. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us, Isaiah 40, is set in a fascinating context. In fact, whenever we're reading prophecy, we need to recognize that A lot of times being in the New Testament, we don't realize what's going on. In fact, it really would help us to go back to this passage of Scripture and understand the setting. in order to appreciate the words of Isaiah the prophet, hundreds and hundreds of years before the Lord Jesus Christ was born and ultimately went to the cross. So I want to answer a couple of questions this morning from the scriptures to help us to understand what the passage is talking about. The first question I want to ask this morning is the question Why is there a need for comfort? And really when we say a need for comfort, notice in verse number one he says, comfort ye, comfort ye my people. Obviously, that's what this passage is all about. It's all about people being comforted. The question is why? Why did they need to be a comforted people? Well, the answer to that question is found Not in chapter 40, but actually a few verses before in chapter 39, verse 6. If you look back in your Bibles, this is what it says. It says, behold The days come that, and then he explains some things that are going to take place. And the immediate context of this prophecy that God gave to the prophet Isaiah Was a sobering warning that God was going to judge a group of people that had rejected his authority They had rejected his holiness. They had rejected his laws. And they were living in a way that was ultimately a rebellion against their creator. In fact, Israel was a nation that was in great sin. In fact, last week we talked about a little bit about that. So if you're interested in a little bit more explanation, you can go back and look at what we looked at last week. But to appreciate it, let's go. Back in history to understand who was on the throne right before this event took place To find that out, we have to go to 2 Kings 21, and we're introduced to a man named Manasseh. Now, Manasseh was the longest ruling king in all of Israel's history. He ruled 55 years. years. It's a pretty amazing thing. There are very few people that have done the same thing for 55 years. This man Manasseh Ruled Israel for fifty-five years. Manasseh was born in the last fifteen years of a man named Hezekiah Hezekiah is the person that Isaiah is talking to, and Isaiah is predicting what's going to happen. after Hezekiah dies. And actually Hezekiah's son Manasseh is going to be a really big part into why God was going to do what he did. And 2 Kings 21, this is what it says about Manasseh. It says he was twelve years old when he began to reign, and fifty and five years he reigned in Jerusalem. Now listen to the way that God's word describes this man 's life. The way he ruled the people, it says that Manasseh seduced the people to do more evil than the nations whom the Lord destroyed before the children of Israel. Now, if you're familiar with biblical history, you'll understand that God drove out groups of people who were living in that region. Because of the tremendous abominations and the evils that those nations were involved in. If you want to know what those things are, Go back to the Old Testament and just read about the history. Or you can actually go back to ancient history and you can find about some very terrible things that went on in those ancient civilizations. These verses tell us that Manasseh led the people of Israel, God's chosen people, to be far worse than the people that God had judged before they came into the land. He says, Therefore the Lord God of Israel says, Behold, I will bring such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah that whosoever heareth of it, both his ears shall Tingle. What he's basically saying is if you hear about what's going to happen, you won't even believe it. Now when we study history, if we read the biblical history, we'll see that's exactly what happened. And he explains why that happened. He says it's because That which was evil was done in my sight, and they have provoked me to anger since the day their fathers came forth out of Egypt. He says, Manasseh has shed innocent blood very much Till he had filled Jerusalem from one end to another. So what's the point? Well, the point is that God's saying, I'm going to judge these people. A lot of people don't realize this, or maybe we realize it, but we don't think about it. God is a holy God. He is righteous. He doesn't watch evil and say, ah, whatever. He's going to deal with evil. Now, he is slow and he's patient and he reaches out to people and he extends his hand of mercy, but he doesn't do that indefinitely. And that's really what's ultimately at play in these verses. In Gisaiah 39, 3 to 7, he explains Explains that because Hezekiah has been proud, has been arrogant, and his offspring are going to go far beyond where he did, God is going to judge that nation. Well, you might say, well, I'm glad I'm not one of them. I'm glad I'm not too. However, one of the things that we learn as we read the Bible is that the Bible doesn't just talk about people who lived back then. It talks about human nature. And human nature is very consistent from one generation to another. Whether you realize it or not, people are fundamentally no different today when it comes to our core principles and value, who we are as people. We are no different than people who lived thousands and thousands of years ago. You say, well, we don't do the barbaric things that people did in past generations. Really? There will be people who will judge our generation like we have judged the generations before us. I promise you it's true If God tarries, Christ does not return in our lifetime, there will be generations who look at our generation and the things we permitted and the things that we celebrate in our societies. And they will think of us like we think of some from past generations. It's true. Human nature is no different today than it was in those days. And one of the things that's so constant about human nature is that we are masters of seeing others sin and ignoring our own. If you have children, you know what I'm talking about. I love my kids. I love them dearly. But the reality is that my kids are really good about saying My brother did this, and by the end of the story you realize it was both ways a hundred percent. It's true How many times do I have to sit down and have to work through an issue with two individuals who are at odds? And by the end of the story, I kind of start getting the sense that maybe the fault lays a little more on one side than the other, but there's a problem on both sides. Very, very common. We are masters of seeing fault in others, but not ourselves. And the truth is that the same kind of pride That governed Hezekiah's heart, the same crown of pride that governs our hearts too. Listen to what the Bible says in Romans chapter 1. It's very pertinent to this discussion. He says in chapter 2, verse 1, he says, we're sure that the judgment of God is according to truth. Thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest those which do such things and doest the same that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? Despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? After thy hardness and impenitent heart, you are treasuring up for yourself wrath against the day of the revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Who will render to every man according to his deeds. Notice what it's saying. We're really good about seeing others' sins. And the Bible says, while we look at other sins and we can point them out very well, we're also guilty. We are also guilty. When we call someone out for being dishonest, guess what? We've got a long history of examples of dishonesty in our own life. We call someone out for being proud. We call someone out for being self-centered. We call someone out for being uh whatever. We are very good about noticing the sins of others. and completely ignoring our own. And this passage of scripture is saying, you don't get to compare yourself to other people. You're held to the standard of God's perfect righteousness. And God gives us time and his patience so that we will recognize we've got to answer to God. They don't have to answer to us. There's a big difference. And then he says that as God is patient with us, there's a case being built against us if we reject God's offer of salvation. That's what he's saying. And so there's this massive case of guilt against all of us. And if it's not for the grace of God and the work of Christ That case will be brought against us, and we will be judged righteously forever. Our sins in the presence of a holy God ought to sober us. It ought to terrify us. So why did the people need comfort? It's because they were in trouble. And the fact is, we're in the same position. We are not the Jewish people of old But we have the same fundamental problems in our own hearts that they had. That led to God's judgment visible. We deserve his judgment eternal. Second question I have. Well, who's going to be the one who brings the comfort? Well, the answer is actually in these verses. Notice what it says: it says, comfort ye, comfort ye, my people, saith who? Saith your God. Who's the one who is going to comfort? It's God Himself. The same God who says you're guilty and I'm going to judge you is the same God who says, I want to comfort you. Isn't that an amazing thing? Now we tend to not be that way. When people wrong us, we want them to get it. We want to see them get crushed. We want to see justice turn heavily on those who have wronged us. And here is the God of the universe, the holy, the righteous one, who sees and knows everything. And he says, You deserve my wrath and my judgment, but I want to comfort you. And the question is, how in the world Can a holy just God do that? Before we answer that question, let me say this. God cannot compromise his justice. It says in Proverbs chapter 17, He that justifieth the wicked and he that condemneth the just, even they are both an abomination to the Lord. You know, to put this in another way, if you go into a courtroom and you know that a person is guilty, and everybody knows that the person is guilty, they violated the law, you know what They deserve according to the law. And the judge smiles and they say, Today I'm feeling really generous and I'm just going to let you off the hook. Whoever that person wronged is looking at them going, What? That's not your position. You're the judge. They're guilty. Where is justice? God establishes human government so that human government establishes human justice is supposed to reflect his justice And when people are unjust, God hates it. So can God be unjust? And he says, no, he can't. There are certain things that God's nature is incapable of doing. One of them is being unjust. Being sinful against people, God cannot be unjust. It's against his character. It's against his nature. But there's a second truth that comes right alongside this principle. And that is that God's grace is beyond our comprehension. You know what the word grace is? It means giving somebody something that is good that they do not deserve. And the question every person should be asking here is how does a God who is just, not violate his justice and show grace. That doesn't seem like they're compatible. And if that's what you're thinking right now, you're thinking correctly. If you don't understand one simple point, that God established a basis to grant grace. This is what the scripture says in Ephesians chapter 2. It says this But God who is rich in mercy for his great lover with he loved us Even when we were dead in sins hath quickened us together with Christ, by grace ye are saved, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace. And his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. The same God who says you're guilty is the same God who wants to offer pardon and forgiveness and cleansing. He wants to declare you righteous. So here's the question. How has he established a basis to give that comfort? He obviously says in the verses, he says, Comfort ye my people. So how does God do it? And I want to answer that question right here. And verse number one, he says, My people, saith your God. The word my is personal, isn't it? Yes, it is personal. Okay? My is personal. Your is personal. Do you know what God is saying in these verses? There's a people within these people who are personally mine. I own them. They belong to me. There is a relationship with us. And that is the ultimate basis for me to say, I comfort you. Psalm 130, verses 3 to 4 says, If God, if the Lord should mark iniquity, O Lord, who shall stand? And the answer is nobody. He says, But there's forgiveness with thee that thou mayest be feared. There's only two kinds of people in the world. Two. You know what they are? They're people that are in Christ and people who are not. That's the truth. In fact, there's lots and lots of scriptures that describe this concept of only two kinds of people in the world In a couple different ways to kind of give us the fullness of an appreciation for that concept. One of the ways that it's described is in Adam or in Christ. Under wrath or under grace? Condemned or redeemed? Every person in here is in one of those two positions. You say, well, can you tell looking at us? The answer is no. This isn't a physical characteristic. This is a positional reality in the eyes of a holy and righteous God. God knows who is in Christ and he knows who's not. Listen to some of these scriptures and how they describe, helping us to understand this concept. 1 Corinthians 15, 21 says this. By man came death. By man came also the resurrection of the dead. He's talking about two people. You know who brought death into the world? His name's Adam. You know who conquered death? His name's Christ. As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive. Do you see that distinction? There's in Adam, there's in Christ. Romans chapter 5, verse 10, it says this. When we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. He says we were the enemies of God. We are now reconciled to God. Do you see the distinction? One who is an enemy and one who is reconciled. One who's in Adam, one who's in. in Christ, one who's under death, one who is in life. That's a very clear distinction. Romans 5. 12, it says, by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, so death passed on all men, for that all have sinned Verse 19, as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. Do you see the distinction? There's those who are righteous and those who are unrighteous, those who are under the disobedience of Adam and those who are under the obedience of Christ. Those who are under the death of Adam and those who are under the life in Christ. There's a distinction. Two kinds of people in the world. John chapter 5, verse 24. He says, Verily, verily I say unto you He that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Here's the great news. Just because you're in Adam doesn't mean you have to stay in Adam. Did you get that? Just because you're in Adam doesn't mean you have to stay in Adam. He tells us how a person passes from death unto life. How one goes from being in Adam to being in Christ, from being God's enemy to being Redeemed under God's wrath to being forgiven, being unrighteous to being righteous. How is it happening? It's by hearing these words and believing on the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen to what it says in Romans 8. 1. It says, that there is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ. That word now is really important. Because it means that there was a time that your identity was different. Your identity was condemned. And your identity now is no condemnation because you are in Christ Jesus. Second Corinthians 5 17 Therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away, behold, all things are become new. Folks, the comfort is available because God has provided a means through which one and Adam, under wrath, under God's judgment, An enemy, an enemy of God can pass from death to life, and it's all rooted in the person that He's talking about in these verses Christ took our place so that we could be redeemed. Galatians 3. 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the law by becoming a curse for us. First Peter three eighteen, Christ also once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God. First Peter 1 18, you are not redeemed with corruptible things the silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from Your fathers. But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, manifested in these last times for you. You know how a holy and righteous God can pour grace on a sinner? It's because Christ has paid our debt. God's justice is not being violated when he forgives a sinner. God's justice is not being violated when he puts us in grace, in Christ, forgiven, free, and cleansed. He has poured out his justice on his perfect son. And Jesus willingly went to the cross to take our sin debt on himself. So the final question I want to answer this morning is this. How does the Messiah practically comfort his people? And the rest of the passage tells us. I'm going to just highlight this very quickly. The first thing that he mentions is that he sent someone to announce his coming. Isaiah forty verse three it says, He's the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. You know who that is? His name was John. John came preaching, prepare to meet the Messiah. In fact, this is uh if I remember this by next year. As I was driving in this morning, I was already thinking about what I want to do next year for the katada. It's true. I know it's the weirdest thing in the world. We hadn't even done it yet, and I was always already thinking about it. And in my mind I said, you know what would be really neat. Remember this, Janelle. It's on the live stream. What would be really neat is to look at Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist. And to think about how these two were listening, they were reading through the Old Testament, and they believed in the coming of the Messiah and the heaviness of heart that they felt because they weren't a part of the story. They were a part of the story. They're a part of the story because they were waiting for the Messiah. They were redeemed people. Because the story was really about God redeeming people like them. And they became a part of the story because God in his mercy Allowed Elizabeth to conceive a child in her old age. It's a great story. Next year, come back. Number two, he announced that his coming would establish a basis to right or wrong. This is a fascinating statement. In chapter 40, verses 4 to 5, he says Every valley shall be exalted, every mountain and hill shall be made low, the crooked shall be made straight, the rough places shall be Now you might go, what in the world does he mean? A mountain is made flat, a valley is lifted up, something that's crooked is going to be made straight, and what's rough will be made smooth. Well, a lot of times in prophecy, he would use figurative language to describe concepts that were coming about. And he's basically saying, there are people that are high, they're exalted, and God's going to bring them down. There are people that are lowly and they have nothing, and God's going to exalt them. There are things that are crooked , twisted. God's going to correct them and straighten them out. They're things that are rough. It's going to make them smooth. In other words, Christ is coming to establish a basis, to give us forgiveness, and to establish a relationship with us as our shepherd. Number three, his announcement This announcement was based on the promise of God's work. I love this statement. Chapter 40, verse 5. He says this. Now think about this. When this was written, it was hundreds of years before the Messiah's birth. We are reading it thousands of years after the Messiah's birth. What was going to comfort and strengthen the people then was God said he was going to do something and his word is sure. What comforts us today is when God says he's going to do that, his word is sure, he accomplishes it, and I look back at the promise. That's what he's saying. He says, The mouth of the Lord has spoken it, the voice saying, Cry, and he said, What shall I cry? He says, All flesh is as grass, the godliness thereof is as the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fadeth. But the Spirit of the Lord bloweth upon it. Surely this people is grass. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. If God says He's going to do it, He does it. It's that simple. But perhaps the most unique of all the things he says is the last thing we'll say here. That's what we find in verses 9 through 11. He's going to redeem us to shepherd us. Tenderly. It says, Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hands. His arms shall rule. He shall feed his flock like a shepherd. He shall gather the lambs with his arm and carry them in his bosom and shall gently lead those that are with young. You know, there was a time when Jesus made a statement. He says, I am the good shepherd, and I give my life for the sheep. You know what he's talking about? He's talking about that. In Psalm 23, I've I've read this with many people going through difficulties. It says, The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me lie down in green pastures, he leads me beside the And then by the end of the Psalm, he says, Ye that I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I'll fear no evil. For thou art with me. And he says, Surely goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. You know what those verses tell us? The God who redeems us shepherds us. So when you go through a difficult water, a health crisis, your Heavenly Father strengthens you in that. When you go through a situation where you don't have wisdom and strength and you don't know what to do, guess what? Your heavenly father comes alongside, he strengthens you in that. When you're facing death, which we all will face one day, it brings to your mind all these truths to strengthen your heart as you face that final struggle of life. When somebody that you love dearly passes and you're there thinking about what it'll be like apart for them for a season, it comes alongside and strengthen. There's so many different examples of how God allows us to pass through troubled waters and He shepherds our soul. You know why we come to God for comfort? Because there's no other place to go. And that's what the story was about this morning. It was about the fulfillment of that prophecy. The Lord came. He went to the cross, he took on our sin, he rose from the dead, and he offers to us forgiveness through himself. And he says, if you're mine, I shepherd you. He says, if you're in Adam, you can come and be in Christ. I invite you to place your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, what he did for you on the cross. Here's my question. Very simple question. Is he your shepherd? Do you know him as your savior Does this story, which is not just a fairy tale, it is an historical fact with theological significance? Is this story personal? So personal that everything that you are identified as a person is rooted in that savior He is your savior, your redeemer, he is your comfort, he is your shepherd. That's the encouragement this morning. If you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ personally in such a way, then today's the day to make him your personal Savior. To trust in his finished work. Have you done that? It's a time for us as believers to remember what we have in Him. What incredible weight was accomplished for us. Let's bow together in prayer. Father, we think about the Christmas season, the greatest story ever told Having the greatest weight of significance in all of history. If there is one that does not know you personally as the Lord Jesus Christ, their Savior, their Redeemer. They've never faced their sin and placed their trust in their Savior. I pray that today they'd do that. That pride wouldn't get in the way. Fear wouldn't get in the way They would turn to you humbly and trust in Christ. Father, for every Christian that's here, the Christmas season is sweet and bitter many times. People who've lost dear family members. People who are facing tremendous pressures. I pray that you will strengthen and uphold as the shepherd of your people. These dear brothers and sisters in Christ. Work in our hearts through your word this morning in Christ's name. Amen. I want to say that if there's anybody here that does not have a confidence That you have trusted Christ as your Savior. You don't know the Lord as your Savior. Please, before you leave this morning, say Pastor didn't talk to you. I'm not in a hurry. We don't go home until two o'clock on a lot of Sundays. It's true, we don't. Very, very common. I mean, I'm not in a rush. If you don't know the Lord is your Savior, say Pastor, I need to talk to you. I'll sit down with you after the service. We'll go through the Bible and I'll show you what Christ has done for you. Invite you to place your faith in his finished work. If you're a believer, I want to encourage encourage you, don't let these truths slip by you quickly. Let them sink into your heart. And God wants to comfort and strengthen you through it. Let's go ahead and let's turn together for a closing hymn. To hymn two hundred and two. Song is Good Christian Men Rejoice. And so I don't forget, I will give some announcements after we sing this song. If for some reason I don't, somebody get my attention. All of you get my attention. But we are going to take our announcements before we close. But this will be our closing hymn, and then we'll give some announcements, and then we will uh depart with a closing prayer. Hymn 202, let's stand together and sing. Good Christian men rejoice. Good Christian man joys with heart and soul and voice Giving us to what we say to now for you now and he is in the danger now. Christ was born today, Christ was born today. Good Christian man rejoice with heart and soul and voice. Now ye hear of and listless. Joy, joy. Jesus Christ was born for this. He has opened heaven's door and man is Christ forevermore. Christ was born for this. Christ was born for this. Good Christian man rejoice with heart and soul and voice. Now ye need not fear the grave. Peace, peace. Jesus Christ was born to save, called you on, and calls you all to gain his everlasting all. Christ was born to save. Christ was born to save. Just making sure that you All right, you can be seated. I just want to go through a couple of announcements uh before we close in prayer. Um if you have your bulletin, they are in here. First of all, after the evening service tonight Our teenagers have uh a special synspiration and during that singspiration um it's actually gonna be a Christmas focus. Uh so please uh teenagers we hope that you can come back tonight uh and do that. I believe the Averies are hosted. Okay. Um secondly the seniors have a senior luncheon this week, and so on the fifteenth at noon. Uh seniors, please come for that. And uh we're gonna have a special Christmas sing along. And uh I'm looking forward to that. Also, please sign up for that. On the eighteenth and on the eighth of January Um Kimberly Hutcheson is going to be back from school and she's going to be setting up a little place where we can do family photos. And it's not a requirement that you get a family photograph, but we're encouraging you if you don't have an updated family photograph that you consider uh doing that either on the eighteenth or on january the eighth and uh we we use those for our our uh um our annual that we put out, our directory, and so um you don't necessarily have to um get the picture put in the directory if you specifically ask us not to do that, but we want to ask you to do that. Also if you're not a church member and you want to get a family picture, that's That's fine too. So okay. And you can get, you know, picture that as an extended family if you have uh extended family as well. Um but please sign up for that. Um We have it posted on the bulletin board, and what that'll do is that'll kind of give Kimberly an idea of how many people are planning to do that on those dates But please sign up for that. Also we have our annual business meeting on the 18th after the evening service. That agenda has been posted. We also have our Christmas Eve candlelight service on the Saturday before Christmas, the 24th. That's at 7 p. m. And we also have one service on Christmas Day. So We will not have Sunday school and we will not have an evening service. And the service is at eleven o'clock rather than 1030. So uh please mark that on your calendar if you want to come at 1030. Great. We'd love to have you. Um people will be arriving uh till open the building at ten thirty probably. Um but our our Christmas Eve candlelight service is uh at seven PM on December twenty fourth, and then our uh Christmas Day service is the 11th. When we go to the New Year's, we're going to do our normal schedule on January 1st, but just want to remind you of that If you have any questions about that, contact the office. It's possible I made a mistake in something that I said and graciously draw my attention to that if you need to do that. Let's go ahead and uh close in a word of prayer. And I'd like to ask Sean Lewis, if you could close us in prayer, and it's good to see each of you here this morning. Father, thank you for this uh service and uh thank you for the message we heard and just uh thank you for um this time of year where we get to reflect on uh the gospel and on uh the incarnation of Jesus Christ. And I just ask that uh if there's anyone here who doesn't know Jesus as their Savior, that uh today would be the day after they repent of their sins and uh come to know you as We just ask that you give us a good rest of the Lord's Day and bring us back here safely tonight. We thank you for all that you do for us. In Jesus' name. Amen.