Good morning, like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection, and this is a bonus episode. It's actually episode 50 And so if you have a Bible, I want to invite you to take it, and let's all turn together to Romans chapter 6. And this is probably the absolute most important passage of scripture in the New Testament. that I can think of when it comes to dealing with this issue of dealing with our sin and temptation. Romans chapter 6 and we're going to read verses 1 through 6 together, but I will be referring to that entire passage, all right? Here's what it says. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sins live any longer therein? Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death? Wherefore, we are buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him. that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin. Now, as I mentioned, this passage is probably the most significant passage in the whole New Testament dealing with this topic. And I'm going to be dealing with it as a very brief We could probably take each of these points and develop them in tremendous detail. And probably there will be a day down the road that I will do that. But what I want to do is just give you this basic overview. So I want to start, first of all, by talking about some assumptions that we find in these verses. In the first statement, he says, what shall we say? Well, it tells us that the person that's talking, uh the Apostle Paul, is referring to people and he's including himself. So he's writing to people that are believers. The second thing we can mention about this is that He is going to answer some objections that are being raised when it comes to this issue of grace. The reason for that is that These people have understood what Paul said about grace in the previous verses. They understand that grace is free, that we don't do anything to merit our salvation, our position is secured in Christ. There's nothing that can separate us from God's love. He'll talk about that later on in Romans chapter 8. But he's made it very clear that we are not saved through the law in any way. God uses the law to show us our sin, but the law is not a ladder to bring us to God. And so he answers two objections that he anticipates being raised. The first The first objection is, well, why don't we just keep sinning? Because God's grace is obviously being magnified the more that we sin. He says it this way in verses 1 and 2. What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. They're saying, well, if God is glorified in his grace by our sin, then the more I sin, the more God's glorified. And Paul says That question needs to be answered totally different. That is not how the Christian is supposed to look at this issue of sin and grace. Number two They say, well, aren't we free from the law's authority? And since we're free from the law's authority, we can go ahead and sin, right? And so it says in verse 15, What then? Shall we sin because we are not under the law, but under grace he says, God forbid In both situations, the Apostle Paul is demonstrating that the people do not understand their position and the implications of their position because of the questions that they're asking. They understand that grace is free. But they don't understand that a free grace also comes with some expectations of position. We're supposed to live in the light of the position that we have. And so we in no way live in the light of it to stay saved or to become saved, but we live in it because it's a natural consequence of being alive in Christ. And so he's going to dig into this issue a bit more by showing us uh what our position is like. The first thing that he's going to emphasize is what we are to know about our position. So in verse number three he says, know ye not, verse number six. Knowing this, verse number nine, knowing that Christ is raised from the dead, verse eleven, likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be. Verse number sixteen, know ye not that What's the emphasis that Paul is pointing out to? Well he's pointing out out to the fact that they either know or they should know some very fundamental truths about their position. The second detail is that he talks about what they are to actually know. And he's going to emphasize something called our union with Christ. When a person places their faith in Christ, they are placed into Christ, they are identified with Christ, they are united to Christ, and that position, that spiritual reality that the Bible is referring to here has some very very important implications that that really are to flow out into our to our practical daily lives. So the way that he puts it is in verse 5 We've been planted together into the likeness of his death. That means we've been buried with him. Verse number seven, he says, Our old man is crucified with him. Death hath no more dominion over him or of you. And so the idea is that our old man was crucified with him, and we have been raised up to walk in newness of life. These are positional realities that are rooted in our union with Christ. Whether you feel this or not, it's true. And the reason we know it's true is because God says it's true in His Word. Verse number 11, he says You are dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. And the idea is that you are now dead to sin's rule, and you're alive to God's rule. These are positional realities. They're all connected back to our union with Christ. So first of all, Paul emphasizes something that we should know. about our position, Christ. Emphasis number two is what those details actually are. Emphasis number three in Romans six are the implications. Since, because this is true, here are the practical implications of this being true about you. And so in verse number four he says, We also should walk in newness of life. Verse six, he says, Our old man is crucified with him, so that the body of sin might be destroyed. that we henceforth should not serve sin. Those are implications. Verse number nine, death hath no more dominion over you. Verses eleven through thirteen. We are to reckon also ourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. We're not to let sin reign in our mortal bodies, that we should obey it in the lust thereof nor yield our members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but to yield ourselves unto God. Verse number eighteen. It says, We've been made free from sin, and we've become the servants of righteousness. So it goes from what we should know The fact that there are some things we need to know about our union with Christ, the specific details, now the implications. So the third thing I'd like us to look at this morning is is how these truths actually work themselves out and how we're supposed to actually respond to them. So because they're true, well what what do we practically do? Well, there are a couple of key statements in the Bible when it comes to this issue of our union with Christ and temptation. The first word that I want you to remember is the word reckon. Okay? Not not not the southern word I reckon, but reckon. The word reckon comes from the the Greek word laqidzomi and it has the idea of more than just reading over something and reminding yourself of something. It has the idea of idea of digging into something so that we consider the rich implications of that. So when Paul says, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin , But alive unto God, he's saying you need to remind yourself of these truths, you need to think often of these truths, and you need to ponder the rich implications that flow from those truths. That's what he means by record. Live as if it's true. Remind yourself continually of it. And it's in the present tense which has the idea of we don't just do this once and forget about it But we have to do it every single day. We have to do it over and over and over again. It means that there's this idea of it being a pattern of life, a habitual pattern of life. So that word reckon is a really, really important word. And by the way, when we go to other New Testament passages, we see this concept of reckoning being used in other places, like for instance, Philippians chapter 4, verse 8. We know this passage. He says, whatsoever things are true and honest and just and pure and lovely, and of good report, if there be any mur uh virtue, any praise Think on these things. That that phrase think on these things is the same word, like it's a mind, same word as reckon. And so the idea is that we are to focus the energy of our minds on truth. And we're supposed to think about those truths. We're supposed to ponder those truths. We're supposed to act as if we believe that they're true. That's what he means by reckon. So I asked this question this morning Are you actively thinking on these truths, these practical implications that are connected back to your union with Christ? Are you thinking on those things? That is the first step to having victory over sin. Is a mind that is disciplined and focused in such a way. The second thing that we're going to see mentioned in these verses are the words put off. Put off. In verse 12 he says, Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies that you should obey it in the lust thereof. Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin. There are lots and lots of other places in the New Testament. where the concept of putting off the old man is emphasized again and again and again. Listen to some of these examples. Ephesians 4. 22 He says, put off concerning the former conversation, the old man which is corrupt according to the deceitfulness. of lusts. Ephesians 4. 25. Put away lying. Speak every man the truth with his neighbor. Colossians chapter 3 verse 8 he says Put off all these anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communications out of your mouth. The concept of putting off is a very important detail. So reckoning is about considering the implications And acting as if you believe it's true. Putting off is the action that accompanies, or we could say, flows out of reckoning ourselves to be dead indeed into sin. If I believe that this is true, and I believe that God has saved me to walk in newness of life, well then the action is I'm going to put off what has been my old conduct, my old way of life, the way I lived before I was a Christian. But there's another side to this putting off, and that is putting on. God didn't just save us from sin, He saved us from sin so that we would walk in newness of life. If you just leave a vacuum, what happens to the vacuum? It's going to be filled with something. And so you could spend your whole life uprooting garbage, but if you never replace it With something that has true value, then what you end up having is a continual stream of removing the garbage. That's really what it is. And so the second aspect Putting off is going to be coupled with the third aspect, which is putting on, replacing what you've removed. Listen to the way that he puts it in verse 13. He says But yield yourselves unto God. So on the negative side, I'm putting off. On the positive side, I'm putting on. I'm putting away certain things, I'm putting on certain things Now there are other scriptures that show the exact same correlation. Colossians chapter 3 verse 10. You have put off or put on the new man which was renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him. Ephesians 4. 24. Put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. Ephesians 4. 32. Be ye kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. What's interesting is that you see this correlation between What you put off and what you put on. So for instance, if a person is lying continually, what are they supposed to do? Put off lying and speak the truth with their neighbor. If a person is stealing stuff, what are they supposed to do? Put off stealing and work with your hands and Bless your neighbor. If a person uses their mouth uh for things that are are are crude and and uh blasphemous and ungodly, what are they supposed to do? Put off those things And speak and speak in a way that is honoring to the Lord and to the people around you. And so we see reckon, put off, put on. The fourth thing that we'll mention is mortify and be removed. Now that word mortify is a word that we do not use commonly in our English language anymore. But it's a very important word. It's a powerful and practical word. And it has the idea of putting something to death. And the scripture uses this terminology when it comes to our lustful passions a lot. In verse number 11 he says, reckon ye also yourselves to be dead unto sin, but alive unto God through Christ Jesus our Lord. Do you see the Dead and alive aspects of that. Colossians chapter 3, verse 5. He says, Mortify or put to death therefore your members which are upon the earth. Fornication, uncleanness. inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, covetousness, which is idolatry. Feet uh Romans chapter eight verse thirteen. If you live after the flesh, you shall die, but if you through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Ephesians 4. 23, be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Romans 12, 2. Be not conformed to this word, but be ye transformed through the renewing of your mind. And so while one picture is putting off and putting on, the other is put to death and be renewed. So these are huge keys to dealing with temptation. If you and I are going to be victorious when it comes to dealing with temptation in our Christian life, we have to be reminded of our union with Christ. We need to think about the implications of our union with Christ. We need to reckon those implications. Act as if we actually believe that they're true. And because we believe that they're true, we're to put off certain things and put on certain things to replace those things we've put off. We're to put to death sinful passions and were to replace them with a renewed mind and a transformed person. So you may ask, well well Joel, how do I practically do this? This is a lot of high and lofty theological conversation. How do I practically do this in my life? Let me give you some very simple explanations of what I mean. And by the way, if you want a fuller uh explanation of this go back to our Wednesday night service because I spent a lot more detail on this than I am in this short video. First of all, let's talk about the reckoning. Reckoning. We need to recognize that as Christians, we are called to be disciplined thinkers. That means we have to develop a healthy pattern. of regularly considering the implications of truth of the truths that are connected back to the gospel. I need to remind myself of the gospel. I need to remind myself of the purchase of redemption, the implications of that redemption, what God says is true because I am in Christ. Those are all Issues of disciplining our minds, forcing ourselves to think truth rather than to think nonsense Then we come to this issue of putting off. We cannot afford to indulge our flesh by the books we read, the media we watch, or the company that we keep. Very, very simple. If I'm going to put off the old man and put on the new man, that means I can't feed my flesh I can't put junk into my heart when I've got to uproot those sinful passions that are there. I've got to make sure that I establish good healthy patterns in these areas. I can't make excuses. And live a life that is uh, we could say, conflicted between two opposites. I can't do that and get away with it. I've got to put off the old man. Secondly, put on the pneumatic. We were saved from sin to God. So, in other words, rather than me filling my mind with garbage and having this conflict between two positions What I actually need to do is I need to uproot and replace those things that are not supposed to be there and replace them with what is supposed to be there. So for instance, instead of anger, I uproot that anger, I put off the anger, what do I do? I replace it with grace, kindness, and mercy. Somebody that steals. They put off theft, and what do they do? They start working with their hands and they give to others. They're doing the exact opposite. A person who's unforgiving and a person who's bitter learns to forgive and to show mercy and to forbear. That's putting off and putting on. A person who's dishonest. puts off lying and begins to speak the truth. There's a replacement. A person who has a passion for this world needs to replace that passion for this world with a passion for God, His glory. And his kingdom. That's what we mean by putting off and putting on. And then lastly, that statement, mortify and be renewed. Our sin is not something we can tame, it's got to be killed Our minds and our passions and our strengths have to be entirely given to a new master. When you become a Christian, you don't stop having a mind that is active. You don't stop having hands that want to work. You don't stop having a mouth that wants to speak and a heart that has affections. The fact is that when you become a Christian, the affections you have before your conversion need to be channeled in a totally different direction And the work that you did with your hands needs to be turned from what it used to do to being pointed in a totally new direction. Your mind that used to dwell in certain areas needs to be turned from those areas to be directed toward God God has saved you from sin to himself. You become the servant of Christ, having fruit that actually benefits other people. And that's what this passage is all about. We need to be a people who are given fully to the work and the purposes of our Savior and our Lord and our Master. I hope that this has been a helpful and challenging topic for us to look at. I'd really encourage you to spend some time Reviewing through Romans chapter 6, it is probably the most fundamentally important passage of scripture you and I have in our Bibles. That deals with this issue of how our union with Christ affects how we relate to temptation. Hope that you have a wonderful weekend, and Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. Have a blessed day. Bye now.