Good evening. Hope you're having a good week. And uh let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we're gonna sing a song. And then get into what I hope to be a very helpful and practical lesson. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you help us tonight to have settled hearts as we focus on your word. We thank you for the truths that we will look at, truths that are so rich and so practical, they're so foundational to the Christian life. Help me as I work through this passage to handle these these truths effectively, to present it in a way that would be helpful to everyone that's here. And then as we think about how to apply these issues to raising children and uh and as As we think through all these things, I pray that you would just give us a special measure of your grace and wisdom and insight. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, 391 is where we will sing tonight. 391, I am resolved. We'll sing the first and the last verses. I am resolved no longer to think her by the world keeps everyone. I have resolved you enter the key nound of sin. All right. Good singing, good song. Okay, well I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Romans, and we are in Romans chapter six tonight, and uh we're gonna spend uh a lot of time moving through this passage, so keep your your fingers handy. And I want to direct your attention to several important truths that are in these verses. And I want to remind you that what we're talking about on Wednesday night is issues related to our families. And we've taken a lot of time in the middle of this to talk about how we work with our children. And one of the things that I'm very concerned about when we talk about working with our children, is that we have to make sure that our understanding of the Christian life and some of these very basic foundational truths that we have a clear understanding of these things. if we're going to pass them on to our children. And so a lot of what I'm going to do in this portion of our series is I'm going to deal with issues that whether you're a parent or not, whether your children are raised or not. That these are practical for you as a believer. And then I want us to move towards the end of this study tonight into how we actually work with teaching our kids these things. So that's where we're going tonight. Romans chapter 6, and we're going to read verses 1 through 6 together, but we will be referring to several other verses in this section of Scripture. Here's what it says. What shall I say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sins live any longer therein? Know ye not that so many of us as were baptized into Christ Jesus? We're baptized into his death, therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death. But like as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life. For if we've been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall also in the likeness of his resurrection, knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him That the body of sin might be destroyed, but henceforth we should not serve sin. Now this passage of Scripture is a very important foundational unpackaging of a truth. That is important when we deal with this issue of temptation. And the topic that we're going to be talking about tonight is our union with Christ When we talk about our union with Christ, we're talking about a spiritual reality that if the Bible didn't give us this information, and if it didn't explain to us this information, We really wouldn't know it. It's something that has to be communicated to us. Now, we can see that when a person becomes a Christian Because they are a new creature in Christ, there is a dispositional change that takes place within that person. And the Holy Spirit does come in and dwell that person. And whether they understand the fact I'm a new creature in Christ, and whether they understand the fact that the Holy Spirit indwells them, those are realities that are true. And they're going to impact that person. So it's possible for a Christian to actually grow to some measure without really understanding the truths that we're going to talk about tonight. However, there there are limitations when we don't understand these truths. And it's important for us to understand that when we're dealing with sin and temptation, there are some biblical ways that we're supposed to deal with these issues. And we may actually not understand them and do them, but these passages are going to show us exactly what we're supposed to do. So let me begin with, first of all, a summary statement, and I want us to work our way through this passage together. Since we've been united with Christ, we are fully equipped to take our responsibility seriously so that we can experience daily victory over indwelling sin Now within that summary we have something called a union with Christ. We have the statement we are fully equipped We are responsible. We are supposed to take some things seriously. And this is a daily matter so that we can deal with indwelling sin. Lots and lots of different working pieces to that summary statement. And so as we work our way through these verses, you're going to see these pieces laid out one by one. The first truth I'd like us to see from the text is that the passage begins with a certain assumption. Look down in verse number one at what he says. He says, What shall we say then? Question. What kind of a statement is that? It's a question. Alright, you see the question mark. So he is asking a question that's based on some assumptions. First of all, he uses the word we. So Paul's including himself in that. He's not saying What do you say then? He's saying, what do we say then? That word then is very important because there are some truths that he's kind of laid out that have prepared us for this particular question. And so let's talk about what the assumptions are that are a very important part of these verses. The first assumption is this. that Paul is writing to believers. He says, what shall we say then? If you're not a Christian, you can't apply these verses. We could talk about our union with Christ, but if you're not a Christian, you're not united with Christ. And so when Paul uses the word we, that's very, very important. He's not saying there's certain classifications of Christians. We are all in the same position. This is true about every single person in the church. So whether you've been a believer for five minutes For five years, for 50 years, you are just as much in Christ today as you were the day that you were converted. The moment that you placed your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior This positional reality was true and still is true. So he includes himself in the context By the way, this concept of a positional reality is very, very important because when we talk about our union with Christ, there is a justification side to this, okay? Because I've placed my faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, And I'm now in Christ. His righteousness is imputed to me. And when God views me, he views me a sinner as not guilty because I'm declared righteous on the basis of the righteousness of Christ. That is a union with Christ reality. Very, very, very important. But there's also a sanctification side to this union with Christ's reality. He's also, secondly, writing to people who have understood what he's saying about grace. Notice what it says in verse 1. He says, what shall we say then? And then he says a little bit later on, so that grace may abound. Well, what does that tell us? Well, that tells us that the reason that Paul asked the question is because of the way that people are thinking about this issue of grace. Now take your mind back to chapters 3, 4, and 5 in Romans. If you read through those verses, Paul goes through great lengths to establish a very simple fact. The law has no power to justify anybody. The law is powerless to make you a Christian. The law shows you you're not a Christian. The law shows you you're not righteous. The law shows you you fall short of God's glory. And so what the law does is it drives you to Christ. And then what does the Bible say? That we are justified freely through the grace that is in Christ Jesus. Paul goes to great lengths to say, listen, salvation is a grace-alone issue. That means you don't deserve it. That means you don't work for it. That means you don't earn it. That's one of the main reasons, logically, why salvation is an eternally secured position. Because it's grace that gives us salvation. And so when these people are thinking about grace, they're going, Grace is free. It isn't merited. So if grace is free, then I must not have to live for God Do you understand what they're thinking? I've even had people say this to me when I'm going through evangelists with them. And going through the gospel, and they look at me and they go, Well, you know what? I guess I can live any way that I want if I'm a Christian then. Say, hold on a second. Just because works don't give you salvation does not mean that you shouldn't live for God. And these truths are going to show us why that is true. You can say salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, no works of ours at all. That is true and set right beside it. But you who are in grace are responsible to walk with God. Not because you stay a Christian that way. But because your position naturally should flow into a different life. That's the reality. And so with the as these people are thinking about it, they're sitting there going, we don't understand this grace thing. It's sounding like it doesn't matter how I live at all. And Paul's saying, let me raise some questions that you may very well be thinking, and I want to answer them for you. Here is the first question. Isn't God's grace magnified by my sin? Here's what he says in verses 1 and 2. Shall we, what shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? And we think about it this way. Somebody says, all right, God is glorified in my salvation. If I am a really, really wretched sinner , Then that means that God must get far more glory through my salvation than someone who's a more let's say mediocre sinner, someone who doesn't sin as much as I do. Now, this is misunderstanding the fact that one sin makes us guilty. And that no sinner, no matter how big or how small in the eyes of the world, is equally lost. And the grace of God is coming freely to someone who has who has lived in the church their whole life and been unsaved, and a person who's lived as an agnostic or an atheist their whole life. It doesn't matter the situation. God 's grace is the same for all these people. And so they're going, okay, so if we sin more, God gets more glory, right? And what does he say? God forbid. That's not true. May you never think this way. That's really what he's saying. Don't ever, ever think Oh, because I'm a new creature in Christ and I'm in a position of grace, I should sin abundantly so that God is more glorified. He says, never think in such a way. That's a misunderstanding of how to apply this grace position. The second question. This is found a bit later in verse number 15. Aren't we free from the law's authority? And if we're free from the law's authority, then it doesn't matter how we live. He says it this way. What then? Shall we sin because we're not under the law, but under grace? What does he say? God forbid. Don't ever think in such a way. That's not the correct way to apply this issue of grace So then the question is, well, what is the right way for us to understand this issue? Justified by grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone? eternally secured. It's true I'm not under the law any longer. It's true that God's grace is magnified in the salvation of every single sinner, but it is not true that I should just live any way that I want. This is going to explain to us why that is. And this is very important for us as Christians because this gets down to the heart and soul level. Of how we live out the Christian life when it comes to this issue of dealing with sin and temptation. So, truth number two We need to remind ourselves of the position that we have. Now what I want to do, rather than reading all these verses, is I want to emphasize what is repeated over and over and over again in the text. Because these are the key elements to what the Apostle Paul is trying to communicate. The first thing I want you to notice is that he emphasizes what we know. What we know, or what we should know. Look down in verse number three. Here's what it says: Know ye not? It's about the way we think. Look down in verse number six. Knowing this. Look down in verse number nine. Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dies no more. Look down in verse 11. Likewise reckon. We're going to talk about this word, very important word. Reckon ye also yourselves. to be dead to sin but alive unto God. Verse number six, know ye not that. What's the point? The point is that the Apostle Paul, before he tells them what to do, tells them how to think. Did you catch that? Before he tells them what to do, he tells them how to think. And he tells them how to think based on spiritual realities that are laid out here in the text of Scripture The second thing I want you to notice is the content of what we're supposed to know. And he's talking about our union with Christ. The first thing we're going to see is in verse number three. We have been united with Christ. He puts it this way: He says, we were baptized into Jesus Christ. Now, listen carefully. When the Apostle Paul uses the term baptized. He's not talking about water baptism, okay? What he's he's not saying, okay, you know, when you trusted Christ as your Savior, this wasn't true. But then when you followed the Lord and believers baptism and you were dunked in the water and you came out That's when this became a reality. That's not what he's saying. We've got to understand that the word baptizo that's used here is a word that's used in lots of different contexts. And in this particular context, he's talking about someone being placed into Christ. He's talking about not a physical reality being dunked in water, like we think of often. but a spiritual reality, our union with Christ. So when he says you've been baptized into Christ, he's talking about being Placed into the body of Christ, your identity with Christ, your association with Christ, your union with Christ. And he's going to use this kind of metaphorical terminology throughout the text. In verse number five, he says that we have been buried with him. Verse number five, we've been planted together. in the lightness of his death. Now you haven't physically died. You're all sitting here, you're looking at me, you're breathing, you're taking notes, you're paying attention. You're physically alive. So he's not talking about a physical reality. He's talking about a spiritual reality. You've been planted in the likeness, very important word, of his death. He's talking about we've been buried with him. Verses 6 and 7. Our old man was crucified with him and raised up as a new man to walk in newness of life. Here's how he puts it. Our old man is crucified with him. By the way, he's not talking about your dad. Okay. He's talking about who you were before you were a Christian. Your natural disposition. Okay? So before a person's a Christian, what are they? They're a slave to their sin. Ephesians chapter two. You have the quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world And he talks about us being by nature the children of wrath. So what is he talking about? He's talking about a natural man who's not receiving the things of the Spirit of God. Someone who's a slave to his passions, he says, that person died with Christ. They're dead. That's not you anymore. Now that doesn't mean that you have no longer the capacity to sin and to think wrong and that you'll no longer struggle with sin. He's not going to make that argument because it's very clear as we work our way through these verses. that you have a choice to make. You have a responsibility in how you think and how you act. All those things are important. So he's basically saying who you were, you're not anymore. 2 Corinthians 5. If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things have passed away. All things have become new. Lots and lots of different ways that this is described in other passages. He then says this. He says, death hath no more dominion over him, and by implication over you. Union with Christ. Third. He says, you're now dead to sin's rule and alive to God's rule. Verse 11. You are dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Christ Jesus our Lord. Now, he's not suggesting that you have no ability to sin. Okay? He's saying that you have no obligation. Sin is no longer your master. You can freely choose to reject The dominion of sin. That's what he's saying. When a believer sins, they are taking themselves and putting themselves under a master that has no authority over them. None. It's like a person who's deciding to put themselves under the jurisdiction of someone who has absolutely no authority over them. It's like somebody in Texas putting themselves under California's ridiculous laws. Okay. All right. Well you understand what I'm saying. There's a lot of people leaving California because they want to get away from those California laws and they want to live in Texas. All right. Maybe some people want to leave Maryland to go there. I don't know. But the idea is, why put yourself back under the jurisdiction of someone who has no authority over you? And so all of these are spiritual realities. He says you need to think in terms of what is true. And so he says, remember, remember, think on this thing, reckon. That's what he's saying. He's saying these truths are things you have to think about. They're things you have to remind yourself of. I'm dead to sin. I'm not under its jurisdiction. Who I was before I became a Christian, I'm not that person anymore. You say, well, I don't always feel that way. Your feelings are not a good gauge of what is right and wrong, folks. The scriptures speak the truth. So that moves us to a third thing, and that is what we call implication. Since we are united with Christ and these things are true about us, there are some ways that we should respond. That's what he's saying So let's work our way through these. The first is verse number four. He says this. Since we are united with Christ, we should walk in newness of life. That's the way we're supposed to walk. In other words, the Christian should never say, Shall I continue in sin that grace may abound? He says, No, you're united with Christ. So walk in newness of life. That's what he's saying. Verse number six. Our old man is crucified with him, and then he talks about why. That, so that the body of sin might be destroyed, and that henceforth we should not serve sin. So God didn't just save us for fire insurance, folks. He didn't just save us so we could escape eternal destruction. He saved us from sin to a life of holiness. He saved us from eternal destruction so that we could walk in newness of life. He saved us from being slaves to our sin so that we could serve him. And newness of life. That's what he's saying. Implications. He says in verse number nine, death hath no more dominion over you. Verses 11 through 13, he says this. He says, Reckon ye also yourselves to be dead unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Let not sin reign over you in your mortal bodies, that you should obey it in the lusts thereof. Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin. but yield yourselves unto God. Notice some of these words. Reckon. I'm going to talk about what that means in just a few moments. Reckon. He says Do not yield. Do not obey. Or yield and obey. And he talks about who we're to yield to and who we're to obey. The point is there are some very clear implications here. Number 18, or verse 18. Being made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness. So I used to be a slave to sin. Now I serve a new master. I serve God Himself. I can walk in accordance to his will and his ways. I have been saved to walk in newness of life. That's what he's saying. So I'd like us to move to a third truth. We have to actively live like these are actually true. And so I want us to go back and I want us to look at these individual pieces. And I want us to talk about how these individual pieces are fleshed out in other passages within the New Testament. This is very, very practical and very, very helpful. So the first word that I want us to focus in on is the word reckon. Alright? That word reckon is a word that is a lot richer than just read your Bible. Okay? Or, you know, talk to yourself about the gospel from time to time. The word reckon has the idea of taking something and giving a lot of attention to it. And as you're giving a lot of attention to it, you're reminding yourself of some things and you're considering implications that are connected to it. That word lagizumai, we're going to find it in another passage, is in the present tense. And that's actually also very significant. This isn't something that I do one time, like well and I trusted Jesus Christ as my Savior. I understood I was a sinner. I understood Christ died for my sins. I understood he rose from the dead. I understood that I have no way to go to God except through the righteousness of Christ. I trusted in him as my savior, and now I'm good. I don't have to worry about this anymore. Well, positionally that's true. Not practically That word legitimized present tense, that means I have to continually reckon myself to be dead to sin and alive unto God. I have to continually remind myself of these truths and reflect on them, to meditate upon them, to consider the rich implications of these things. That's the sense. By the way, in Philippians 4. 8, it tells us the exact same thing. Listen to what it says. Finally, my brethren, whatsoever things are true. Whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report, if there be any virtue, if there Everybody praise, listen to the statement. Think on these things That's legizima right there. Reckon. Okay? In other words, think about it, consider its implications, and then act as if it's actually true. That's what he's saying. Think on these things. When it comes to this issue of temptation, we should be focusing on the truth more than the lie. And we tend to kind of go the other way. I don't want to do this. I don't want to do this. I don't want to do this. And all we do is think about what is wrong. It's just think about what is true. Totally different point of reference. We move from this word reckon to the words put off. In verse 12, here's what he says: Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies. Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness to sin. So because I'm considering the implications of my union with Christ, my position in Christ There's an action that I'm supposed to do as a result, a result or as a responsiveness. I'm supposed to choose to say, I'm not going to let sin reign in my mortal body. I'm not going to yield my members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin. I'm in the midst of temptation. I go, I'm a Christian. I'm not going to do this. I'm not bound to do this. I'm not obligated to do this. I'm going to walk away and I'm going to focus my attention on what God's called me to do, to live for Him. This concept of putting off is something we find all throughout the epistles. Ephesians 4. 22, put off concerning the former conversation, the way of life, the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lust. Ephesians 4, 25. Putting away lying speak every man the truth with his neighbor. I'm going to come back to that verse because it's very, very important. But put away lying Colossians 3. 8. Put off all of these, anger, wrath, blasphemy, malice, filthy communications out of your mouth. Put off So because I understand I'm a Christian, I am positionally in Christ, I'm united with Christ, I know that by implication I need to take certain things. that God says are wrong and I need to uproot them and I need to put them off. And he's very, very specific about these kinds of things. The kinds of things we struggle with all the time. The kinds of things we struggle with on the days that we're tired and we're hungry and things are not going the way that we want to, and the pressures are building. These are the things, the works of the flesh. But the Christian life isn't just about what I don't do. Put off, put off, put off. You can't leave this void in your life You can't do it. God gave you a brain, and that means that you think. And so if you constantly focus on what you're not supposed to think, and that's all that consumes you, guess what you're not doing? Thinking about what you're supposed to think about. Does that make sense? If all you're concerned about is what you're not supposed to do , Your life is entirely consumed with what you're not supposed to do. Guess what you're not doing? What you're supposed to do. The idea is that this is not just a negative matter. While I put off certain things, I must choose to replace those very things with what God says is right. In other words, if I know I'm not supposed to lie, then I'm supposed to stop lying, and then I'm supposed to do what? Speak the truth. Does that make sense? If I know that I'm not supposed to deal in anger and wrath, guess what I need to do? I need to put off anger and wrath and malice, and I need to replace it With love and patience and kindness. In other words, God's not wanting us to just be this empty vessel Who's constantly putting off things? He's wanting us to be filled with what is good. He wants us to serve him in newness of life. I think a lot of Christians get very focused on, I know I'm not supposed to think about this, and I know I'm not supposed to do this, and I know I'm not supposed to go this place, and it's all about don't do this, don Don't to this, don't do this, don't do this, and they don't think once about Maybe I should focus on what I'm supposed to do. What I'm supposed to be involved in. What God created me to do in life In other words, it's not just the negative, it's the positive as well. The putting off and the putting on, they go together They are both an essential component of the right response, the active response to reckoning ourselves to be dead and eat unto sin, but alive unto God. So in verse 13, he says. But yield yourselves unto God. Colossians 3 10. You have put on the new man, which is renewed in the knowledge after the image of him that created him Ephesians four twenty four. Put on the new man which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. Ephesians four thirty two, be ye kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. So we go from reckoning to response. Put off, put on. But it's a little more than that. It's a little more intense than just put off and put on. Because I want you to see another way that he describes this. In verse number 11, he says this: reckon you also yourselves to be what? Dead. Did you catch that? Reckon yourself to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Another way to put this put off and put on is mortify and renew. Mortify means literally put to death. When we talk about our fleshly passions, we have to put those passions to death. to death. And then as they are dead, what are we supposed to do? We're supposed to thrive in a new walk. And I want you to see this concept laid out in several passages. Colossians 3, verse 5. He says, Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth. Fornication. Uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil, concupiscence, covetousness, which is idolatry, By the way, all of those are almost entirely dealing with sexual sins. Almost entirely. And when he puts idolatry in there, what we could say is this. In the ancient world, sexual sins and idolatry usually went right together. Okay? And they did. He's he's literally describing what went on at wild Roman parties. He's saying, Don't do this stuff. Put it to death in your mind. Put it to death in your heart. Have nothing to do with those things You can't entertain them, you can't tame them, you can't play with them, you've got to put them to death, put them off, put on what is right, and be renewed in your mind. Romans chapter 8, verse 13 If ye live after the flesh, ye shall die. But if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live. Ephesians 4. 23, be renewed in the spirit of your mind. And one of the most popular or familiar passages that we have is Romans 12. 2. Be not conformed to this word, but be ye transformed. By the renewing of your mind. And by the way, before that, he says that we are to present ourselves a living sacrifice, wholly and acceptable unto God, which is a reasonable service. What do you think that means? Mortify your flesh. Put the depth of fleshly passions and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. Do you see how these pieces all go together? Reckon, put off, put on, mortify, be renewed in the spirit of your mind. That's what a believer has to do. Not just today, not just ten years ago, every day. This is to be a pattern of life. Now this has all been very like theologically oriented. What I want to do is I want to take these concepts and I want to bring them home to some very practical, I hope helpful ways So let's talk about reckoning. I'll put it like this: reckoning means this. We need to recognize that as Christians, we need to be disciplined thinkers. You know, some people give you the impression that, oh, Christians, they're just these like emotional people. They're just like living in fantasy land and they don't think and they don't reason and the real rationalistic people, they're the ones that reject God. Actually they're the ones that stick their heads in the sand. Christians are thinkers. Wise Christians are thinkers They know what is true. They develop the discipline of thinking on what is true. They ponder and consider the implications of what is true. And then they choose to walk reasonably in the light of what is true. I'm saying people don't think that way, folks. They don't live that way. They live based on impulse. They live based on what is just boiling in their mind and boiling in their heart. The Christian has been freed from such enslavement to walk with a mind that is clear, that is built on truth. We need to develop a healthy pattern of regularly considering the implications of the gospel. I have been hammering this point lately. I really have. This is what we mean by meditating on the truth. I continually think about what God has done for me, why it matters, what he accomplished. What is true now because of who I am in Christ, how I'm supposed to live. I consider all those implications. And it's a rich part of, it's on my mind continually And it's shaping my affections. It's shaping my thinking. It's ultimately going to lead to affecting how I respond to people. It's a lifelong journey. This isn't something we only do when we need it. You know, how many people turn to God when life gets hard? A lot of people do. Why don't we just walk with him so that when life is hard we can actually we can handle these things? Not because we're strong, but because we're we're learning how to depend on him. We're learning how to think the way that we should. We're learning how to rely on his strength. It's a lifelong journey. We can't live off of what we did ten years ago. As Christians we can't be satisfied, well you know, back when I was twenty-five, I was on fire for God. I used to read my Bible every day. I was involved in this and that and well now here I am twenty years later and Those were the good old days. God wants us to walk with him till the day we die. This is something that gives us a positive focus of direction. I really believe that Christians should be positively thinking people. I really do. Now, realistic, yes. But we recognize the positive realities that we find in the scriptures We're able to see both sides, but the focus is on the positive. Yes, it's true that there's a lot of mess in the world. Yes, it's true that people are condemned and they're sinners and they're rejecting the gospel and they're stumbling in the darkness. And it's also true that there's power in the gospel. And so the focus is on what is true. That is the primary focus. And we see that here. We need to use the tools that are our disposal to help us develop these skills. Let's be honest. Most of us are not by nature super disciplined people. Some of some of you may be very disciplined. I don't know. You get up at four o'clock in the morning and you open up your Bible and you read it for two hours and you journal and you know you go running three miles in the morning. Maybe that's nobody here. We're not by nature super disciplined people. No, nobody is. People that are disciplined are disciplined because they went through a process, and it might have been in the army or something like that. Or maybe it was the home they grew up in. There was a lot of regiment. But but let me give you just some really practical things to think about. Every time you come to this place and you hear the preaching of God's word, you know what? Your mind is being drawn to the truth. If the person handling the word is doing it right, they're drawing your attention to the truth. They're actually causing you to reckon the truth. That's really what they're doing. They're saying God says this, and this is how you're supposed to respond, and they're compelling you to do that. They're actually helping you to do something that we all need to learn how to do this to ourselves, but by just faithfully coming to this place and hearing the word of God proclaim, you know what, we are going through this process. I I just did a little bit of mathematics and I thought about this. In a five-year period, you know how many sermons I've preached in this church? Over 700 sermons. It's true. Over 700. Over 700. I mean three times a week. You got fifty-some odd weeks in the year, and you just you go through it and you do the math. It's over 700. Add in some Sunday school lessons as well, and you're getting close to a thousand. Every single Sunday that we come to this place, we sing close to twenty hymns. Do you realize that? Close to twenty. Between the morning worship service, the evening worship service, and if the kids really get crazy and they're they're picking a lot of songs, we're getting 15 to 20 hymns. And you know what those songs do? They remind you of the truth. We have access to so many good books, so many great resources. And the point I'm saying is this: if all we did was just come to church and be engaged, That would do a lot in helping us to develop in these areas. Secondly, put off. We need to identify sin in its infancy at the heart level. We cannot embrace it. We have to actively put it off. We can't afford to indulge our flesh in any way. We can't afford to indulge our flesh in the media we consume, the books we read. the people we hang out with and all the conversations that we have, the entertainments that we enjoy, we cannot make an allowment for sin in our life. We just can't Can't do it. There's no room for compromise or excuse. Now, I'm not suggesting that this is like heaven and hell. Okay, if I'm if I'm putting it off consistently go to heaven, and if I'm not, I go to hell. That's not what I'm saying. We talked about your position of reality, security in Christ. But this is critical. As one who is united to Christ, this is how I'm supposed to live. Put on. We're not saved to a neutral position. We're saved from sin to God. He wants our head. He wants our heart. He wants our hands. We have to actively replace the vices that we kill and the vices we put off With the graces that God wants to develop within us. For instance, anger is replaced with grace. Theft is replaced with hard work and giving. Unforgiveness is replaced with mercy and forgiveness. Dishonesty is replaced with honesty. A passion for the world is replaced with a passion for God and His kingdom. That's putting off and putting on. And then lastly, mortify and be renewed. Our sin cannot be tamed, it has to be killed. Our mind, our passion, our strength has to be given to a new master. While we have a clear mind and a tender heart and physical strength, we need to give it to Him. This is something that ought to be on all of our hearts. You will not live forever. I mean, you will live forever with the Lord in heaven, but you will not live forever on this earth at this time. Your strength is going to peak and begin to diminish. In every single area. And the fact is that the time that God gives us is it's a set time, and we've got to be faithful with the time that we're given. When our faculties begin to diminish, don't sit down on the sideline. Every season brings unique opportunities to serve the Lord. So we might say, well, man, you know, 20 years ago I was a lot more active. Physically, I was stronger. Mentally, my mind was sharper. I was able to serve so much more. And I say , There is truth on some level, but you're in a different season which provides new opportunities. Every season of life provides opportunities. When I was a teenager, there were things that I could do that I can't do now And there are things I couldn't do that I can do now. Okay? But that's true about every season of life. When you're single and not married, when you get married and you don't have children, when you're when you're married and you have children, when your kids are out of the house. Every season of life provides very unique opportunities. We just need to have the eyes to see what they are and a willingness to serve in whatever capacity God gives us. So, how do we take these truths and apply them to raising kids? Don't worry, this is not a lengthy thing. I'm just going to give you a couple of thoughts. We have to take every opportunity to reinforce these truths in their minds. Take your child children to church. I always have like a simple thing. There's a reason that we want our kids on Sunday night to be in the service. There's a reason that we do the Lord's table on Sunday nights, not every month, but on some months. Why? Because we want our kids to be exposed to that. There's a reason that I have the kids picking the hymns. You know why? Because I want them to be actively engaged. And I know some of them, you know, they can't sit still and quiet for an hour straight. So for them to be able to raise their hand and pick that song gives them kind of a little diversion, gets them focused, and it's very, very helpful. Something as simple as that can be tremendously helpful. Ask your kids questions about what they're learning. I am sometimes blown away by things that my kids pick up. The good and the bad. But ask them questions. So what was the sermon about this Sunday? They might know more about it than we do. Amazingly. They might pick up on a detail that we didn't that we didn't necessarily pick up on. Ask them questions. You ask them questions, guess what? They're going to think more about it because they know mom and dad may ask me a question next time. Memorizing is a very important thing at a young age, but asking them questions About their understanding is very important and not to be neglected. Have a regular practice of family worship with your kids. We talked about this, well, it's been quite a while ago now It doesn't have to be big. It doesn't have to be an hour long. It could be 15 minutes. It could be 12 minutes. It could be 8 minutes. A very simple lesson. Prayer request, song or two. But focus their attention on the Lord. Ask them questions. Get into their heart. Be vigilant about what you are consuming We know as we get older that there are certain things we can't eat anymore without paying a price. I actually learned this recently. Same thing is true in our spiritual walk. We put junk into our minds, and guess what? We inflame those lustful passions. We actually hurt our souls. We hurt our minds. We need to replace what is not good. what is destructive destructive with what is good. Think about our kids. Some of our kids like to read. I have a son that loves to read. He reads like a hundred pages a night. I'm serious. He reads that much. And they're not like kids' books. These are like history books and all kinds of stuff. And I started sit sitting there going, you know, my my son loves to read. Maybe I need to start pointing some books to him more than like, you know, New York Yankees of the 1960s and Mickey Mantle and, you know, all this kind of stuff. Maybe I should, you know, pass along John Payton. Pass along some missionary biographies, pass along some church history books, pass along some books that are actually going to feed his soul, stir up his thinking. So I brought home a couple of books the other day and said I want you to look at these books. And I mean I was careful about what I gave him and I just I'm not gonna pick up some some heavy lift off of the self and go, yeah, take this theology book and read. I'm not doing that, right? He's just a kid. But he likes to read. Give him something to think about. Use their useful interests to direct them towards helpful materials. The last thing I'll mention is work through areas of discipline thoroughly with the authority of God and the grace of the gospel in view. Discipline is an opportunity. I know it's frustrating. I know a lot of times we're not happy, we're angry, we're tired, we're weary. I'm doing this again. It's an opportunity. To teach our children to shape their values, to shape their worldview. I hope that as we think about these things, they will really help us tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, thank you for the word. May these rich truths about our union with Christ sink deeply into our hearts. Help us to delight in these wonderful realities, to treasure them, to rejoice in them, to reckon them. And then, Father, help us to put off and put on, to put to death those fleshly passions. Help us to grow in the newness of life that we have in Christ. I pray that as we think about these truths, we would live them out practically in our own personal walks. And then I pray that you would give us the wisdom to impart these to the next generation. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen.