Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. Today we are in Ecclesiastes chapter 10, and we're looking at verses 5 through 9. Our last recording for some reason stopped working. We had an issue with our internet, so we're going to try this again and hopefully it works. Ecclesiastes chapter 10 verses 5 through 9. There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as an error which proceedeth from the ruler. Folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in low places. I've seen servants upon horses, princes walking as servants upon the earth. He that diggeth the pit shall fall into it, and whoso breaketh an hedge a serpent shall bite him. Whoso removeth stones shall be hurt therewith, and he that cleaveth wood shall be endangered thereby. When we come to this passage of Scripture, Solomon is lamenting the fact that living in a fallen world often involves certain painful realities. And some of these realities are realities that we really cannot get around. They're things that we have to deal with. And so he makes some observations. In fact, he gives three realities that he laments about. And then I'd like us to kind of just reflect on how we should think and live and respond in the light of these realities because the truth is these are things that we deal with. Well let me give you first of all a summary statement here. The following section reminds us That life in a fallen world is full of many painful realities that we must regrettably encounter. You know, one of the things that is so transparent about the book of Ecclesiastes is that it's the book of the realist. Someone might say, well, it's a really negative book. But the fact is it's it's it's reality. It just tells you exactly how life is. When we live and we look at the things around us, these are things that we observe. They're things that we can't hide from. We have to deal with and confront. And so here are the three things that he mentions. The first one is very interesting. He says we must all submit to authorities, but sometimes those authorities act very foolish. In fact, it's interesting. We talk about in our nation how we we cherish the democratic side of our nation where we're able to actually choose our leaders. But here's the reality. We only get to choose from those who are actually available. In fact, I heard about a certain individual, our governor, who decided he was going to write in a candidate for the presidential election. He was going to vote for a dead man. Does that make any sense? Basically it's grandstanding, just my opinion. But the reality is we only have two legitimate options to vote for for president. In fact, when we look at these candidates, we we really have two sometimes in some situations a third-party candidate, but the reality is in our system it's two different political parties. One of those two is going to win Well, there are times in life that we have leaders who we would like to look at them and expect them to carry themselves with dignity and respect and honor to make good decisions. But the reality is they don't. And this is what Solomon says. He says, There's an evil which I've seen under heaven, under the sun, as an air which proceedeth from the ruler. Folly is set in great dignity. Basically, what he's saying, you have people who are supposed to be carrying themselves with respect and honor and dignity, and the reason is because of the position that they hold. It could be a king, it could be a president, it could be a senator, it could be a mayor, it could be a governor. This is a person who has authority. This is a person who should be respected and carry themselves respectably. And he says Yet what I see in that position of dignity is folly. I see a childishness. I see unwise decision-making. I see regrettable approaches to handling situations. And he said, this is very troubling. Well, why does he say that? Because Solomon recognizes that authority is something that we have to have in life. If we don't have government, if we don't have rulers, if we don't have authorities, we have chaos But just because we have people in those positions does not mean that the people who get into those places actually govern well. And so he laments that reality. The second reality that he laments is that the opportunities that we enjoy early in life don't always continue In verses 6 and 7 he says, The rich sit in low places. He said, I've seen servants upon horses and princes walking as servants upon the earth. What Solomon's basically saying is, I've seen people who at a point in their life had everything going for them. They were in a position of authority. They were in a position of power. They were in a position of wealth. And because of some unusual circumstances, their circumstances flipped. They went from being in the position of power and wealth to being a put in a position of poverty and being a servant. Now what's interesting is that when Solomon talks about this, he's thinking in the context of the ancient world. So you have a man who is the king of the city and he's powerful. He's a ruler and then someone comes and they conquer the city. Well, what are they going to do with that individual who was once in authority and power and beloved? Well, they're gonna humble that individual. They're gonna put him under authority. In other words, the king becomes the servant. He might be thinking of a situation where you have someone who's serving in the king's palace And because of some kind of plot that he takes against the king, he's able to undermine the king and he's able to take him down. And then eventually he's in the position of authority rather than the position of servitude. You think about an example like David and Absalom. Absalom is a son, he's a child growing up in David's household, and then he overthrows the king, and David is running for his life. When Solomon talks about this concept, excuse me, he's he's indicating that sometimes our circumstances in life can flip and can change. And he said, this is a tragedy. It's a painful reality that I have personally witnessed. He then goes on to a third reality. People have to work. But often work involves some form of personal risk. Let me say it again. People have to work, but work often informs uh often involves some form of risk In verses 7 through 9, he gives several very interesting examples. He says, he that digs a pit falls into it He who whosoever breaketh an hedge, a serpent shall bite him. Whoso removeth stones shall be hurt therewith. He that cleaveth wood shall be endangered thereby Well, Solomon understands that there are times that people have to dig pits. That means that they have a responsibility to do it. It's a part of what they need to do for their work. There are times that there's a stone wall that needs to be torn down, and someone has to do that work. There are times that a person has to remove stones. If you're going to build a building in the ancient world, if you're going to build a palace, if you're going to build a temple. If you are going to build the walls around the city, someone has to go and cut those stones and remove those stones and transport those stones But in the process of digging the pit, of removing the stones, of tearing down the stone wall, a person can be hurt in the process. They could fall into the pit. They could be bit by a snake that's there in those stones. They could get crushed by a stone as they're doing their work. He even talks about a person who's working with wood and he ends up getting harmed by it. Why does Solomon do that? Is it because he's teaching us that we should run away from dangerous things? and that a person should never do a job that involves some form of risk? The answer is of course not. In Solomon's mind, he understands that certain jobs involve risk. And because there's a risk involved, it doesn't change the fact that we have to go and do the work. You know, you think about a situation like the pandemic that we're dealing with. The fact is that we cannot indefinitely shut down our nation. We have to go to work. We need to go to school. We need to go about our business. Yet at the same time we need to take precautions as much as possible, but we also recognize there's some form of risk. You know, people that like to live in a house that has A roof that doesn't leak need to recognize that someone has to get up on that roof and they need to actually do the work. Yet that work can be very dangerous. The fact is that every single kind of job that you can do that is productive often will have some form of risk. It could have a high probability of risk, a moderate probability of risk, a low probability of risk. But the fact is that work involves labor, and labor labor often involves risk. And so why does Solomon give us these three realities? Well, he simply says it to To help us to recognize that life is full of challenges. Life is full of difficult realities. And those difficult realities are things that we can't fully escape We can't hide from those things. We can't often control who gets into power. There are times that we have no control over how the circumstances in our lives change. There are certain jobs that whether we want to do them or not, we have to do them. It's our responsibility. It's something that we have to actually do. And so Solomon's saying, these are inescapable. They're things that you can't run from. So the question is, how do you respond to that? Let me give you three thoughts that I jotted down this morning as I thought about this. The first is this. In light of the challenges that we face, we need something that gives us hope and stability in life. Doesn't that make sense? The fact is, every day that I get up There are risks that I'm going to encounter. There are things that I'm going to have to deal with. That doesn't mean throw caution to the wind and do things that have a high probability of harming you. I'm not suggesting that. But the reality is that we know the moment we walk out of our house, the moment we get into our car, the moment we encounter people, there are some kinds of risks that are going to be assumed in those procedures. And so we need somewhere where we can find hope and we can find stability. And it's not by burying ourselves and hiding from the challenges of life. It's got to be something bigger than us and outside of us. We need something that is outside of ourselves because the reality is that we cannot fully protect ourselves. from these challenges. The third thing I'm going to mention is that we need to find stability in three things. One is God's sovereignty. The second is the power of the gospel. And the third is the reality of eternity. The fact is, even though we assume risks in life, we recognize that there's a God in heaven who protects his people. There's a God in heaven who actually uses circumstances, good and bad. Challenges that we encounter, he uses them to accomplish good purposes. And so we recognize that life is not just full of random chance. But we understand that there's a purposeful design in the things we encounter. And so we rest and find stability and the sovereignty of God. The power of the gospel. The fact is this is not our best life. The best life is the life to come. The fact is that there is forgiveness and there is cleansing. God saves people and God has redeemed his people. And we can actually live in this life with an understanding that there's something bigger than the here and the now. And the third thing I want to mention is this there's the reality of eternity. We look forward within great and great anticipation to that day when we will enter into God's presence. And so as we think about these three very challenging realities, I hope that we'll look past the challenges and recognize there is a God who's sovereign. He has presented his salvation through Christ and the gospel, and there is an eternity to come. And so we should live in the light of that, and we should live purposefully in spite of the challenges we encounter in this life. I hope this has been an encouragement to you today. It was a challenge and encouragement to me as I read it And as I reflected on it this morning. Hope that you have a wonderful morning. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study your word today. I pray that you'll use these things that have been said to encourage and help your people. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well I hope that if this has been a challenge to you, that you'll share that. And I hope that you have a wonderful weekend. Bye now.