And the rest of you, let's take our Bibles and let's turn to 1 John chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2. I want to encourage you this week to be in prayer for our church family. And um I don't know how many of you received an email this week or not, but uh please pray for the Dempsey family. Uh Frank's youngest brother uh passed away this week. Um actually it would be I think on Sunday. I talked to them Sunday evening. So please be in prayer for their family. There's a lot going on that just want to encourage you to pray for them. And also Just reach out to them and be a blessing. So if you think about writing a note to them or something like that, that would be very helpful. If you weren't aware of that and you didn't get the email, make sure that you stop by and let Angela know so that she can get your name on the email list. that sends out updates of things like that. Also, Hugh Mason mentioned this morning that someone in their community and their subdivision where they live um had a house fire and there were injuries, serious injuries, I believe there. So we should be in prayer for that family as well. And then there are a lot of folks that are dealing with a lot of difficulties. And let's go to the Lord in prayer, ask God to bless and work in those situations, and we'll read our text and we'll get into our sermon this morning. Let's pray. Father, we are reminded today that you're the God of all comfort. And as Janelle's saying, we rest and we hide in you. And there are times in life when we face tremendous challenges that we don't know how to deal with. And you are our refuge and our strength. You are a very present help in trouble. And I pray that that's exactly what you would be for those in our midst who are going through tremendous difficulties We think of the Dumsha family as they're dealing with the passing of a family member. And I pray that you would provide comfort and strength and encouragement to Frank. unto his wife and children and those who are in the family. And I pray that through these things folks would look to the Lord Jesus Christ, if they are not saved, and they would find the gospel to be the comfort that they need, so that when they face that day and stand before you, they will be ready. I pray for those in our midst who are dealing with a lot of health issues. Please strengthen their bodies and help them to face those challenges in your strength and in your daily grace. Be with those who are dealing with the challenges of caring for an elderly parent or an aging family member, I pray that you would give them a special measure of grace as well And help those who are facing these things to continue to grow in their walk with you and continue to recognize certain aspects of your nature that comfort and strengthen them and these challenges. I pray that as a church body, we would not forget or neglect those who are in times of affliction, but that we would come alongside of them and we would be a source of encouragement A source of blessing to them, that we would bear their burdens with them, and we would always encourage them to find their strength in Christ. We pray for this church. We thank you for the many blessings that we are enjoying as a congregation. Would you continue to do a wonderful work in our midst and a wonderful work in our hearts? As we open up your word this morning, I pray that this text would minister to specific needs in our congregation today. I pray that you would be exalted in this text, that you would be magnified, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. 1 John 2, verse 6 says this: He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also to walk even as he walked. Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment which ye had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which ye have heard from the beginning. Again a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you. Because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth. He that saith he's in the light and hateth his brother is in darkness, even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth In the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. When John writes this passage or this section of his letter, he is continuing to develop A theme, or we could say a series of themes. Themes of assurance or confidence before God, themes of fellowship or communion or abiding in Christ Themes of joy. And he's reminding the readers of so many important truths. Well, one of those truths that he's going to remind them of is the significance or the importance of a very sobering responsibility that they have. And that responsibility is to walk as Christ walked. What exactly does John mean when he says, we are to walk as Christ walked? Well, today we're going to investigate that. We're going to dig into it. We're going to at least scratch the surface of that statement today. But the reason that John gives that statement is because he wants us to understand God wants us to walk as Christ walks. He wants us to walk as the one who not only kept the law, but fulfilled the law. Christ was perfect and righteous in all of his dealings. with the law. And he is the standard that we are to walk after. The question is, how in the world can you and I follow such a weighty command? How in the world can I, a sinful human being, living in a fallen world, relating to fallen people Dealing with the circumstances and the pains and the sufferings of living in this world, how in the world can you and I do what he said? Well, today we're going to look at a series of truths. We're not going to look at all of them this morning. We will look at half of them this morning, and we'll look at the other half tonight. But the first of those truths is this simple truth. Those who call themselves Christians have a sobering responsibility. Those who call themselves Christians have a sobering responsibility. You know, we've been living in Ghana for the last six plus years, and one of the things that was really interesting when we were there was we had uh one of our children born there I remember we were sitting in the hospital and we're filling out paperwork and the nurse comes up and she has this paper and she says, Is your son a one Christian? Two, Muslim, three, none of the above. Okay. We looked and we're like, is he a Christian? Or Muslim? Or none of the above? It's like, well He doesn't even know how to read or write or talk. He can't even crawl. He can't sit up. He can't do how can we call this child a Christian? He's like, well what are you? I'm like, well I'm a pastor. Well then he's a Christian. Oh, okay. Well, with that thinking, you can imagine how that affects a culture. The truth is that in Ghana It's very common that either you view yourself as a Christian, a Muslim, or a traditional religious person. And so if you ask someone, Are you a Christian? Huge numbers of them say, Of course I'm a Christian. They testify to the fact that they're a Christian. And if the truth were to be told, a lot of them are a lot more consistent in their church attendance than than the average Christian in America, if you will. But calling yourself a Christian doesn't make you a Christian in the biblical sense. Those who call themselves Christians have a sobering responsibility in light of identifying themselves in that kind of a way. And so this morning we're going to look at what that particular sobering responsibility is. Verse 6, he says this, he that saith he abideth in him Ought himself to walk even as he walked. That's the responsibility. Now, let me just pause for a moment and say this This is not how you become a Christian, okay? We spend a lot of time week in and week out explaining that. We do not become a Christian by walking as he walked. We walk as he walked because we are a Christian. And as we'll find later in our day, not in the morning so much, but in the evening, we're going to see that the reason that we can walk as he walks. is because we have a new nature. It's because we have the presence of the Holy Spirit inside of us. It's because we have a Father who disciplines us and works in our lives. So our ability to walk as he walked is contingent on our position in Christ and those benefits that we enjoy in that position in Christ. But if we say we're a Christian, if we say that we're abiding in Christ, if we say that we're fellowshipping in God's presence, we've got a great responsibility. Ask this question: Do you identify yourself as a Christian? If you're a member of this church, then you've publicly identified yourself as a Christian in two ways. One, you have been baptized scripturally. And two, you've given a testimony to this congregation that yes, I believe that Jesus Christ died for my sins. He rose from the dead. I cannot save myself. I've turned in repentance toward God. I've placed my faith in the finished work of Christ. I have been born again. We have testified to those truths, and that's how we were able to join this church. Maybe you're not a member of the church, but you would identify yourself as a Christian. Do you say, I am a Christian? Well, if you say that, you have this responsibility. I have this responsibility. When he uses the term he that says he abides in Christ, he's ultimately saying two things. One, I'm a Christian, and two, in addition to that I'm walking with God. I'm fellowshipping with God. I'm communing with God. That's a very strong statement. He abides in Christ. Then we look at the phrase he ought to walk. Now the phrase ought to walk tells us something. It's not an automatic thing. The moment I trust Christ, I don't just become like this robot who is programmed, if you will, and just starts walking as I'm supposed to walk. Now I receive a new nature. I have the presence of the Holy Spirit. I'm sealed by the Spirit until the day of redemption. But that doesn't mean that I'm automatically reprogrammed in my mind and in my character and in my walk. There is a progressive growth, if you will, the ability to grow, the motivation to grow. The enabling, the empowering, it's all there, but I have to exercise, I have to walk, I have to move, I have to commune with God. It's sort of like this. How many of you have a gym at home? Treadmill at home. A weight set at home. Okay, put your hands down. I won't ask how many of you use them. The fact that you have the tools does not mean that you exercise with the tools, okay? And if you exercise with the tools, everybody can tell. And if you don't, well, the same could be said to be true. The fact is that we have the tools. God gives us a new nature. He gives us his spirit. But we have to pick up those things and we have to exercise. And as Paul writes, we have to work out our salvation. He doesn't say work for, it says work out our salvation with fear and trembling. He says you ought to walk. It's not automatic, but it's your responsibility. It doesn't just happen by default But you must take up those tools and move in light of those things. That obligation is stated in 2 Timothy 2. 19. He says, the foundation of the Lord standeth sure, having the seal. The Lord knoweth them that are his, and let everyone that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity. Simple statements to say and to live it out is a totally different matter He says, if you say that you abide in him, you have a responsibility. You ought to walk, and here's how you're to walk, even as he walked. Now let me use this illustration, if you will. I remember when I first started teaching, I kind of took the uh the rustic approach, if you will. Okay, if you want to learn your times tables or you want to learn your mathematics. You know, how to add, how subtract. This is what I would have done. I would have taken a piece of chalk on a chalkboard and I would have written one times one is one. 1 times 2 is 2, 1 times 3 is 3, 2 times 2 is 4, 2 times 4 is 8. And I would have written all my tables on there, and I would have said to my kids, look. Memorize it. Tomorrow I'm gonna start quizzing you. Alright? My wife takes a different approach. Not that she wouldn't do that, but here's what she would do: she'd get two oranges. She has one here and she has one here. She says, alright. How many oranges am I holding? You're holding one. How many oranges am I holding? One. Okay, if I put them together, how many oranges are here? One, two. She uses an illustration. Interesting. If I was an elementary teacher and you walked into my classroom, there'd be no bulletin boards and there'd be no little things on the desk. It would just be a room with a chalkboard, okay? And I would be a horrible elementary teacher. But if my wife or some of our elementary teachers were in here, what would you have? You'd have these beautiful bulletin boards. You'd have all these props up here. You'd have all these things written down. And as This lady or this man is teaching and explaining. They're using illustrations constantly. Well, I can illustrate with my mind, right? Something that we learn is that when we see something, it aids our ability to remember and to learn and to understand. And so an illustration that is physical, that is tangible, that I can hold in my hands, that I can see with my eyes, many times it makes that concept easier to understand. Easier to put in our minds. It's memorable if you will, and keeps our attention if we're little kids, right? Notice what he says. We are to walk as he walked. Now, the people that he's writing to were living essentially during the time of Christ. Now, that's not suggesting that everybody that John is writing to physically saw Christ, but John did. John spent three plus years with Christ. He watched him perform the miracles. He ate meals with him. He listened to him teach. And so what John is basically saying is, your responsibility is to walk like that person that I lived with for over three years of my life. When I saw him relate to other people, that is how I'm to respond to people. When I saw how how humble and how meek he was, when Judas betrayed him. With a kiss, when he stood before the Sanhedrin, when he was hanging on the cross, and he looked down at me beside his broken-hearted mother and says This is now your mother, this is now your son. He's like, that's how you walk. He doesn't say follow the list of rules. Not that he isn't saying that, okay? He's not saying throw out the Old Testament law and Ten Commandments and all those things. I'm going to say a little bit about that more in just a minute. But he's saying this. Focus your attention on the life of Christ, because the life of Christ is a demonstration in perfection of the law in practical circumstances. Walk as he walks. So I asked the question, how did Christ walk? Well, we'd be here for a long time if we opened up our New Testament and we went passage after passage And we analyze what Christ did. But for the sake of time, I just want to pick out a couple of key factors that I think we personally myself personally struggles with. And maybe I'm not alone in this room. How did Christ walk? Let me mention a few today. First of all, Christ resisted temptation. And when I say resisted, I don't mean that he was like a piece of wood that you bend and then it snaps. I'm not talking about that. You bend it and it flexes and you bend it and it flexes and you bend it and it flexes and it goes right back. It never broke. When we face temptation, we resist and snap. And we give in, don't we? But Christ didn't do that. When Christ faced temptation, he faced the full force of temptation because he resisted it entirely. Hebrews 4. 15 says that Christ was in all points tempted like as we are Yet without sin. I remember sitting in a seminary class, and one of my professors was talking about the concept of Christ being tempted, and he said, When we sin, we did not experience temptation at its fullest because we gave in You get what I'm saying? Christ was pressed and resisted entirely. When Satan came to him and said, Hey, take up these stones and turn them into breader. Jump off the pinnacle of the temple and let the angels of your father save you, if you will. Bow down and worship me. I'll give you the kingdoms of the world. Jesus said no. Boom, that and that was the end of it. Satan left. I mean there's more to it than that conversation, but you're aware of that story, of that passage. Christ said, no. But a lot of times we say no and then the pressure comes a little more, and we say, uh, and then we do it. Christ was able to resist temptation to its fullness. Christ was a man entirely human and he got hungry and he got sick and he felt emotions and he experienced temptation like you and I. Yet he's God in the flesh And he resisted fully. When he says, walk as Christ walked, he's saying, deal with temptation like Christ did. Resist it. Resist it. A second. Christ was compassionate when he saw people who were in spiritual emptiness. Matthew 9, 36 says, when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them. And here's what it says. Because they fainted and were scattered abroad as sheep having no shepherd. What's interesting is it gives you the idea that when Christ looked at these people, he said, they're directionless. You ever look at a group of people or an individual and said, those people, that person is directionless. They don't know how to face what they're facing. It's because they don't know the Lord. It's because they haven't matured in the faith It's because they are not Christians. They don't have a biblical worldview. When they go through that set of circumstances, they don't have the ability to deal with it because they're directionless. And how do you relate to that person? How do you think about that person? Well, the first thing a lot of us do is we go, what in the world? Look at them. Living in the darkness. Yeah, it's true they're living in the darkness. But for the grace of God, you're not. They should grow up and mature like me. Well, be careful when you say things like that, because one day God will let you realize how far you really are and how far you're really not. When Christ saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion in his heart for those people. I remember a missionary friend making a comment He was in a certain country, not the one that I was working in, different continent, but a very rustic way of living, let me tell you. It was much more difficult than where I lived in Ghana. And he was giving a presentation and showing pictures and all these things. Man raised his hand during the question and answer time and he said, Why in the world would you go to such a godforsaken place? And he was like, what? I mean no compassion None at all. And the truth is I think a lot of times that mentality is rooted in our hearts. When we see a person who is directionless. And empty and destitute, we don't have compassion. Christ did. Christ was compassionate when he saw people who had physical needs. Matthew 15, 32, when Jesus called his disciples unto him, he said, I have compassion on the multitude. Different passage, different situation. Because they continue with me now three days and have nothing to eat. Such an interesting statement. Christ's compassion was not just for the spiritual needs of those people, but he noticed their physical needs. He saw that they were hungry. He saw that they were in need, and he was moved in his heart for them. When the Bible talks about God's mercies or the fact that he is Well, the word mercy basically has the idea of showing compassion. That's really what it's ultimately all about. We come to another text in Luke 7. Christ was compassionate when he saw people who were suffering emotionally. Luke 7. 11 says this, it came to pass the day after that they went into the city of Nain, many of the disciples went with him with much people. And when he came nigh the gate of the city there was a dead man being carried out, and the only son of his mother, she was a widow And much people of the city was with her, and when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not. And essentially he raises this young man back to life. Not that any of us could do that, okay? Christ did. But the point that I want to focus on is the fact that Christ had compassion on this lady. Christ had no relation to the woman. He's just walking through the city. He comes to a certain place and he sees this processional. It doesn't say that she was a disciple of Christ. It doesn't say that that she was somebody who had ministered to Christ. He simply saw that this woman was hurting emotionally because she was a widow, one, and she had lost her only son. Jesus was moved. You know, I have learned this. A lot of times we get so focused on our own lives that we ignore the legitimate hurts of those around us. We don't think about people's spiritual needs. We don't think about people's physical needs. We don't think about people's emotional needs. And when Paul says, or John , going through all of them, when John says we are to walk even as Christ walked, this is one aspect of what he's talking about. You know, compassion was a major emphasis of Christ's teaching ministry. I think of Matthew 18, the parable of the forgiving servant, or the unforgiving servant, if you will. And what does it say? It says the Lord of the servant was moved with compassion, and he loosed him of his debt. The parable of the good Samaritan in Luke chapter ten, it says, A certain Samaritan as he journeyed came And there was this man on the roadside, and when he saw me had compassion on him. Luke fifteen, the paragraph parable of the prodigal son. It says when the prodigal is coming back, he's come to his senses, he's coming to see his dad, it says, his father arose and came Or the young man arose and came to his father, and when he was a great way off, his father saw him and had compassion on him. Let me tell you, if we went to these texts and we developed them in their context, you would see the richness and the depth and the beauty of the illustrations that Christ is using. My point is this: a major emphasis in Christ's ministry It's compassion. Are we compassionate people? Do we resist temptation? Do we turn away from sin? Or do we break under the pressure of temptation? Are we so self-absorbed that we ignore the needs of other people? The physical, the spiritual. The emotional, or are we drawn in because we love Jesus and we see the value of those individuals and our hearts are moved with compassion as we think about them? There's another point I want to make as well, and that's this. Christ was uncompromising on what was right and wrong. Matthew 5, Jesus is teaching the Sermon on the Mount. And what he says, think not that I'm come to destroy the law of the prophets. I'm come not to destroy, but to fulfill. Whoever breaks one of these least commandments and teaches men to do so shall be the least in the kingdom of heaven. You have heard it said of old, thou shalt not, and he goes through a whole series of things. Thou shalt not kill, thou shalt not commit adultery. He mentions several things. He says But I say unto you, and then he goes to the heart. You've heard don't commit adultery, don't look on a woman. You've heard don't murder, he says, don't hate. Don't steal. Don't covet. What does Jesus do? He holds fast uncompromisingly to what is right and what is wrong. Christ humbly submitted to his father's will for the benefit of others. Philippians chapter 2, 7-8, it says this, he made himself of no reputation. And he took on him the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of men. He humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. As Jesus was facing the reality of the cross, and he understood in his heart what he was about to go through, he kneels down before his father and says, If it is possible, remove this cup from me, yet not my will but thine be done. Humbly submitting to the Father's will. This is what he means. By following in Christ's steps, walking as he walked. And the last one I want to mention is also, I think, very significant. Christ rejected the prejudices of his day. Yesterday I was at Chick-fil-A with my kids. They were running around, well, it was one of our diversions. Well that really was a diversion to our teens. We were looking for Chick-fil-A and we accidentally went to James Madison University. Because they have a Chick-fil-A on their campus. We didn't know that. Next one up, had a Chick-fil-A standing to the side. So we get in there, my kids are running around, and the little boy came into the Chick-fil-A play area. He's just playing with my kids And another little boy came in there and his mommy came in and she started speaking in Spanish to this little boy. And this other little kid, like he's like my kid's age. He made some terrible comment about that little boy because he wasn't speaking English. And I sat there and I was like, whoa. Like, am I gonna get, you know, in big trouble if I tell his guy, hey, you shouldn't talk like that But you know, this issue of prejudice , hate to say it, but it's true. It's in our hearts many times. It's very acceptable in our culture sometimes. Jesus rejected and even confronted the prejudices of his day. It's kind of interesting. John chapter 4, I love this passage. Because you get just a little taste of what Jesus did. And John 4, it says this. He goes to his disciples and he says, I must needs go through Samaria. As Jesus is there sitting beside a well, there was a woman of Samaria who came to draw water, and Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink And then the woman said to him, How is it that you, being a Jew, asketh drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? That is a really loaded statement. First of all, she was a woman Secondly, she was a Samaritan. And thirdly, the kind of woman she was was quite apparent because of the time of day she was drawn the water. She was blown away that Christ would speak to her and that Christ would say, let down your pot into that well, and please draw me some water. She says, How in the world can you do this? Jesus went through Samaria for the exact purpose of meeting that woman, having that conversation with her, exposing her need for Christ. And, if you will, exposing the prejudices of his own disciples. Jesus rejected the prejudices of his day. When Paul assembled the church, he on purpose Put Jew and Gentile into the same body. Obviously, it was God's design and God's will. But the truth is that that was a very radical thing to do in their culture. If we're going to follow and walk as Christ walked, it's going to involve these kinds of things. Resisting temptation. Compassion, humbly submitting to the Father's will, holding fast to what is true, and calling truth truth, and what is false false. It's going to involve rejecting the prejudices that we may hold in our hearts to walk as he walked. Not an encourage you this afternoon. Expand a little bit on what I have here. Just sit down and just reflect for a little bit. Meditate on that statement. We are to walk even as he walked. And ask yourself the question: what are some other ways? That I need to walk as he walked. Let the Spirit of God move in your heart and open your eyes to areas where you're not doing that. The second truth is this. Our responsibility has a very unique dimension. I don't know if this caught you as a little funny, but in verse 7 he says this. Brethren, I write no command no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment, which ye had heard from the beginning. That old commandment is the word which ye heard from the beginning. And then he says, again A new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you. Now, did that strike you as a little funny? It struck me as funny. And so I sat down and I asked myself, what in the world is John saying? He says, I didn't write you a new commandment, and now I'm telling you I wrote you a new commandment. And so, you know, of course, pull out your commentaries and see what this is. And you know, a lot of them didn't really say anything about it. I said, Well, I gotta figure this out, I've got to think about it So I ask myself the question, what is the resolution of this confusing period of statements? I write no new commandment to you but an old. Again, a new commandment I write unto you. Well question, first of all, what is he talking about? What is the old commandment that he is referring to? Well, the old commandment could be defined in this way Love God first, your neighbor as yourself. Joshua 22, Joshua writes, Take diligent heed to the commandment and the law which Moses, the servant of the Lord, charged you. Or God is saying this to Moses, or to him. He says, Love the Lord your God, walk in all his ways, keep his commandments, cleave unto him, serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. That's exactly what Jesus says in Matthew when he says the commandments can be summed up in this statement: Love God with all your heart, soul, and mind, and your neighbor as yourself. That's exactly what is written here in Joshua chapter 5. Because in Matthew twenty two Jesus says, thou shalt love the Lord your God, and with all thy heart, with all thy soul, with all thy strength. This is the first commandment, and the second is like unto it, thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. And Romans 13, Paul says, love worketh no ill to his neighbor, therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. Let me put it in a very simple simple sense. If you love God first, there are some things you won't do. Number one, you won't replace Him with a rival. Hence, commandment number one, thou shalt have no other gods before me. Number two, you won't misrepresent him by creating an idol. Hence, thou shalt not make into thee any graven image or any likeness of anything in heaven above earth beneath 3. You won't treat his name irreverently or flippantly. Hence, what does he say? Don't take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. The Lord will not hold him guiltless who taketh his name in vain. You will dedicate A day of rest to focusing on the Lord. Hence he says, remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. If you love God first, you won't do those things. Second, if you love your neighbors yourself, you won't do some things. You won't dishonor your mom and your dad. So what does he say? Honor your father and mother. You won't murder your neighbor. So he says, Thou shalt not kill You won't dishonor your spouse or your neighbor or their spouse. Hence he says, thou shalt not commit adultery. You won't steal your neighbor's property. So he says, thou shalt not steal. You won't bear a false witness against your neighbor. Therefore he says, Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbor, and you won't Look to take your neighbor's stuff. So he says, Thou shalt not covet, and he mentions a whole lot of things. The fact is, if we're going to obey God's commandments, The simple way to do it is love God and love your neighbor as yourself. If you do that, you won't do those things. That's what Jesus is saying. And so when he refers to an old commandment, which you've heard from the beginning, that's what he's talking about. You've heard this over and over again. When you heard the Tanakh being read, and you listened to the law, and you read Deuteronomy and well read or listened to Deuteronomy and Joshua and these other texts, you heard this repeatedly being stated. When you listen to Christ teach, you heard this repeatedly being stated. But then the question is: well, what's the new commandment? Here's the catch: walk as he walked. That's what it is. Walk as he walks. Is that different than the old commandment? In one sense it is, and in another sense it's not. Okay, you get that It is different in the sense that the Jews in the Old Testament didn't have Christ to follow. They couldn't see him. So he never said walk as he walked because they didn't have that living example to follow. But when they say, when when when John writes, walk as he walked, is he saying something different than love God with all your heart, soul, and mind and your neighbor as yourself? Nope. Because that's exactly what Christ did. Is he saying anything different than the Ten Commandments? No, because that's exactly what Christ did. When he says, walk as he walked, he is saying something new, but not different at all. And if you will, he's illustrating how we are to walk. Just like that teacher takes an orange one, orange two, puts them together. How many oranges are here? One, two. Illustration. We can see how we are to live out the Christian life because Christ did it That's what he's saying. We can see with our eyes. If you will, this statement strips away the excuses where we say, I don't understand. It strips away the excuses to say, oh, there's exceptions. Because Christ didn't snap when he was tempted. It strips away that excuse that says it's not possible to do this. Well, Christ did. He did it. It shifts our focus away from a list of rules, and it focuses our attention on the person of Christ. If we are to walk as he walked, that is no different in principle than the Ten Commandments. It's really not. In this way it is different though. I'm seeing an example. I'm seeing an example To put it in very simple terms, it's like a dad who says, son, don't do this. Do this. And he does it. And the child is watching and says, My dad says, and I see it. It's like you tell your kids, kids, you need to read your Bible in the morning. You should spend time in prayer with the Lord. And every now and again your kids wake up and they walk by and they see you kneeling down. And they see you having an open Bible. And they go, huh? That's what I'm supposed to do. In some sense, that is what the text is saying. If we're going to walk as he walked, that's a very humbling and a very sobering responsibility, isn't it? Might God give us the grace, or should I say He's given us everything we need? Might He open our eyes to understand the weight of the responsibility and the significance of the tools he has presented to us to walk as he walked. Part one. Tonight we can look at the second half. And that is our responsibility has a unique empowering, and failure to obey has serious consequences.