1 John chapter 2. 1 John chapter 2. I'll read verses 3 to 6 again just to familiarize ourselves with the text, and then we'll jump into the continuation of our sermon from this morning. 1 John 2. 3 says this, and hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments. He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. And whoso keepeth his word, in him verily the love of God is perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him He that saith, he abideth in him, ought himself also so to walk, even as he walked. Let's again bow our hearts together in prayer, and then we'll look at this text. Father, we ask that you'd open our eyes this evening to understand the significance of these truths. Help me as I continue as expounding the text out what I say would be accurate and would be helpful And the Spirit of God can really take it and use it in the hearts of every person who's here. We pray that you'd move in our midst, give us a good understanding of what you want us to do today in light of the Word of God. And then help us to purpose by your grace to put into practice what we read. We ask for your blessing in Christ's name. Amen. I gave an illustration this morning of these two little boys. And I like kind of thinking about that illustration because what it illustrates is that the way we feel about our circumstances is not always an accurate, we could say, feeling. It's not necessarily consistent with how we should feel. When we feel threatened, we aren't always threatened. When we feel safe, sometimes we're threatened. And so we need our emotions, we need our internal feelings, if you will. We need that to be in line with what is true and what is reality. Well, this morning we looked at the concept of assurance or confidence that we are in Christ. And we saw this morning that there are really two streams, or we could say two supports, that give us assurance or confidence that we are saved. There is that objective side to the confidence that we have that we're saved. We know we have trusted Christ. We know that there's been a point in time when there was repentance toward God, there was faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. As we reflect and think about what our confidence is right now as we sit here. How do we know for sure that our sins are forgiven? We look only to Christ. And the Spurgeon quote that I gave this morning is an excellent quote that emphasizes the objective side of what gives us assurance of salvation. But what we also see is that we're not just people with a mind, we're people with emotions as well. And there's also a subjective side to our confidence that we are saved. There, if you will, is an emotional side. And that is not simply connected to the fact that I know I've trusted Christ, but there are some other factors that either undermine or strengthen the confidence of that I have that I am saved. It's also true that there are individuals who are not believers. They think that they are, and there should be some clues or some signs that say warning, the way that you're living, the way that you're thinking, it's a cause to pause and ask, are you truly in Christ? And so we have to keep all of those things in perspective. The objective and the subjective, the primary and the secondary. factors into why a person does or does not have assurance that they're saved. This evening I'd like us to look at point number two or section two, and that is the significant elements of knowing God. In verse 3, he says, by this we know, or we could say we have confidence, we have assurance that we know God. What does the writer John mean when he says, we know God? Well, when we use a term like the word know , In not the sense of stop, don't do that. We're talking about something that is very, very general. But when we look at the Greek term, it has a much more colorful range of meanings. In fact, that word know really has a very intimate, a very deep, a very personal knowledge And that really is the sense in which John is talking about. When he talks about knowing God, he's not talking about a casual knowledge or sense of facts. And so let's go ahead and let's look at this concept of what does it mean to know God, or what are the significant elements to knowing God? First of all, knowing God is not a superficial acquaintance with Him. It's not, if you will, a I come to church on Christmas and Easter kind of a knowledge of God. Okay? It's not superficial. It's not an acquaintance It's also not purely an academic knowledge of God. I remember when I was in seminary, one of my professors made a comment about a particular commentary series. And when he was making comments about this particular commentator, he said, now this man is not a believer. He does not believe in the gospel, but his commentary is outstanding. And I was like, What It made me feel very uncomfortable. He said, if that makes you feel uncomfortable, let me explain what I mean. I don't mean that it has warmth, and I don't mean that it has depth, but if you want to talk about how he handles the grammatical side of the text He's outstanding. If you want to talk about his understanding of the history and the context, he's outstanding. He can write academically, but there's no warmth, there's no depth because he's not a believer. And so when I talk about the fact that a knowledge of God is not simply academic, we need to understand something. It's possible for us to have lots and lots of academic information about God. It's possible for us to actually get to a place where we enjoy studying theology just like some people enjoy fishing or hunting or watching football or whatever they enjoy doing in their spare time. Some people like to read theology simply because it's fun for them. But that's not the kind of knowledge we're talking about. We're talking about something different. In fact, to give you this illustration, I think about when I was a child. When I was a child, I loved baseball. And my boys are starting to kind of, they're getting into this the stage. We'd watch a football game together, we'll watch a baseball game together, and all of a sudden when they're coming back from the library, they've got all these sports books and they're just going through all these facts. Well I was like that when I was their age too and I loved baseball and I love studying about a certain player named Nolan Ryan. Anybody remember Nolan Ryan? Now, do you remember Nolan Ryan in the 60s? Do you remember Nolan Ryan in the 70s? In the 80s or the 90s? Well, I remembered him in the 90s. Okay. But the guy had a long career. He started in 68 Well, I remember when I was a kid, I wanted to be a pitcher like Nolan Ryan. And I used to watch Nolan Ryan pitch and I used to read all these stats. I remember in nineteen seventy-three he had three hundred and eighty-three strikes. The most in Major League Baseball history for a single season. I know he was in the 300-win club and he walked more batters than any other person in baseball history. Have all this knowledge of Nolan Ryan. But I have a question. Do I know him? I know about him, but do I know him? If he walked into this room, would he recognize my face? If I had a tragedy at my house and I called him up in the s and said, Hey, Nolan, this is Joel, he'd be like Who? He doesn't know me. I don't know him. We have absolutely no relationship. As a child, I was infatuated with this individual. I wanted to be like him. I studied and I knew all these facts about him, but I had no relationship to him at all. And so when we talk about a knowledge of God, we're not talking about a superficial acquaintance. We're not talking about an academic knowledge. We're not talking about the kind of knowledge that I had about Nolan Ryan when I was a kid. We're talking about something that is very different. So let me make a couple of statements about what we mean by knowing God. First of all, knowing God is the most important thing that you and I know or do. If we know God, it has going to have a significant impact on our lives. Notice what he says in verse 3. Hereby we do know that we know him if we what? Keep his commandments. If you really know God in the sense that he's talking about, it changes how you relate to God's word and what he says to do and what he says not to do. The most important thing about you and me is what we believe and know about God. Proverbs 9. 10 says that the fear of the Lord, and when we use the term fear, Think of the awe or the reverence or the respect of the Lord. If you will, it's kind of like this. When you have a really important person that you're going to meet, maybe it's somebody that's going to give you a job. Potentially. And you prepare yourself to go into that room and to sit down, and you've you've you've given all this information about yourself. Sit down and they're gonna ask you questions. How do you feel? Do you feel nervous? I do. You do too. Is it because you think that the person's going to kill you or insult you or do something very terrible and mean to you? No. It's that you have this very healthy respect for them. What they can do or not do really is going to affect you. And so when we talk about a fear of the Lord, we're talking about the sense that we have this incredible awe and reverence for Him The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And the knowledge of the holy is understanding. This is important. The most important thing about you and me is what we know about God and how we relate to Him Secondly, this is a warm, intimate relationship. A warm, intimate relationship. In Revelation 3. 20, this is what Christ says to the church at Laodicea. He says, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door, I will come into him and will sup with him and he with me. The picture is that Christ is standing at the door and He's basically saying, I want to come in, I want to sit down with you I want to fellowship with you. I want to share a meal with you, if you will. I want there to be an intimate relationship between you and me. When he talks about a knowledge of God, that is what he's talking about. We have a relationship with God that is very intimate and very personal, not simply academic. A third point: it's impossible for us to have this kind of a knowledge apart from the new birth. While a knowledge of God and being in Christ are different concepts, it's impossible. For us to have one without the other. They are intimately linked. You say, well, can you explain this a little bit? Sure, why not? Go to 1 Corinthians chapter 2, and I want us to look at this passage. I want us to think about what Paul is saying. First Corinthians chapter two, verse nine God hath revealed them unto us by his spirit. When he uses the term them, there's obviously a context there. And he's talking about some important spiritual truths God has revealed them unto us by His Spirit. The Spirit searcheth all things. Yea, the deep things of God. For what man knoweth the things of a man save the spirit of the man which is in him? Even so the things of God knoweth no man but the spirit of God. Now the first thing that he's basically stating is that the only way we know anything about God is because God through his spirit has revealed it. And when he talks about God's Spirit revealing it, you need to understand that he's speaking primarily about the scriptures Now it is true during that time period that there were prophets active in the church. The word of God was not completed, and prophets were obviously giving revelation, if you will. But when he talks about the Spirit revealing things, he's speaking specifically of the Word of God. He says even this Even so, the things of God knoweth no man but the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit which is of God. Now he's transitioning not from just if you say the word of God that's given to us in the scriptures But he's transitioning to a person that God has given to us that is going to help us to understand the significance and the weight of those truths. He says this, the Spirit which is of God, that we might know the things that are freely given to us by God. Which things also we speak, not in word which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth, comparing spiritual things with spiritual. Do you see what he's saying? He's saying the only way that you can know God is first of all the Word of God has to come to you There's got to be information that's given to you. But secondly, there's a person, the Holy Spirit, who's going to assist you, he's going to enable you to understand the significance of those truths. He then goes on to say this: the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God. Now, when we say natural man, what we're saying is this: this is a person who is not yet saved. When we're born into this world, our natural condition is we're separated from God, we're spiritually dead, we don't have the Holy Spirit. So he says the natural man does not understand the things of the Spirit of God. They are foolishness to him. Neither can he know them because they are spiritually discerned. So the reason that this knowledge of God is impossible Apart from the new birth, is because number one, as a natural man, we don't have the ability to understand spiritual truth. We need to be spiritually alive. We need to be a child of God to understand the significance of spiritual truths. They don't make sense to us. This is one of the reasons that when you evangelize and somebody gets off on this tangent You say, hey, let's stick with the main thing. If they're not saved, then their understanding of that isn't going to come. They're not going to get it. That is secondary. They need to understand the gospel. They need to understand that they're sinners, condemned. They must trust in Christ. When they are born again, all of a sudden those things become things that they can begin to understand. And so as natural men, we can't understand and know God in this sense. Two, we need the Word of God to be illumined to us through the Spirit's work in our hearts. And so it's impossible for a person to have this kind of a knowledge of God apart from the new birth. Thirdly, is this This is something, or fourthly actually, this is something that we grow in or expand in or mature in over the period of time. Notice what he says in verse number five. In him verily the love of God is what perfected The word perfected means it has the idea of it comes to maturity or completeness or soundness How is it that you and I have love that grows and matures? Well, it's intimately rooted or connected to our knowledge of God. A person that knows God. In fact, John's going to make a lot of points about this later on in the book of 1 John. He's going to say, if you know God, you keep his commandments. If you know God, you love God. If you know God, you love other people. He makes those connections Because what we know about God, if you will, is like the fertile ground that causes a plant to germinate and then to take root. And then to produce fruit and to be healthy and strong. Our knowledge of God is the source of all those things in our walk with God. We talked about this this morning. You and I can never fully grasp God. Remember Psalm 145, great is the Lord, greatly to be praised. His greatness is unsearchable. You and I will never fully understand God. But what we know about God today I hope has changed a lot since say five, ten years ago. I think about my my own experience. I remember when I came here ten years ago. And I wasn't married, I didn't have any kids, and did I love the Lord? Did I know things about the Lord? Of course I did. But then when we went to Ghana, there are things we experienced. There were things that I knew intellectually that I didn't know experientially. There were things that, though I knew them, I didn't have the discipline to stick in those things. And so what does God do? He brings circumstances into our lives. And as we go through those things, he begins to take the truth that is rooted in our heart and he begins to deepen our understanding of those things. What we know about God academically becomes experiential. We could say in his workshop. Ephesians 3:8, unto me, who am the least of all the saints, this is given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. Our knowledge of God is not something that is stagnant. It's something that grows. It expands. It matures. It gets deeper and fuller and richer as we go through our lives. You know, it's interesting. One of the things I've really been struck by as I've interacted with folks who are going through a lot of physical infirmities is they sit down and they say, I don't feel that my life has a lot of value right now. That's something that people sometimes feel. They ask, I can't do the things that I used to do. I'm facing pressures that I never faced before, and I don't know how to deal with those things. And one of the things that has struck me is this what you know about God is continuing to be pressed And squeezed. It's continuing to be expanded and in the depth is growing. And you are depending on God to a greater degree than you did 20 years ago or 40 years ago because the need is greater and the weight of the things that you're dealing with are greater. God isn't done teaching you about Him. As long as we live, God continues to teach us and to grow us and to mature us. So we see that a knowledge of God is the most important thing about us. It's not an academic thing. It's warm, it's intimate. Possible apart from the new birth. It's something that grows and matures. And then I want to mention this. It's something that impacts how I relate to God's commandments. Look down in verse number five, he says this. Whoso keepeth his words, in him verily the love of God is perfected. How do we know that we know him if we keep his commandments? When you hear the word keep, what do you think of? And what do you think that it means? Well, the first word that comes to my mind is the word obey. But that's not the word he used, okay? Now, I'm not suggesting that John doesn't think that we will be obeying God's commandments. That's not what I'm suggesting. But the word keep is a different term. Because the word keep is a little bit deeper. It involves a little bit more. It has the idea of to guard something. Okay? So for instance, let's say that I give my boys a responsibility to watch the dog. Not that we have a dog right now or anything. Okay. But let's say that we had a little dog, we go to a park, I say, hey, I need to go and take care of something over here. I need you to to keep the dog here. I need you to watch the dog take care of him. What are they doing? They're making sure that that dog doesn't run off. They're taking care of him He's important to them. They have a responsibility. A person that grows in their knowledge of God has a sense of guarding God's commandments. In other words, it has value to them. That knowledge of God presses their heart, it informs their mind, it changes their affections, if you will. And so keeping God's commandments has the idea of in part to guard something. But then there's a second aspect. It also has the idea of observing something with great care. It's something that is precious to them. It's something that is valuable to them. One of the things that really strikes you when you read the Psalms, particularly Psalm 119. is how much the psalmist treasured God's word. But not just God's word as in his testimonies, but God's commandments. In other words, God's commandments to him were sweet. They were good. They were precious Now, we tend to think of a commandment as something that forbids what we want. Isn't that typically how we think of it? Well, in the sense of God's commandments, it's not forbidding what is good. It's forbidding what is harmful. You know, look at the example of Eve in Genesis. Satan comes to her and he says, Did God really say that if you eat that fruit you're gonna No, that's not true. She says, look at it. God's keeping something from you. He knows that you will become like him And you will know good and evil. Oh, go knowing evil is a really good thing, right? We've learned it's not. But the way that he presents it to her, God's keeping something from you. A person who knows God and is growing in this intimate relationship to God begins to realize that when God says don't do something, it's not because he's keeping something back from you that's good. It's because he's trying to keep you from something that's destructive and harmful. You know, I look at something like just something as simple as God's commands about marriage, okay? So God says, marry one woman, if you're a man, and stay with her till the day you die. Well, there are a lot of people that think that's kind of restrictive. But let me tell you something, if you do it that way, very simple, it will save you a lot of grief in life. An unbelievable amount of grief in life. You can't imagine how complex Family becomes when you disregard what God says about that. It brings pain and suffering and misery. God is not restricting you from something that is good, he's saying don't do something that is harmful. So the person that grows in a knowledge of God begins to guard the Truth, begins to guard God's commandments, he begins to treasure God's commandments, he begins to say, this is valuable, this is precious, this is good Very interesting statement. He's not simply saying obey. He's saying keep, guard, treasure. It also leaves us with a heavy responsibility. In verse 6 it says, He that saith, he abideth in him, ought himself to walk even as he walked. If we're going to say that we know God, that we abide in Christ, that we are God's children, we have a responsibility. You know it's interesting, I've reflected on the Ten Commandments, and I've reflected on the commandment that says that you shall not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain. The Lord will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain. We all know that commandment. Well, when we hear that commandment, we tend to think of if a person uses God's name in a flippant manner, in a reverent manner Then what they're doing is they are taking the name of the Lord in vain. And so maybe somebody gets angry and they they use God's name as an expletive, basically. But I'm not convinced that that's actually what he's talking about. I think what he's actually talking about is the association that the Jews had with the name of God. Whenever those Gentile nations heard of the Jewish people, they said, that's Jehovah's people Whenever they saw them do certain things or not do certain things, whenever they saw their lives, they said, that's Jehovah's people. And when those Jewish people disregarded God's laws, when they made light of God's name and their association with God's name, I think that's what he's talking about. They are taking the name of the Lord in vain. They think it doesn't have value. They think it doesn't have worth. And it is true that one of the expressions of that could be what we say. But it's also in how we live. When a person says, I'm a Christian, there is a specific weight of responsibility that they have to live in a consistent manner that is associated with the name of Christ. Christ. And so he says, if you say that you abide in him, you ought to walk even as he walked. Well then I move down to the third section, and this is the final. False teachers claim to know God yet disregard his word. In fact, the question that we had this morning, I'll go back just to remind you. The question that we had this morning was: how do we view those who claim to know God yet show no regard for Christ's commands? How do we view those? It's kind of interesting. Let's look at verse number four and see what it says. And verse 4 says this he that saith, I know him and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. Strong statement, isn't it? I want you to think about what he's saying though. Verse 3 says this, hereby we know that we know him if we keep his commandments. Verse 4, he that says, I know him and keepeth not his commandments is a liar. Do you notice that there's a transition to the person, the pronoun that he uses? What's the first one? We. Okay, he's talking about us. And the next one is he. What's the difference? Is there a difference? There is a difference, okay? When he says he, he's using a very general statement, and it can be taken as just a general statement. But when I think about it in light of the context of 1 John, I think he's specific thinking of a very specific group of people that are affecting that church at the time. He's thinking about people who are teaching doctrines that are not true. And in fact, as we get into the book of 1 John, we're going to see this come up several times People that were teaching that Christ did not come in the flesh. People that were teaching that your sin doesn't matter. You can live any way you want, it doesn't matter. I believe that what he's basically saying is there are a group of people who are teaching a doctrine that basically says this, you can disregard God's commandments and you can still be right with him. Basically what he's saying. And he says in the strongest way possible, that person is a liar, and the truth is not in him. What exactly is John talking about? John is talking about how to identify those in their midst that are false teachers and leading people down a path of destruction. Notice there are two ways that we can recognize a false teacher. What's the most obvious? Oh, my son's going to raise his hand. Well, it's what they say. Okay? If somebody says, oh, you can get to heaven by keeping the Ten Commandments, is that true? No, it's not true. If somebody says you can live any way you want, God doesn't care. Is that true? No, it's not true. So the content of the message can identify them as a false teacher or someone who's teaching the truth. But that's not the only way that you can identify them. There's a second test, if you will, a subjective side. And that is the product of their teaching. In Matthew seven, Jesus makes a statement, Beware of false teachers which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. Every good tree bringeth forth good fruit, but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit. A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit. By their fruits ye shall know them. And if you look at the context, he's not just saying look at their life. He's saying look at the product of their teaching. Look at those who are following their teaching. How has it changed or affected their life? Are they living in a holy way or are they living in a very Who cares kind of a way? Well then we know that there's a reason that that has happened in their lives. There is a source, if you will. And if the fruit is problematic, then the source is as well. And so what is produced in the lives of these people and those who follow their teaching is something that's significant. 2 Peter 2, 1 to 15. I'm not going to read the whole section, but I'm going to read a couple of statements from there. He says, There are false teachers among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you, who will privily bring in damnable heresies, denying the Lord that bought them. Now he's talking about the nature of their teaching, its false doctrine. Then he says this, many shall follow their pernicious ways. Through covetousness, they shall with feigned words make merchandise of you. And you know, when I lived in Ghana and I watched the popular preachers preaching on the televisions and the radios, and I saw how people were following them, that's exactly they are exactly what Peter's talking about. They're taking people who are consumed with a lust, and they're they're teaching them a message that they want to embrace, and through that they are getting fat off of them. They are abusing them. They are taking advantage of them. He says, through covetousness with feigned words, they will make merchandise of you. They will exploit you. Spots they are in blemishes, having eyes full of adultery, they cannot cease from sin, beguiling unstable souls, and heart they have exercised with covetous practices. They have forsaken the right way. You say, why do I bring that out? Because John is basically saying this. If a person has embraced false doctrine, It's going to be evident in their life. If a person is teaching false doctrine, it's going to be evident in the lives of those who are following their teaching. And so when he says, He that saith I know him and keepeth not his commandments, he has no value for God's commandments. He doesn't cherish them, he doesn't guard them, he doesn't observe them, he doesn't care about them. That is a clear indication that there is false teaching, either being taught by the individual whose life is demonstrating that. Or false teaching is being followed by that individual. I want to ask you a very simple question tonight. When you think about your Christian experience, can you say with confidence you know God? Can you say with confidence that you're a child of God? I know that in these areas there are a lot of different factors that affect how we feel. I totally get that. I do not want people who are true believers to be struggling with a lack of assurance. I don't want to see that. But this text really kind of hits both sides. The person who's not a believer and is in arrogant confidence. And their life shows no regard for the things of the Lord, that person is warned. On the other side, you have a person that's very conscientious. And they're trying to walk with the Lord. And what does God say? He says, the fact that you have those godly desires, the fact that your heart has been changed. And your attitude towards God's word has been changed, and you cherish and you observe and you love and you desire to obey God, that is an evidence that you are a child of God. That is an evidence that you know God. I hope that tonight as we reflect on this text, you'll see both sides. You'll see both sides. May God help us to be people who know Him, who cherish Him, who value Him, and who walk with Him. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer. Father, I pray that you help us to understand that this text is meant to warn people Who have a false confidence. And if we have a false confidence, it will manifest itself in our lives. Father, this text is also meant to encourage those who are conscientious. They're trying to walk with you. They love you. They keep Your commandments. They cherish your commandments. I pray that they would not find their ultimate source of confidence in themselves. They would find it in Christ. But I pray that the evidence of the Spirit's work in their heart and life would be something that strengthens that confidence. It builds it. I pray that you'd help us as individuals to be godly and Christ-like so that we might have confidence in these areas. We ask it in Jesus' name Amen