Okay, our topic is a healthy church lesson for what beliefs about God cannot be compromised. And in our discussion last week we got into the doctrine of the Trinity. And we discussed it, we're going to do it in two parts. So I'm just going to kind of briefly skim, and I mean really skim through what we had. First of all, we have our doctrinal statement that we have in our Constitution. We believe in one God, eternally existing, in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And so we're developing that and asking the question, why is that so important? We began with the question, can we fully comprehend God? And we Answered with a resounding, of course not. That's part of what makes him God. He is incomprehensible. But does it mean that we cannot know God by degrees But we can never fully comprehend him. And let's be totally honest with ourselves. We can't fully comprehend one another, can we? You can be married to the same person for 50 or 60 years, and over the course of those 50 or 60 years, your knowledge of them will continue to grow and expand. And your relationship with them hopefully grows sweeter with time. Sometimes that doesn't happen when people don't uh respond to each other biblically, but you will never fully understand your spouse You know, that on the day that you die, there will be many things about your spouse that you will still not understand. In fact you may find out there's more than you initially thought when you got married, okay? And the truth is that your spouse changes over time and Just like you mature say today. But when we're dealing with God, the reason that we cannot understand him fully is not because he changes, he's unchangeable. It's because our minds cannot fully grasp who he is. So we went through a good number of passages that talk about God's unsearchable greatness and the fact that we cannot fully comprehend him or understand him. We talked about his eternality. The fact that he's independent, he's infinite, a good number of things will continue. We talked about why the doctrine of the Trinity is important. Because we believe that there's only one God who's worthy of worship. So we need to understand who is the Father, who is the Son, who is the Spirit. Can we worship the Son? Well absolutely, not only can we, we must. We are commanded to kiss the sun, it says in the Psalms, lest he be angry. It's a messianic psalm. We need to worship Christ. And the early church worshiped Christ. But we need to understand the distinction between Father, Son, and Spirit and how we should view them. Our belief about salvation, the nature of the gospel, is in part dependent on our understanding of Christ. It's a critical aspect to faith in Christ. We mentioned a good number of Old Testament texts. And if you have your handout, I have those there so that you can look at them. We also looked at these passages. And our summary. The Old Testament taught that the Messiah would be Jehovah in flesh, God in the flesh. It's impossible to be a Christian in the biblical sense and reject the deity of Christ. Now the reason that I use the term Christian in the biblical sense is because I'm talking about a person being born again. Obviously there are people that use the term Christian very, very loos loosely. Can you give me a water please? That use the term loosely, kind of in a cultural sense. We're using this in the biblical sense. So let's go ahead and look in our section at defining the Trinity. Defining the Trinity. Hey, thanks a lot. Appreciate it. My first question is, is the word Trinity ever found in the Bible? No. Okay, so then can we believe it if it's not in the Bible? Are there any other terms that we uh hold dear to in our Christian faith that we don't find the word in the Bible? The word church. Okay, yeah, we're talking about an English term there. Okay. But but when we use the term Trinity, what we're doing is we are trying to use a term that describes a biblical concept. Okay? So the Bible was not written as a systematic theology. A cis Immutable. Um I think that word actually is used. I do believe that the word is used or a derivative of that word. Immutable, immutability. Yeah, I think that's used there. But we you know when we use a term like providence, okay, we're talking about how God governs in the creation. That's not a term that you find in the Bible, I don't believe. In fact The words omniscient, omnipotent, providence, sovereignty, these are very biblical terms, but we don't find them in the Bible because what they are is they're describing a theological concept. And so for us to understand the concept of Trinity, what we do is we go throughout all these biblical texts, and I start in the Old Testament for reason. Because I think a lot of times people get the understanding that, well, in the Old Testament, we could not find the concept of the triunity of God. And I want you to realize it's very much in the Old Testament. In fact, we have lots and lots of Old Testament passages. Even when I was studying for our sermon this morning that we'll be looking at I found some more, we could say, Trinitarian texts. I was looking for texts that were dealing with the Holy Spirit dwelling us. And it says God dwells in you. And it's very clearly referring to the Holy Spirit. So clearly this is a Trinitarian type of text. So If I don't mention a text that you believe is Trinitarian, don't hold that against me. Because there are lots and lots of them, okay? But let's go ahead and let's define what we mean by Trinity. I'm using a simple definition that was given by B. B. Warfield. And it's as it's you know there are lots and lots of theologians who I could quote on this. Actually this quote was quoted in writers So Ryrie thought that it was a good enough quote that he'd quote it, so I'd go ahead and put it in there myself, why not? So here's what he said. There is only there is one only and true God Okay? One only and true God. Are there gods outside of God? Sure, not not biblically defined gods, okay, but obviously there are lots of gods, quote unquote, if you will, that are observed in various cultures. And we can name some of them Dagon, the God in the Old Testament. Baal. Okay, just two of them. I lived in Ghana for several years, and they worshiped lots and lots of, they would call them lesser gods. But there's only one true God, one who should be worthy of our worship and our praise, only one true God. But in the unity of the Godhead, there are three co-eternal, co-equal persons. The same in substance, but distinct in subsistence. Now, there's some words in there that I don't know if you'll understand how to use them. When we talk about substance, what is substance? It's stuff. Okay? So this is a Bible. So the substance of this, apart from the words, we have ink, we have paper We have leather, this is a table, this is plastic. The substance is the stuff that makes it what it is. When we use the term subsistence, what does that mean? Purpose. Huh? Purpose. Purpose? Function? When I use the term subsistence farming, what do you think of? um differences. If we say that someone is a subsistant farmer, what does that mean? They're just they just have enough to get by to get by. So it's less than essential, if you will. Okay? So sometimes people use the word subsistence because it's different than subsist What makes God God, this issue of subsistence is something that is of a lesser significance. We use the term person. Okay? And some people don't like to use the term person, but that 's the term that I am most comfortable dealing with. But in his definition he uses subsistence, because he's saying that God is both one in a certain sense And three, in another sense. Okay? What make God God, he is one. But when we talk about person, Father, Son, and Spirit There is a distinction there. And that distinction is primarily in what they do. Primarily in what they do. Somebody asked a question last week. About why do we use the term father and son? Like what's the relationship there? And I made the point that that relationship Is not a relationship biological, if you will. And that's how we tend to think of the relationship of father and son. You know, I have three sons. Don't think biological. Think relationship in the sense of what they're doing, their role, their function, their work within the Godhead, if you will. So when we talk about the Trinity, what we're basically saying is there is one God, he exists in three persons. And so we can put these three propositions down. First of all, there's only one God. Christians are not polytheists. We don't believe in three gods. We believe in one God. Two, this God exists in three distinct persons. Father, Son, and Spirit. And each of those three persons is fully God. So I have this little picture up here A feeble attempt to illustrate the Trinity. I know somebody might say, what about the egg? What about water? All those things. They all break down, okay? They all break down. So please understand you cannot use anything in this world as a perfect illustration of this. But here is a visible illustration, if you will. We have the Father Who is God? We have the Son, he is God. And when we refer to the Father, we can refer to Him as God. When we refer to the Spirit, we can refer to Him as God. When we refer to the Son. We can refer to him as God. If you will, sometimes when we are looking at God, we're not looking at all three persons at the same time. We're focusing on one person of the Godhead. And so when we say that God became flesh and dwelt among us, we're not suggesting that the Holy Spirit became flesh We're not suggesting that the father became flesh. We are suggesting that only the son, the second person of the Godhead, became flesh. And so we are focusing on him at that time. But that doesn't mean that the father and son stopped being God at that time. We are just focusing on him. But then you can also see in our illustration, the son and the father are not the same person. There is a distinction between the Father and the Son in their person and what they do. And so when we talk about the gospel, we can say that the Father sent the Son to be the Savior of the world. When we say that we are indwelt by God, we are not saying we are indwelt by the Father. We are not saying that we are indwelt by the Son. We are indwelt by the Spirit. He is the person that is indwelling us. When we talk about who had the plan of redemption, it was not the Son. It was the Father. And so when we talk about the gospel, we need to understand that there is the distinction between which person of the Godhead did which role. When I am giving the gospel and I'm praying that God will open the eyes of a person to trust Christ, I'm praying to the Father when I do that I'm praying that the spirits will convict and convince them of sin, righteousness, and judgment. And I'm praying that they will place their faith in The Son, who died on the cross for their sins, was buried and rose again from the dead. And when they repent and believe, they are regenerated by the Spirit. And they are entwelled by the Spirit So when we talk about the gospel, we have to understand we have to make this distinction. We have to in some way try to communicate something that is not truly comprehensible. So it's a feeble attempt to illustrate the Trinity. I'm gonna pause for a moment and ask is there in question Is that not a dangerous question to ask when I have spent twenty-something hours in the car with kids and teens this week? Oh, thank you, Scotch. Go ahead. Each form of God will interact differently. Well let's not use the term form. Well, God is fine. Each person within the Godhead has a distinct role. But you go ahead. We can have a physical conversation face to face with Christ. Yes. And we will see. True. Yeah. Not face to face. We can talk to him, but we want to see him. Yeah. It's true. Yes. But interact with us Uh anchor. Yeah. So it's like three different three different versions of God. Are you looking at three different How we relate to God. Okay. Sure. Yes. Yeah, interesting, interesting um point there. Any any other question or comment? Okay, so let's we've made a statement, or we could say a series of statements, okay? Father, Son, and Spirit are distinct in person, or we say distinct in subsistence. They are one in substance. So the Father is God, the Spirit is God, the Son is God. You know, this statement, um, this doctrine would be a ridiculous doctrine if it wasn't founded on the scriptures. Okay, this is not something that I came up with, oh, and when I was in seminary they said, you gotta teach this to your people so that they get confused, this and that. No, this is a biblical doctrine. And We've already demonstrated that when we look at Christ, when we focus simply on the Son, we see many, many Old Testament texts that demonstrate a distinction between Father, Son, and Spirit. We have many, many texts where the Jews should have been anticipating a Messiah who was God in the flesh. So now today we're going to look at a couple more passages. Some Old Testament and some New Testament as well. So let's go in our Bibles to Genesis chapter 1. Why not turn to the first chapter in the Bible, okay? Genesis chapter one and verse twenty-six. And by the way, if you look at the creation account And you just focused on the creation accounts. You would walk away, not understanding the concept of eternity, but understanding that there's something like that. Okay? You wouldn't necessarily know how to define it We know how to put it all together, but you could actually come up with those three simple propositions that there is only one God, there are, we could say, more than one person And each of those persons is fully God. So let's look at Genesis 1. 26. It says this. And God said Let us make many man in our image according to our likeness. Now Kind of an interesting statement, is it not? God said, who 's God talking to? Are we created in the image of the angels? No. Are we created in the image of the animals? No. Is there some other creature that we don't know about? No. God is talking to Himself, if you will Or we could say this is communication within the Godhead. I think that might be a better way to put it. I don't mean that that didn't come out quite the way I intended it. There's communication within the persons of the Godhead. So the Father, the Son, and the Spirit are communicating, saying, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. Just an interesting little statement. In chapter 3, verse 22, it says, The Lord God said, Man has become like one of us. Knowing good and evil. Again, he's referring, he's speaking within the economic trinity there. And I I'm just mentioning those two verses. I actually if we looked at the entire Section chapters 1 to 3. You'd see several other examples of what I'm talking about. In Genesis 11, 7. Why don't you uh turn there, please? In Genesis 11, what's going on? Does anybody remember? The Tower of what? Tower of Babel. This is the the the the beginning point of languages. if you will. Not the beginning point of language. Obviously Adam talked to God, Adam talked to Eve, but we're talking about the breaking up or the dividing of the languages. So in Genesis 11, 7, God says, let us go down and confound their languages. Let us Who is speaking to who here? Who is speaking to whom? I think I used the English improper. Who is speaking to whom? It's the persons within the Godhead speaking. Now when we see these verses, we don't know that there's three necessarily, but we know there's at least two. Okay? And as we continue to follow the the the frame of thought throughout the Old Testament, we will begin to see three persons. One is the Messiah, the Son, one is the Father, and we see the Spirit. The c clearly defined in the Old Testament. Isaiah 6 verse 8. God is speaking to Isaiah, and he asks the question: Whom shall I stand? And who will go for us? Again, another example of this plurality. We see God says, the Lord God says Who will I send? We see the unity, the one. But then we see the term us, our. We see unity and we see the division between persons there. Again, go with me to Deuteronomy chapter six. Does anyone know what the Jews would call Deuteronomy 6:4? Deuteronomy six four, what would the Jews call that passage? The Shema. The Shema. Talking about God. Here Israel, the Lord our God is one Lord. Exodus 20, verse 3, he says, You shall have no other gods before me. We are seeing that there is one God. Isaiah 46:9, he says, I am God, and beside me there is none other. I am God, and there is none like me. So clearly, when we see these passages , We see that the scripture presents there is one God, but we see there's a distinction somehow within that Godhead. We go to some other passages. Malachi three one. Malachi three one, I love this text. He says, I will send my messenger, and he will prepare the way before me. And the Lord whom ye seek will suddenly come unto his temple, saith the Lord of hosts. I will send my messenger to prepare the way before me, and the Lord whom ye seek will come into his temple. saith the Lord of hosts. Do you not see that there is somebody sending somebody, but we have one God? Who is this? And he says, he's going to prepare the way for me. How do you explain these passages unless you understand the concept of Trinity? We then have another passage, Isaiah 48, 16. It says this, I've not spoken in secret from the beginning, from the time that it was, I was there. And now the Lord God and his Spirit have sent me. So in the passage, who is speaking? God the Father talking about. Let me read it again. I've not spoken in secret from the beginning, from the time that it was I was there. And now the Lord God and His Spirit have sent me. Jesus is speaking, and he mentions that the Lord God has sent him, and his what? So you see all three persons mentioned in the Isaiah text. All three persons mentioned in this Isaiah text. And then Hosea 1:7. He says, I will have mercy on the house of Judah and will save them by the Lord, and that's capital L-O-R-D, their God. Who is having mercy on the house of Israel? Who is saving? And by whom is he saving? Do you see what's going on in this text? God is saving his people. The Father is sending the Son to save his people, and He's doing it through the Son. So these are just a few texts. If you sat down and you did a thorough research of the Old Testament, I think you would be absolutely amazed by how many passages When you look at them carefully, you will see these kinds of statements. And by the way, I'll just make a little statement about the New World Translation. Does anyone know what the New World Translation is? You don't know what the New World Translation is? Who uses the New World Translation? Jehovah's Witnesses. Okay, there's a reason that they use the New World Translation. Because they went through the Bible and tried to scrub, if you will, these texts that deal with Trinitarian concepts and tried to scrub texts that refer to Christ as God. So for instance, when you go to John 1, in the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God and the Word was God In the New World Translation says that in the beginning was the word, the word was with God, and the word was a God. And they'll say, well, without the article, that's how it should be translated. And that's wrong. And there's actually a really good reason in the Greek why it's translated the way that it is in our Bibles, not in the New World Translation. But all that to say, do you see how much work these guys have to do to scrub our Bibles of the Feet of Christ? They not that I've sat down with the New World Translation and gone through and looked at all these texts, but I'm confident that they didn't get them all. The ones that are most commonly referred to, they've uh doctored those passages up, but they didn't get all of these. And the the fact is that for you to remove, yes. For you to remove the duty of Christ from your Bible, you have to do some serious work on destroying those texts. Okay. You have to. Because this doctrine isn't built on one or two simple texts. This is a concept that we find repeatedly all throughout the Bible in both Old and New Testament, in the prophets, in the Psalms, in the Pentateuch, in the Gospels, in the Epistles. We find it all throughout our Bibles. What was your question? Well , the thing I guess what you do is maybe from the the first package, which is Jesus twenty-six. I guess that it would be what people might speak that away a little bit as far as if they're using it for us, if they're using it for like we is a void we is a void I don't understand. But in our in our understanding of what we refer to to like one person like a team Yeah, okay, and that it is true, for instance, the the Hebrew term that is used there is Elohim, which is a plural, okay. And it's true that they use the term in the plural referring to a majestic pleural if you will or something like that. But Yeah. And and and let me and let me make this a side statement. When you're dealing with a topic like this There will be certain passages that will be brought into question when you're dealing with a person who is an apologist for an anti theity of Christ position, if you want to say an Aryan position, okay? There are going to be folks for and you know a great example is the first John 5 passage, Joh Johann. Okay? That passage is is debated as to whether or not it should be there. Even Erasmus, when he was working on the Greek New Testament, he did not want to include it. So if you're dealing with a person who believes in Arianism, they reject the deed of Christ, they reject Trinitarian doctrine, and that's the only passage that you are using to defend the Trinity You're gonna kind of be in trouble with a guy like that, okay? But when you go to all these texts and you just go, okay, so maybe maybe he uh has an argument about three or four of them Yeah, but they're I'm not trying to undermine those passages at all. I'm not trying to say they're they're unimportant. There are answers that we can give them, but the point that I'm trying to make is this is not built on a couple of passages It's not like, oh checkmate, I got you on that one, so you're in trouble now. No. We we our Bibles are full of examples of these kinds of things. And so sometimes if I'm dealing with a person like that, rather than arguing with them about one verse, I say, okay, so maybe you don't like them, let's keep going. And you just keep on going, and there's just a wall of evidence that mounts up on the side of who Christ is and on Trinitarian doctrine. And you say, listen, okay, so let's see I give you five of those passages. Okay, I'm not I'm not saying I'm giving them to you, okay? But let's say that you know you you debate that what I'm presenting about those is wrong. Well what are you gonna do with the other 30? You know what do you can do with those? How do you explain those passages? Even in your New World Translation, you're dealing with it. How do you deal with these passages? The point that I'm trying to make is that when you're dealing with someone in an apologetic sense, you've got to kind of understand where they are And you gotta know where they're gonna kind of come at you and where you're gonna have weaker arguments and their opinion. And so don't be tied to just one verse, say, this is my standalone, and if this one falls, I'm in trouble. Don't feel that way about this this doctrine because the Bible is full. It is full of examples And we we can the ones I've given you are a lot, but that doesn't even scratch the surface. There are many, many more. And especially when you look at these passages in their context Sometimes the one verse I'm showing you, if you look at it within the five or six verses around it, it would even emphasize it further what it's saying about Christ. So but that would be an example of one where yeah if you're dealing with uh an apologist for an Aryan position, they're gonna debate with you about that and and rather than getting bogged down, I just keep moving on. Say okay. Let's go to this one. Yeah, go ahead. Um that's my approach. I'm not saying that has to be yours, but here notes there are distinction between Father, Son, Spirit uh is Isaiah 4 Bruce, you're always catching my little steaks. It was moving for it, you know Exactly. So forty eight it's it's forty eight six eight. Well you know what's funny, I have it right in my notes. In my PowerPoint I have it wrong. So when I when I typed it into the PowerPoint I I guess I didn't copy and paste that one. Or maybe I caught it and just I don't know. That's good, thank you. You're human. Yeah. Sometimes I'm really reminded of that a lot. Yeah. No, I don't have a Bible with an extra, you know, such and such number of chapters. Okay. So those are a couple of the Old Testament texts. And Like I said, there are more, and we dealt with a lot of them when we're talking about the deity of Christ. And really a lot of those messianic passages, particularly in Isaiah And Isaiah has a lot of messianic passages that give us these things. We could have gone to those passages that we focused on what it says about Christ. We could have pulled it into the discussion of the Trinity, and we would see that that's not just a deed of Christ statement. That's also a Trinitarian statement. So we have those in the notes. Okay, any other question or comment? A few New Testament texts. Okay. Um First Corinthians chapter eight First Corinthians eight, four to six. Can somebody read that for us please, 1 Corinthians 8 46? As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered and sacrificed on the items We know that the title is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one. Very good. There is what? One God. And there is what? None other gods of ones. Okay, good. Kit continue please. For though there be that are called gods, whether it's in heaven or in earth , As there be gods many and lords of many. But to us there is but one God. Continue, the Father, of whom are all things, and we Him and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom for all things will be by him. How be it there is not in every man that knowledge of the sum of time We can pause there or stop there, okay. But I think you get the point. The the reason I had you read is because I Cut out some of the sections so that we just emphasize there is one God , the Father, one Lord Jesus Christ. Do you see what he's saying? Obviously, he's not viewing the Father and the Son and the Spirit as different gods, but he is most clearly making a distinction between those three persons. Let's go to another passage, James two nineteen. And this is referring to the Deuteronomy text. Well somebody gets there, go ahead and read that, please. Thou believest that there is one God. Thou doest well. The devil also believed trust. Okay, so how many gods are there? One God. There's one God. Very good. So there's one God, but clearly we have a distinction between Father, Son, and Spirit. Let's go to another text. Ephesians 4. Chapter four verse uh chapter four, four to six There is one body and one spirit, even if they are calling one paper your calling. One Lord, one faith, one back. One God and Father of all. So it's about all, through all, and all Okay, again, there's one God. Clearly it states that. Yet he makes a distinction between Father, Son, and Spirit. Let's go to another very popular, very well-known one. John chapter 1, verse 1. In the beginning, what's the word? And the word is going to be back and the word loaded back. Stop there for a moment. Okay, did you catch that? In the beginning Was. Okay? So we're talking about eternality before time. Time is something that God is outside of. Okay? In the beginning, was who? The word. And clearly the the word is referring to Christ because later on in the passage he says, And the Word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory, the glorious of the only begotten of the Father, full of grace and truth. So continue. The word was with God, and the word was God. Okay? With and it. With and it. So we have a distinction, and we have, we could say, a unity. And they're not in the same sense. So the distinction is between person and the unity is in substance, if you will. Okay? Unity and distinction presented in this passage as well. Go to another interesting one, Matthew 28. Well you don't know what verse I was gonna say. Verse nineteen. I know it was, but just Start with verse nineteen, please. Oh in the what? The name? A name is a singular plural. I have a name. My name is Joel. Okay. In the name of what? The Father and the Son. Whoa. Well why don't you say names? Okay? Again we see unity and distinction of person again in this text, Second Corinthians thirteen, fourteen The grace of the Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the communion of the Holy Ghost be with you all. Okay, I don't know um in in in some church in Ghana in churches they share the grace. That's more of a Protestant type thing. But they'll say, May the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, the love of God, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit be with us now and forever amen. That's A standard practice in pretty much all churches in Ghana. And in that that statement of sharing the grace, we have the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ. The love of God, speaking of the Father, and the fellowship of the Holy Spirit. Again, we see all three persons of the Godhead. And then I also will mention the 1 John 5 passage. It says there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost. These three are one. There are many other passages that we could look at. But these are a few. Okay? Any questions or comments? Here. Questions or comments Questions or comments. Okay, I'm gonna make one final uh statement. Well , final section of statements maybe would be the better way to put it. Um there are many examples of each person of the Godhead being referred to as God. I'm just going to mention three of them, not because that's all I can go to, but because I would just want to demonstrate it. 1 Peter 1 verse 2. Can somebody go to that text, please? And Latin, according to the formulation of God and Father, presentation of Christ and sprinkling of the blood Okay. Obviously a Trinitarian statement, but the point I wanted to focus on is elect according to the foreknowledge of God The Father. So he's referring to the Father here. And you see all three persons of the Godhead having a role in our salvation in that text. Again, let's go to another passage, Acts 5. 4. Somebody go there. This is a very, very well-known passage in referring to the Holy Spirit as God. Six five four, uh-huh. Well, the case was it not thine home? And after it was pulled, was it not in thine own power? Why hast thou defeated Okay, so who did they lie to? Okay, so who do they lie to? God, the Holy Spirit, the Holy Ghost. And a couple of passages I I just I will mention them in connection to the Holy Spirit. 1 Corinthians 3, 16, know ye not that ye are the temple of God? And the Holy Spirit, or the Spirit of God dwelleth in you. So which person of the Godhead and dwells the believer? It's the Spirit, and we are the temple of God. In 1 John 4. 12 he says, if we love one another, God dwelleth in us. Who dwells in us? The Holy Spirit does. God dwells in us. 1 John 4, 15, whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him. Again, another reference to the Holy Spirit. So just a couple of examples and then the Son, Titus 2. 3, looking for that blessed hope and the glorious appearing of our great God. And Savior Jesus Christ. And just one amongst many texts. Obviously, our last week we spent an entire section talking about the deity of Christ. Okay? So I want to make the concluding thoughts. One, if we're going to be saved from sin and eternal death, we must first receive what the Bible says about Jesus. He is God in the flesh. should be worshipped as God and trusted without any rival. And I should have capitalized the B Just noticing that. Okay? He is God in the flesh. That is an essential element to faith. If I'm explaining to somebody how to be saved And I say to them, here's what it means to believe on Christ. One of the things that I'm going to explain them is that believing on Christ involves accepting who the Bible says that he is. He's God in the flesh. Okay? So faith in Christ doesn't just mean that I believe that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ alone, not of works. Obviously an essential aspect of faith If I'm trusting Christ, I can't be trusting in my own words. But equally important is that the person I'm trusting in, I view him as God in flesh. And so it's a very, very important concept. And secondly, since the Bible is clear about God's nature as three in one, we as Christians should be willing to defend the doctrine just like any other doctrine in the Bible. And um I think uh there's a book out there, The Forgotten Trinity. I know that You've um been reading that book. And um the truth is that there are a lot of churches that would never sadly discuss this doctrine Because they're like, I don't want to get into that. I want to do deal with practical things, you know. Well, this is practical. This is an essential element to our faith And it's a line of distinction, if you will, it's a watershed issue that separates some people from being, we could say, biblically orthodox and others being theologically liberal, okay? That's one of many watershed issues, but that is a watershed issue. So it's very, very important. Yes. The main importance of this is essential to first teaching how we understand the planet. Sure. Um I I was talking about these days. Of course. Yes, and I believe it's a force. Your attitude might be blasphemous. Sure. Jesus really is in the scriptures regarding deal with more things. Their definition of Jesus is totally different from ours. Yes. And if you don't understand that, you know, I'll go back to the scripture where Paul said if they preach to you any other Jesus Well in first John, one of the major issues that was being dealt with in that that that epistle was the fact that folks were teaching a different Christ and a different nature of the ministry of Christ. And Jesus says, if you do not believe that I am he, or we say I am, that's what he's saying, he says you'll die in your sins. And it says that from that day forward many less him and some took up stones to kill him. I mean, one of the reasons that Jesus was crucified was not just that the religious leaders hated him Or that God had purposed to send his son to die for our sins. But it was also, in part, with the fact that people said, We will not accept that this man claims to be God. We will not accept that. And so it's it's a it's an essential, it's an important element to our doctrine. So great uh discussion this morning. Let's go ahead and close in prayer.