Let's take our Bibles and turn to our text, 1 John 2, verses 15 to 17. 1 John 2, verses 15 to 17. And for those of you that maybe are the first time in a long time or a guest, we are going verse by verse to the book of 1 John. And last week we looked at this passage in part, and then this morning we're going to continue this section dealing with the topic or the question of what is worldliness. And being reminded of our need to guard our hearts against this tremendous temptation that all of us face. Again, I'll read the text, and then we'll go to the Lord in prayer. 1 John 2, verses 15 to 17. Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away in the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever Let's ask the Lord to really bless our time as we study his word together, and that he'll really open our eyes to understand the significance and the weight of the truths that we'll address this morning. Father, we confess to you that we are all sinners in desperate need of dependence upon you, not only to be saved from our sins and justified through the precious blood of Christ. but to walk each day in a consistent way with the position that we have in Christ. I pray that you'd help us this morning to be humbled by this text to be challenged and strengthened and encouraged, to be sobered by the words that are before us. Help us not to lose track of what we talked about last week. to recognize that this applies to all of us, no matter the season of life we're in, or how long we've been a Christian. I pray that you'd help me as I communicate these truths to do it in a simple, direct, Christ-exalting way. We ask for your blessing and your spirit's work in our hearts. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I want to remind you the purpose of this section, and that is that John wants the church to understand the devastating nature of worldliness, so that they will guard their hearts against what is a great, sobering, and significant temptation for them. We know that God wants us to reject worldliness. And so we asked the question yesterday, how can we, or not yesterday, last week, maybe you asked it yesterday too, I don't know. How can we guard against this temptation? And in this passage, John lays out several truths that we need to Take into our hearts. We need to chew on them, we need to meditate on them, and then we need to live in the light of them. The first truth that we looked at last week was that worldliness can affect us at any stage of our Christian growth And we saw that when John addressed the church, he talked to them as little children, as strong men, and as fathers. And so John recognizes that there are different degrees of maturity in the church, not just ages, but degrees of maturity. And as soon as he makes those statements He goes straight to this statement, do not love the world. What we learned last week is that no matter how old we are, no matter how long we've been a Christian, We are prone to this temptation and we have a responsibility to make sure that we guard our hearts against it. The second truth that we saw last time we met was that loving the system is rebellion. Loving the system is rebellion. And what we talked about is that worldliness is not a hairstyle. It's not so much about externals, as much as it is something that resides within our heart. What we love, the way that we think, the way that we look at the things around us, how we relate to one another. Our worldview, if you will, has a lot more to say about whether or not we are worldly or not. than the way that we might look or per be perceived by others around us. We gave this illustration. We said we had two young men. They grow up in the same home. The one is very outwardly rebellious, and everybody says that's the scoundrel in the family, if you will. The other guy is clean-cut, he looks good, he he fits very well in the We could say the culture that he is growing up in, but as they get older, one of the things that you recognize is that rooted in the heart is the exact same problem. One of those sons expressed his rebellion outwardly a lot, the other was able to conceal and hide that rebellion. But if you could take off the veneer, if you could look at the soul and understand the mind and the heart of these two young men, what you would realize is that they were really fundamentally no different. And so we saw that the system of rebellion of worldliness, if we choose to love it, is something that is rebellion against God. This morning we're going to go to truth number three. And this one is very, very important. The third truth is this, a divided heart Is still rebellion against God. A divided heart is still rebellion against God. Look down at your Bibles at verse 15. It says this. neither love the things that are in the world. And then he continues on and he says, all that is in the world The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life is not of the Father, but is of the world. Now John could have simply said, don't love the world, and then he walks away from the discussion But what he decides to do is he decides to break down, if you will, worldliness into some categories. He mentions the things. That are in the world. He mentions the lust of the flesh. He mentions the lust of the eyes. He mentions the pride of life. Those three things are all different, if you will, expressions of the same kind of heart problem. What that tells us is that John doesn't want us to just say, oh, I'm good in all of these areas and then ignore the one area where we tend to get trapped and where we tend to get tempted. For instance, in James chapter 1, what does James say to those Christians in verse 8? He says, a double-minded man is an unstable man in all of his ways. The idea of double-mindedness means that you have two souls, if you will. There's a part of your internal being that wants to live for God and serve God, and there's a part of your internal being that is in rebellion against God. And what we tend to do is we tend to focus primarily on one or the other. To give you an illustration, we were looking at a house not long ago that I really thought looked great. We we we sit in the driveway, we walked around the house and I said, This looks good. I like this So we kind of peered inside. Everything looked really good inside. It was furnished. And and when I walked in, one of the first things that my wife said is like Something smells a little bit funny here. Oh that I no big deal. Don't worry about it, okay? Everything's fine. Just You know, look at this thing. So we walk around and I'm focusing my attention on the couches and the carpet and the hardwood floor and and all that stuff and it looked really good. And I'm I'm still really positive about it. Went up to the upstairs and you didn't smell anything up there. I said, this is great. And it was like, well, there's one more place we need to look That's the basement. Open the basement door, got about three steps down, and all of a sudden we realized where the problem was In fact, we went down into the basement and the smell was so strong that I had to go back up. Okay. Just saying. Well, you know, if all you looked at was the first floor and the second floor in the yard, you say, this is a nice house. This is a good deal. But as soon as you go down into the basement, you realize something What's down in that basement kind of keeps everything else in check. And all of a sudden you say, I don't want to touch this one with a 10-foot pole. Well, the reality is that we as Christians sometimes get really focused on our first and second floors, if you will, but down in the basement, we have an area that we leave unchecked. We don't want to address those kinds of issues. We want to indulge those kinds of places. And so what we do is we focus on the nice areas in our life and we kind of leave that little area as our own private place that we like to play in. John 's saying that is also worldliness. There is a danger, Christian, that we begin to compartmentalize our lives. And some of us can really do this. We can take, not not everybody can do this, okay? Some people, if you have one area that's bothering you, then everything seems affected. But other people, you can take that one area and it's as if you can completely forget that it's there. You ignore it and you live as if it's not there. We can't do that, Christian. Listen to some of the scriptures that we find in our Bibles. For instance, in Psalm thirty-seven it says, The steps of a good man are ordered by the Lord, and he, meaning God Delights in his way. Now, in this particular passage, it talks about the general disposition of that person's life. What is the main way that he walks in? But that is not the only way that the Bible can describe our lives. Let me give you some other examples. In Proverbs 5. 21, it says this. The ways of man are before the eyes of the Lord, and he, God, pondereth all his goings. Now it's interesting if we look at the context of that particular statement, you will see that Solomon is warning his son against immorality and the strange woman. And basically what he's saying to his son is this, look, you might have everything going right in your life, but if that area right there is not committed to the Lord, if you're not wise in that area, if you're not discerning, if you're not careful, if you're not godly. That will be the thing that destroys you. That will be the thing that burns you. God sees all of your ways. So He's not just looking at your general life direction. But he's looking at all the different paths that are going on in your life. In other words, he's looking at the first floor in all those rooms. He's looking at the second floor in all those rooms, but he hasn't ignored the basement either. He's aware of all of that. And I think that we have a great temptation to kind of compartmentalize and isolate problems and act as if they're not there. In Proverbs 3, 5 and 6, listen to what Solomon says. Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, not partially, but all of it, lean not unto thine own understanding. And then he uses this same kind of phrase again. In all thy ways Not way, thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths. Again, we see that concept That we can have multiple ways that we're going in our lives. I want to ask you this question, Christian. Are you departing from evil in all your ways? Or have you kind of allowed certain things to remain unchecked? It's not just the system that is rebellion against God. But it is also isolating aspects of the system and saying, I can do this here. I don't have to worry about it because I don't love the whole thing. I just have the part. In Psalm 139, David cries out to the Lord, Search me, O God, and know my heart, and know my thoughts. And see if there be any wicked way in me and lead me not or lead me in the way everlasting. He's actually inviting God to examine not just the general outlook of his life But examine my ways, examine my thoughts, go into all those areas. Are we really willing to ask God to do that? Like, is that not a bit of a scary thing You know, all of a sudden we say, God, search me and know my thoughts and try me and see if there's any wicked way in me. And he starts going, well, here's one right here. And whoa, I didn't want to see that. He will do that. If we ask him. And I want to also say that if we don't ask him, he will still do it. It's just the process will be a little different. Okay? He will eventually expose those things. to us and potentially those around us, because that might need to be the thing that happens for it to get resolved. Notice the very de details that he mentions about worldliness. He mentions four. He mentions All that's in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life. I want to just take these and break them down just a little bit this morning so that we can get it in our heads The first thing that he states, all that's in the world can be summarized with this statement, I'm dominated by material things. Maybe it's that land that we want. It's that money. It's that car. It's that house. It's the technology that we want to be able to enjoy. Maybe it's some kind of entertainment, but it's something material that we can hold in our hands. We can enjoy it. We set our hearts on that thing. That's what he's talking about. Notice the passage in Matthew where Jesus talks about being overcome with anxiety. And what does he say? Take no thought for your life what you'll eat or what you'll drink or what you'll put on. After all those things the Gentiles seek, but your heavenly Father knows that you need those things. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all those things will be added unto you. What is Jesus saying? Basically, Jesus is saying this people that don't know God People that are in this world system, people that don't have an eternal perspective, their life is completely consumed with the stuff that makes up their life and what they hope will make up their life. Dominated by material things. By the way, those things are not inherently sinful at all. You know, we wear clothes We live in houses, we drive cars, we need income so that we can live and survive. There's nothing sinful about those things, but they can grab our heart They can grab our affections. They can dominate us. The second thing that he mentions is the lust of the flesh. If he will, it's dominated by our physical desires. And there are lots of physical desires that we have. The desire to sleep What does the problem say? Talks about the sluggard. He he's like a door that moves on its hinges. That person is dominated by the lust of rest, if you will. Sexual desires. Where we become dominated by sexual pleasure. It could be an unmarried person, it could be a married person. It doesn't matter. We can become dominated by these desires. And like that fire, we can take it out of the realm. that God wants it in, and it can destroy us and destroy those whom we indulge with. Food. You know, we don't talk a lot about gluttony, but the reality is that we as Americans, we live well. Okay, it's just true. Like when I lived in Ghana, I think I I bet I weighed twenty-five pounds less than I do right now Now it's true. Maybe you can't tell that. I don't know. Maybe you can tell that. But uh yeah, I'm sure I weigh twenty-five pounds less there than I do now. It might even be more than that. I have no idea. I mean we can eat. We can indulge our flesh. And I would say compared to the rest of the world, Americans stereotypically definitely do have that kind of a People think of them that way. Leisure. We constantly live to not work, but to play. And then I think of addictions, chemical addictions, of all kinds of different varieties, dominated by our physical desires. Someone may say, oh, I'm not dominated by material things, but in another area of your life, you're absolutely dominated by your physical desires. And every person's going to be different. The way that you're tempted is going to be different. Somebody sitting over here and somebody sitting over here might have the exact same problem. the lusts of the flesh, they're dominated by their physical appetites, but the expression of that is completely different. And one seems loathsome to people and the other one seems like a pardonable sin, if you will. We can ignore that one. It's not a big deal. We have a third, the lust of the eyes, dominated by the things that we can see. One of the things that really catches your attention when you live overseas and then you come back to America is that if you watch a sporting event overseas, like for instance a football match, you watch the football match. And then at halftime there's like a couple of commercials and then you watch the football match. But it isn't like that in American sports It's like you watch the first inning and then you watch commercials and then you watch the second inning and then you watch commercials and they're constantly commercial breaks after every single timeout in the football game There's a commercial break. And oh by the way, we've got to have some, not because there's any problem on the field, but because we need our sponsors to be able to put out their stuff. You know what I'm saying? And one of the things that really kind of catches your attention is how much we are we are driven in our culture by commercialism. Do you know what that's really all about? It's about catching your attention and saying, you need this. It's all about saying, you're not okay the way that you are. You need our products. You need our products so that you're a happier person, so that you look better, so that your way of life becomes better. And so Being dominated by the things that we can see is a huge temptation in our culture. And people make a tremendous amount of money off of making you not happy with where you're at in life. That is really the root cause of greed and covetousness and discontented, dominated by what we can see. The fourth is this dominated by our self image He mentions the pride of life. The pride of life. In other words, I am consumed with how people perceive me. I want them to think that I'm educated. I want them to think that I'm intelligent. I want them to think that I'm rich. I want them to think that I'm that I'm powerful. I want them to think that I've got a smooth and easy life. We don't really care so much about what we really are. We care about how people perceive us. And that is why Facebook is so popular, is it not? Because what we can do is we can kind of put up what we want people to think we are. And everybody's looking at each other's Facebook pages and going, wow, that person's got it all together. But if you could get down into their life and know how they're really doing, well They're not doing any different than you are. They're not doing any different relationally, economically, and none of those things. And so we put up this persona. dominated by our self-image, position, education, beauty, physique, power, wealth. It's all about how people perceive us These are four different, if you will, categories or aspects of that system of thought that God says is rebellion. Don't embrace it, don't live for it, don't love it, reject it. Yet there's always a temptation to embrace these various things. And might I tell you that depending on the station you are in life, The temptation in one category may end up kind of becoming less prominent in your life, and then a new category becomes more dominant, and it's a greater temptation in your life. We come to a fourth truth, and that is this worldliness is a form of idolatry. In verse 15 it says, if any man love the world, the love of the Father is not In him. Let me read to you another passage that kind of confirms the point that I just made. Colossians 3:5 says this: Mortify your members or put to death. Those passions and lusts that are antagonistic towards God. And then he mentions at the end of this list covetousness, which is idolatry. I kind of tease you about, you know, the statue, okay? May I tell you something that idolatry is not stone statues. As much as it is replacing God with things. It's setting our attention and our affections and our aspirations on stuff. Covetousness basically saying this, I am so consumed with what I want that I'm not satisfied anymore. And God wants us to be satisfied with him alone. Covetousness, Paul says, is idolatry, because it is taking things and replacing God with things that we want. The truth is that what we love, Christian, is one of the most important things about us. You can sum up the entire law and God's expectations for you By this simple statement, love God with all your heart and soul, and love your neighbor as yourself. In Deuteronomy in the Old Testament, chapter 11. It talks about this concept. It says, hearken diligently under my commandment, which I command you this day. Love the Lord your God and serve him with all your heart and with all your soul. Jesus says this in Matthew 22, the great commandment is love the Lord your God with all your heart and soul. He states it Idolatry is taking something and replacing God with it. Taking God and replacing Him with something in your life. And let me remind you, Christian, that idolatry is something that provokes the Lord to jealousy. Do you ever think about that? That the way that we live our lives, the things that we love, the things that we we take God and we replace Him with those things, that can actually provoke God to jealousy. You say jealousy, and jealousy is sin. Well, in the case of God, it's not. He deserves all the praise, he deserves all the glory, he deserves all of our attention and our affection. He deserves to be the center of our life. It says in Deuteronomy, our Exodus chapter 20 in the Ten Commandments. Listen to this passage. He says, You shall have no other gods before me Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness of anything in heaven above, the earth beneath, or in the waters under the earth. Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them or serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God. He's saying, I deserve that attention and that worship and that affection. When you take something and put it between us, it burns jealousy in my heart. In James chapter 4, verses 4 to 5, James makes this statement: You adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that friendship with the world is enmity against God? Whoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God. Therefore, do you think that the Scripture says in vain, the spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy? God is affected, if you will, in part, on how we relate to Him and the things around us. Worldliness is a serious matter. In God's eyes, it's a form of idolatry. We then come to a fifth and final truth, and that's this: worldliness is a foolish way to live your life. Worldliness is a foolish way for us to live our lives. Verse 17, the world passeth away. If you will, he's saying, the world, that system that you are so fixated on, that you love and that you've embraced, it's in the process of dying. That's what he's saying. And not only is that system passing away, but so are its lusts. But he who does the will of God abides forever. He's making a contrast here. He's saying that system, if you will, is on its way deteriorating. Eventually it's going to be judged and it's going to be gone. All those passions, all those lusts that are so dominating you today, Christian, one day those things will be gone. But the person who does the will of God, the way he lives his life the effects of that God-centered life, it has eternal value. It has eternal significance. There is something real there, not something that's just passing away. That system and its values are broken. That system and its values are passing away. The believer's eternal life is something that has significance forever. I think one of the best passages that kind of lays this out is what Solomon says in Ecclesiastes chapter 2. Listen to what he says. Lust of the flesh. Ecclesiastes 2. 1. I said in my heart, go to now I'll prove thee with mirth. Enjoy pleasure. Behold, this is Vanity or it's emptiness. It's like the wind. It comes and it goes. It has no lasting significance. I said of laughter, it is mad, of mirth. What does it? I saw it in my heart to give myself to wine, yet acquainted my my heart with wisdom to lay hold on folly, till I might see what was good for the sons of man, which they should do under heaven all the days of their life Solomon's basically saying this, I gave my life over to the lusts of the flesh. And I asked myself, what's the end of it? And he says it's worthless. Doesn't have any value. It's empty. It doesn't have significance for eternity. If nothing else, it'll even hurt you in this life. He says in verses 4 to 8, he talks about the lust of the eyes. He says, I made me great works, I builded me houses, I planted me vineyards. I made me gardens and orchards, I planted trees of all kinds of fruits. I made me pools of water to water the wood That brings forth trees. I got me servants and maidens and had servants born in my house. Also I had great possessions of greats and small cattle. Later on in the passage he says, there's nothing that my eyes beheld that I withheld from myself. Now that's kind of personal, right? I mean I like to garden. You know, gardening's fun. So imagine if I had an unlimited ability. to garden. I had the lands, I had people that could help me. I could just do whatever I wanted. Like that seems really great. You know what Solomon says? Yeah, go ahead and have that. At the end it's all emptiness. It's just going to break your back. You're going to be an old man who can't keep up with all that stuff. And you're going to look at it and say, what was the true value of it? He says, what I saw, I took. What I wanted, I took. And I examined myself and I said, what do I have? And he said, I got nothing. I got nothing. Talk about the pride of life, verses 9 to 11. He says, I was great and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem. Solomon's basically saying, there was nobody equal to me, including my dad. Did you catch that one? Even my dad, great king, saw before him. I was the best. Nobody liked me He was comparing himself. If you not, that is the epitome of the pride of life. He was consumed with his image. He says this, he says, My wisdom remained with me. Whatever my eye desired I kept not from them. I withheld not my heart. From any joy. But what was the ultimate end of Solomon's worldliness? He says it in verse 11. I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, on all the labor that I had labored to do, and behold, all was vanity. It's the wind. It's the wind. Can you catch the wind in your hands? Nope. Comes and goes. He says, I rejoice in all my labor. This is my portion for all my labor. You know, it's kind of interesting when when you think about how you age and how you mature and what you learn. You know, think about yourself when you were twelve. Sixteen. Remember all the adults that were like Son, you need to kind of like straighten up a little bit. And they had those fur you know, those firm toxicity, and you're like, my dad doesn't know anything. My mom doesn't know anything. And that's the mentality. And all of a sudden you started like having to be a responsible adult and all of a sudden you're like, wow, mom and dad are like really smart. But you know what? You kind of like past that period of life. You You can't have it back. You can't go back and redo it. It's done. So you have your kids and you sit down with your kids and you're like, son, that's a bad idea. I learned that lesson. He looks at you like you're crazy, Dad. You don't know anything. Like, oh boy, here we go. I'm getting to eat the fruit of what I did to my mom and dad. And it just repeats itself. Solomon says, listen, you don't have the money, you don't have the power, you don't have the opportunity that I had. And I've tried everything that I wanted to try, and guess what? It ain't gonna do it. Christian, let's listen to what he's saying. The fact is that living for this world is empty. It's a foolish way to live in the world. Solomon gives this counsel in chapter 12. He goes through the entire book. It's an extremely pessimistic book, honestly. It's pessimistic because Solomon's looking at how unreliable life is. How how unfair life is, how unstable life can be, how things can change in an instant, how it seems like Those who should be elevated aren't, and those who get elevated shouldn't be, and he just goes, What in the world? This is crazy. He comes to the end of it all and he says this. Remember thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God. Keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of God. God shall bring every work into judgment. With every secret thing, whether it be good or whether it be evil. Solomon says, listen up, guys, don't live for this world. You gotta live in this world. You gotta rub shoulders of people that don't know the Lord. Seize those opportunities. Point them to Jesus. Keep your heart in check. This is what we need today, folks. All of us. I need it. You need it. Remember when I was praying over this message and thinking about this message? It was like God was saying, Well, Joel, you you're gonna talk about the whole compartmentalizing thing. Well, let me talk to you about that a little bit. Not that God wasn't talking to me, okay. I'm not not suggesting that, all right. But you know he's he's showing things. You can talk about this issue and that issue, but but look at your own heart. If we're all honest, we gotta admit that This is a great battle. It's a great struggle. We have to daily die to self, if you will, put on our cross and follow Jesus. Worldliness is a temptation that we all will and do face. We need to face it for what it actually is, it's rebellion. It's idolatry. We need to guard our hearts against the temptation to compartmentalize our lives. God demands absolute surrender of ourselves to Him. We need to see the absolute futility of worldliness. And so here's the question: will you choose the purpose by God's grace to embrace a God-centered life, not in part, but in the whole? Let's bow our hearts together in prayer. Our Father, we are reminded of some very sobering realities. And I pray that you would help us as Christians to wake up. We live in a nasty world. A world that is passing away, but is also seductive. It's a world that can grab a hold of our attention and we can become fixed upon it and it can destroy our souls. Father, I plead with you help us as Christians to be brutally honest in our own hearts before you and to allow your spirit to root out Aspects in our heart that are not surrendered to your lordship. Help us as Christians to be godly. Help us as Christians to be God-centered. Help us to be worshippers and lovers of you. People who really do believe, not just intellectually, but in our hearts and our souls that you are more than enough. I pray that you'll help us as a congregation to put to practice what we have examined from the text this morning. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.