First John chapter two verses three to six. Let me read it again. And hereby we do know that we know him. If we keep his commandments, he that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him. But whoso keepeth his word in him verily is the love of God perfected. Hereby know we that we are in him. He that saith, he abideth in him, ought himself also to walk, even as he walked. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and really ask the Lord to help us to understand what is a very important And just a critically important passage as we reflect on the confidence that we have as believers. Our Father, we ask that this morning you would open our eyes to understand the significance of these truths. Help me as I open up the Bible and expound it to do it in a way that's very simple and easy to understand. Yet very consistent with the text and very consistent with the scope of Scripture. I pray that you'd minister to every heart that is here. We confess to you that we need your Spirit to work in our midst We confess to you that we are sinful people, that our minds are prone to wander, and we very easily take things and we abuse them, we don't understand them, we ignore them, we forget them. We desperately need your spirit to open our eyes. To fix our attention on the word and then to minister exactly to our heart what we need here this morning. I pray that you might just be at work in our midst. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen I want you to picture for a moment two little boys, maybe kids about the age of my my two sons that are here. And these two boys come from very different homes. One boy grew up in a home with dogs. And the other grows up in a home without dogs. One day these two little boys go to the park with their mothers, and they're sitting there on a park bench, and a man's walking his dog And his dog, not a huge dog, but he's not a little toy poodle or anything like that. He's a decent sized dog. Well that dog comes up and he's wagging his tail and He's panting and he's very happy. And he comes and he sits his head right in the lap of the one little boy who grew up with dogs. How do you think the little boy is going to respond? Well, he's going to get a big smile on his face, and maybe if he's eating some ice cream or something like that, he's going to let the dog lick it and he's going to pet the dog and he's going to be so happy. On the other hand, the dog moves from that little boy, and the other boy's getting kind of squirming. He's getting kind of fidgety. And as that dog comes and he sets his big head right in that lap of that little boy, he starts screaming. And he's terrified and he grabs his mother and he wants to get away as fast as he can. Same dog, same day, same circumstances. Nothing changes except the background of the one boy versus the background of the other boy One boy is confident and he enjoys that dog's presence. The other child, who has no need to be afraid, is terrified. Same two boys sitting on a park bench, and another person's dog comes up. And this dog is not so nice. He's not so friendly. And the one boy recognizes that, having grown up in a family with dogs, and realizes I need to get away from this dog. And his fear is very much warranted. Another child may look at that dog and without experience have no understanding of how significant that dog could hurt him. My point is this. How we think about stuff is not always accurate. How we feel about stuff is not always accurate. There are things that we should fear that we don't There are things that we don't fear that we should fear. There are things that we We should say have should have a healthy respect for and we don't. The reality is that when we come to an issue like the topic that we're dealing with today, it really has the ability or it has the sense To cause somebody who's not serious to kind of be shooken a little bit, and somebody who is very serious to have a greater sense of confidence In fact, that's exactly what John's wanting to do. John wants his audience to experience joy and fellowship with God, and so he provides a simple test that provides a warning to the disobedient. And an encouragement to the conscientious Christian. He does this so that they'll have confidence about two things. One is their position in Christ, and the other is their relationship to God. And I want us to understand that he actually mentions two things. Their being in Christ is part of what is being tested here. But the other side is their knowledge of God, or we could say their enjoyment of the relationship that they are in. And so because it's a pretty involved topic, we're actually going to do it in two parts today. We will deal with part one this morning and part two tonight. But the reason that John writes this ultimately is because God wants his people to have a correct understanding of their position and their relationship to him. Him. That's what he wants. He wants people who are not in Christ, but think that they are to be shaken so that they recognize, I need to give careful attention to the gospel and ask What is the problem that's going on in my heart? So how can we have a correct understanding of these issues? Well, here are a couple of questions that we're going to examine this morning and tonight. The first question is this, is it possible for you and me to have confidence That one, we know God and two, we are saved. Is it possible for us to have confidence that one, we know God and two, we are saved? Knowing God and being saved are not the exact same concepts, but they cannot be completely separated either. They're different concepts. We're going to address each of those two concepts without hopefully separating it too much. Question two, what does it mean to know God? What does it mean to know God? How do I know that I know him? That is really the statement that he makes. Hereby we know that we know him. What does he mean by I know God? It's an interesting question that we need to dig into. Question three: How should I view those who claim to know God yet show no regard for Christ's commands? How should I view those who claim to know God yet have no regard for Christ's commands? And the way that that question is going to be answered is dealing with a very specific group of people That John is dealing with with that congregation. These people were teaching doctrines that were contrary to the gospel. They were teaching doctrines that were contrary to a correct view of Christ. and his ministry and his work and sin and this life and eternity. There were several false teachings that were going on in that church. And so John is going to address that specific group, and when we get to that question, I'll explain it when we get there. So those are the three questions. Question one, is it possible for me to have confidence that I know God and am saved? Question two, what does it mean to know God? And question three, how should I view those who claim to know God yet have no regard for Christ's commands? Simple questions, very important how we answer them. So let's begin with section one. Is it possible for you sitting in your chair right now to have confidence that one you are a Christian, you are saved And two, you are growing in a knowledge of the Lord. Is it possible? Well, the answer is obviously of course. Because notice what he says in the verse, hereby we do know that we know him. That statement, hereby we know, is basically saying Here is the way that you can have confidence that you know God. If you don't do this, you will not have confidence. If you do this, you will have confidence. Very simple what he's saying. He then goes on to say, whoever keeps his word in him very the love of God is perfected, hereby know we that we are in him. Again, we can have confidence that we are in him. So the answer to that question is yes, of course. Sitting here today, you can have confidence of two things. One, you're a child of God, and two, you know the Lord. And when I say know the Lord, I'm going to explain what I mean by that. I don't mean you know facts about him I don't mean that you can explain certain theological concepts. That word no has some significant implications. So we'll get into that in a few moments. But those two phrases are the focus of the morning message. That you would know him and that you are in him. Those are the two things that John wants to emphasize to his listeners, and what God wants us to focus on this morning. So, first of all, it is possible for us to have confidence that we know the Lord and that we are in Him. It's possible. It's possible. He says, hereby we do know if. It is possible I want to begin by sort of looking at some potential situations that we might find even within this congregation. But not just within our congregation this morning, really outside looking at Christians in general. And when I use the term Christians, I mean professing Christians. There are a couple of different possible scenarios. The first one is a person who does not know the Lord and they have no confidence that they're saved. If you ask them the question, do you know for sure if you died today you'd go to heaven, they say, no, I don't know that. I absolutely don't know that And the reason that they don't know that is because they've never been biblically informed. Or they have come in contact with the gospel, but they know in their heart they've never responded to it. They know the truth or they don't know the truth and so they lack confidence. So picture with it with me for a moment. You go to somebody's house and you knock on their door. And you have a little booklet in your hand, you say, hey, how you doing? I'm from Anchor Baptist Church. I want to ask you a question. Hand this to you, invite you to church. Do you know for sure that you're saved? If you died today, it's not a threat, okay. Please don't think of it that way. If you died today, do you know for sure you'd go to heaven? They say, nope, don't know it at all That's one scenario. Maybe today you're sitting here and that's exactly how you feel. When I mention that statement or that question, you go, I could not answer that question with confidence. I know that I couldn't. And whatever the reason for that, you just sit there and say, I don't know I'm saved. Well, if you are in that position, please don't leave this service without asking somebody how to be saved. The Bible gives us, in a very simple way, how we can be saved. And today in the message, I'm going to explain that to you. So please, if you don't know for sure that you're saved, Don't leave without getting your questions answered, and don't leave without having that confidence from the Word of God. There's a second possible situation. This is a person who's unsaved, but they have tremendous confidence that they are saved. Okay. So you go up to the person, you say, knock knock, hey, I'm from Anchor Baptist Church. I want to invite you out to church. Can I give you this little this little uh booklet and ask you a question? Do you know for sure that you You're saved. Do you know for sure if you died today, you'd go to heaven? They say, Oh yeah, I know. Well, that's not where the questions should lie and stop. You should go, Well, why do you say that? What is your confidence? And they say, Well, I mean, look at me. I never divorced my wife. Okay. Alright. I never killed anybody. My kids go to school and I I pay for their schooling and I give them clothes and they're not going hungry. I'm a good person. Hey, I've never been arrested. I've never even been pulled over by a policeman for for speeding. That's better than me, but good job, right? Oh, I go to church. In fact, I'm in the choir. Or, oh, I'm a deacon. I do this, I do this. And they start giving you this grocery list of all the things that they're doing for God. Oh, I got baptized when I was a little kid. I I went to classes. I learned about, you know, I went to this kind of preparatory school. This happened, this happened, and they they give you all these details, all these facts. And when you're done listening, you realize that there's something that's missing. Never once did they say, Oh, I'm a sinner. Christ Jesus died for my sins. He took my punishment. He rose from the dead. I've trusted in him as my savior. Everything that they're saying is revolving around what they do for God. Not what God did for them in the gospel. Now that person has confidence. They have confidence because they don't understand God's standard of perfection. They don't understand you are not We could say righteous enough to go into God's kingdom. You are not sinless. God doesn't ex examine your sin and say, Oh, you did more good than bad. I'll let you in. He doesn't do that. Because of their misunderstanding of the nature of the gospel. Or that we could say the person of themselves, they have confidence that they're saved. That confidence doesn't mean that they're safe. Like a little child who's sitting on a seat, he's never dealt with a mean dog before, and that dog comes up to him and he thinks that dog is nice and that dog bites him, he's shocked. Just like the little boy who is sitting there and sees that dog and realizes, I need to get away from this dog They both have a problem. And our two people, if you will, our two categories, two possibilities, are people that have a problem. Of the two, which one do you think is in a bigger problem? The second one is. Because he's confident, and it's a misplaced confidence. We then have a third possible situation And this one is very real. It's a person who's saved, but they lack confidence that they're saved. You know, a lot of times there are people within a church, they understand the gospel, they've trusted Christ as their Savior. They are truly born again. The Holy Spirit indwells them. As God views them, He views them as righteous in Christ. But because of some kind of thinking error , Because of the way that they're feeling at the time, because of a misunderstanding of correct doctrine, that person lacks confidence. They've embraced the truth, but have begun to respond incorrectly to we could say irrational thoughts and feelings that they're experiencing. Think of the little boy, he's sitting on that park bench. There is no reason that he should be afraid of that dog. That dog is not a threat to him at all. He sits his head right there in that little boy's lap and he just wants to play. And the kid's terrified. I do believe that there are Christians who are in that category. And it could be some message that they heard, it could be a conversation that they had with somebody. It could be a lack of teaching, but because of those things, they are truly trusting Christ, but they have a very feeble, we could say, heart towards these things. And they don't have good confidence that they're saved. By the way, is that person saved even if they lack confidence? Absolutely they are. And we won't deal with the text This morning, but there is a text later on in the book of 1 John that says, if our hearts condemn us, then God is greater than our hearts. And I want to encourage, there may be people here this morning who are truly saved. And because of your disposition or whatever it might be, you're struggling with doubts. Let the word of God inform you. Then we have a group that are saved, but they don't have confidence because there's sin that they're entertaining. Christians can sin, can't they? I mean, by don't forget that in chapter one he says, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins. To cleanse us w from all unrighteousness. He he does mention that. And he doesn't just say y'all, he says we. He includes himself He does say, if we sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous, who's the propitiation for our sins and not ours only, but the sins of the whole world. The truth is that there are Christians who, because they have sins They struggle with doubts. Maybe it's because they don't take the Word of God literally, and when they confess their sin to God, they say, I don't feel forgiven, whatever the situation. That is a possibility. But then there's a final category, and this is what John wants. Saved with confidence. Now when I say confidence, I don't mean arrogance. Okay? If a person is saved and they're confident that they're saved and they're thinking correctly, their confidence is not in anything that they are doing Or in anything they've done for God, but their confidence is in God Himself and what He has done for them. That is a position of humility, not arrogance. So I want to take a few moments and talk to you about the source of our assurance. How is it that a person can have confidence that he's saved. And there are really two ways that we have confidence. One is objective and one is subjective. Do you understand the difference between what is objective and what is subjective? If you will, objective means this is the primary source of our confidence. I look at this and this is concrete. Either this is true about me or it is not true about me. We can look at it with confidence and either we can be in trouble and we know it or we can be confident and say, I'm okay. That's really what we're saying What are the primary objective things that give us confidence that we're saved? Let me read to you a couple of texts that give you objective truths about how a person can know for sure John 3 16. Simple text, right? For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. If you believe on Christ, we need to unpackage just for a moment what we mean to believe. We're not talking about just knowledge. It's a little deeper than that, and I will unpackage that. But he says, if you believe on Christ, you will not perish, but have everlasting life. In John 3. 18 he says, He that believeth on him is not condemned, but he that believeth not is condemned already. because he hath not believed on the name of the only begotten Son of God. This is a concrete objective thing. If you've believed on Christ, if you're believing on Christ, you're saved. If you've not, if you're not, you aren't. It's objective truth. John 3. 36, he that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life. He that believeth not the Son shall not see life. But the wrath of God abideth on him. Again, we're dealing with something that's extremely objective. John 5, 24. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word, believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Objective truth And then in 1 John 5. 11 he writes this, This is the record that God hath given us eternal life, and this life is in his son. He that hath the Son hath life He that hath not the Son of God shall not see life, but the wrath or these things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God, that you might know. And that's the same word. Using this text. Know, have confidence, have assurance that you might know that you have eternal life, and that you might believe on the name of the Son of God The objective primary confidence that a person has that he's saved is he says, either I've believed on Christ or I've not believed on Christ. That is objective. Somebody says, well, how do I know if I believed on Christ? Is that not a kind of a fair question? Like what does it mean to believe on Christ? Well, let me explain to you there are two words that really shape what we mean by belief in Christ. The first word is repent, and the second word is faith. And that word repent means that our mind or our thinking changes about some very specific things that keep us from faith in Christ. For instance, our view of sin. Is anybody by nature having God's view of sin? No, none of us do. We are born sinning as soon as we can express that. Somebody has to stop and say, don't do that. That's wrong. Until a person comes to a repentance before God about his sin, he has a serious problem. In fact, in John 3 it says this. They would not come to the light lest their deeds would be exposed. And so because of a love of sin and unwillingness to come to grips with the implications of the gospel, some people say, I don't want to be saved. I don't want God to deliver me from my sin. I'd rather hide my face to those realities. I don't want to think about those things. And they pass on So repentance comes to how we view our sin. I have to see that my sin is serious. It's an offense to God. It's something that he hates. It's something he's going to judge. Until God corrects how I view that issue, I can't place my faith in Christ. God is saving me from sin, not to sin. And so I have to understand that. The second is my view of my own righteousness. You ask the average person, are you a good person? They say, Well, I'm not as bad as him. Is that true? Well I I I know that per I I don't do those things. The reason I read the the the the papers is because I want to know about all the bad things other people are doing and glory in the fact they don't do those things. We are masses of comparison, one with another, not ourselves to God. But that is what really matters. God doesn't say, how do you relate in righteousness to your neighbor? He says, how does your righteousness compare to me? And he says, there is none righteous, not even one. Not one who understandeth, or not one who seeks after God. He says, all have sinned and come short. of the glory of God. He says in Isaiah, all our righteousness is as filthy rags. And until I come to the place where those truths confront me and humble me and tell me, look, Joel You and your righteousness is not acceptable to God. You are not able to enter God's kingdom. Your righteousness is unqualification, if you will. It says there's nothing that can enter into it that defiles, and you are defiled. Your righteousness is a filthy rag. And so I'm confronted with Sin and embrace what God says until I'm confronted with my righteousness, that it is a filthy rack. And I embrace what God says. I cannot believe on Christ. It's impossible. And then there's a third, my view of Christ Himself. This morning in our Sunday school, we took a lot of time to explain the nature of Christ's And the Father and how they relate to one another. Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. John 1 says, in the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God, and the Word was God. And you sit down and say, I don't understand that. Oh, I don't understand it. But I embrace it because God says this is who Christ is. And there are people who the reason they're not saved is because they reject what the Bible teaches about Christ. Christ. And so repentance describes God changing how I view my sin, and God changing how I view my righteousness, and God changing how I view Christ And when those things are changed by the preaching of the gospel and the preaching of the law, I come to be confronted with my complete inability to be saved, apart from what Christ did for me. I see, I have no other place to turn. I can't give God to any God anything. And so I am faced with one reality. There is one substitute for you. Jesus Christ the righteous. There is one sacrifice available for you, Jesus Christ the righteous. There is one who has died and rose again, Jesus Christ the righteous. There is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. And God says, repentance. You must change how you view your sin and your righteousness in Christ Himself, or you cannot be saved. Faith begins with the thinking change of repentance that says, this is my only hope. As the hymn writer writes, I need no other argument I need no other plea. It's enough that Jesus died and that he died for me. That is a testimony of one who has repented before God. But then we have the concept of faith. Faith involves my entire person, my mind, which thinks. My heart which either embraces truth or rejects truth, and my will which says yes or no. Faith involves all three of those aspects of the inner man. You cannot be saved without the facts of the gospel presented to you. As I mentioned earlier, a child struggles to understand the context of the gospel, the contents of what it means. Christ died for me. And so we labor to illustrate to a child what Christ did for them. An adult does not have a challenge understanding intellectually the nature of the gospel They can understand it, but where they struggle is the implication. If this is true, then it's saying this about me And that's where humility has to come in. As Jesus said, unless you be unless you're converted and become as a little child, you can't enter the kingdom of God. That's what he's talking about. The adult who understands intellectually the gospel has to have his heart softened so that he's willing to turn to Christ and trust in Christ. The mind has to process the truth. Don't think that because you have the ability to process the gospel and you can tell somebody the gospel that you are saved. Now I'm not suggesting you're lost, okay. But the fact that you know and can articulate does not mean that you are saved. Because faith is more than just intellectual assent or knowledge of facts. There are many, many unbelievers who can articulate the gospel and mock it. They can articulate it better than some of us. Yet they don't believe it at all. Faith involves my heart. The thing about gospel truth is that gospel truth affects my heart in a way that either I become angry and I want to push away from the gospel or my heart is warmed and I'm softened and I'm humbled and I want to embrace it. I don't know if you understand what I'm saying. It's like when a person comes to you and you've done wrong, okay? They have said, hey, here's what you did. You know it's true. And you're kinda like, you're angry. Now, you know, you're a good adult, you don't want to expose how you feel, but you really inside you just you're like, I can't believe they told me this. You're angry about it. Or you go, wow, and you're humbled by it. And it sinks into your soul, and you go, what they're saying is true about me. What I did was serious, it was wrong. And you want to respond. When we talk about the heart and faith, we're talking about how our inner man responds to truth. This is not mathematics. This is saying something about me. It's saying something about my nature. It's saying something about my ability or inability to stand righteous before Before God. And it either makes me furious or it makes me tender and soft. And so it goes beyond the mind and the heart. But then there's a third critical aspect, and that is the aspect of the will. You have to choose to respond to how the Spirit of God is working in your heart. You might be sitting in this room this morning, and in your mind, you have known the gospel for many, many years, but in the heart you have pressed against it. I want to encourage you the response begins in the heart of embracing, not rejecting. You may be sitting in your chair, and for some time your mind has understood the gospel. And your heart has been compelled, but you've not made that choice to commit, to believe, to trust in, to rely, to depend upon Christ. You know the facts, they compel you, but the issue of decision holds you back. Please Don't delay. This is a critical matter. When we talk about assurance, objectively, our primary source of assurance is: do I believe on Christ or not? What I have explained to you should be the primary source of confidence that you have. We have a Spurgeon quote that was on the slide, and what does he do? He talks about the fact that our primary confidence Needs to be in Christ. It must be in Christ and Christ alone. But this text talks about something an addition, and that is something that I think we need to wrestle with for just a moment. And that is the ab the secondary source of assurance, or we could say something that is subjective. It's in the emotions. It's how I feel. It's not objective. I have believed or I have not believed. Primary source of confidence. It's secondary. It's in the heart. It's in the feelings of an individual. And there are people who can say, I have objectively trusted Christ. But today when my feet hit the floor, I don't feel like I'm saved. Okay? Just like a person can confess their sin to God. They can truly do what the Bible says, and they objectively know that they have done that, but in their heart, as their feet are on their, their knees are on the floor, in their heart they say, do I feel like God has actually said he do what he did? This is the subjective side. And this is where some of us might get caught. Some of us might struggle. There are three things I just want to quickly mention about the subjective side. One of the first things That helps in the secondary way to strengthen our confidence is that we obey and respond properly to God. Now, this is not suggesting that we get saved by obedience. Okay. I could demonstrate that in a lot of texts. It's not suggesting that this is the only source of confidence. I can demonstrate that from other texts in 1 John. This is a secondary source, but it is there, and it is an aspect that either strengthens or undermines that primary confidence. Obedience. He says, hereby we do know that we know him if we keep his commandments. Hereby know we that we are in him. If you're not, we could say, responding correctly to the word of God. If you're ignoring what God says is true and right, there's no way that you're going to have good, strong confidence that you're saved. Because in your heart you have this internal conflict, this internal turmoil. And the reality is that doesn't absolutely mean you're lost, but it's a huge warning sign. It's a huge warning sign. There's another internal witness of the Spirit. This is in Romans 8. 14. Listen to what it says. And notice how it's connected to what we just mentioned. He says, Romans 8. 14, as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God. Now when he talks about being led by the Spirit of God, He's not talking about, okay, I have a decision to make. Where do I go to college? Do I go to camp this year? Do I marry this person? Do I marry that person? That's not what he's talking about. He's not talking about this subjective leading to go to this particular college or this particular person to marry. He's talking about how the Spirit of God presses upon your soul and moves in your life and guides how you act in relation to his word. He says, as many as are led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. If you're not being led by the Spirit of God, there's a problem. And if you're not saved, it's impossible to be led by the Spirit of God because He doesn't indwell you. And he says, They are the sons of God. Ye have not received a spirit of bondage again to fear, but received a spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abbo Father. And listen to the next statement. And it says the Spirit itself bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. This is something that's dealing with a subjective thing. This is not objective. It's not like God says, Pastor Joel, you are a Christian. And he writes it down on a piece of paper for me and says, You're a Christian. It isn't like that. It's something going on inside of my heart. in my conscience, in my emotions, that as I look at my life, I recognize the Spirit of God is working in my life. The reason that this area has changed in my thinking is because of his presence. The reason I responded in that situation It's because of his presence. The reason I stopped doing those things is because of his presence. And as I look at those things, the Spirit of God strengthens my confidence. Subjective, secondary assurance. There's a third, and this one might catch you off guard, but it's there. That's discipline. Hebrews 12, 5. Despise not the chastening of the Lord. Neither faint when thou art rebuked of him. Whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. If ye endure chasten, God dealeth with you as with sons If ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards and not sons. And not using that in a filthy way, okay. An illegitimate child. When you sin as a Christian, obviously you can do that, okay? God will begin dealing with you about that And so when that secondary source, that subjective aspect of our assurance, is being weakened because of our sin, God's Spirit comes alongside of us and says, Do you know why this just happened? Because I'm trying to get your attention. I'm disciplining you. I'm dealing with you as somebody that belongs to me, not as someone who is outside. And so when we talk about assurance, we need to understand something. There is a primary source of assurance. Have you believed on Christ? There's a secondary source of assurance. How do you respond to his commands? How do you respond to his word? The Spirit of God strengthens your confidence as he works in your life, changing you into the image of Christ progressively. And when you reject what God is doing, and that confidence is undermined, what does God do? He comes alongside of you and says, Now I'm going to deal with you as my son, as my daughter, as my child. And through that He corrects and he re-strengthens that secondary sense of confidence. I want to ask you this morning, do you know for sure that you're saved? Simple question. Do you know for sure that you're saved? If you don't know, then you have a problem. I'm not saying you're lost, but you do have a problem. It could be a problem theologically in how you look at the gospel. It could be that you're not saved and you're trusting in something outside of Christ alone. It could be that you're not taking to heart what God says. About forgiveness and those kinds of things. It could be that you are embracing irrational thoughts, but you have a problem, and it really needs to be addressed. And so I encourage you to get the help that you need. Identify the source of the doubt. Is the source you're not saved? Well, there's a simple way to address that. The gospel is clear and it is simple and you can respond to it. Is the source of doubt irrational thinking? You need to identify those lies. And reject those things. Is the source of your thinking that you're not living and cherishing God's commandments and doing what He says to do. Well, if he's disciplining you, it's another reminder that you're his child, but those doubts have a source. God wants us to know that we are in Christ. You cannot have joy as a Christian. You cannot be used as effectively as God desires to use you. If you lack confidence. And so please, I encourage you, if you're struggling in these areas, get help. Get help. Help is available. God's word is clear. And God can help you to know for sure you're saved and to walk in confidence before Him. Not pride, but humble confidence in what he's done for you. Let's bow our hearts together for prayer. Part two is tonight. Father , I pray that you work in hearts tonight or this morning through what has been presented. The gospel is a simple message, but there are many people who are very close in proximity to the good news, but they never embrace it with their heart. They never choose to trust Christ. I pray if anybody in our midst is in that situation, I pray that they'd not delay and not hinder. I pray that your spirit would press their soul. And not let them go, that they would recognize the complete foolishness of depending on anything but Christ and His righteousness. I pray that you'd grip their soul with the reality of eternity and that you'd do a mighty work in their heart bringing them to repentance and faith. The Lord Jesus. I pray for those in our midst who are saved, but they are struggling because in the secondary aspect of assurance, They don't understand that your chastening hand is meant to strengthen their confidence and to correct their actions and their thoughts. Thinking. Instead, they see it as wounds. I pray that you'd work in their hearts and help them to understand the nature of how you work with your people I pray that they would glory in the fact that you don't let them go, that you love them and you pursue them and you work in them. That the reason they don't feel settled in sin is Because your spirit is convicting them internally about that. I just pray that you do the work that is appropriate in the hearts of every person here this morning. And may you be exalted, we ask it in Christ's name, Amen