So glad to uh have the opportunity to have our missionaries uh speak tonight, and so we're very excited about that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will get our service started tonight. Father, we're so very grateful for your continued work in our lives. Thank you for how you take the Word of God and you impress it upon our hearts. Uh, thank you for the opportunity to fellowship with other Christians and to learn about needs all around the world. Pray that you would take the word and use it tonight in our hearts and uh just bless every aspect of the service tonight, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Let's go ahead and stand for our first song tonight. We'll be singing hymn 530530. Rescue the perishing. We'll sing all four verses. Rescue the perishing, care for the dying, snatch and link of sin in the grave, we for the earring one lift of the fallen, tell the mind. Jesus for my each day, asking a commission for the dying, Jesus is messing. Oh, Jesus Christ. No, they are fighting himself, he is waiting, waking up and trying to receive , wait with the resting , we'd weapon just me. They are forget that they only have for the point, Jesus , must have Jesus. Now in the human mark cross for the center Feeling my very left carry sword I allowing my wings in my mind and I love the war as to the foreign is a master home before. Rescue the barristing new meeting and the Lord back to the narrow way patiently went down to Asking my penalty care for my dying, please do. And then turn over to 524 now, just a few pages back. We'll sing Saved by the Blood. We'll sing all three verses. My girl can say, I say , but I'm not going to be a good one. Say my love all of God who I want The angel rejoicing because I love Lorannoin, he palatta. I give welcome by girl. I say my heart, Save Baba , too , my heart, my And you may be seated. And we'll turn over to 512. Again, just a few pages over to 512. We'll sing the four verses of Redeemed, How I Love to Proclaim. Play that you want to We need that so how we envy, but knowing God I know that all my other Everything ring blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah. His common forever I am I think of my blessed redeemer I think of it all the day long I think for I cannot be silent What is the thing of my call? Redem , redeem, reading by the blood of the Lamb, redeem Read me this time forever I am I know I shall see an in beauty that king in my And give a break from the light. We did , we did, we live a lay. Good singing. Okay, well during missions month we've been showing uh videos from conversations with some of our missionaries, and uh this week we're actually not gonna do that. We're gonna take a pause from that. Um but uh some of our missionaries have had a little bit of trouble connecting with them but we are wanting to do conversations with them. So we're gonna kind of continue this at different times uh throughout the rest of the year on some Sunday nights we will uh do testimony time, on some Sunday nights we're gonna do conversations and uh in some of these situations I was able to uh speak with them and we had a great conversation but we weren't able to to do a short condensed recording. So I asked them to uh to do a short recording for us at another time, for instance with the Schlei lines. I was able to have a great uh time time uh chatting with Paul and uh I said uh you know send me uh an update and so I will be showing one of those. I also had a great uh conversation with Bruce Tuttle recently, and so we will be showing that one as well. So tonight what I'd like us to do is take a couple of minutes to give you an opportunity to share testimonies of how the Lord I mean Do not know this one. Play through once. All right, now over to the blue book, number thirty-six All right. I also do not know this one. Let's do this one one time through. Alright, let's sing it. All right, number fifty seven. There in your blue books 57. Spirit sword. I know this one. There is food from God on my door. La mito saada, la madri utensele , minkä olisemmele. All right, back to our Red Books for $193. It's not even Thanksgiving yet, and I should veto this. But we won't. Let's go ahead and sing. Angels from the realms of glory. And all the way to the front of your red book to hymn number one And let's stand as we sing the first and last of rejoice, the Lord is King. Rejoice the Lord in single than King of Lord. Rejoice gives dancing and part of the Lord. Live up your heart, live up your state, right? Come out Rejoice in glory as God our Lord has just And take it from eternal Left up your heart, left up your voice in joy thug and I tell me. Oh yeah, yeah, but you want And calm my husband with my place within your hand. Them and give my life to you. Here am I what you mean? Sang my life and morning. All I ever wanted And dawn sending them. And give my life to you every day. You give me grace My life can be here. Every day I'll give you I give my life for you. And don't mean that I will fail for you, I will prevent Lord, I give my life to you. Here I like use me. Take my life advice. Oh , I am to me. I give my life to the And all my hope can be blessed, please spend in my stand and give my life to him Well, I've really enjoyed the opportunity to spend some time. uh with the Laskowskis family and um thankful for the Lord allowing our paths to cross and just the opportunity to have encouraging fellowship And you know the the the scriptures that uh we've been working through in this study on uh the church at Ephesus, the church is I probably sat through and planned out what text I was going to deal with uh maybe two or three months before missions month And uh I didn't necessarily try to coordinate. That doesn't mean that the messages were done two or three months ago, but um you know I wasn't thinking of coordinating necessarily with different missions missionaries, but after listening to uh really what their burden is uh for the country of Lithuania and thinking about really the focus of our message this morning I saw just a great coordination and that's the Lord uh who is working in that way putting those pieces together And so I'm really thankful for that focus. And I'm also looking forward to hearing him preach the word this evening. I'm looking forward to the text that you're going to be dealing with. So, brother, come on up and open the word and preach the word to us. Good evening church. It's good to be back here. It's good to be back in the church. Thank you for being such a sub such a loving church for us already it feels like a family for us and uh we had a really great lunch uh with the pastors family and with uh some other families and um Uh we really enjoy uh being here. And uh so tonight I would like to open the word with you together. So please open with me uh Colossians Chapter four Colossi Colossians chapter four Colossians chapter four, and we are going to read verse Verses two, three, and four. Colossians chapter four, verses two, three, and four Verse 2 Continue in prayer and watch in the same with thanksgiving, withal praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds, that I may make it manifest as I as I ought to speak. Amen. Let's pray. Dear God, thank you. Thank you for your word. Thank you, God, that you give gave your word for us. Thank you that you you spoke to us, uh that we have this written word, that we can uh have it. can read it, we can understand it, and uh think it's so clear that we can really understand and not just understand but also that it changes our lives and that we can apply this word to our lives. So God help us to to really um understand your word today and uh to really be changed by our word and to really apply it to our lives. Thank you, God, that you are such a loving God. Thank you for the word. In Jesus' name. Amen. So as you see we're jumping in the middle of this uh of this layer. So to better grasp the author's intended meaning of this passage, let's take a look. At the context. Let's see the bigger picture first before we dive into the message of our passage tonight. So Paul, while he is in custody in Rome, writes this letter with such a love and compassion even though he has never been to this church himself to Colossian Church. The Colossian congregation was very young, most probably a home church The city of Colossae, where this church was located, once a rich city, at the moment, was in very bad shape. The economy in the city was changed when the new highway was laid, bypassing the city Also, this region experienced severe earthquakes, which devastated the city and forced people to leave. So the once rich and powerful city now was a dying country town. And it was not the end of their problems in that church. This church had not just external problems but also internal Internal problems. False teachings crept into the church. There were a few kinds of false teachings there, but they all had the same purpose. They misled people to believe that Christ is not enough for their salvation. and God the living. Four teachers said, yes, you need Christ plus something else. Christ is not enough. You need something else Overall, Colossians Church had economic unrest, geographical difficulties, and false teaching creeping into the church. This situation is so relevant for us today. What people in society is thinking these days. A few months ago it was gas prices, gas prices going over five dollars. Everyone is just talking about gas prices And all the difficulties, viruses , known virus, unknown virus. Uh it's just uh everyone is distracted. Many many difficulties in our society here Yeah. I think everyone can relate. Think about Europe. Europe at the moment economical difficulties no doubt. The prices is going up, geographical difficulties We have a war going on j going on just a few hundred miles from our home or the place where we are going to serve. So life is difficult in both Sides of the Atlantic Ocean. And it's astonishing to see how years and years go by, but the Bible becomes more and more relevant for us. No matter in what kind of circumstances Colossians Where or we are today, in the middle of this unrest, Paul steers everyone back to Christ. Back to what really, really matters. So in the light of this context of this unrest Paul's teaching, and uh the Paul is writing this letter and now in in in in the very end of this lair He's giving this passage. So let's read it again in this context. What he wants us to do in all this context. Let's read it again Verse two continue in prayer and watch in the same Me thanksgiving. We'd all praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds That I may make it manifest as I ought to speak. In our text today, Paul commands believers in Colossae to focus On prayer to continue with Thanksgiving in prayer, praying for Paul's ministry, that God would open doors for a clear gospel proclamation. Paul invites them to be his partner First of all, at the beginning of verse two We see that Paul's focus here is prayer. He says, continue in prayer. Paul commands Calsian believers to devote themselves to prayer. The word continue here is in present tense, meaning that Paul is expecting that this action will be done repeatedly, continuously, even in the matter of habits In other words, Paul commands believers to give constant attention to prayer in their lives, to have priority to pray in their life. Often our prayers are prayed on the fly before we get to the more important things in our life. But that is not right. We should continue and devote ourselves to prayer, which we Which must be a priority in our life. One of my professors in the college, in Appalachian Bible college, he challenged the students and asked a question. He said, Do you know why You're not praying? And the answer is because you're not planning to. Do we plan to pray? How we plan to pray in our everyday basis. Do we just pray on the fly or we actually plan to set aside the time and pray Now, looking at our passage expositing it, we clearly see Paul's desire for us to continue in prayer, to have priority to pray, to have a life marked by prayer. At the beginning of verse 2, Paul gives us the commandment to pray. It is clear Paul wants us to pray. After we know what to do, Paul instructs us how to pray. And when we pray, what to pray. So, first of all, I'll give you two ways how to pray. Two words on how to pray So first, verse two. Alertness in prayer. We're sticking notes. Alertness in prayer. Verse two. And uh verse three and four, partnership in prayer. Alertness in prayer and partnership in prayer. So let's take a look at the first way to continue. It's alertness in prayer. Paul says in verse two, continuing Prayer and watch in the same with Thanksgiving. He says, be watchful, keep alert in prayer, and always be ready. The word used here means to stay awake, to be alert. But what does it mean? It could mean multiple things since Paul did not clarify here. But I'll give you three things. Three things how to stay alert. How to stay alert in prayer? So first it could be a physical alertness in prayer. Since often we tend to drift off to sleep when we are praying because we We are praying in the in the late at night, we are praying in the in the morning and we just when we pray we we tend to fall asleep when we are praying. So so first The first one is pray when you pray. Pray when you pray. The second one, it could be the mental alertness. As we are tempted, even while praying, to turn our prayers in the prideful exaltation of ourselves or even complain to God. Sometimes we pray one thing and we are thinking another thing. So we have to be mentally alert. The second one is think about what you pray. think what about what uh uh think about what you pray. So first pray when you pray and then think about what you pray. And the third one it could be spiritual Awareness of the needs around you, both in your life and the life of others. Think about the needs of others, your brothers and sisters, family members. Maybe there is something in your life that would be addressed You have to be really spiritually alert of the needs of others and or the needs of you in your life. Maybe there's a sin in your life that can be addressed confess. The third one is oh wait. I go too far. Third one is praying for the need around you. So pray when you pray, think about you what what about you pray and pray for the needs around you This word watch in prayer or stay alert is used multiple times in the scriptures, including when Jesus exhorted his disciples to stay awake and pray. What they did. They fell asleep. They fell asleep. This word is used multiple multiple times since Scripture to exhort believers. In 1 Peter 5. 8, in the context of prayer, believers are commanded to be watchful about the devil who prowls around like a roaring lion. 1 Corinthians 16, 13. All believers are called to stay alert and watchful in their Christian walk, in Christian life. Acts 2031, even elders, pastors of the church are called to stay alert because wolves seek to come into the church. Pastors have to be watchful, alert, and guard the gates of the church We know from the previous chapters that the Colossian Church and a uh church had economical difficulties. practical difficulties and false teachings creeping into the church, it was very easy to get distracted to get distracted. It was very easy to lose focus. It's very easy for us. Paul says, stay alert and be watchful in prayer because there will be endless distractions. Focus on Christ, focus on ministry, focus on prayer in your life. The idea is here not that the believer should pray with intensity when they pray, but that they should pray habitually, with alertness. We have to be alert in our prayers. And yet I believe there is more here than this. I believe that Paul is ultimately talking about being alert in prayer as it relates relates to the soon coming. of Christ. This prayer will not only be watchful, but it will also be a eschatological or heavenly prayer. As Paul prayed in 1 Corinthians 16 and John prayed in Revelation 22, we should be praying with an eye to the sky all the time. Every prayer should end with the words Maranatha. The Lord, please come. I believe this reality staying alert in prayer and praying for the return of Christ is seen in the thankfulness. the prayer as well. Last part of Colossians chapter four verse two says, and watch in the same with thanksgiving. Thanksgiving in the prayer is very important to our prayers. How easy is to become defeated in our prayers if every prayer is totally desperate plea of deliverance or constant cry for Help we have to be thankful in our prayers as well. Thanksgiving helps us see clearly even in the difficult Times. Gratitude is essential to spiritual survival in this wicked world. Paul himself persisted through a life marked by great pain and persecution. because he was already thankful for his future life with his Savior Jesus Christ. As you drive a car, you always pay attention See what's going on around you. In the same way, you have to be watchful in your prayer life and pray with thankfulness and ultimate hope to spend your eternity with your Savior. Life is short and we know that. You should pray with eternity in your mind. Focus on eternal things, not on temporal things. So the first mark on how to devote yourself to prayer is alertness in prayer. Be alert in prayer. Paul now moves from talking about believers' personal prayer life to talking about how believers can and must partner with him in gospel ministry through prayer. So the second mark on how to devote yourself to prayer is partnership in prayer. Partnership in prayer Let's read the verse three. Colossians chapter four, verse three. Withal praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance to speak Seek the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bond So as Paul said in Colossians chapter one, that he is praying for the Colossian church, and now Paul is asking them to pray. Paul is asking believers when they pray to remember to pray for Paul and others in his gospel ministry. So it's like a book ends of the book of Colossians In the beginning he says I'm praying for you in the end says pray for my ministry. So it's beautiful. So we just saw how to pray Be alert in prayer and pray for Paul's ministry. Now we will see what to pray. So Paul says, pray, and he says, when you pray, be alert, pray for my ministry, and when you do that. Now I'll I'll I'll let you know what's the content of that prayer, what you have to pray. What to pray? When we pray. First, pray for open doors for the gospel. He says, pray for open doors. Doors for the gospel. Second, pray for the clarity of the gospel. Pray for clarity of the gospel. The first one is focused on God who will be opening the doors for the gospel gospel while the second one is focusing on Paul who will be proclaiming the gospel. So first thing what to pray is pray for open Open doors for the gospel. Verse 3. With all praying also for us that God would open unto us a door of utterance Paul is asking believers to pray that God would open the doors for the gospel. Paul does not expect open the doors himself, but he expects God supernaturally to open doors for the gospel Paul knows very well from his ministry experience that only God can open doors. So please open with me. Acts chapter 16. Chapter sixteen. We're going to read verses six, seven and ten. Acts sixteen, verses six, seven, and ten. We will see how Paul experienced open and closed the doors in his ministry. And just God. Acts sixteen, verses six, seven, and ten. Verse six. Now when they had gone throughout Prigia and the reason After they were come to Mysia, they essayed to go to Bithynia, but the spirit Suffer them not. God closed the doors. And after he had seen the vision, immediately he endeavored to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us For to preach the gospel unto them. Open doors. So got so Paul is trying one direction, Paul is trying another, third, he's trying many directions until God opens the door. Doors. Paul has no power whatsoever to open the doors. Ultimately, he has no power to open men's heart to the gospel. That is why he's asking Colossians to pray. To God to open doors. God knows when and how to open it. So Paul asks for the opportunity to speak. He prays for sovereign intervention I love the lesson learned from this request. Paul understands that opportunity for the gospel and the fruit of the gospel rests ultimately upon the sovereign intervention of God. Unless God opens the doors of the heart, man will not believe. Unless God opens the doors of the mind, man will never see the need of the Savior. Unless God opens the door for the ministry, ministers cannot and will not go. Notice Paul does not pray that a door would be open for him. He prays door would be open for the word, for the utterance. Paul understood that gospel ministry ultimately rested in sovereign providence of God and the power of his word rightfully proclaimed faith comes by hearing and hearing by the word of God. He also understood that he was not the message, but Christ was the message. He prays for an open doors for the word that Christ may be proclaimed, and this proclaiming of Christ landed him in prison. And even though Paul is in prison, he's not asking to change his circumstances there. To Paul and open doors to reach others with the gospel is more important than open prison doors. He understood that even though he was bound in chains, the word of God was not bound. Second Timothy two nine So the first thing Paul asks from jail is to pray that God would open doors. Jail doors? No. That God would open open doors doors. for the word for the gospel. So the second thing he has to pray is pray for the clarity of the the gospel. Praying for the clarity of the gospel. Verse four. Let's read verse four He says that I may make it manifest as I ought to speak Paul has a desire that his proclamation of the gospel will be understandable and clear for the hearers. He wants to speak clearly, but also that his audience would understand. Paul is praying for the heart of the listeners and the mouth of the speaker. He also asked Colossians to pray for open doors and for the clarity of the gospel. So I like this balance made here that Paul totally depends on God's sovereignty in this process, but at the same time he takes the full responsibility. to proclaim the gospel. It's amazing. We just read, he says, as I ought to speak, as I should to speak. In other words, he says it is necessary I must do it. Woe is unto me if I preach not the gospel. This is Paul's heart, the gospel 's ministry. Paul trusts sovereign God to open doors, and at the same time, when the doors is open, Paul is going with the gospel. We just heard and read how Paul asked the church to pray. For his gospel ministry. He invites them to be his partners in prayer. So, do you think God answered this prayer? You think God answered the Colossian prayer and in Paul's ministry? I think God answered this prayer in many ways. I found three ways that for me look like very significant. So the first one. Uh Paul was in custody for two years then. At that time he had time to write his prison epistles. When we have more time than being in prison So he wrote the book of Colossians, Ephesians, Philippians and Philemon. Can you imagine what unbelievable impact those books did in those two thousand years? Years after they were written. And even today we have a clear gospel proclamation in our hands. So this is how God opened the doors for the gospel, even through his word that Paul said. wrote. Second, during his imprisonment, Paul was guarded by endless number of Roman soldiers, and I'm sure each of them was exposed to the gospel. Paul says in Philippians 1:13, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places. There will be no possible way that the preacher can go and preach the gospel for Roman soldiers. They were enemies of the land. And he was inside of their camp preaching the gospel there. And no one can do nothing. Just hear the gospel. Believe. Bring that to their families. Unbelievable. This is open doors when God opens doors. You just like wow That 's it. No one else can do that. Third, Paul's arrest was not restrict, so he was allowed to have a visitors there So what do you think if you would be Paul, what you would do if men comes to you in the prison, you train them You train them. Even though you are in prison, the man who is helping you, who are trained by you, goes and preaches the gospel because you cannot. You are in prison prison but you train them to go. So I believe that he does that as well. And I think the clearest manifestation of how God answered this prayer is found in the last two verses of So please open with me Acts uh uh chapter twenty-eight. Acts chapter twenty-eight. Verses thirty and thirty one. We 'll see how go how God opens doors for the Gospel. Acts twenty eight, verses thirty thirty-one. Verse thirty. And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house and received Now listen, preaching the kingdom of God and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ with all confidence, no one forbidding him. God opened the doors for the gospel. Do you know what happens when God opens doors opens doors for the gospel? Listen Paul was preaching the kingdom of God and teaching those things which concerned the Lord Jesus Christ, being in custody with all confidence, no man forbidding him. That is open doors. Doors is wide open. So Paul asked Colossians to pray, and God answered this prayer. Let us a model of a faithful partnership in prayer. So how we can apply everything we just heard today in our lives. So don't assume doors will be open for the gospel. Pray to God to open doors. God is sovereign in this process. You are not able to manipulate people into salvation. So if God is sovereign, so what we can do? First thing, pray for the open hearts. Pray. Pray for the open hearts. Pray for God to open doors and pray for the opportunity to share the gospel. Pray for open hearts of the people. Second, pray for the mouse. Pray for the mouse. Be bold and ready to proclaim the gospel when the doors will be open. Gospel is clear. We tend to Make it difficult. Pray that God would give you words and wisdom to be clear when He gives you opportunity. So pray for the heart hearts of the people. So my family and I are following into the footsteps of Paul, I'm asking your church to serve alongside us to be our partners in prayer I'm asking you to devote yourself and continue in prayer and pray for our ministry in Lithuania. So while you're praying, I'll tell you what to pray. I'll tell you what to pray. So the first thing, what you pray when you pray for our ministry. Pray for open hearts of the Lithuanian people. Pray for the open hearts of Lithuanian people. Pray that Lithuanian people will be hungry for truth, that they will be open for the gospel, that they will be ready to hear the word of God. Hear the gospel. So pray for the open hearts of Lithuanian people. Two, pray for the boldness and clarity proclaiming the gospel. Pray for the boldness and clarity proclaiming the gospel. As you know Lithuania is uh one of the most atheistic countries in Europe is the last pagan country in in Europe and uh uh it's really really uh uh godless country So the ground is rough, but God can open the doors. God can open the doors for us to proclaim the gospel. So so please pray for us that we will be bold. When God gives us us opportunity when God gives us the uh chance to preach the gospel that we'll be ready and bold to do that. And third thing Pray for the partners in ministry. Pray for the partners in ministry. Pray that God would bring us all the prayer and financial partners that we need for the ministry. pray for partners in our ministry that we really need it. So we are inviting you to pray for our ministry in Lithuania And we are already excited to see how God is going to answer your prayer in our ministry in Lithuania. Let's pray. Dear God, thank you for your word. Thank you that it's so clear. Thank you that we can just read it. Can you can understand it? You want us to understand it? And please help us to to be changed by our word. Help us to to apply our work to our our lives and uh we are praying God for for people for people's hearts only you can open their hearts only you can open hearts in this community in uh in the in Baltimore and all around the cities God and you can open hearts for our neighbors and we're just praying God you open hearts here in this neighborhood, United States, and also open hearts in Lithuania in Europe. And also God, we are praying for open mouths. Please help us to really God be bold and share the only hope that people have in their life, which is our Savior and Lord Jesus Christ. Please help us God to be Be bold. Thank you, God, that you love us. Thank you for your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you. Thank you so much for that challenge. I mean, think about this. Here's a man that was in prison for two years. And uh in that time, he couldn't leave that place. So what does he do? He writes letters that we're reading today. I mean think about how many people's lives have been radically changed by reading the epistles he wrote while he was in prison. He was able to witness to people that he could have never gone to their house and knocked on their door and said, Hey, I want to give you the gospel. They didn't have anywhere to go And they couldn't legally kill him while they were guarding him. Go figure. There were people that came to visit him because he had the freedom to do that. And the truth is that a lot of us do not even take a moment to say, God, open a door. of utterance to proclaim the gospel and help me to actually step up and do it. And I want to challenge you this week. Say, well I I stay up Well why don't you just ask the Lord to give you an opportunity? You have no idea what he's gonna do. Might be when you're at the store, might be Somebody that knocks on your door. Maybe somebody that sends you a Facebook message. You have no idea. I mean, God's big enough to do it the way He wants to do it. Who knows what He's going to do? So I really want to challenge you. Say good God this week, just open a door, help me have the courage to take it, and when I do, to be clear. What happens after that is completely in your hands. And obviously Obviously we want to see people trust Christ. There's no question about that. We can't manipulate them into the kingdom. God's got it work in their heart. But that's a simple prayer. Thank you for that great challenge. I really appreciate it. appreciate that a lot. Let's go ahead and uh pull out our hymn books for our closing hymn and that is hymn 430 Lord I need I need you to open doors. I need you to give me boldness. I need you to give me clarity. That's that's what we're saying. Let's stand together, please. Let's sing him 430, verses 1 and 2. And then if the Laskowskis can be in the back at your table, we'll stop by and encourage in the Lord fellowship with you. And they do live pretty local. So if you want to connect with them at another time, well invite them over. Have them to your home. Very sweet family. We had a great time. So take advantage of that opportunity. Hymn four hundred thirty, Lord, I need you. Sometimes when life seems gentle and glad things but my way I turn my gaze away from you and choose for yet to pray. But when the sky grows darker and returns to fear, my anxious voice cries upward His birth belong to here, for I need you When the sea of life is from what I need you. When the wind is growing strong , the style comes or cease Be always on my knees, Lord I need you, Lord I leave Lord, help me to remember. I'm weak, but you are strong. I cannot sing apart from you. For long you are my shallow I love on there. And boast in all I do, Lord, keep my life turned upward, so I depend on you What I need you, and the sea of life is calm, oh what I need you And talking is going strong, let that time you come on season Just a random thought that popped into my head. It's dangerous to say things like this sometimes. But do you realize that when this song was written by Ron Hamilton in 1988 Lithuania was a communist country. Churches could not legally assemble, and this family is here tonight. Because God in His kindness tore down that oppression, and missionaries were able to go in in the early 1990s And preach the gospel. And these two, their parents placed their faith in Christ. They their parents were first generation Christians. And And uh that's just really a neat thing to think about. 1988, when this song was written, that was a communist country, and people were not able to assemble And uh thank God for his his mercies and the opportunity that they have to go back and to preach Christ and work with uh nationals. And by the way, that's that's all of Eastern Europe. That's all those countries. They were under communist oppression. So Doug, can you come and close us in prayer tonight? And it's good to see everyone out. I hope that you'll be a real Encouragement to this family. Gracious and heavenly Father, we thank you so much for this evening. Thank you for the Las Koscas coming, sharing the gospel with us. Thank you for such a poignant message to uh help them in their ministry as as uh Paul was very encouraging to the Colossians. We we thank you for his admonishments. The letter he wrote from prison that we can use so freely. In the United States and around the world to spread the gospel, to give us encouragement, that uh you are in charge. You are God Almighty And through divine appointments, we can share the gospel wherever we might find ourselves, using whatever means possible, you can open the hearts and minds of uh someone to receive the gospel and receive Christ as their Savior. Thank you for a wonderful Missions Month. Thank you for the preachment tonight. We ask to be dismissed at this point in time to our humble abodes, for it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen.