Okay, our topic this morning is what beliefs about God cannot be compromised? What beliefs about God cannot be compromised? I think if we sat down and we answered that question, we could probably come up with a list of things But what I want to do today is I want to simply focus on the one essential element that is mentioned in our church constitution under the doctrinal section. So if you had your church constitution in front of you, which you don't, but I do, right here, okay, this is Article II section on doctrinal statements And I read, we believe in one God, eternally existing in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. We believe in one God, eternally existing in three in three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. I want to ask this question this morning. Do you feel that you can comprehend God? Do you feel that you can comprehend God? To what extent are you limited? Can you give me a couple of ways that we are limited in our ability to comprehend God? Yeah, well not a specific aspect of God that we don't comprehend I'm going to mention a few of those. But why is it that we don't have the ability to fully comprehend God? Why is it not saying in regards to humanity? Yes. Great. So everything that we understand, to get that understanding We often have to compare it to something that illustrates it for us and then we're like, oh I get it. And especially as a teacher, you really work to do that. Yeah, great. That's a great a great point. Anything else Yes. We don't have the experience, we want to think just to understand what is beyond us. Sure. Seeing the uh YouTube video of like the second dimension versus the third dimension. Yeah. The second dimension not even being Yeah, like that really correlates to us being able to understand. So so imagine taking somebody from the seventeenth century and planting them here and explaining to them 3D printing. They'd be like, 3D printing, that that is a thing? Sure, it's a thing. I remember trying to have Billy explain to me 3D pensing. And I was like, whoa, this is really intense stuff. The truth is that our ability to comprehend things is dependent on several things. One is how much time we have to think about the issue. One is how much of the information we have, sometimes just missing one or two pieces, and all of a sudden we don't get it There's also the idea of analogy. Do we have something that we can compare this to to help us to understand that? There's also another factor, our ability to comprehend. Okay? It's just a a known fact that we're not all equally capable of comprehending certain things. So you can put one person in a mathematics class and to them it's a piece of cake You take another person, put them in the same class, and they're like, whoa, I don't get this at all. And then, you know, that's just one level of mathematics. So our ability to comprehend, our ability to focus, our ability to categorize and calculog and put it all together in our minds, we don't all have that ability equally. The fact is, when we come to this particular topic, we have to recognize something. We have limitations. We have limitations in our ability to comprehend To understand, to probe the depths of these truths, and we are also dealing with someone who is infinite, not finite. Very important. In fact, the scriptures give us a lot of examples. There are a lot of uh verses that talk about this. Psalm 145, 3 says, Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. His greatness is unsearchable. Now that doesn't mean that we don't search for his greatness to comprehend and understand it. It means that you cannot probe the depths. And the breadth and the height of God's greatness. It is a topic, it is a, we could say, an area of study that you'll never fully comprehend. It's impossible. We have another passage, Ephesians 3. 8. It says, Unto me, who am less than the least of all the apostles, is this grace given that I should preach among the Gentiles. I love the statement. The unsearchable riches of Christ. So Paul is basically saying, my job is to preach a message that you cannot fully grasp. You will never be able to probe the depths of this topic, the things that I am preaching. Romans eleven thirty-three At the end of that chapter 9, 10, 11 section, he says, O the deaths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments! And his ways past finding out. There are certain categories in our study of God that we just cannot fully grasp. In fact We can't even begin to probe the surface of some of these things. And so it's important for us to keep that in our minds when we come to the topic that we are addressing this morning. I think of God's eternality. He has no beginning or ending. Do you know anything in this world that has no beginning? And no ending? We don't. So that issue of comparison is it's out of the picture there. We can't do that. God created time. He's not contained by time. He's not dependent on time. We have the independence of God. Do you know anything in this world that is not dependent on somebody or something? There is none. I mean we are dependent upon God for everything. Our ability to be maintained, to stay here, to be healthy, to be strong. We're dependent, and if you stop eating, what happens to you? If you don't sleep for a certain period of time, what happens to you? You know, if you go into a place where you don't have the ability to breathe for two minutes, what happens to you? We are dependent preachers. He is infinite. He's without bounds. He is immutable. He's unchangeable. Anybody here like that? You're like, nope. We all change, but God doesn't. So we don't have the ability to take those aspects of God's character, his perfections, his nature And compare them to something in our universe because he is beyond those things. Then we have his omnipotence His omniscience, the fact that he knows everything, his omnipresence, he is all present. His sovereignty, the extent and application of this rule over all things. You know, God's providence is a wonderful thing for us to reflect on, but let's be honest, nobody fully understands how God governs this world and how he works in our lives. We get pieces of that over the course of our lives. We wonder in amazement as we see the hand of God at work in our lives. But we don't fully grasp it. Nobody does. So let's keep this in the forefront of our minds as we come to this topic of the Trinity, if you will. Trinitarian doctrine. Here's my question. Is Trinitarian doctrine important? It should have a question mark. In the notes, it does have a question mark, at least in my my variety. Okay. I work on a lot of material throughout the week for Sunday. So So you you're is it an important doctrine for us to wrestle with You say yes, no? On a scale of zero meaning not important at all, hundred meaning absolutely important, 50-50, what would you say? A thousand? Whoa. That's a number beyond a hundred percent. It's very important. It's very important. So the question that I have is why? Why is this doctrine so important? And as we get into the text, and I and I I want to spend a lot of time in the scriptures here. And I would encourage you, especially when you think about people you may relate to who have questions in these areas, I would encourage you to write down some of these scriptures, go back to them, read them Comprehend as best as you can what they're saying, and then you present them to people and say, What is God saying here? You know, let the scripture speak for itself. Yes. You say, watch, the first one will be because That's what the Bible teaches. Great statement. Great statement. And the reason that we believe this, to the degree to which we can understand it, is because God states this is how it is And there are times, even when we deal with our children, where they say, why daddy? And you say, because I'm daddy, and I said that that's how it is. And sometimes like, well that's not fair. Doesn't matter if it's fair or not. That's how it is. Okay? And there are times that you get down on their level and you explain to them things. As they get older, you start giving them more explanations so they begin to learn how to reason through things Sometimes they can't comprehend it. Because God said this is how it is, it's what it is. He's stating reality. Okay? Very good. So let me give you a couple of things. The scriptures are very clear about idolatry. The Bible forbids idolatry and calls worshiping anything except God who created the universe idolatry. The Ten Commandments, thou shalt have no other gods before me. Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image or any likeness of anything in heaven above, earth beneath, or the waters under the earth The very first of the can the Ten Commandments was don't have any other God before me and don't make any other graven image. In fact, half of the Ten Commandments are dealing with how we relate to God and how we view Him. And then after that it flows into how we view others. But we need to understand that the God that we are worshiping is not an imagination, if you will, an idol, but this is how God actually is. This is who he says he is. Yes. Oh yeah, and we're gonna get into that. Don't worry, Doris, we're gonna get well into that. Okay. Yes, we are not polytheist. We believe in one God. Absolutely. But we need to understand the distinctive elements of the between the persons. Okay? Unity and diversity in a different sense, if you will, dealing with the same individual. Okay? So we need to make sure that we are not idol worshippers, too. It actually does fall into the category of the nature of our salvation. Okay? Our salvation is all the work of God, not the work of God's. Okay? And uh we have several scriptures. Go to Romans 8. I'm not encouraging you to go there right now. Read through that text and take note of how many times it talks about the Father's role in our salvation. The Son's role in our salvation and the Spirit's role in our salvation. We are saved by God, not The Father God, and then the Son God, and then the Spirit God. We're not saved by three different gods. Our salvation is the work of God. Yet clearly the Son had a specific role in our salvation. If he didn't die on the cross, we couldn't be saved. If he didn't rise from the dead, we couldn't be saved. The Father had a specific role before the foundation of the world. Before he even created Adam, he already had a plan of redemption. He had determined what would take place in order for us to be safe. Okay? Very, very important. We have the Spirit. If it wasn't for the Spirit's work in our hearts through the preaching of the gospel , We couldn't be saved. If it wasn't for the Spirit sealing us and making us, we could say, God's possession, we would not have that security, that confidence that once we're saved, we'll be lost down the road. And the Spirit has a very, very important role in our salvation. So in Romans chapter 8, Ephesians chapter 1, we see those things laid out in a lot of detail. 1 Peter 1, 2. I'll just read the text. So that you can see all three persons are mentioned. Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father. There is the Father's role in our salvation. And sanctification by the Spirit. So the Holy Spirit sets us apart and focuses his attention on us. And eventually through the preaching of the gospel, we place our faith in Christ. He indwells us, he gives us new life, and he begins to work in our heart through sanctification. The Spirit's mentioned there From obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ. The Son who died for our sins is the one who purchased our salvation. So just in that one little verse, we see that Father, Son, and Spirit were all mentioned as playing an integral part in our salvation. If we don't embrace Trinitarian doctrine, then we have a problem. Either we're saying that three gods had a part in our salvation, or one of them is God, and two of them are the agents that God used, if you will, or we could say you get what I'm saying. You have to be able to explain this thing. Or a greater God means lesser God. None of those are what the Bible teaches about our salvation. So the Father initiated our salvation, the Son provided the full payment. And the Spirit calls us to faith in Christ for the gospel. He places us into the body of Christ. He seals us as God's possession. He indwells us as the down payment guaranteeing. uh our glorification and he sanctifies us, perfecting us in holiness. All three persons of the Godhead play an important role. Yes? Did you mention the person Oh, I can mention many other scriptures. If I don't mention a scripture that you know, it's not because I'm trying to leave it out, it's because there's so many We'd be here for weeks if I went through all of them. One God. Yeah. I do believe that we will that will be a text that we mention probably next Sunday. I do have that in there, I believe, in my notes. Because I'm going to look at some Old Testament passages that we could say give us, I'll call them Trinitarian passages. And then we have some New Testament Trinitarian passages. And then we have those passages that talk about the distinction between the Father and the Son. So maybe they're not focusing on the Holy Spirit, but we recognize Father and Son are both called God, yet we see the distinction of person, and we see lots of them, especially in the Old Testament. So I really want to focus our attention on some of those as well. So there's a lot of tools that you're going to have here when we get done. A lot of tools. More than you need, really. But but I want to give you a good foundation so you can think through these things. Our belief about Christ is central to our salvation. Now, I remember having a conversation with uh with an individual some years ago, and we were discussing uh one of the presidential candidates, Mitt Romney. Now he's a Mormon. And I remember this person was like, well, you can't tell me that Mitt Romney 's not a Christian. You know, he believes in the Bible, he believes in Jesus, he believes in God. And I said, well, I don't know Mitt Romney personally, so I can't tell you I know what he believes about Christ But I can tell you this, he has to believe that Jesus Christ is God in the flesh. That is an integral role, part of our salvation. That is part of what it means to place your faith in Christ. And so I don't know personally what he believes. I never sat down and talked to him. I've not heard a conversation where he maybe there are some out there, I don't know But that's an integral part of our faith in Christ. We have to believe it. It's part of the object of our faith. In John chapter 8, Jesus makes this statement. If ye do not believe that I am He, you will die in your sins. Now it's kind of interesting. Sometimes people say, does Jesus ever like use the phrase I am God? And I'll say, no, he never does. Why is that? Because to the Jewish mind, that really wasn't the way that they would have looked at that statement of I am God. What Jesus rather did was he demonstrated that he was Jehovah in flesh Okay? And so he was not just God or a God. He is the creator God, the covenant God of Israel. And so the book of John is full of demonstrations of that. And so when we come to this passage, John 8. 24, and he says, if ye do not believe that I am He, ye will die in your sins. That is a direct statement. Dealing with his connection to the I am statements of the Old Testament. It's kind of interesting. If you're looking at the Greek text, it's basically saying if you do not believe that I am You'll die in your sins. If you look down in your in your English translation, you'll see it's in italics. That means the word he has been inserted, not because they're trying to twist the word of God, but because it's inserted just for clarity in English. But what it tells you is that the Greek phrase underlying that statement, I am he, is ego me, which is the exact same Greek statement that is when when Moses says, tell them that I am a sinner. It's the exact same phrase. Or when he says before Abraham was I am , exact same, exact same statement. And then they picked up stones and wanted to kill him. So Jesus is saying that you have to embrace that I am God in the flesh. That I am the covenant God of Israel, Jehovah Yahweh, however you want to pronounce that. We don't technically know how to pronounce it. There's an explanation for that. But we have to understand who he is and embrace that. And one of the reasons that they crucified Christ was because they were rejecting that Jesus is God in the flesh. Very, very important. Jesus received, uh receiving Jesus is an essential part of the gospel. In John 1, he he said, as many as received him To them he gave the right to be called the children of God, even to them that believe on his name. And when we when we think of that word receive, I think in our cultural setting We tend to think of, oh, well, you need to ask Jesus to save you, and that's what we mean by receive. But I want you to think of it in the way that he was using it in that time period. So Jesus is walking amongst people, he's preaching, he's teaching, he's performing miracles, and people are analyzing his ministry, they're analyzing what he's saying, they're analyzing what he's doing, and they're comparing that to what the Old Testament prophets say about the Messiah. And there were people who made a calculated decision to reject the Messiah. They wanted no part of him. They didn't follow him. They didn't believe on him. There were others who received him. They said, this is the Messiah. I believe the message. And so a very, very, we could say central part of when people were receiving and rejecting Christ During that time period, it was connected to what they believed about his person, who he was. Jesus received worship from men, and we see several examples of that. The most prominent is Thomas When he gets down on his knees and he says, My Lord and my God, that is one of the climaxes of the book of John, if you will. John is writing that you'll believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God, that by believing you have life in his name And that statement is made right after the section where Thomas falls on his hands and he says, you are my Lord and my God. Okay? Jesus received worship and he didn't tell people, oh, you don't worship me. No, he received it because he is God in the flesh. Jesus made statements that only God could make. For instance, he said, I forgive your sin And the people said, only God can forgive sin. He's like, that's the point. He said, I am the Lord of the Sabbath. And they're like, How dare you say that? The Sabbath was created by God. And he's like That's my point. Okay? So, you know, he says, I'm the good shepherd, and they go, wait a minute, God says he's Israel's good shepherd. And he says That's the point. Okay? So we can go through a lot of those kinds of statements before Abraham was I am only God's eternal. It's like That's the point. Okay? So Jesus makes these statements that only God rightly can make He was crucified because the Jews accused him of being equal with God. That's the bottom line, really. Only God has the right to get glory in our salvation. not a mere human. And so these are just a couple of the reasons that this doctrine is important. So what I'd like us to do now is I'd like us to get into some Old Testament text. I want you to have your Bible handy. I want you to look down at these scriptures because these are wonderful, wonderful texts. that perhaps you've never even looked at. You've never even thought things these things through. And when you go to them you're like, oh, that makes sense all of a sudden. I never noticed that before. So first of all, let's go In our Bibles to Isaiah 7. 14. Now this is one I'm sure that you're aware of, okay? I'm sure you're familiar with Isaiah 7. 14. And this first section of scriptures is all going to be focused on statements that Isaiah made about the Messiah, who is coming to save his people from their sins. So Isaiah 7. 14 says this. The Lord himself shall give you a sign. Behold, a virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and shall call his name Emmanuel. Now, when we go to Matthew, he tells us what that word Emmanuel means. What does Emmanuel mean? God with us. Now, have you ever met somebody named Emmanuel? I've had somebody named Emmanuel before, yeah. Okay. When they are being named Emmanuel, I don't think that their mother was saying, Oh, this is God with us. I don't think they're thinking that, okay? I don't know, maybe As soon as they raised that child, they realized that isn't true for any length of time. But when Jesus' name is called Emmanuel, God with us, there was significance to that name Because it was basically saying we're calling him this because that is who he is. Very, very important. Turn with me in your Bibles to Isaiah 9, 6, and 7. And I I love this text. Now please realize that when I go to some of these scriptures, I won't read the entire section. I will just hit sort of the highlights. So if I'm skipping over a portion of that don't think it's because I think it's unimportant, okay? Or that I don't believe it belongs there. It's not true. Didn't cross it out or anything like that. Um I'm simply passing over it because I'm trying to emphasize a certain aspect. of what is being emphasized in the passage. So Isaiah 9, 6 and 7 says this. Unto us a child is born Unto us the Son is given, the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, next phrase, the Mighty God. The mighty God. And by the way, the next phrase, the everlasting Father, Prince of Peace, when he uses the term the everlasting father, don't think that he's referring to God the Father, he's referring to the nature of the Messiah's relationship to his people. Okay? That's the idea. So he has a fatherly relationship to them. But he calls him the mighty God. You know, if you're a Jewish person living under the old covenant and you read that verse, you should be in your mind going, okay, the Messiah who is coming is going to be God in the flesh. That's who he is. For instance, we go to another passage, Isaiah 40, verses 3 to 11. And and by the way, for us living under the new covenant, having our New Testaments and knowing the the story of Christ in the gospels and and and and knowing those various interactions, being well versed in those things, when we go back to these Old Testament passages The light just goes bing, it makes good sense. For them, it was there. They should have potentially been able to see it. But the ability to see it would not have been as clear for them as it is for us. So we should definitely keep that in their mind. Isaiah 40, verses 3 to 11. Isaiah writes, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. Now, notice in your Bibles that that word Lord is all cast. Can anybody explain to me why that's significant? Being in all caps. Yes, it's a reference to Yahweh, the covenant God of Israel. So whenever we're reading in our Old Testament and we see capital L-O-R-D, all caps, then if we were looking at it in a Hebrew text, we would realize that that is the term Chiawe, or as they would say to the Jews, Heshem, okay, the name. They didn't actually pronounce his name. because of the reverence and the fear of taking it in vain, if you will. And that's why there's not clarity on how we actually pronounce the name But when we see that term capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, it's letting us know in our English that that is the term for God's covenant name. So when he says The voice of one crying in the wilderness, who's that referring to? It's referring to John the Baptist, okay? Prepared the way of Yahweh, if you will. Who is that referring to? It's referring to who? It's referring to Christ, the Messiah. Now let me ask you, how is that thing efficient? If John the Baptist was preparing the way for Ichawe, and that's Jesus Christ, then what is that saying about Jesus Do you get what I'm saying? He's God in the flesh. But in case you don't understand that that's what he's saying, he continues on. He says, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Very clear statement about who Christ is. The glory of the Lord, and that's capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D, shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together. The mouth of the Lord has spoken. Say to the cities of Judah, Behold your gods. Behold the Lord God. Is that not a very obvious statement on who Christ is and who the Jews should be anticipating So when Jesus says, before Abraham was I am, or if you do not believe that I am, you will die in your sins. The Jews should have been like, okay, so you fulfill that text then. John the Baptist was the one who was preparing the way for the Lord. That's who you are. You see the connection there. And so the Jews should have recognized that. Many did, many did not. And so when when when Paul is going to Tarsus, asks Saul, okay, his Greek name, when he is going to Tarsus to bring those Christians back to Jerusalem, And he meets Christ on the road. You know, all those texts were familiar to Paul. And so when he recognizes That's the fulfillment. It wasn't like he had to go and learn all these things. It was like, boom, that last piece of the puzzle was there, and now he's in a position to begin teaching. Because that was the piece he didn't understand, but that was the piece he was rejecting. We go to another passage, Isaiah 44, 6. You can go ahead and turn there. Isaiah 44, 6. Thus says the Lord, and that's Yahweh, the King of Israel, and his Redeemer, the Lord of hosts. I am the first, I am the last, and besides me there is no God. Does anybody know where in the Old Testament that particular text is referenced? In the in the New Testament, where is that passage referenced? Yes. Jesus says, I am the often, the mega, the beginning, the end, I am the first, I am the last, the one that is, that is to come. When Jesus says that, you not understand the significance of that statement. Because when we look at this passage, he says Thus says Yahweh, the King of Israel, the Redeemer, the Lord of hosts. I am first, I am the last, beside me there is no God. A clear statement to the fact that Jesus is saying, I'm the only God. Boom, simple, clear. Again, another statement. Isaiah 48, 16. This will be the last Isaiah passage that we will reference. But he says in Isaiah 48, 16, I have not spoken in secret from the beginning, from the time that it was, I was there. And now the Lord God and His Spirit have sent me. Okay. Question Who is sending who here? Okay. Who is sending who here? The Lord God and his Spirit have sent me. Is there not a distinction of person in that passage? Somebody is saying you. Who is saying, thus says the Lord Okay, I have not spoken in secret, and now the Lord God and his Spirit have sent me. Obviously, we have three people right there who are being spoken of, three individual persons being spoken of in that text. We have somebody speaking, we have somebody sending, and we have somebody who is being sent. And if you will, that passage is a Trinitarian passage. We have the Father, the Son, and the Spirit really all being referenced in this text And at the same time, we have this other passage before that says, beside me there's no God. So what do we see? We see that there is one God. We don't see a polytheistic presentation. in the Old Testament, yet we see a distinction of person. So if we just took Isaiah the prophet, we didn't look at any other Old Testament passages, only Isaiah. We would say that Isaiah believed, and not only believed, but wrote into the inspiration of Scripture, that there is one and only one God. And that one and only one God exists in three distinct persons. One could be referred to as the Son quite clearly, one could be referred to as the Spirit quite clearly, and while he doesn't use the term Father, that would also be understood there So we can even see that the Trinitarian doctrine is something that we can formulate or we can understand from the Old Testament. If all we had was Isaiah the prophet That's all we have. If the only thing you had is the book of Isaiah, you can know how to be saved. You can understand that this doctrine is taught in the scriptures. You could understand that. So let me pause for a moment and see if there's any questions before we jump into a couple of other texts. Yes. Based on what you said, I have a question. Sure. So is Father, Son, and Spirit just for our comprehension? of God? What is it built in? A father, a son , a spirit. Okay, well it's not a father, son, and spirit in the biological sense Okay. And this is this is something where some people say, okay, this concept makes no sense because if you're saying that the father and the son, if there is a biological relationship there, then then obviously the son had to have a moment that he was conceived and born. And then from that you'll get into these questions about, okay, so Mary gave birth to Jesus. He hadn't a human father. So his father was really God the Father. And they start looking at it in a biological sense. And that is wrong. That is not what the Bible teaches I mean let's remember the father 's a spirit, okay? You have no biological issues there when you're dealing with a spirit being. He's not he doesn't have a physical body. You cannot see the Father, okay? You can see his glory. You can't see him in a body because he has them. And when we refer to the spirit, it would be the same way. Of the three persons of the Godhead, only one has a body, and that's because he is God in flesh. And we're talking about a person who is fully God and fully man at the same time. Okay? But don't think in terms of biology, because that's not how it's meant. And and it breaks down. If if there's a biological relationship between God the Father and God the Son, then Jesus is a created being. So it's not a purpose of calling Father or something. It's it's it's dealing with okay, Doug Well it's it's a certain It's indicating relationship. Sure. Uh that's fair. We cannot comprehend pulling the the Trinity doctrine. So God is using an analogy to handle more those Use a something that we can remember. For instance, when God uses the term my hands, okay, or with my eyes I have seen, he he doesn't literally mean that there is a human Uh an individual looking like a human with eyeballs and hand, not not suggestive. But he's using terms that we understand. And all analogies will officially break this. But there is a relationship within the Godhead between Father, Son, and Spirit There there most clearly is a relationship there, not a biological relationship, but we could say an order, a relationship of order. I understand all these things, and that's kind of why I asked me for this It's really just where our distinction isn't it? Well, you can say that we have the term the economic trinity, and what we're talking about there is the various relationships to that order. For instance, the father did this, the son did this. The Spirit did this. The Father sent the Son. The Son sent the Spirit. We obviously see somehow an order there. When Christ is praying in the garden, he's praying for his father. So there is a if you will a position of submission there. Okay? So we definitely have that aspect that's that's present. And and yes part of it is that we we need something for the sake of analogy, but It's to establish order. And I will also make this statement. When we think of father and son, we tend as Americans to think biological almost exclusively. Okay? But other cultures don't do that necessarily. You know, like in Ghana there are people that call me their dad. They're like, oh he's my father. No. You happen to be older than me. We are not biologically related at all Apart from an Adam, okay, you know. But there's not a biological relationship of father-son or oh he's my uncle. Well this is my son, you know They use those terms not necessarily in the biological sense all the time, but a lot of times they use them in the sense of there's some kind of relationship there that's more than biological And that relationship is also in the biological sense, but it's it's an addition. It can be outside of it. I don't know if that Makes sense or not. Again, we're dealing with a talk a concept that we can't fully comprehend. And there's nothing that we can truly relate in analogy to. Yes. And then you don't. And then I don't it's well you can it's because you can get aspects, but you can't get at all. Yeah, and I actually I've heard uh final fisherman explained that it's so much like you're looking at a cube and if you're seeing that those signs that are visible to at that moment and then later during a different experience in life and then it's almost like you're seeing yet another aspect of it. Doesn't it mean not changes? It means And use all those things all the time even though I can personally have to add. Yeah. So it will just add to what I really appreciate going for each cancelment Packages. Um starting to really appreciate understanding so thoroughly able to test them that would be more community You can understand salvation. Um and I've been thinking a lot about that because we have neighbors um in our neighborhood where you would And I recently overheard a conversation that I was a part of that clearly, clearly showed this sort of oh, I'm going to synagogue now every week because I made it deal with God about something. And I'm just thinking okay then I I but the more you understand you don't understand foundation until understand that and being able to understand it from the perspective of I am a Jewish person who doesn't yet have the New Testament I think it's really tell us who in fact do have that almost quite and and almost like we don't have it in Well we as Christians um sometimes we we neglect the Old Testament and it's because we feel like well we are not under that system anymore, we're under a new system We're in the New Testament, New Covenant, Church Age, if you will. And so those uh passages don't really have as much bearing on on me, what I'm doing, how I think about things, and so we we tend to neglect that. And plus the culture of the Old Testament is much further removed from our culture today than even the New Testament. And so we we struggle with those things. But and another thing that I think is a is a great uh danger is that when we're dealing with folks in sort of an apologetics type sense, when I say apologetics I mean that we're trying to lead someone to Christ who is ultimately stuck on, I don't believe in God, I don't believe that Christ is God. They're they're stuck when it comes to the nature of the gospel in that realm. Like when you're trying to lead someone to Christ, you went to church their whole life, but they've they've been sort of like a moralist, they've always believed, well, you know, that you're good at ways you're bad, that's how you go to heaven, this and that. Well you're not really dealing with do you believe in God or do you believe that Jesus is God in the flesh? You're dealing with Do you realize that God can't save you on the basis of your works? He saves them on the basis of what Christ did for you. And so that tends to be the focus of our evangelism with that person. But when you're dealing with somebody that that's not the topic that's ultimately sticking with them, you have to go to these passages. And and and they will say many times, well, you just You don't uh your teaching is all a new thing. It's different than the Old Testament, and so we reject it because we hold to the original the Old Testament And what I'm trying to to demonstrate here is that when we talk about something like Trinitarian doctrine, I actually think that it's more explicit in the Old Testament than it is in the New, in some ways. I think there are many, many passages in the Old Testament that really develop this. Not that there are not many in the New. But there are a lot of very heavy, heavy passages, especially related to prophecy about Christ the Messiah. Jesus, I don't know why God has done this with me lately, but just people come in contact with Jews all the time. Yeah. And I love, but you know, of course they don't believe Jesus Bible. There's so much of the uh prophets in the Old Testament. Yes. And then and then Jesus is mentioned in the very first book of the Bible, maybe the very beginning of the Bible. He shall lose their head and they shall lose his heel. Yep. And uh and the Jews know so much of who the Messiah is. And that he is Having a conversation with a pastor, and he said, you know, when you're dealing with a child, their struggle is comprehending the gospel. But once they comprehend the gospel, their heart is much more ready to humbly trust Christ. With an adult, the concept of the gospel is a simple thing. I mean, I can articulate the facts, and many unsafe people can articulate the facts of the gospel. But the hang up with an adult is, well, I have a hard time accepting boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, because they realize the significance and implications of those particular things And so when you talk about, for instance, uh the Jews rejecting the Messiah, it was not about understanding maybe what the Old Testament texts were saying, as much as it was implications. were repulsive to them. You mean that our Messiah that we've been looking for is going to be nailed to a cross? He's going to be become a curse for us You know, that is something that was very offensive, and so the gospel has an offensive nature to it And that's the big hang up with a lot of people. A lot of people reject they are agnostic or they are atheists. More agnostic agnostic is much more popular than atheists. People say, well, I guess I can't 100% know anything, but I really doubt. Okay. The reason I think a lot of people get into that category is because of the moral implications of God's existence, not because of a lack of evidence. And there's an experience that they went through or a series of experiences, and when they start wrestling with the concept of God's goodness and his providence and why did this happen? Why didn't this happen? All of a sudden they start being repulsed by the concept of God, not so much That they don't believe that he exists because of the lack of evidence. They don't want to believe his existence because of the implication. Now I'm not saying it's 100%, but I think it's really common. I think it's really common. I just look and our time is up. So Isaiah will be sufficient for today, and we will look at some other uh prophecies, and then we're gonna actually get into the concept of the Trinity. But I wanted to begin with I wanted to begin with um the Old Testament specifically messianic prophecies because I want you to see that rejecting Trinitarian doctrine ultimately comes down to rejecting who Christ is. Because Christ's identity, what we believe about Christ ultimately is trying to be explained in what we articulate as Trinitarian doctrine. So there's a connection. You can't separate those things. They're very, very important. So let's have a word of prayer and uh we'll head to our uh morning worship service.