Please take your Bibles and turn to 1 John 2. 1 John chapter 2. Hopefully I don't need two waters up here. 1 John chapter 2, I'll again read the text verses 15 to 17. And then we'll ask the question, what is the main point that John's trying to communicate? What does God want us to understand? And then we'll get into some significant aspects of what John is saying. 1 John 2, verse 15, Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world. And the world passeth away in the lust thereof, but he that doeth the will of God abideth forever. Why did John take a moment to record those words? And why did he record those words after the passage we looked at last week? Well, John wants the church to understand that worldliness is something that can devastate them in their Christian experience. And so he's warning them to guard their hearts against the temptation that all of them will face. To put it simply, God wants us to reject worldliness. Very simple statement, but we really need to break that statement down to understand exactly what was in John's mind as he made the statement: love not the world. Neither the things that are in the world. How can you this morning, as we're coming together to remember the death of our Lord Jesus Christ, how can I this morning put into practice What John is commanding us to do. Actually, we're not going to look at this passage in its entirety today. We're actually going to break it into two sections because of how much I'd like to expand this point. But I want to look at two out of five aspects that we find in the text. The first is this Worldliness can affect you at any stage in your spiritual growth. Worldliness can affect you at any stage in your Christian experience So let's say that someone is eight years old. They've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ. They've gotten baptized. They're sitting in this church service today, or they're sitting in a church service in another part of the country listening to their pastor preach and teach the Word of God. Can that little eight-year-old child who has trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ be worldly? Of course he can. Well, what about somebody who's 18 years old? Can that 18-year-old be worldly? Yes. What about someone who's 58 years old? They've lived in one community their entire life. They've been married to the same person their entire marriage. They have good kids. They sent their kids to Christian college, at least those who have already gone, and the other ones that are on the way, getting ready to go. They've been a member of the same local church that preaches the gospel week in and week out. They're involved in leadership, in teaching, whatever capacity. Can that 58-year-old be tempted to be worldly? 100%. How about the 80-year-old? Oh, now I'm getting a little personal. Hey now. I'm not calling anybody out, okay? I promise you. I totally promise that, okay? Eighty years old. Okay, hundred and eight. We'll go to senior, all right? Hundred and eight years old. Lived your whole Christian life. You love the Lord. 108 years old. Boy, not too many in this room will probably make it there. But some do Can somebody at 108 years old be tempted to be worldly? The answer is absolutely they can It doesn't matter how old you are or how young you are. It doesn't matter how long you've been a Christian. It doesn't matter what kind of a church you attend. It doesn't matter the history. You and I are all tempted to be worldly and our approach to the Christian life. What is John saying here? He's not making a suggestion, he's making it a command. He's saying, love not the worlds. My question is, who exactly was John saying this too. Well, let's go back in our minds to what we talked about last week. Verses 12 to 13. He says, I write unto you, little children. Because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. I write unto you, fathers, because you have known him that is from the beginning. I write unto you, young men. Because you are strong and the word of God abides in you. And then what does he say? Love not the world He's making that statement to the little children in the Christian faith. He's making that statement to the strong men in the Christian faith, and he's making that statement to the fathers of the Christian faith. The reality is that in this congregation, no matter what stage in life you find yourself in, you are prone to the temptation of worldliness. No matter what you've learned in your Bible, no matter how faithful you've been, no matter what the history is, you can be tempted in this area. He's made a point to emphasize that there are different levels of maturity in the church, and so let's not miss the significance he's talking to that group He could have just said, I'm writing to you, church, do not love the world. But he makes the point, little children. Fathers, strong men. He actually says it twice for each category. John is trying to get our attention this morning to say, hey, wake up, Christian. Don't be lulled into complacency thinking, hey, I've arrived in the Christian life. You haven't. I haven't. None of us have, and we won't until we're glorified and stand before Jesus Christ. Don't allow yourself to think you are beyond temptation. 1 Corinthians 10, verse 12 says this Let him that thinketh he stand, take heed lest he fall. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. To put it in very simple terms, every temptation you face is just like the guy next to you. So when you look at people in the congregation, you go, oh, those folks, they've kind of gotten beyond that stage. That's not true. Don't look at somebody and say, well, I bet that they've kind of gotten to where they don't struggle with temptation and worldliness. No, they do So let's move on to a second and very simple truth: that loving the system is rebellion. Loving the system is rebellion. He makes a very simple statement, love not the world. And so we ask the question, what exactly does he mean by the word world? Now John is not uh crusading against taking care of the environment here. Okay? Not that that was a big concern in those days. But John wasn't saying don't throw trash on the ground and make sure that you keep your area neat and clean. He uses the term world. He's not thinking about the ball of earth that we live on. It's not what he's talking about He's talking about something that, if you will, is a system or a kingdom or a way of thought, a realm of values, if you will. It's not a cultural trend. You know, if you've lived to be 80 or 90 years, you've seen some amazing changes in our culture, have you not? Staggering. I mean, in the last twenty years, how much our culture has changed and what is acceptable on so many areas. But I want to submit to you today that the changes in culture are not primarily what John is thinking about. The changes in culture can be an expression of worldliness. But let me tell you something. In the 1950s, people were worldly just like they are today. In the 1960s, in the 1980s, and the 2050s, there's going to be worldliness in churches and in individuals thinking Worldliness is not so much about what you see as far as what is inside of you Now, I'm not suggesting that you can't see the implications of a worldly perspective. Not saying that at all. You can. But worldliness is not about externals. It's about what's going on inside. It's about what's going on between your ears, if you will. It's about what's going on in your soul. It's about what's going on in your values and how you love and how you relate. To this world and what is around you. It's a system, it's a kingdom that's in rebellion against God's rule. To help you to understand that, turn with me to Ephesians chapter 2. In Ephesians chapter 2, listen to what Paul states. Remember, he's writing to a group of Christians. He's writing to people who are saved. They place their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. They have received a new position. They are going to receive an inheritance, if you will. This is what he says to them. And notice the very important details of this verse. He says, in time past, you walked according to the course of this world. There's that word. So he's saying in the past you used to walk in a certain way that was characteristic of the world, if you will. According to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience, if you will, that this world system has a head. Has a ruler, has a governor, has someone who is managing and working, and he's heading up that system, if you will. Who is that? It's Satan. The Spirit who now worketh in the children of disobedience. He is very much personally involved in the lives of those who are part of this system, if you will. He's working to counts and to plant thoughts in the minds of people. He's working behind the scenes and he's not alone. How many of you have read the screw tape letters? C. S. Lewis? Okay? Very interesting book because what is it? It's sort of like the psychological side of a demon talking to a younger demon. Totally fictitious. But it's actually a really fantastic book in the sense that he nails on the head a lot of the ways that we're tempted And he really gets us to think about the fact that Satan has a systematic approach to working on people's lives. By the way, the system doesn't just come around us, it's in some sense within us, because we're sinners, and we're going to talk about that in just a moment. He says, you had your conversation in times past in the lust of the flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. If you will, there are strong desires and passions that motivate people in that system. And they are dominated by those fleshly desires. And that system is ultimately under the judgment and wrath of God. When we talk about worldliness, don't just think of a haircut. A type of clothing, a style of glasses. Think about what's going on in your soul. Because that's really what worldliness is. It's about our entire worldview, how we look at life, how we relate to one another, what we love, what we hate, what we do, why we do it. That's what's all about worldview. There's a road or a way of life that is characteristic of this system. What does Jesus say? He says, Broad is the way that leads to destruction, and many there are that go on that road. Why is that? That's the world's system. He says, narrow is the gates, and difficult is the way that leads to life, and few there are that find it. If you will, the most dominant worldview of our generation is not a godly one. In fact, that's never been the case in all of human history. From the fall on, the dominant view of people has been a fallen, dominant world view. Expressing itself in every single culture, so many different languages, but the heart of man expressing itself There's a ruler. There's values. There's a way of thinking. We could describe it as rebellion. God's values, God's commands, God's authority are rejected, and self-expression is elevated. Blindness, living for what is temporal and offensive to God, as opposed to what is eternal and what is pleasing to God. And I like the word domination because it describes how people live in this world. Sin is oppressive to them. Why is it that you can look somebody in the eye and say, do you realize that that's killing you? That's destroying you? That's dragging you down, and they can look you in the eye and say, yes, and then you say, Why do you do it? I can't overcome it. That's how people live in this world, dominated by their bellies, if you will. Why is that? Romans chapter 1 gives us the answer. Verse 18, it says, The wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all unrighteousness, for God has showed it unto them. The invisible things from him, from the creation of the world, are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even as the territorical power in Godhead, so that they are without excuse. This is mankind. Man has a knowledge of God, but he rejects it. It says, when they knew God, They glorified him not as God, neither were thankful, but became vain in their imaginations. You know what worldliness ultimately comes down to? Living based on your imagination as opposed to what is true. It really is. Being dominated by your imaginations, being dominated by your fallen nature, being dominated by your lusts, being dominated by the prevailing worldviews around you. It says their foolish heart was darkened. Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. That text is a perfect explanation of what it means to have a worldly world view. It's self-serving. It's thankless. It's in the dark. It's living based on your imaginations rather than based on what is true Living for what is temporal, living in rebellion, worldliness. But I want you to understand something. Worldliness is not about what you see as much as it is about what's inside. Let me give you an example. You have two boys. These boys, theoretically, let's just talk about them. They grow up in a good Christian home. They go to the same church and they're taught the same things by their mom and dad. One boy is known to be a rebel. The other boy is extremely compliant. So when they get through high school, guess what? Boy number one, the compliant boy, he is, you know, he's like top of his class and everything. He's gonna go to Christian school, he's gonna go to Bible college, he wants to go into the ministry. And everybody goes, that kid's a good tit. I mean look at him he's clean cut. He's got good values. He's not messing around with Any of the girls at his school, he's got no addiction problems. This is a good, solid, clean-cut kid. Look at him The other guy, on the other hand, he's not Mr. Compliant at all. He's a rebel. He's bunking the system every single chance that he gets. And guess what happens? He gets kicked out of school. And no, he's not going to go to Christian college. He's like, why would I waste my time with that? He goes and he gets a job, he makes a ton of money, and guess what he does? He lives his life for his flesh. You know, at the local bar you'd find him every single Friday night spending part of his paycheck trying to find a girl to hang out with for the weekend. He's got all kinds of fleshly dominated passions. When you look at him, you say, this guy's a mess. But here's what you don't know. The clean cut guy has the exact same problem as his brother. But he's compliant, and you can't see it. The rebel, he's a lustful guy. And he expresses it by going to the bar on the weekends and picking up girls, and he's a very promiscuous guy. The clean-cut guy goes to Christian college and he's able to hide tremendous dominations of lust in his heart. Nobody sees it, but it's there. The one guy he gets this this very affluent job. He wins that goes out and he gets a car and he's flashing his car around and he's a big shot. He's the man. The other guy's just driving a simple car, but he's very, very discontent with his position in life. He gets into ministry and he's constantly wanting more and wishing he had more. You can't see the difference, but they're the same inside. The one God is obviously dominated by a desire to express himself. He wants to be seen and he wants to be respected. And so he drives the big car. He gets the big job. He's trying to get his sense of well-being in all those worldly exploits. But guess what? The other guy is actually no different. Because if you could peel back the veneer and know why he's in the ministry and why he's doing what he's doing, you'd find out he's just as consumed with greed. And lust, and how people view him. I'm giving this illustration for a reason. Just because someone doesn't look worldly in your estimation Doesn't mean that they don't have a serious, deep-rooted heart problem. And what's amazing is, 20 years down the road, those two boys. May actually end up in reverse roles. It happens many, many times. The fact is, folks, that we have to recognize worldliness is about our values It's about our thinking. It's about what we love. It's about what's buried within our souls that nobody can see but us and God. Are you a worldly Christian? First Corinthians 4 says this: judge nothing before the time until the Lord comes Who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts, and then shall every man have praise of God. When we talk about a topic like worldliness, what we need to realize is this. All of us in this room, no matter how long we've been a Christian, no matter how old or how young we are, we can 't can be tempted. The guy that looks like the real rebel and the guy that looks clean cut and he's got everything in line, they might be the exact same inside. You might be sitting here today going, you know, I'm the clean-cut guy or gal. You know, I look the part of the Christian. I fit in. But My soul is broken, and I'm wounded, and I'm dominated, and I am controlled by greed and lust and image and all those things I want to ask you a question. Where are you, Christian? You know what's wonderful about the Lord's table? When we come to that conclusion that I'm a worldly Christian. That my love for this world system is rebellion. When I come to that conclusion, you know what God reminds us of? It's why there's a cross. Because all your sins have been laid on Christ. We're reminded of 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, He's faithful and just to forgive us. Give us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And when the Holy Spirit grabs a hold of our heart and he twists and he presses and he says, look at that. He doesn't do it because he enjoys inflicting pain on our souls, but he does it to say, look at what Christ did for you. Get on your knees. Cry out to him. Confess where you are. Confess where you've been. Confess where your soul is. And cry out to him. To forgive, and he will cleanse and he'll restore and he will commune with you and you will walk in the light. My friends, when we talk about a text like this, realize something. It's not all negative. In fact, there is a bomb. There is something that can take that promise or that problem and can address it and can remedy it. Can restore you. I want to ask you some questions as we reflect on the Lord's table we're about to take. Am I living as a rebellious Christian who loves this world system? Is there really any profound difference between how I think and what I love and those who don't know the Lord who live around me? Have I allowed myself to embrace the lie that external conformity to a Christian culture means that I'm not worldly? Have I been lulled into thinking that I'm past temptation? May we again have a renewed sense of our dependence on God. May we have a renewed sense of what we are apart from the grace of God. May we have a renewed sense of how we need to depend on Christ and Christ alone. This is a great time for us to renew our focus and to remember the redemptive work of Christ that brought us into his family. In just a few moments, we're going to come together and we're going to take the Lord's table. We're going to take that piece of bread That is meant to remind us that the Lord Jesus went to that cross and his body was broken for us. We're going to take that juice and we're going to drink that juice and we're going to be reminded that Christ's blood was shed for us. So that we could be justified, we could be declared righteous before God. That the wrath of God that we deserve for our sin was poured out on Christ. And God the Father looked on what Christ did on that cross and he said, I'm satisfied. That there's no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. That's what we're going to remember.