1 John chapter 2. We'll be continuing our sermon from this morning. So we're looking at part two. And just to kind of familiarize ourselves with the text again, I'm going to read it. And then kind of remind us of the points that we looked at this morning. 1 John 2, 6 says this, He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also to walk, even as he walked. Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment which ye had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which ye have heard from the beginning, and again A new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you, because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer as we continue in this passage, and then let's look at some very, very important truths. in this concept of God wanting us to walk even as Christ walked. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Father, we thank you for the wonderful truths that we have just sung about. We are saved by the blood of the crucified one. We are so thankful that Christ is the fairest of all, the ruler of all creation , son of God, and son of man. We thank you for these wonderful truths that we have been able to sing about. And Father, as we focus on this text, I pray that you would open our eyes To behold the wondrous truths that are found in your law here. I pray that as I open up the text and as I expound on it, that it would be done in a very simple and clear and direct manner. The Holy Spirit can take it and really work in our hearts through this passage. As we reflect on the death of Christ and the blessings that we have in Him. And as we come together to partake of the Lord's table, I pray that this text would be a wonderful complement to the truths that we are reflecting on as we partake. We ask that you would be exalted, magnified, and our hearts would be strengthened. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. We saw that when John was writing this passage, his primary intent was to continue developing several themes that we find in the first two chapters. A theme of confidence or assurance, if you will, a theme of fellowship, a theme of joy. In the midst of those themes that he is laying out in those first two chapters is a very important truth That sin is something that undermines our ability to have fellowship with God. Sin is something that robs us of our joys. Sin is something that saps us of our assurance or our confidence. And so what he really is trying to, we could say, communicate in this passage Is that God wants us to walk in a way that is consistent with His revealed will. He wants us to walk in the ways of Christ. He wants us to follow even as Christ obeyed and walked in the things that God wanted him to do. And so we asked the question this morning, how are we to do this? This is a very weighty responsibility. How are we to follow through with doing this? The first thing we saw this morning. was that those who call themselves Christians have a great responsibility, a sobering responsibility, and that is we are to walk even as he walked. We then continue to a second thought that we see in this passage, and that is that our responsibility has a very unique dimension to it. In one sense, it is a new commandment. In another sense, it's an old commandment. Because we are now able to follow God's command, not just by looking simply at the law, if you will. But we are looking at the life of Christ, and we see the demonstration of an individual who fulfilled the law, and by looking at Christ as our example, we will walk in the ways that God wants us to walk. And so we saw the uniqueness of that command. Well, tonight we're going to continue to the third truth that we find in the text. And that truth is this. Our responsibility to walk even as he walked has a unique empowerment. Our responsibility has a unique empowerment. Notice what he says in verse number 8. He says, Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true, and notice the phrase in Him. And then a second phrase, and in you. And then a third statement, because the darkness is past. And a fourth statement, the true light now shineth. In that little verse, he makes some very important truths that we've got to grasp. And we've got to dig into and we've got to live in the light of them. He says this thing is true in him in you because the darkness is past and the true light now shineth. Let's take each of those little phrases and see the significance and the importance of those statements in light of this truth, our responsibility has a unique empowering. In Philippians 2, I mentioned this passage this morning. It says this in verse 12. Work out Not work for, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. We could say have a soberness about exercising and working within your position in Christ, if you will. And then he says this, for, or we could say, because it is God who works in you. And notice the next phrase, to will and to do of his good pleasure. In another passage, Hebrews chapter 12, verse 11, listen to what the writer of Hebrews says. No chastening. And when we think of the word chastening, don't just think of the word beating or discipline in that sense. Chastening is a word that really it has the idea of all of the training that we receive when we are in our youth. So it's not just, okay, God is spanking me, if you will, or God is disciplining me, if you will. It also has the idea of God God changing you and God coming alongside of you and God comforting you and God instructing you and God moving you through circumstances. It's not just the disciplinary action. It's actually a very rich and a beautiful word. But he says this, no chastening for the present time seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Afterwards, it yieldeth the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. So when we have these two passages set side by side, Philippians 2. 12, work out your own salvation. It's God who works in you to will and to do of his good pleasure. And then you set this other passage, Hebrews 12, 11, that God disciplines or chastens his children. And through that process, it yields the peaceable fruits of righteousness unto those which are exercised thereby. It gives us something to see. God is working in you, Christian, in me, Christian, in two ways. He's working internally in us. And externally upon us, if you will. He's not just working on us by bringing us through circumstances. He is also working in us in the midst of those circumstances. And so what we see here is our responsibility to walk even as he walked has an enabling or has an empowering. And so I want to take a few moments. to think about that in our first point. In what ways are we uniquely empowered to do what God commands us to do? Have you ever thought about that? In what way are you, Christian, today sitting in this room, uniquely empowered or enabled by God to walk even as Christ walked? You ever thought about that? You might say, Well, I don't feel like I'm uniquely empowered. I'm certainly not living as if I'm uniquely empowered. Well, notice in that passage it says, God is working in you to will That's the desire, and to do, that's the enabling of his good pleasure. In Hebrews 12 it says, he is working to We could say, bring out the peaceable fruits of righteousness with those who are exercised thereby. God does empower us God does enable us, and I want to mention a couple of things as to how he does it. And we find them in this text. The first thing that we see is this we receive a new nature when we are placed into Christ. He says, this is true where? In him. Did you catch that? This is true in him. Go back in your minds to the passage in John 15 where Jesus talks about abiding in the vine. And he uses an agricultural illustration. So I don't know anybody here ever tried to do grafting? Anybody done that before? Okay, grafting? So you you have a plant That is I remember I wanted a a a uh an orange tree when we were in Ghana. And I so much wanted an orange tree. Because I thought I live in the tropics, I gotta have orange trees, I got banana trees and all these things. I want an orange tree. And so I went to some people and I said, Can I get an orange tree? And they're like, Well, it's not as simple as you think. I said, Well You just take the orange seed and you put it in the ground, right? And he's like, No, it doesn't work that way. I was like, Well, won't you get an orange tree? He's like, Technically yes, but the fruit won't be nice. It's like Okay. So then how do you get it? He's like, well it's kind of like this. You plant a lemon seed, and that lemon seed grows, and then you have a really small tree. And then you go to the variety of orange that you want, and you cut off a little place where a bud comes out, and you actually cut a little section of that plant and you stick it on there if you will and you bind it and you wrap it and what ends up happening is that part from the original orange tree, the one that you want It grafts into that lemon tree and before long it will start to grow an orange tree. Now, it didn't work for us. Okay. But it does work in the real world in certain places But the idea is that the strength and the nutrition and the life that that orange, we could say, bud has, it comes from that lemon tree. Well, when we are in Christ, we are in a position or in a place where there is strength and nourishment and enabling, and it flows from Christ Himself. It says this is true in him. If you're not in Christ, then you don't have this enabling If you're not in Christ, this is not true about you. But if you are in Christ, whether you feel it or not, whether you've experienced in its fullness or not, and none of us have truly experience this in its fullness. We are growing small, small if you will, just a little at a time. But the fact is we are in a unique place In 2 Corinthians 5 it says, if any man is in Christ, a position, he's a new creature. Old things pass away and all things become new. In Ezekiel 36, I love this passage because it talks about how God is going to deal with the nation of Israel. He gives this passage in light of A dead nation, if you will. A nation that is spiritually dead. It's dry bones, if you will. And he says, I'm going to take this nation, the nation of Israel, and I'm going to one day give it a nation that has life Not physical life, spiritual life. It's going to be a redeemed people. And listen to what he says. He says, I will sprinkle clean water upon you. And ye shall be clean from all your filthiness, and your idols will I cleanse you. And then listen to what he says. A new heart will I give you. A new spirit will I put within you. I will take away the stony heart of your flesh. I will give you a heart of flesh. I will put my spirit within you, cause you to walk in my statutes, and you shall keep my judgments and do them. It's a wonderful description of how God takes an individual and in the context a group of individuals, a nation, and he takes those who are spiritually dead. And he makes them new creatures in Christ. And he puts a new heart in them, a heart that is not stone and hard, but it is tender and it is soft. He puts his spirit within those individuals, and they are in a position where they can do what is right. He's done that for you. He's done that for me. If you're in Christ, this is true of you. He talks about the same thing in Jeremiah 31. I won't read the passage because It's parallel, but he's talking about how a person becomes a new creature in Christ. And so when John talks about our unique enabling, he says this is true in him. And that's very important for us to notice. A second truth that's very important is, he says, it is true in you. Do you see the difference? One is talking about a position that you have in Christ. The other is talking about something that happens inside of you internally. In the Philippians passage, he says, it's God who works in you to will and do of his good pleasure. How does he work in you? Well, through his Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit, at the moment that you trust Christ, he comes and he indwells you. God is indwelling you, believer, tonight as you sit here. We receive the Spirit. And in John 14, he says this: I'm going to go away, and I'm going to send you another comforter, that he may abide with you forever. Even the Spirit of truth, he dwelleth with you. And shall be in you. You know what is different between you and me and the disciples living during the time of Christ? The Holy Spirit was dwelling with the disciples prior to the death of Christ. But he says, He will be in you. after that time period. And so something that is unique about our time period, if you will, this We could say church age, the New Testament era, is that the Holy Spirit does not just dwell in our presence. He dwells from within us. And so he motivates us not just externally, but internally. Have you ever heard somebody pray, Holy Spirit, come on this place? It's not a biblical prayer. If he needs to come here, then then we all got a problem, okay? He's here. He's in our midst and he's dwelling in our hearts. And so if you're a child of God, not only do you have a new nature, in him you have an enabling, but in you you have a person who is working in you to will and to do of God's good pleasure. In Romans 8 it says, if the spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall quicken your mortal bodies by his spirit that dwelleth within you. Isn't that an amazing statement? The same Holy Spirit that raised up Christ from the dead indwells you, Christian, and He can empower you and enable you to walk even as Christ walks. There's a lot of passages that I can read here, but I'll just continue on. 1 Corinthians 3, he mentions that we are the temple of God and the Spirit dwells in us. 1 John 4. 12 says that if we love one another, God dwells in us. 1 John 4. 15, whoever confesses Jesus is the Son of God, God dwells in him. One of the reasons that you and I can walk as Christ walked is because we are in a position in Christ. That is a life -giving position. God has made us new creatures, and we draw from the strength that Christ gives us. Like that bud implanted on the lemon tree. The one that didn't work out for me, but it's worked out for many others, because I'm not the best farmer out there, okay? But there's a second truth. He indwells us. The Spirit indwells us. There's a third point that we see. We are in a new position after our conversion. Not just the fact that we have a new nature in Christ, the Holy Spirit comes and indwells us. But we are in a position, if you will, that's described as passing from darkness to light. Listen to what he says. The darkness is past. The darkness is past. I don't know when you came to understand the gospel and place your faith in Christ. If you were a little child, Grew up in the church, your mom and dad taught you what was right and wrong, and you trusted Christ at a young age, it's likely that you don't remember your deep dark past. There are some, though, that didn't come to faith in Christ when they were kids. They came to faith in Christ when they were teens, or maybe when they were young adults. And they can look back at a lifestyle that was full of wickedness. They can look at what it was like to live in the dark. And there's a sense in which sometimes they look at themselves and they go, how did I do those things? How did I think that was okay? How is it that I could be involved in those activities and I could do it so freely and I just continued in those ways. And it's because in the past you were in the darkness When we don't know Christ, when we're not saved, when we're not new creatures in Christ, when the Holy Spirit is not indwelling us, we are described as walking in the darkness. But what does he say? The darkness is past. That's where you were, not where you are. Something changed. In 1 Corinthians 6 9, it's a very well-known passage He's writing to these Christians at Corinth who lived in a decadent society, very, very wicked society. And a lot of the wickedness of their society was very evident in the kinds of problems that they dealt with within that congregation. He says, Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived. And then he lists a whole slew of sinful practices. And you ask the question, huh? So those things are going on in their city, weren't they? Yes, not just in their city. The people that were in that congregation had been completely involved in many of those things. Because here's what he says: such were some of you. You used to do those things. You used to be involved in those things. Those drunken parties. You were a part of that. You used to go into the temple and be involved in that prostitution worship. You used to do that. Some of you used to be involved in decadent lifestyles. Some of you used to be involved in the homosexual agenda, if you will, in your city. Some of you used to be drunkards. Some of you used to be violent and vile individuals. But you're not anymore. You've been changed by the gospel. You did those things in the darkness, but the darkness is now past. 1 Peter 4 3. I love this text. I was preaching through 1 Peter in Ghana, and I remember thinking about this particular passage. He says this, the time pass of your life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. When we walked in lasciviousness, in lusts, in excess of wine, in revelings, in banquetings, and abominable idolatries. He said, We did those things. We the members of this congregation, I don't mean we the members of this congregation, but as Peter is writing to these people, he's saying All of you were involved in these things. They were completely acceptable in your culture, in your city. Everybody did that. The fact that you no longer do these things makes you an outsider, if you will. The people look at you and say, what is wrong with you? Why do you do these things? They mock you. They scorn you. They hate you. They despise you. They don't want to be a part of what you're a part of. What he's saying? What changed? The darkness is now past. In Ephesians 2 it says, you hath he quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past ye walked according to the course of this world. We had our conversation in time past, and the lusts of the flesh fulfilling the desires of the flesh and mind, and were by nature children of wrath. When he says that the darkness is now past, that's what he's talking about. About. You used to live in the darkness. And perhaps some in this room can say, you know, I did too. When we come to the Lord's table, I think this is a great time. To remember that the darkness is now past. We look at what God has saved us from and we marvel and say, I used to do those things. I used to be involved in those things. God has changed me. We have a new position after our conversion. And then he comes to the next statement. The true light now shineth. If you will, we are in the midst of a process called sanctification. And God is working in you. And it's a process. We have not arrived. Nobody's arrived. As we go through our life till the day that we die, every single circumstance that we deal with is part of God shaping us. and maturing us and forming us into the image of Christ. When I interact with folks who no longer have the physical abilities that they used to have, and they look at you and they're like, is my life worth it? One of the things that pops into my mind is this. God's not done perfecting you. He's not done maturing you. Yeah, do you remember when you were 20 and you were in like incredible shape and you could run and you could lift weights and you were an athlete and you could do all those things and you were totally absorbed in this thing. things. And now you look at it and you say, what is that? Guess what? God's changed you. Peace my toward you. Do you remember when you were living for money and you're sitting there going, I don't even know if I got enough now to pay all the bills till I die? And he's saying, you know, the things of this world are passing away. Do you remember when you used to do all those things and you reveled in them and now they have no appeal to you? God 's maturing us and he's perfecting us and he's growing us. And this is gradually, day by day, moment by moment, a little at a time, he's maturing us. You cannot see it happen. It's like your kids. We went to see my great-grandparents, not my great-grandparents. They're not alive. My grandparents. And I remember looking at pictures. It's amazing to me to look at pictures of my mom and dad when I was a little boy. And it's like I'm looking at my kid. And I'm like, I look older than my dad in that picture. It's shocking. I'm looking at my grandparents. who are now 80 plus 90 plus years old. And I'm like, wow, they look pretty good compared to my great grandfather. I remember meeting him and thinking he was just a little old man and he was 94 years old. Wow, they look pretty good. You know? And all of a sudden you start realizing, you know, we've changed. I look at my grandparents and how they've changed. I look at my kids and I'm like, I remember looking like that because I'm seeing these pictures You don't see it happen. You don't wake up in the morning and look at your kid and go, wow, he's grown. But when you pick up, well, even Facebook, five years ago, you post it and you're like, whoa. My kid has changed. I've changed. And you start realizing that growth is just a gradual process. You can't See it happen. And sometimes in the midst of this sanctification process, we get bogged down and say, I'm not growing. But you know what? If you go and meet somebody that you knew ten years ago and they interact with you, They can see you've changed. They can see how your perspective has matured. They can see how what you love has changed What you live for has changed. And sanctification is a very gradual process. You cannot see it. It's like the erosion on a beach. You can't see it. It's like the growth of a child. You can't see it. But it's happening. And God matures us and he grows us. It says in Ephesians 2. 10 that we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works. His workmanship means that he is forming and he is working in your life. That's why it says he is working in you to will and to do of his good pleasure. That's the internal side. He's chastening you. That's the external side. He is working on us. Proverbs 4. 18, it says, The path of the just is as the shining light that shines more and more unto the day, the perfect day, if you will. And so what's going on? As I grow and as I mature, my ability to see and discern becomes clearer and clearer over time. That is what he's expressing here. The path of the unrighteous is what? It says darkness. They don't know what they're stumbling at. First Corinthians chapter 3, verse, 2 Corinthians 3. 15, he says this When Moses has read, the veil is on their hearts. He's talking about those who walk in darkness. He says, When it shall turn to the Lord, the veil will be taken away. Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is liberty. We all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same image, from glory to glory as by the Spirit of the Lord. That text kind of encapsulates all of this. The darkness before our conversion, the light dawns when we trust Christ. And we see this progressive sanctification that is going on by the Spirit work in our heart. I love that text. Because it lays out exactly what he's saying. The darkness has passed, and the new and the light now shines more and more. God is working on you, Christian. As we come to the Lord's table, Realize you are growing. You are changing. You are maturing. In the last six months, you have grown. In the last year or two years, you have grown. You have matured. You don't see it, but you have. Because God's working in you. We come to a fourth and final truth, and that's this. Failure to obey has debilitating consequences. Failure to obey has debilitating consequences. It says this in verse 9: He that saith he's in the light and hateth his brother is in the darkness even until now. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion for stumbling in him. Let me just make a couple of quick comments about what he's saying here. The first question I have is this: what does he mean by light and darkness? Because he uses the term a lot, not just in 1 John, but in John as well. Light has the idea of fellowship with God, biblical discernment, the ability to see clearly. Joy, assurance, thriving relationship with God and with your fellow man. That's what he means by light. When he uses the term darkness, he has the idea of separation from God, being blinded, having hatred and strife and struggle between you and others. Doubts, a lack of assurance, broken relationships, light and darkness. What does sin do, or how does it affect my relationships with others? In the text he mentions several things. Let me just briefly mention some. First of all, it can harden or desensitize your heart. You know, as you sit here today You have a choice to make about things in your life. I have a choice to make about things in my life. When God comes and he confronts us and he says, What are you doing there? I can either choose to embrace what he says or turn away from what he says. What happens when God points his finger, if you will, on an area or an issue, and I go, no? How does that response affect me as a person? Well, it hardens, it desensitizes our heart. Do you have cowused feet? This is funny. The other day we were at my grandparents and we were out in the backyard and the grass is really prickly. Well, you know, Adele, she's like lived without shoes, you know, her entire existence basically, you know? Not I mean she's wearing shoes right now, I hope. But She's got a tough feet for a little kid. I mean she's run on concrete, she's been running on dirt, she's been running in the grass, she's been running on gravel. Caleb can crawl on gravel and doesn't even bother him. I don't understand how it's possible. I remember we were at my grandfather's and Adlen's running around in the grass and he's like, Does that bother your feet? She's like, No. He's like, Well, you're you're um my cousin. He complains that it preckles his feet. Well, why is it that some people's feet get prickled and others don't? It's because one person's foot's gotten cowused. It's gotten desensitized. That person can walk on the gravel here and feel it. Another person, but that's how they feel. That can happen to your heart too. And when we have sin and God says, you see that? Are you going to deal with that? And we turn away and we reject what he's doing. You know what happens? Hardness. A new degree of callous, if you will, a little bit of desensitization. And all of a sudden that conscience that was bothered isn't bothered like it was formerly. He says in Hebrews 3, exhort one another daily, lest you be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. Another thing it can do is it can defile us and others. In Hebrews twelve it says, Follow peace with all men, and holiness without which no one will see the Lord. Looking diligently lest any man lest any root of bitterness spring up and trouble. you and thereby many are defiled. Hey, you know, if you don't deal with sin, it's going to affect you. It's going to affect the people around you. Bitterness is a great example of a sin that destroys people. You know, just like we can mature and grow, you can watch people become hard and bitter and And toxic, for lack of a better term. Everybody they interact with is just affected negatively by their heart attitude. Sin can blind us. In verse 9, he says, he that says that he's in the light and hates his brother is in the darkness. That sin of hatred is something that holds us in the dark. In other words, we don't see clearly. Have you ever seen somebody that had a bitterness? or a hatred towards another individual and they lost their ability to see that person clearly. We've all seen it. Now we can't see it in ourselves many times. But we can see it in others. That sin of anger, of bitterness, it it it keeps us from being able to see clearly. This sin can cause you to stumble. In verse 10, he says, He that loveth his brother abideth in the light. There is none occasion of stumbling in him. Well, what if you don't abide in the light? Well, then you stumble And that's the cause, or that's what happens when we sin. And I want to mention this last one as well. It can keep us from coming to Christ. Now my assumption is that we're all believers here, but I know for a fact that might not be true. And there are some people that because of a bitter spirit, they love the darkness. Because of anger and hatred, they love the darkness. You know why a lot of people become atheists or agnostic? Because of anger. They love the darkness more than than the light. And they do not want to face God. And so they say, I don't believe in him. I don't believe in his existence. I don't want to accept that he's And so that love of the darkness, if you will, that bitterness, that hatred, that anger causes them to pull from the light so that they won't turn to Christ. In fact, in John three eighteen he says this, This is the condemnation. Light has come into the world. Men loved the darkness rather than the light, because their deeds were evil. Every one that doth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds be reproved. And there are some folks that will not come to Christ. They'll not place their faith in that glorious finished work of Christ. Because of bitterness in the heart. They love the darkness more than the light, and they don't want to come face to face with God. Sin is debilitating. It's dangerous for us to toy with sin. We don't tame sin. You gotta kill it. It's not something you can entertain. It will destroy you. So here are a couple of implications as we come to the close. We must be willing to take up our responsibility as Christians to walk even as we walk. Are you willing to do that? We all have an essential equipping to walk even as he walked. Do you see that today? You can grow. You can mature. You can walk with God. You can follow in his steps. If we fail to obey this text, the consequences will flow. And these consequences are terrible. And they should sober us. As we come to the Lord's table, let's see both sides of the equation, if you will. The glory of the cross, what Christ has accomplished for us That position we have in Christ, that new nature, the Holy Spirit indwelling us, the fact that the darkness has passed and the true light now cometh. But let's not forget. That if we will not deal with sin, it can destroy us. It can destroy others.