Let's all turn together to the book of Luke, and we are in Luke chapter 22 this morning. Luke chapter 22, and we're looking at verses 7 down to verse 20. And this passage of Scripture is going to talk about three very important topics that are all blended together in the text in front of us. And that is the concept of the Passover, which is an Old Testament concept. The concept of the cross, which is the bridge between two testaments or two covenants, and then the third is the new covenant, and that is what was established by the Lord Jesus Christ. in his death and the shedding of his blood. And I hope that by the end of the time that we spend together in this text, you will see how all these pieces come together. And how they all point us to what we're going to do at the end of the service. And that is we are going to partake together of the Lord's table. And we're going to remember the body of Christ. That was broken for us and the blood of Christ which was shed for us. And hopefully you'll understand a little bit better today, or you will be reminded more thoroughly. of why his body was broken and his blood was shed. Luke 22, verse number 7 says the following. Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the Passover must be killed. And he sent Peter and John saying, Go and prepare us the Passover, that we may eat. They said unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare? He said unto them, Behold, when you enter into the city There shall a man meet you bearing a pitcher of water, following follow him into the house where he enters. And ye shall say unto the good man of the house, the master says unto thee, Where is the guest chamber? Where we may be re make ready the Passover. And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him, and he said unto them, With desire, I have desired to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this and divide it amongst yourselves. For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine until the kingdom of God shall come. And he took bread and gave thanks and brake it and gave unto them, saying, This is my body, which is given for you, this do in remembrance of me Likewise also the cup after supper, saying this cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to really help us to understand this very important passage of Scripture. Father, as we look at this passage. As we think about the setting, the flow of the story, and then the words of Christ, and the light of the rest of Scripture, I pray that you would open our understanding That we would behold the glories of Christ that we just sang about. That Christ died for our sins. Christ shed his blood for the remission of our sins. And through his death and the shedding of blood, he established a new and living way, a way that is far better than anything that people had in the Old Testament. And Father, I pray that this morning we would delight in Christ, we would delight in his sacrifice, would take great comfort and joy, and we would worship you in spirit and in truth. If somebody listening this morning, whether here in person or on the live stream, does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, I pray that as The contents of this text are laid before them that they would come to a very clear understanding of who Christ is, what he did, why it was necessary. And I pray that through the work of the Spirit, you might point them to yourself, where they'll place their faith in Christ. May this be a sweet time of remembrance and worship. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Last week we really focused a lot on the timeline of what was going on in Luke 22. And the timeline is significant because it demonstrates the providence of God. God made promises all the way back to the Garden of Eden. When Adam and Eve sinned in the garden, he promised that the seed of the woman would crush the serpent's head. And then we move to the book of Daniel in Daniel chapter nine, where he actually gives us a breakdown of the timeline between the restoration of the rebuilding of Jerusalem and then the Lord Jesus Christ coming into Jerusalem. to uh essentially go to the cross and die for our sins. And what's amazing about the Daniel 9 passage is to the very day he predicts what God was going to do. We even looked at how there was so much going on behind the scenes. They had people that were plotting to kill Christ, but it was not their desire to kill him during the Passover. And in fact it was actually Satan's influence on Judas. that brings this situation to a head where it unfolded exactly as it did. But then as we step back, we see that it's not really about Judas and it's not really about Satan and it's not about the Sanhedrin. It's about the purposes of God. God has promised He'll do a thing, He's accomplished that thing, and in fact all of what we looked at last week really just celebrated the providence of God. and how this is demonstrated more thoroughly in the cross than any other event in human history. Well this morning we're going to kind of turn gears slightly but stay in the same basic portion of scripture. And we're going to look at how the Passover provides a perfect link from the physical deliverance of the children of Israel out of slavery in Egypt. And then it points forward to the Lord Jesus Christ who would establish the basis for spiritual deliverance on the cross. And so we're going to see how the Passover and the death of Christ on the cross establish that connection between those two points. In fact, A lot of people when they when they pick up a Bible they see Old Testament, New Testament. What's this whole Old Testament-New Testament thing? Well the word testament literally means a covenant. And so the first portion of Scripture, the Old Testament, is dedicated to the Old Covenant, which was pointing to what the Lord Jesus Christ would do. And then when we come to the New Testament and the epistles and all of those portions of Scripture, they point back at the cross and show us what we have now in the New Covenant because of what Christ has done. So what is the connection point between the old and the new? Well, it's what we see in the Gospels. It's the Lord Jesus Christ's ministry, his person, and his work. And so let's dig into the contents of this portion of Scripture today and see what it says about Christ. First of all, I want to tell you the storyline, and I'm not going to dig deeply into it, but I just want to give it to you in kind of bullet point statements. What exactly are we looking at? in this portion, verses 7, really all the way to the end of this section in verse 34. Well I break it down in the following way. First of all, you have Christ sending two of his disciples, Peter and John, on a mission. And that mission is they need to prepare for the Passover. Now, if you remember from last week, the Passover was not just something that happened on one day, but there were preparations that that were to take place leading up to the Passover event. There was an animal that was set aside, the animal would be killed, its blood would be sprinkled on the altar, and then that lamb, the Paschal lamb, would be eaten after it was roasted. And then the Passover became like a point of connection between preparation and then what we call the feast of unleavened bread. So the disciples, Peter and John, are sent on a mission to do that. We see that in verses 7 and 8. Then we come to verses 9 through 13, and we see that the instructions that Christ gave him were extremely specific, extremely detailed You're going to go into the city, you're going to see a certain man, you're going to follow that man. You go into the house where the man comes from, say, I need to speak to the master of the house, and you need to tell him that the master has need of a room prepared for Passover. And we see that that's exactly what took place. They met the man, they asked the questions, and then they have the room where the Passover will be held. Next we see that as they sit down to eat, Christ's heart is filled with passion. When we say passion, there's anticipation. Can you imagine what would have been going through the mind of Christ knowing he's about to go to the cross? He's about to be betrayed. He's going to experience tremendous physical agony. The weight of the sins of humanity are going to be placed on his shoulders. He is going to receive the punishment that we deserve for our sin. And as he hangs on that cross, he is going to do for us something that no one in all of human history could have ever done. He was going to die for our sins. And there is he sitting at the Passover about to have the meal. There beside him is Judas, the man who has already betrayed him to the religious leaders, and he's simply seeking opportunity to do it. And Jesus breaks the bread, and he even hands it to Judas. Can you imagine what goes through his mind? So as he eats, he reveals the rich significance of this Passover. This Passover is different than any of the other Passovers that Christ has experienced with his disciples. The first three were not his hour. This is the hour. And he is going to go to the cross. Then we see in verses 17 through 20 that as he breaks the bread and passes the cup, he highlights the purpose of the Passover, and he highlights a purpose that in fact his disciples had missed, and I want to highlight this in just a moment. It was not just pointing back to something that happened, but it was also pointing forward to something that was about to happen. After the meal in verses 21 through 34, he lays out a prediction about how all of his disciples will fail. One will betray Some will deny, all will run. They will be a broken young group of men. They will believe that God is finished with them. They will believe that everything that they have given up to follow Christ was a waste. And then there's going to be Resurrection Day. And so all of this is built into the story that we're looking on, looking at this morning. But I want us to kind of go from the story into what is the focus of this section. And that's what we read in verses 14 through 16, where Jesus talks about the significance of this specific Passover. Notice in verse 14 he says, when the hour was come. Now that is different from what is stated in other portions of the Gospels where he says, his hour was not yet come. Now that hour has come. Or in verse number 15 we see that he states, with desire, I have desired, or this is my intense passion. to eat this Passover with you before I suffer. So you can see that there's tremendous significance in the mind of Christ for what they are doing right here. And then there's a third thing that he states in verse 16. He says, I will not anymore eat thereof until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God. So you see that there's an anticipation, you see that there's a suffering, and you see that there's a fulfillment. All of those things are a part of the focus of what's going on in that upper room. But then there's a second piece to it as well. And that is that Jesus is going to highlight the change of focus that is taking place at this event moving forward for the rest of time. Notice what he says in verse 19. Look down there in your Bibles, it says this. He breaks the bread and he says, This Is my body which is broken for you? Do this in remembrance of me. Now Jesus is not literally saying, my physical body is there in this broken unleavened bread, but he's saying this is a picture, and it is to be a remembrance, and it is to point us to something that is very significant about to happen. Then in verse 20 he says, this cup is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. And so what is he doing? He is highlighting the timing of the event. He's highlighting his focus and his passion, that it's the fulfillment of a picture, and then the focal point of that fulfillment is the body and the blood of Christ. And so as he breaks that bread and as they drink that wine, they are reminded of a body broken and blood shed. That is unquestionably the focus of the Passover. And so that moves to a third thought. What exactly is in the background of this picture that Jesus is trying to communicate to his disciples? Well, if we go back to some of the things we talked about last week, I'm not going to rehash all of that, but we talked about how the Passover was a series of events. And as each family was preparing their home by removing all the leaven from the household, they were supposed to be remembering several things as they did this. One being that in fact with great haste Many, many generations before, God told the people, prepare your homes, you're going to be sent out, and it's going to happen very fast. And that was part in the background of what they were thinking. There was a second aspect to this where they were to cleanse their home because what they were about to do together was a very sacred thing. It was not a flippant thing. It was not a small thing. It was not a light thing. It was a heavy, serious matter. So they were to remove all impurities from the home and they were to focus on the seriousness and the sacredness of that particular moment. I think there's also a third aspect to this. It reminds the people of this renewal at the beginning of the year. Don't forget, this is the beginning of the Jewish festival season. This is the very first month. This is like the month of January for us. It's not the month of January, but it's the beginning of their of their calendar. So as the people are preparing their homes, these are the kinds of things that should be going through their minds. And then the second thing they do is they set aside that Paschal Lamb on the tenth. And then on the 14th, they kill it. And you say, well, what's supposed to be going through their mind as they're doing that? Well, in the selection, they're reminded that this is a spotless lamb in the first year, and it's picturing a spotless lamb is going to take away the sins of the world. They're not fully comprehending that, but now we know looking back. And they're reminded that its blood would be shed to remind them of the first paschal lamb which died in the place of the firstborn. So the reason that the death angel passes over each household is because when he sees that blood on the doorpost, it was a guarantee that an animal died. in the place of the firstborn, and so he could pass over that particular house. They took serious the message. They believed it. They applied the blood as they killed the lamb. It's blood for these people would be sprinkled on an altar and it would visualize that this was a sacrifice that was given to God for the condemned. That's very significant. We talk about the cross. The cross is really not about the Sanhedrin. The cross is really not about Judas. or the devil or anything else. It was about God who has to deal with sin in a just way. And we'll see that in just a few moments. The picture points forward to the Lamb of God who would take away the sins of the world. And then they would eat that meal. And as they opened up the meal, they would read from Psalm 113 and Psalm 114. We actually opened our service this morning with Psalm 113 to kind of give you a sense of some of the things that would have been read. at the beginning of that meal. And then during the meal, the family would tell the story of the Passover. They would connect the celebration to events that they were memorializing. And then they would take that roasted lamb, they would eat it with bitter herbs, they would drink the fruit of the vine, they would eat the unleavened bread, and all of these things were a part, symbolic of what was taking place. And then what did they do at the end? They read Psalm 115 to Psalm 118. Now, just so that you can get a sense of the direction of the Passover meal, I want to read to you not the totality, but a portion of those Psalms. Psalm 113, listen to what it says. Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forward forevermore. From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, the Lord's name is to be praised. The Lord is high above all nations, his glory above the heavens, who is like unto the Lord our God, who dwelleth on high. who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven and that are in earth, he raiseth up the poor out of the dust and lifteth up the needy out of the dung hill. Now when those people read Psalm 113, what's going through their minds? All of those plagues are a demonstration of the greatness of God. That's what they're remembering. Who are the poor in the dust who are lifted up out of the dunghill? It's that generation who is delivered out of Egypt. Psalm 114, when Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language. Judah was his sanctuary, Israel his dominion, the sea sawed and fled. Jordan was driven back. Tremble earth at the presence of the Lord. At the presence of the God of Jacob, which turneth the rock into a standing water, the flint into a fountain of waters What were they remembering as they read Psalm 114? They were remembering this deliverance out of Egypt. They were remembering what happened when they were backed up to the Red Sea. They're reminded how God took care of them in the wilderness, and he even caused the people to walk through on dry ground, not just at the Red Sea, but also at the Jordan River. But after the meal, there's a shift in focus. And the question that every single person who celebrated Passover should have asked themselves is why the shift of focus? Psalm 115, not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory. Our God is in the heavens. He hath done whatsoever he hath pleased. Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men's hands They have mouths, but they speak not, eyes, but they see not, ears, but they hear not, noses, but they sp they smell not. But they walk they they that have they have hands, but they handle not. Feet have they, but they walk not. They that make them are like unto them. One that trusteth in them. O Israel, trust in the Lord. He is their help and their shield. But here's the one that really stands out. This is the last thing that would have been read after eating the Passover meal, and don't miss it. Psalm 118, verse 21. I will praise thee, for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation. How did he do this? The stone which the builders refused is become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now, I beseech thee, O Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee. Send now prosperity. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. And you know what every single person celebrating the Passover as they quote that psalm at the end of the Passover meal, you know what they should have said? Who's the stone? How does he become my salvation? How is it that faith now comes after the rejection of this individual? Why is it that as Jesus came down from the Mount of Olives on that Sunday, that they said, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord? They're literally quoting this psalm. Why? Because that's what they would read at the end of the Passover. And you know what this tells me? What this tells me is that the Passover was not just meant to look back. It was meant to look back and then to look forward. And so, what is the significance of what Jesus says at that Passover? I want to focus the rest of our attention, the rest of our time, on the two statements he made and why they matter. The first statement is the statement, this is my body given for you. Now, when we take the bread, the unleavened bread, the wafer, some of you go, it doesn't taste very good. It's more like a cracker or something like that. When we take that bread and we eat it, what should be going through our minds? What should be going through our mind is this statement. That represents his body, which was broken for me. What is the significance of his body broken for me? There are at least two things that are significant and the scripture states it so clearly. Let me give you the first one. Our sin was placed on Christ's body. Did you catch that? When he says, This is my body which is broken for you, this do in remembrance of me, he's saying, That body, my body, is going to carry your sin. Listen to the scriptures. 1 Peter 2. 24, who his own self Bear our sins in his own body on the tree Did you catch that? Let me read again. Who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree So as Jesus hangs on the cross, you can't see it. This is something that God is doing in the spiritual realm, but the Bible couldn't be more clear. Our sin debt was placed on the shoulders and the body of Christ. You say, why did he do that? Well because in Isaiah 53 he predicted it. It says the following in verse 11 that he will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his na right by his knowledge my righteous servants shall justify many. Why? Because he will bear their iniquities. Or in Isaiah 53 verse 12 it says this, he will divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul unto death. He was numbered with the transgressors, and he bare the sin of many. What do those verses tell us? The Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all You say, why did he have to do that? Because God is a holy, righteous, and just God. And God can't just ignore sin. He can't just sweep it under the rug. He can't just push it away and say, I don't see it, it's not there. He can't do that because he's righteous. It would be a miscarriage of his justice. Hebrews 9. 28 says that Christ once offered himself to bear the sins of many. So the first thing that is significant about his body given for us is that our sin, the Bible says, was placed on his body. But there's more to it than just our sin was placed on his body. Because it didn't just stay there. It was dealt with. As he hung on that cross. Listen to what the Bible says in Isaiah 53 and in Galatians 3. Literally, Christ was punished for our sin. Isaiah 53, 5. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. What happened to Jesus as he hung on the cross and as our sin was placed on him, he was dealt with as if he were the sinner. Isaiah 53 verse 10, it says, It pleased the Lord to bruise him. Who is the one who bruised the Lord Jesus Christ? It was not the Roman soldiers. It was the Father. Why? Because he is being dealt with as the sinner, though he is sinless It says, It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou hast made his soul an offering for sin, he will see his seed, prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. Galatians 3, 13. Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, and here is the way he did it: by being made a curse for us. So when you take the bread and you remember his body broken, don't think of the physical suffering primarily, though it is there. Think of the fact that he bore our sins in his own body on the tree, that he was crushed for our iniquities, he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised, the chastisement of our peace was laid upon him. He became a curse for us. You say, well, that's terrible. That the Father would make the Son do that. The Son wanted to do it. Why? Because that is how redemption is accomplished. Notice it says, he'll see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. It's really unclear in the text if it's the Father who's satisfied with the sacrifice or the Son. who is satisfied that the Father has accepted the sacrifice. No matter how you look at it, the cross was necessary. But then there's a second statement, and that is that this is the New Testament in my blood, which is shed for you. As we take this juice, this grape juice, this fruit of the vine. And we drink this juice, what should be going through our minds as we drink this juice? We should be thinking that Christ's blood was shed for the remission of our sins. And that his blood was shed to establish a new covenant. So let's kind of talk about that for just a moment. When the Bible talks about his blood being shed for the remission of sins, We should ask the question, what does it mean that our sins are remitted? There are two words in the New Testament that are used, Greek terms, that are translated remission. One is a Greek term, and it doesn't matter to you what the word is, but it's Ephesus. And this is what the word means. It means forgiving a debt. Through an acceptable payment made on one's behalf. Did you catch that For giving a debt for an acceptable payment that is made on one's behalf. Let me give you some scriptures where that term is used That Greek term, and the word translated remission, is actually this word Ephesus. Matthew 26, 28. This is my blood of the New Testament, which was shed for you for the remission of your sins. How are the sins remitted? Blood is shed. Whose blood is shed? Christ's blood is shed. Colossians 1. 14, in whom we have redemption. through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins. How are our sins forgiven? It is through redemption, and redemption is the payment of a price. And what is the price that was paid? It was the blood of Christ that was given to give us forgiveness of sins. Hebrews 9. 22, almost all things are by the law purged with blood. Without the shedding of blood is no remission. Now Once in the end of the world hath he, that is Christ, appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. So how are our sins remitted? It is through the death of Christ and the shedding of his blood on our behalf. But I want you to see this from another text that I think even makes it clearer that in fact Christ's death in this way was an absolute necessary thing for you and me to be safe from our sins. And that is a second Greek term that is used, that is very unusual, it is not used often in the New Testament, and that is the term parasis. And this word has the idea of passing over an offense until it can be dealt with later. This is a very interesting term. And this term is used in Romans chapter 3, verse 25. Listen carefully to the Word of God as he speaks about this concept of remission. It says, whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are passed through the forbearance of God. Now that word remission of sins is not the same term that was used in the other passages that were used. Yes, I know the English word is the same, but the Greek term is different. It has a different sense So the first passages of Scripture talk about what happened after the cross. We have remission of our sins. Our sins have been removed because the debt has been paid in full. And the debt is the death of Christ and the shedding of his blood on the cross. But Romans chapter 3 answers the question, what about people in the Old Testament who were saved before Christ died? All of these people's sins were forgiven, yet the payment had not been made. So obviously God can forgive sin without the cross, because that's what he did in the Old Testament. And the answer is no, that's not true at all. Because forgiveness of the Old Testament saint was different in some way than forgiveness for you and for me. And here is how it is different. It is different because that word remission in Romans 3. 25 is one of passing over an offense until it is dealt with later. You know what's really interesting when we talk about the sacrificial system? The word that is often used is the word atone. You know what the word atone means? It means to cover a thing. So when they offered sacrifices, those sacrifices didn't remove their guilt. It didn't remove their sin. It covered it and it pointed to the ultimate sacrifice. that would deal with their sin. And so what Paul writes in Romans chapter 3 is this: God demonstrated that he is righteous. With the forgiveness of sins in the Old Testament, because they were dealt with at the cross. That's what he's saying. So don't miss this picture. And I hope it's not too complicated to consider. I'll put it in very simple terms. Without the cross and Christ's shedding of blood, God would have been unjust to forgive sin and treat sinners as if they'd never sinned. It's that simple. So when we talk about the blood of Christ being shed for our sins, that is an absolute necessity. When we talk about the body of Christ that was broken, that bore our sin and was punished in our place, it's an absolute necessity. Essential. No salvation apart from that death on the cross. But there's a third component here that is connected to the shedding of Christ's blood. And that is that it established a new covenant. And he states it right in the text. This is the new testament in my blood. This was shed for the remission of sins. Two things that are mentioned there. The old covenant that these believers in the Old Testament lived under Served an important function, but it was inadequate to fully deal with our sin. Did you catch that? The old system served a perfect a good function, an important function, but it was inadequate to fully deal with our sin. And I want you to see how in Hebrews 9 and 10, he he lays this out so that we can actually see it. It pointed to a better covenant in verse 9, Hebrews 9, 9. It was a figure for the time that then present. A figure means it's pointing to something to come. Or in chapter 10, verse 1, it was a shadow of good things to come and not the very image of the same. So what does that tell you? It was good for the time, but it had a deficiency. It could not deal with sin the way it needed to be dealt with as it was at the cross. Or it could not cleanse the conscience. Verse number nine. In which the those offered both gifts and sacrifices, they could not make him that did service perfect as pertaining to the conscience. Why is that? Because the sin was still there. The sacrificial system didn't remove sin, it covered sin. And it pointed to the ultimate fulfillment that would remove the sin. It only provided temporary purification. Chapter 9, verse 13. The blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of an heifer sprinkled the unclean, sanctify it to the purifying of the flesh, and that's it. It could not deal permanently with sin. The new covenant is entirely better on every level. Listen to the way that the writer of Hebrews states this in chapter 9, verse 11. He says, Christ, being common high priest of good things to come by a greater and more perfect tabernacle by his own blood entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. If the blood of bulls and of goats and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling to the unclean sanctifies to the peering of the flesh, how much Much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience. For this cause, he is the mediator of the New Testament that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgression that was under the first testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance. Let me put it in very simple terms. When Christ died, he made a better way possible. That's all there is to it. Everything that was deficient about the old system was fulfilled in Christ and replaced by something so much better. Now we shouldn't pity the Old Testament saint. Rather, we should rejoice in our position today Because the fact is that we can look back and we can see Passover and we can see cross and we can see position and it's all laid out for us in the Word of God. Christ's death and the shedding of his blood for us ended the old and established the new. Chapter 10, verse 9. He taketh away the first. that he may establish the second, by the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. So when we read these verses in Luke 22, and he says, This is my body broken for you, this is my blood which is shed, this my blood shed for the remission of sins, this is the new testament of the new covenant of my blood, that's what he means. He means his body bore our sins. He means that he took our guilt, the just for the unjust to bring us to God. And because he did it, it's done. There's nothing for you to do. There's nothing for you to give. There's no work that can replace the work of Christ. If we get in our heads that somehow we can earn our way to God through something that we did, we say that the cross was a waste. Jesus didn't just die as an example. I mean, he was an example, don't get me wrong. Jesus Died to deal with our sin once and for all, and now we can be forgiven and cleansed and be his children. This morning, as we come to the Lord's table, let's not forget what we are remembering. What are the implications? The Lord's table is a sacred time of remembrance. The Lord's table is not about me declaring anything about myself or you declaring anything about yourself. It's about declaring what Jesus did. As often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you proclaim the Lord's death until he comes. We're coming to proclaim what has taken place in history. We're coming to proclaim the significance of what he did. And so here's what I want to encourage you to remember, as we will remember in just a moment. Remember his body that bore our sins was wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities. Remember that the chastisement of our peace was upon him, that he has redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. Remember that we are forgiven of sins through the redemption that is in his blood. Remember that we are the recipients of a better covenant because by his own blood He entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us. What's the light of what Christ has done for us? What the Father has given us. Let's bow together and prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table. With every head bowed and every eye closed, I want to encourage you to spend some time reflecting. Reflecting on what Jesus did. You know, a lot of times the Lord's table becomes a time that we just feel complete agony because we think about how much we've sinned. Turn that agony to the cross of Christ and remember all that sin was nailed there. Who you were. is not who you are. And it's all because of him. Remember with great joy and great delight, be comforted in your soul by the tremendous work of Christ on your behalf It could be that there's someone here this morning that's never placed their faith in Christ. Don't partake of the Lord's table. Turn to the one whom it represents and trust in him as your Savior. Call on the Lord. Tell him you're a sinner. That you understand now that Christ bore your sins on his own body That the chastisement of your peace was laid on him, that he was wounded for your transgressions and bruised for your iniquities And that through his death and the shedding of his blood, your sins can be washed away forever. Call on the Lord. Ask Him to save you. Trust in Christ's death and resurrection. The Lord is not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. If you call on the Lord, he'll save you right there in your seat. Let's bow together. I'll lead us in prayer as we remember The seriousness and the beauty and the glory of this moment. Our Father, thank you for your word. All of these things are true. And we know them because your word declares them. And I pray that during this quiet moment of reflection, that our understanding of the significance of the cross would be heightened in a way it's never been before. That we would be overwhelmed by your grace. That we would be thankful and humbled. That we would rejoice in the position we have in Christ. That we would take deep comfort in the fact that we are accepted in the beloved through what Christ has done for us. I pray that this would be a very sweet time of remembrance and communion with you and with one another. I ask this in Christ's name. Amen.