Stop singing and I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and turn to Philippians chapter 2. Philippians chapter 2, and this evening we'll be looking at a little bit longer portion of Scripture, and then really what we're going to do is a little bit of a topical study. that kind of flows out of the main point of this passage. So Philippians chapter 2, we'll look at verses 22 to 30. Philippians 2, 22 to 30. But ye know the proof of him that as a son with the Father, he hath served me in the gospel. Him, therefore, I hope to send presently, so that so soon as I shall see how it will go with me. I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly Yet I suppose it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, and companion in labor and fellow soldier by your messenger. And he that ministered to my want. For he longed after you all and was full of heaviness, because that he heard that he had been sick. For indeed he was sick, nigh unto death, but God had mercy on him, and not on him only, but also on me, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow. I sent him therefore the more carefully, that when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful. Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such in reputation, because for the work of Christ he was nigh to death, not regarding his life, to supply your lack of service toward me. Now this is a very interesting passage of Scripture. This is not a theologically deep passage. In fact, it's a very personal passage. We basically have Paul who's in prison. He has co-workers who are with him and are encouraging him. He's very concerned about the situation at Philippi. He loves those people. He's tried to express to them how much he loves them. And one of the things that Paul really wants is he wants to hear a good report from what's going on at Philippi. So he's basically saying, I want to send somebody to you. This is a person who I love deeply. I have great confidence in them. I think that they'll Handle your situation very, very well. And then when they come back to me, I'm going to be encouraged by what I'm going to hear. And also, by the way, I'm really hoping that I can see you as well. Well, in the midst of a passage like this, we ask a question: why did Paul write it? Well, I'll just put this little simple thought. He wants to communicate his desire to come and visit the church if God allows him to come. That's a really important statement. He wants them to know that he wants to come, but he's only going to be able to come if God allows it. What God wants us to see in this text, I think, is that we need to make wise decisions in a God-centered way. And what Paul wants to do is a good thing, but he has no idea if it's going to end up working out. So the topic that we're going to look at this evening is the topic of decision making. How should we approach making decisions? You know, there are a lot of different ideas I think that people have about how we make decisions. I know when I was a little bit younger, I used to really approach decision making in a very mystical way. I used to put out fleeces and uh see what happened. And based on what happened, then I would make a decision. Well, whether you realize it or not, that sounds a lot like The way that people in the African continent that I worked with made decisions when they went to somebody who was involved in spiritism. Believe it or not, it was a very similar concept. Or you have people that make decisions purely on their emotions. I have a peace and a confidence about that issue. I'm very unsettled about that issue. Well, my question is, how should we approach decision making? How did Paul approach making decisions? What's interesting is when we come to this text. There's some things that we don't see Paul say, and there's some things that we do see Paul say, and I think we should observe those things because they tell us a lot. about how a very godly man, how a very wise man looked at this issue of making decisions. Paul was not a mystic. Paul was not putting out fleeces Paul says nothing about having peace about coming or not coming. He says, I hope to see you if God allows. This is my desire. This is my wish. This is my plan. Let's see what God does. That's basically what he says. So let's get into this topic a little bit tonight. Let me ask you a question. How do you decide if you should go to college? Now, thankfully a lot of you here don't have to worry about that one. A lot of you, your kids don't have to worry about it anymore. That's a decision that's been made. But some of you, that is a decision that you're gonna make. And some of you, that's a decision your kids are gonna make down the road. How do we know if we should go to college? Or should we get a job in the trades? Where should I go to school? Should I go to this Christian college? Or should I go to that Christian college? Or should I go to community college or should I go to a university? What kind of a profession should I pursue? Should I get married down the road? Okay, if I do get married, who should I marry? These are great questions. Does God write signs in the sky to tell you who to marry, where to go to college, and all those kinds of things? Well, he didn't do it for me. Did he do that for any of you guys? Probably not. But what's sad is I think a lot of times young people Take a very mystical, superstitious, and really not a healthy approach to making decisions. How should we look at this issue of decision making? Well, I want to ask a bunch of questions tonight and then try to just talk about some practical thoughts. that really we can find in this passage, but throughout lots of other portions of the Bible. The first question is this, what are some common Misconceptions about decision making. And I want to give you a couple of observations. And by the way, these observations are from my own personal experience and my interaction with a lot of young people over the years. I grew up in a Christian college setting. So I watched thousands of young people over many, many years grow up, go through that system. I grew up with a lot of different people who were wrestling with those kinds of things. And so some of these are from my own experience and some of them are from dealing with other folks over the years. Here are a couple of misconceptions. First of all, an overemphasis on our decision making and how it affects what happens. This is the idea. My future rests fully on my shoulders and the decisions that I make. Let me tell you something. That's not true. Now, I'm not going to try to tell you that your decisions have no bearing on your future. Actually, they do have bearing on your future. But that is not the only factor. I would even go so far as to say that may not be the largest factor. There are times that God in his providence overrules decisions that we make. Sometimes when people are younger, they make really bad decisions. And as they get older, they become a little bit wiser and they begin to look at things in a more biblical way. And you know what God does? God takes those terrible decisions. And he ends up using those things to help that person mature and become very godly and really be a help to others in the future. I'm not saying that our decisions don't matter. They do, but that is not the only factor. There are other factors. Another misunderstanding is an under-emphasis on God's sovereignty in our lives. There are folks that think if I make one mistake, I have blown God's perfect will for my future. Is that true? Is God's are God's hands tied? And he goes, if you make one mistake in this little place Everything I wanted you to do, it's gone. It's like boom, it explodes, and I can't help you anymore. You're on your own. What a terrible and debilitating way to look at life. By the way, there are folks that do look at life that way, and they end up being very miserable, and they end up thinking that God can never use them. They end up In a very desperate and difficult situation. The fact is that God works in our lives in spite of many poor decisions. that we make. I have made poor decisions, you have made poor decisions, and God didn't leave you on the corner and leave me on the corner. He's continued to work in our lives. in spite of some very foolish and sometimes hurtful decisions. A third misunderstanding is understanding the ways that God works in his providence. A lot of folks believe that we need some kind of subjective leading from God to make a decision. Now please don't misunderstand what I'm saying here. I'm not suggesting that we should violate our conscience when we make decisions. The Bible is very clear about how we should relate to our conscience. But there are folks that think that somehow God is going to give them this magical sense of peace. and calm and then they make that decision. You know, there are some folks that will never, for any decision they make over the course of their lives, have perfect peace. I'm being totally honest. And it has a lot to do with their personality. They're extremely analytical. They micromanage every single possibility in their minds. And you know, those folks can never be completely confident about the decisions that they make. There are other folks who their personality is uh Extremely whimsical, they don't think things through very carefully, and they will jump out at anything, and they feel tremendous confidence about things that they shouldn't feel confident about. And that is just the truth. The fact is, folks, I do believe that the Holy Spirit works in our heart and can press us in a certain direction. But I think we debilitate ourselves when we get this thought in our heads: I can't make that decision until I have perfect peace. A lot of you would have never gotten married. Just saying, if you would have taken that approach, it's true. You would have never bought your first house You might not have gone to college and uh who knows what would have happened to you. A lot of times we go through life making decisions with tremendous fears because of the dispositions that we naturally have Another misunderstanding of God's ways is that we should test the waters with a fleece to see what God does so we have a confirmation to make a decision. You know, this is a really common thing. I remember hearing people make statements like, I'm going to put a fleece out and see what God says. I want to challenge you to go to that passage. about Gideon and read it carefully and ask the question, was the fleece to find God's will, or was the fleece because he was a doubter of what God clearly stated he should do? And it'll be interesting what you discover. The fact is God told Gideon, do this, and he said Are you sure? He said, I'm sure. And he says, well, if you're really sure, then I'm going to put this out, and here's the condition. And you know what? God in his kindness dealt with this man Gideon that way. And he did it a couple of times. He did the same kind of thing with Moses. But that is not a pattern for how we should make decisions. Those are examples of people who are made of flesh just like you and me, and they were making decisions based on things that really they shouldn't. God's word was simple and clear, and it was enough. Another misunderstanding of God's sovereignty is since God is sovereign, what I choose to do really doesn't matter. That would kind of be the opposite of the first misunderstanding. You know, the one person says, everything rises and falls on my decisions. And they fail to realize that God is in heaven and he's working. in your life in a very personal way. On the other side, the person says, I know God's sovereign, so what I do doesn't matter. I don't need to go out and evangelize. I don't I don't need to go to college. Whatever ha I need to do, God'll just make it happen. Well it's not exactly the way it works. God works through means. People get saved because you give the gospel. Churches grow because we do our work. And so God works through our decisions. And so we got to keep the right balance between how God and his providence works and how we are responsible as people who are created in his image to make decisions based on what we know to be right and wrong. The last misunderstanding I want to mention is this. Misunderstanding God's character. And I've heard this many times. You know, God's merciful, so it really won't matter if I do this. That's really dangerous. You know, it's like somebody who has decided they're gonna marry a person that they know they shouldn't, or they're gonna make a decision, a big decision that it's really gonna affect them. for years to come and they know it's wrong and they say, well God's merciful. I'll just go ahead and do it and I'll take my chances. That's really foolish. It is true that one decision doesn't blow your life, but it's also true that one decision may create tremendous pain for many, many years. And so we have to keep all of these things in in correct proportion as we look at them. Question number two, how did Paul make decisions? Let's look at our text. And I want you to notice the way that Paul refers to his decision to send somebody down to Philippi, his decision to come if he's able to do that. First of all, verse 22 says this Ye know the proof of him that as a father or has a son with the father, he hath served me in the gospel. That 's a simple little statement, but basically this is what it's boiling down to. Paul is a wise man. He says, I want to send somebody to you that has proven character. Isn't that good common sense? He didn't say I'm sending him to you because God told me to do it. He doesn't say I'm sending him to you because he has a peace about his ministry with you. He doesn't see, he doesn't say, I'm sending him to you because God gave me a sign that he's the one to go. It's a real common thing. He says this. He has proven character. He's the kind of guy that I can trust. He's the kind of guy that you can trust. So common sense says that's who I'm going to send. Just a simple little observation. Observation 2. Verse 23 says this. I hope. To send him presently. Notice that word. I hope. Paul doesn't really know if he's going to be able to do this. God doesn't give him any kind of like magical statement about here's what's going to happen in the future. He's making a decision with it being a hope. It's something that is probable, but he's not absolutely certain it will happen. He's very humble in his planning. He recognizes that in God's providence he may not allow it to happen, but that's what he wants to happen. We come to another statement in verse 23. He says, I shall see how it will go with me. Again, what is this telling us? Paul is, he's he's re- wrestling with the fact that God may not allow me to do this. God may not allow me to send this person. I don't know the future and what it holds for me. I don't know what my situation is going to be. So I'm going to see how the situation unfolds. And based on that, I'm going to put this into action if that's the case. Again, we don't see peace, fleeces Words from God or anything like that. We see wisdom and humility and trust in God and a recognition that God is in control. Verse 24 He says, I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly. Verse 24. Again, very humble planning. It's basically his way of saying, if God allows this to happen If it's his plan, then what I'm hoping to do, I'm going to be able to do it. We come to verse 25. He says, I suppose. It necessary to send to you apaphroditus. Again, we could put that statement in the category of wisdom. Paul is asking, is this practical? Is this wise? Is this what I should do? Verse 27. Humble gratitude. He was sick nigh unto death, but God had mercy on him. He realizes that the reason that he's now in a in a in a good, healthy position is because of God's kind hand upon him. You know, when we read, this is Paul, this is the guy who wrote scripture, folks. Paul had prophetic knowledge. He was an apostle. He worked miracles. If there was anybody that would have said, God told me to go ahead and do this Or if there was anyone that would say, I have the perfect peace and all those things, you think Paul would be the one here. That's not the kind of language that he uses. He's saying things like, I suppose, I hope, if it's best God had mercy. I'm going to try. That's the kind of stuff that Paul's saying. That's not because Paul is weak. That's because that's how real-life decision-making works, guys. That is how it works. Notice he does not say, God gave me peace, I know without any doubt, I put out this fleece. Yet I think that's the kind of terminology a lot of folks use when they talk about decision-making. And I'm concerned that especially for some of our young people, it really cripples them. It really caused them a lot of unnecessary struggle and difficulty. I think sometimes it keeps us from making decisions that wisdom would dictate making. I think sometimes it cripples us. And so I want to encourage you, when we think about decision making, let's look at it from a biblical standpoint. A simple summary of Paul's approach is this. Paul was purposed, number one, to do what was right. Two, Paul was purposed to make the decision that seemed the most prudent. We could use the term wisdom. And three, Paul was both submitted to and trusted in God's providence. He knew that God was going to work in the situation, and if God did not allow his plan to come to fruition, he's okay with that. So we see purpose to do right, wisdom, and submission and trust in God. That's how Paul made decisions, folks. That's how we should make decisions. Question three, how can we make sense of God's will? There's a book in our life in our, well, it's in the library and in the bookstore called Decision making in the Will of God. It's a book like about this thick. Now I'm not saying I wholeheartedly endorse everything in that book. Okay? Not saying that. But you know, actually, there's a lot of really practical stuff. And one of the things that I think that that book really emphasizes is that when we make decisions, we need to make decisions based on one, a fear of God, and two, wisdom. There's an entire book of the Bible written to wisdom. Okay? God wants us to be thinkers. God wants us to make decisions based on what is reasonable and what makes sense, not what is irrational. I've heard people say, if you want to know what to do, then do the most irrational thing because God wants to show himself real in your life. I've heard that kind of stuff. I'm being honest. I really have. Oh, if it's if it's too hard for you to do it, then that's the thing you're supposed to do. Not things like, how has God fitted you as a person? What kind of spiritual gifts has He given you? Oh, you have no ability to teach. Let's send you to the mission field so that God can show Himself real in your life. No. Why would you do that? Yet that's the logic that sometimes we find in Christian circles. Three elements that are very important. The first is this: God's moral will. God tells us that certain decisions are never morally permissible. You know, one of the most practical things that you and I can do is know our Bibles and know what is right and know what is wrong because it would cut out the majority of the decisions that we may potentially think of making. There will. There's so many decisions that are never right for you to ever make. And so you can just mark it down, that will never be God's will for me to do. He doesn't want me to do that because that's morally wrong. His word condemns that. His word says, don't do that. His word says that thinking process, those actions, those motives, they're wrong. Don't do it And it's not just commands. We're not just commanded on every single area. Let me give you an example. Is there any Bible verse that tells you not to smoke marijuana? Is there? No, there isn't. There is none. So does that mean that that's an area of freedom? No. Because there are a lot of principles that would come to bear on that particular matter. And so when we take those principles and we apply them, they realize, okay, this is something that takes me out of my right mind. This is something that's damaging to my body. This is something that's going to put me in environments where I'm going to do horribly foolish things. So while there's not one scripture that says thou shalt not smoke marijuana, I think we have plenty of biblical principles that tell us not to do that. And there are lots of things in the Bible like that. Just saying. Okay? Lots of things. We have commands and we have principles. And so we need to become savvy, we need to become practiced and knowing what God says is right and what God says is wrong and critically analyzing the kinds of decisions we want to make. God's moral will. You know, folks, God doesn't force us to do his moral will Wouldn't it be great if he did? Be a lot different world, wouldn't it? He doesn't. Now there are times that he uh puts people in situations where they're very compelled to do what he says. But he doesn't force us to do that. And there will always be consequences. There will be some consequence when we choose to do what is wrong morally. We then have God's sovereign will. What we mean by that is this. God works actively in our lives, working behind the scenes. Now that doesn't mean that God has made us robots and he is simply moving us like pieces on a chessboard. That's not what it's saying. When we say that God is sovereign, that means that God is governing or ruling over what's going on in our lives. Let me give you some practical examples of what I mean. When you have a desire that is a godly desire, where do you think that came from? You ever thought about that? Well, somebody was working in your heart through all kinds of different circumstances. It could be it could be something to do with a person that you met in a conversation. It could have something to do with a message that you're listening to, a passage of scripture that you're reading. It could have something to do with your personality. It could have something to do with the family that you come from. All kinds of factors Come and to bear that create impress you with desires. Those desires come from somewhere. Your fleshly desires come from your fallen nature But godly desires come from God Himself. Not that He just plants it in your head, but through so many different circumstances, He works to bring those things into your life You know, if you have a godly desire to do something, then pursue it. Very simple. Pursue those desires. You know, if God doesn't want you to do it, then He can stop you. It's not rebellion to pursue something he's not condemned. That is in line with his will morally. Let God work in your heart. Where did the opportunities that you have come from? God is working in circumstances that are outside of our control. There are people who try to micromanage life and they fail miserably and they are miserable people. And there are people who God just puts things into place in marvelous ways, and they just they glory in how good God is. Where did your aptitudes come from? The abilities that you have. Oh, they just came from me. Not really. Well yeah, you might have gone to school, but how'd you get the opportunity? How'd you have the ability to pay for that? How'd you end up in the family that you ended up in? How did you end up with those natural inclinations? Where did they come from? They came from God Why were your plans thwarted? Well it's that person right there. You see, nobody's sitting there, so I'm okay. That person. God could have moved that person and it wouldn't have thwarted your plans. But he chose not to. And so we get so angry at that person, those people, or those circumstances. But it's God in heaven who says, you know what, that's not what I want you to do. And so he limits. Why did all those details fall into place in such an undeniably precise manner? Oh, it's just random chance. Really? It's not. It's God. God's working in details that you can't even see behind the scenes. Why was I received favorably? Why was I so unreasonably treated? Look at Joseph. Now, what does Joseph say? You meant it for evil, God meant it for good. So we have positive and we have negative examples. The fact is that God is sovereign in our lives. And we need to stop looking at the people and the circumstances around us with so much animosity because it's keeping us from doing what we want to do and realize maybe that's God stopping us. That's God saying no. Just like God came to David who wanted to build the temple and he said, No, David, you can't do that. Sometimes God does that to us too. And then the third point is this biblical wisdom. God gives us practical common sense and surrounds us with people who have practical common sense, we hope. Choose your friends wisely. Why does the Bible talk so much about wisdom? Why does Solomon put so much emphasis on having a multitude of counselors? Well, it's because in there we find safety. You know, God made us rational creatures. God wants us to use our minds to make good, solid decisions. Go back to the Garden of Eden. Look at I know this is gonna be a simple little thing, but did God tell Adam what to name all those animals? Nope. He said, you name them. There's a big difference, isn't there? He actually said, I gave you a brain, Adam. I've given you a responsibility, Adam. Now use your brain in your responsibility and call those animals what you want to call them. It's what he did. God wants us to use our minds. He wants us to use wisdom. There's a difference between being pragmatic in a way where we're willing to compromise what is morally right and wrong. And being practical. They're not the same, okay? Being pragmatic, where we are willing to compromise is a terrible thing. Being practical is good common sense. We come to a final question. How can I make this Practical. Let me just run through a list of some some thoughts that have come to my mind as I think about this issue. The first thought is this: know what's right. today and do it. Many people who are consumed with seeking to know God's personal will for their lives fail to do what God clearly reveals is his will for their lives today. What am I supposed to do in 20 years? How do you even know you're gonna be on this planet in 20 years? You don't Be worried about today. Be worried about what you're supposed to do today. If you do the right thing today, guess what? God's going to put you where he wants you in 20 years He's going to do that. Allow God to stir your heart uniquely through various tools. You know, expose yourself to God's word. Expose yourself to ministry opportunities. Talk to people. Allow God to mold your heart and stir up in your heart the kinds of desires that He wants. You know, people might ask, how does a person end up going to the mission field? The practical answer is this. God uses people and circumstances and his word to stir people's hearts. And he presses them so that they're so motivated by what he's doing in their heart that they're willing to go and make that decision. And he can do that in your life. It didn't have to just be missions or ministry. It could be in your practical vocation. It could be a guy who's very bashful, ends up getting enough nerve to ask that girl out and ended up marrying her. God's working in his heart. And he finally, you know, steps up and does it. Develop godly desires. Godly desires don't happen in a vacuum. We've got to be in the Word of God. This book is going to shape how we think. and what we love and what we value and what we want to live for. And so godly desires that developed as God renovates and renews our thinking through his word. Evaluate every desire that you have in light of God's Word. Just because you want to do something doesn't mean it's good. Doesn't mean it's right. Doesn't mean it's something you should do. Where does it fall in line with God's Word? Our desires are never infallible. They must be carefully and objectively compared to the unchanging Word of God. Thank God for His grace, but don't impose on it. When you made a bad decision in the past and God continues to work in your life and gives you opportunities, glory in his grace. But when you're standing at a decision-making point and you see this road and that road, and you know this one, God's moral will says don't do it, and you're like, I would rather do this because God is gracious, guess what? That's really bad. And you may regret that the rest of your life. Ask God for wisdom. James 1 says: if any man lacks wisdom, let him ask of God. And God will give it to him. Trust God to provide the wisdom needed to make an important decision as you do your part. If God has brought you to a point in your life where you need to make a decision, He's going to give you the wisdom you need to make it. He's going to give you the courage you need to make it. He's going to put the right people around you that can encourage you to help you to make that decision. Plan carefully to accomplish your godly desires. Have long-term and short-term goals and view every aspect of God's will as a season. Not necessarily a lifelong situation. The truth is that God may not have you doing the same thing every day. day of your adult life. I'm an example of that. I mean I went to Ghana and uh here at Anchor Baptist is the pastor. And you know that doesn't bother me at all. There might be some people it bothers that I've interacted with over the years in missions. It doesn't bother me at all. Because I have no doubt in my mind that for a season in my life, God wanted me in Ghana doing exactly what I was doing. And I believe now he has a new season, he's got me doing exactly what he wants me to do. And I think that we really need to be careful that when we look at God's will, we don't say , God has made me this and this is what I will be till the day I die. That is not necessarily the case, folks. In fact, that's very rarely the case. It really is. These are just some practical thoughts from a practical text. I hope that as we think about decision making, oh, I have a bunch more, but I'll just leave them. Because of our time. I hope that when we think about decision making, we'll look at it in a godly way with wisdom. Don't neglect the tools that God puts in your care. If God has put a desire in your heart, pursue those desires. But hold them in your hands gently, because it may not be what he ultimately has you do. And this is how we should approach the decisions we make. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Father, thank you for for Paul and the example that he was, and how in this very practical passage, very personal passage. We see his heart and his wisdom, and we also see his submission to your providence. Help us to be people who make decisions in a practical and godly way. Help our young people as they look at their future. Help us not to be pragmatic and compromise, but help us to be practical and see that the desires that you Plant in our hearts the aptitude that you give us, the opportunities that you give us, thereby your design. Help us to embrace those things and flourish in those places that you put us. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.