Good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our midweek study. And this is a milestone in the fall because it's the first night that we've run the heat. in the building. So I guess it's been a little bit chilly in the office this week, but uh today is kind of the day that we turned the page, we put on the heat, but We may not be running the heat uh a week from now, so it's kind of that time of the year. But anyway, good to see each of you tonight. Let's go ahead and bow for a word of prayer, and then uh we will sing an opening song and then dig into the word of God together. Father, thank you for the privilege as your people to gather in the middle of the week. And as we open up your word, I pray that you would speak to our hearts in a very personal, very direct way. Help me as I deal with this text to handle it very carefully. Help me to handle it in a way that is consistent with the intent for which it was given. And I pray that this would be just a very rich time of study and reflection on your word. Bless our time of prayer together as we lift up requests that are heavy on our hearts. I pray that you would be at work in each of those situations. And we'll ask we thank you for that. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, we are going to sing 252 for our opening song, Nothing But the Blood, and we'll sing, let's do the first and the last, okay? 252. Thank you. I appreciate that, Drinian. He played with some real passion and spunk. So I appreciate that. Okay, well we are working our way now through the book of First Corinthians, so I'm gonna ask you Return in your Bibles, and this will be the first text that we're going to look at in First Corinthians, in our first Corinthians series. And if you joined us last week, You'll remember that we talked about the birth of the church at Corinth. And if you weren't able to join us, I'd encourage you maybe go back and check out uh the service last week to kind of give you a little bit of information that I think will be interesting and helpful. I know it's a really streamlined version of the story of the church plant, but When we think about a church like Corinth, we we tend to talk about all the problems that were in the church. And obviously, because of the books that we're going to be looking at for quite some time, there are a lot of problems that are addressed. But what we will notice from this book, Book of First Corinthians, is that a lot of the things that Paul addresses are not just problems that he's heard about. They're questions. that the church has directed to him. And so at the point where this book is written to them, they really do have a pretty decent relationship. It's not gotten to the level where it will be when we come to 2 Corinthians, and I'll say a little bit about that. during her introductory time. But it's important for us to realize that the the birth of the church at Corinth was a miracle. And it was a testimony to God's grace. It was a testimony to God's power. It was a testimony to God's intervention in history. Paul's initial desire was to go to Ephesus, basically. And instead he doesn't get to Ephesus for almost two years. And during that period of time, there are several churches that are planted, and there are people that are left in those places and people that join Paul's team. And all of this is an integral part to the story of the church at Corinth. So if you missed that, I hope you'll go back at a time when you have a little bit of time, maybe when you're driving or something like that. I listen to a lot of podcasts and Stuff like that when I'm driving. And um it'll give you some of the background information that I think will be helpful. Okay, the text we're looking at tonight is the introduction, verses one through three. So let's read it together. Here's what Paul writes. Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sosthenes, our brother. Unto the Church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints with all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord. both theirs and ours. Grace be unto you and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, I know that when we study the Bible, there are certain passages of Scripture that when we read them, we say, what are you going to get out of that particular passage of Scripture? For instance, if we're working our way through Kings and Chronicles or 1 and 2 Samuel, we come to one of those passages where there are all these names. A lot of times we kind of skip over those portions of scripture or maybe we're reading through the book of Leviticus and these laws seem very arbitrary to us and so we just kind of blow right through them because we don't want to get bogged down. And what we fail to realize is that some of those passages actually have some very practical and very rich truths in them some information that if we don't burrow down and do a little bit of research and find out some details, we may miss out on some important things. Especially We talk about genealogies. Those are a lot of details that are wearisome to our minds, but the truth is they tell us how people are connected to one another. They tell us about certain regions and there are details that we can learn that are helpful. Well, this is one of those passages in the New Testament. And we don't tend to find New Testament passages like this, but when we read the greeting that Paul gives, there's actually a lot for us to learn from it. And so I want to begin with summarizing it this way. Paul's warm greeting to the church affirmed his confidence. in their position and set the tone for the way he would address their questions and internal problems as an apostle. Again, Paul's warm greeting to the church affirmed his confidence and their position and set the tone for the way he would address their questions and internal problems as an apostle. A couple of pieces to that statement. For instance, he's setting the tone. And I mentioned a warm greeting. Those are telling us that Paul isn't writing to them to blast them. He loves the church. He cares about them. Also mentioned in there that he affirms his confidence of their position in Christ. He believes that they're Christians. He doesn't bring that into question. And he believes that they're believers. They are forgiven of their sins. They are beloved in the Lord. They are called to be saints. And they are saints positionally. Those things are all there. We also see the side where he's going to address questions and problems. So this is going to set the tone for where we're going in this series. What we see here is that God wants us to see Christians from a biblical perspective. And that biblical perspective has some nuance to it. So when I look at a person that I love, that doesn't necessarily mean I agree with him on everything. Or when I look at a person that I love and I respect, it doesn't mean that I believe they're always right. Or when I look at a person who I have tremendous regard for in one area, it doesn't mean that I necessarily would trust their judgment in every single area. Or I may look at a person who has been very, very faithful for a period of time, but I'm also going to see areas where they struggle. The idea is there's some nuance there when we talk about people. This is one of the things that's helpful about studying history. The great heroes of the American story were all-flawed individuals. And so We see their strengths and we learn from them, we can be inspired by them, but we can also learn from their weaknesses and learn from their failures And so when we come to a passage like this one, we're going to see that when we look at other Christians and we evaluate other churches and we evaluate the ministries of other people, there's some nuance to this. We need to be objective about it. And more than anything else, God wants our perspective to be thoroughly biblical. And I think that this is going to come out in what we look at tonight. So a few introductory thoughts to just kind of help us understand the direction of the text in front of us and where we'll go throughout this time in 1 Corinthians. First of all, the letter appears to be at least the second of several letters that are written to the Corinthians. So as you read through the book of 1 Corinthians, you're going to see the evidence that Paul will talk about things that they had said in other dialogues back and forth. So we don't know exactly which number this is, but Paul has written to them they have written to him. He is responding to questions that they have written to him. And so there are more than just two letters that were written between Paul and the church at Corinth. Now only two of those those letters are scripture. But it tells you that there was a lot of back and forth. There's a lot of interaction. And that also tells you that Paul loved the church and he cared about its progress into Christ's likeness. Second thing I'm going to mention is at certain places Paul addresses areas that have been brought to his attention. So he'll say things like It has commonly been reported, or I have heard from so-and-so. Paul basically is having conversations with people. who traveled with him, they ministered with him, and they said, Paul, you need to talk to the people at Corinth about, and then he lays out the issue. And they would have had deliberate deliberations about these things. And then Paul writes the letter. In the same way, if you had a group of pastors who are working together on a team, or when you have a deacon's meeting, sometimes you'll discuss issues in the church. that are areas of concern and we say, you know, this is an area that we need to address or we know that we need to address this issue, but how do we go about addressing this issue? We'd like to uh start something new. Let's talk about the best way to do that. There's discussion that goes on amongst those individuals. Same thing is going on with Paul. He's addressing areas of concern that have been brought to his attention On the other side, in other places, there are questions that have been posed to him in letters written by the Corinthians. They respect Paul. He spent an entire year and a half with them. And so they want to know what does Paul have to say about this question regarding marriage or this question regarding how we handle a situation of conscience. How should we address those issues? Thirdly, or fourthly, through their relation though their relationship had some strain, it was not yet hostile. Now this is going to be different when we come to 2 Corinthians. When you read the book of 2 Corinthians, it is a letter that is Paul defending his apostleship. And it really comes off with an edge. And there's a reason for that. Because there are people who had infiltrated the church. who were basically saying Paul is not a true apostle. And they were creating a lot of dissension and trouble in the church. And so Paul very passionately addresses this issue of whether or not he had had a valid apostolic ministry amongst the people. This letter is not to that level But there is a little bit of strain because of some of the difficult challenges that Paul is going to have to address. Also mention this about the greeting. It would have followed a very typical Hellenistic greeting. What I mean by that is it would be the ancient Greek way of saying Dear brother so-and-so, and then you start your letter. The way that they would have done this is they would say, here's who's writing the letter, Paul and Sosthenes. And here is who the letter is addressed to, to the Corinthians. And then later on in the greeting, there would be some kind of statement saying, I really wish you well. That's where he says grace. and peace from God. This would have been a very common way that people would have written their letters. Here's who's writing the letter, here's who the letter is written to, and I'm writing this letter to you with the desire that things will be well with you. But though this is the typical way of addressing the letter, and you'll see this throughout all of Paul's epistles. There's also a distinctly Christian element to the letter. As he writes this greeting, he sets the tone in a uniquely and distinctly Christian way. He doesn't just say, Grace to you, but he says, Grace to you in peace from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. So when he talks about grace and peace, and he desires the good of those people, it's clearly from God in a very distinctly Christian manner. So I wanted to mention those things kind of on the front side just to help us think about what we're looking at. So first of all, let's look at some of the details of his greeting. The first detail is truth number one, his letter is more than sage wisdom. I almost feel like I don't need to say this, but then sometimes I go, I think I do need to say this. When we come to the Bible, we are dealing with a book that is unique and different than any other book or any other document that's ever been written. We're dealing with the inspired Inerrant, perfect word of God. So as Paul is writing this epistle to the Corinthians, he's not just giving his opinion, he's not just giving good advice. He's not just giving you some ministerial helpful suggestions. Like if someone was to write me a letter or they were to write me an email and they had some theological or practical question and I and I work through the details. Probably don't handwrite it because you wouldn't be able to read it very well. But I work through the details and put it together and I zip it out and you read it and you say, oh I got this letter from from Pastor about my question. Or some of the books that I have in my library. Very interesting. I have uh books written by John Newton, and they're his pastoral letters, and they are just writ and wonderful letters where people asked him theological questions, practical questions, uh almost like counseling type questions, and you can see the way that he wrote to those people. Tremendous wisdom in those letters. But they're not like this. They're not scripture. And so this letter is more than just good, sound wisdom. It's the word of God through the Apostle Paul And we see this in verse 1 where he says, Paul called to be an a what? Apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of who? God. Okay? Let me say it again. Paul called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God. Paul is setting the tone in his introduction to say what I'm writing to you is not just my opinion. It's not just good advice. It's the Word of God. And so that leads me to a series of questions that I think are very important for us to think about. The first question is this: what is an apostle? Now, you may say, well, I know what an apostle is, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John. And that's true. But the question is, why are they called apostles and I am not called an apostle? Or Pastor Josh is not called an apostle. Or one of the brothers down the street who is a pastor of the church is not called an apostle. Or maybe we could pose it another way. There are some churches that do have people that they call apostles, and the question is, is it appropriate for them to use that term to say apostle, bishop, reverend? Doctor, and then they have the name. Is that word apostle appropriate in that situation? The answer is, let's see what the Word of God says about the topic. And so I want to answer it by looking at a couple of things I hope will be helpful to you so you can make a judgment about that because hopefully after I say this you'll be able to make that judgment very, very well. The first thing I want to say is this. There were tests that could validate a person's claim to be an apostle. There were tests. Now we see this in Revelation chapter 2, verse 2, because this is a letter that is written to the church at Ephesus, and this is what John writes, and it's from Christ to the church at Ephesus. He says, thou, the people of the church, have tried them which say they are apostles. and are not and has found them liars. Now, that word tried has the idea of what takes place in a courtroom. So you have someone who makes a claim and you have someone who makes a counterclaim and then all the evidence is laid out and then a jury is supposed to look at the details. And based on claim here and claim here and the facts that are in front of them, they make a judgment about who's right. Who is right. In other words, there's deliberation. There's an examination of evidence. That's what he means when he says, you have tried those who say they're apostles. They made a claim, and you looked at their claim objectively based on some facts. And he also says you found them to be what be liars. The ideas. As you worked through this very judicially, you said, not true. So that should bring a question into our minds. If they could do this, then are there some places that we would find the evidence of what an apostle was? And the answer is, of course, there are. The example I want to give you is Acts chapter 1. Because in Acts chapter 1, the apostles had a problem. The problem was that there were originally 12 apostles, and one of them had died. And the way he died was from his own hands, okay? Judas took his own life. And when Judas chose to do that, there are now not twelve but eleven apostles. And all of these statements that Jesus has made throughout the Gospels are statements that are helping us to believe that there's supposed to be twelve apostles. And these men are very concerned about that issue, and so they believe that they need to appoint a 12th apostle because the number is incomplete. And so notice carefully to what it says in Acts chapter 1, verses 21 and following. He says, of these men which have accompanied with us the apostles. All the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us, beginning from the baptism of John unto the same day, he was taken up from us, must one be ordained? To be a witness with us of his resurrection. Later on in verse 25 he says, so that they may be part of this ministry and apostleship for which Judas by transgression fell. So we know on the most basic level that these people believed that the only kinds of people that could be qualified to be an apostle had to be eyewitnesses of the ministry of Christ. And they had to be eyewitnesses of the entire ministry of Christ. And the most significant portion of that would have been the resurrection of Christ. Now, that's very important because as we work our way through the Gospels, we're going to see that there are two basic principles that absolutely have to be followed for someone to be called an apostle. The first is this. These are people who Christ validated in the way that he called them and commissioned them. Now if we were to go back in the Gospels to Luke chapter 6, verse 13, it says this. And he that is Jesus called unto him his disciples. Now that is all these people who are following Jesus. And the way he says it is very important. Of them he chose twelve. So not all of the disciples were apostles. Not even all the disciples that followed Jesus from the baptism of John were apostles. He hand-selected twelve of them who would be qualified to be called apostles. We go on in 1 Corinthians chapter 5. fifteen verses seven through nine where where Paul is writing about the resurrection. This is what he says in verse seven. He, Jesus, the resurrected Christ, was seen of James and then of all of the apostles And the the next statement is interesting. He says, And last of all he was seen also of me as one born out of due time. I am the least of the apostles that am not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. So again, we see that Paul is affirming that all of the apostles saw the resurrected Christ. Question. Could anybody living today meet that criteria? Unless they're 2,000 years old, the answer is no. Okay? Nobody living today can meet such a criteria. All of the apostles Saw the resurrected Christ. By the way, when Paul writes this, every single person who read the letter knew who he was talking about. So the apostles were known to the church at this time. Then we go to Acts chapter 25, verses 15 through 18. And we see the story of the Apostle Paul. Because someone might say, well, I know they called Peter and John and Matthew. But what about Paul? I mean, did Paul receive a commission from Christ? The answer is Well, yes, he did. Acts chapter 25, verse 15 says this. And I said, Who art thou, Lord? He said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest Rise and stand upon thy feet, for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness, both of these things. which thou hast seen, and of those things in which I will del appear unto thee, delivering thee from the people and from the delivering thee from the people and from the Gentiles unto whom now I send thee. To open their eyes and to turn them from the darkness to the light, from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins and an inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me. So We talk about the apostles. They witnessed the ministry of Christ. That would include Paul. And they were specifically called Objectively called, not they felt it in their hearts. Okay? We talk about people's calling into ministry. That's a really dicey topic, to be very honest with you. Because there are lots of people that they feel this tug in their heart to go into ministry, but they don't have the biblical qualifications. They don't meet those things. Or there's people that they they appear very, very qualified, but they don't have that passion in their heart. At least not at the time that maybe they're they're talked to about that. And so this is that's a very subjective thing that I have this This overwhelming passion in my heart to do this. That's a very subjective thing. But when we talk about this calling of an apostle, We're talking about something very objective. Peter didn't just feel it in his heart. Jesus looked him in the eyes and said, follow me. I'm going to make you fishers of men Go and feed my sheep. I mean, we go back to the end of John. What do we have? He's reaffirming three times to Peter that even though you denied me, you still have this ministry. Very, very important. So that's the first side of it. But there's a second side. And these individuals were given the power to perform miraculous signs. That could verify the ministry that they were participating in. And so in Mark chapter 16, verse 20, it says, They went forth and preached everywhere, and the Lord working with them, and confirming the word. with signs following them. So as these people went out and preached the gospel and declared Christ is risen from the dead, they were able to perform miraculous signs to verify that in fact this message was It's true. When we read the book of Acts and we look at Acts chapters 3, 4, and 5, and we see how God moved in a mighty way, one of the things that we notice is that One of those events was connected to a man who was laying at a gate, the gate beautiful, and as he's laying there lame, guess what? Peter says, I don't have silver and gold for you, but what I do have I can give you in the name of Jesus of Nazareth, rise up and walk. And there's like, how in the world can this do this? And he says, by the power of Jesus Christ. Peter didn't say, I have the power. He says, by Christ's power, I'm just the witness And then that becomes a starting point there. So they have these miraculous signs. 2 Corinthians chapter 12. He also talks about this. Truly the signs of an apostle were wrought among you in all patience and in signs and wonders and mighty deeds. Sometimes people ask me this question, Pastor, do we have the ability to raise the dead, heal the sick, and all these different miraculous things that obviously took place in the book of Acts. And I'd say, well, are you an apostle? No? Why does that matter? Well, those were apostolic sign gifts to verify that in fact these people were true apostles of Christ. and to verify their message because God was going to use these people in a very unique way. He was going to use them to write the scriptures. So, it's very important that we don't miss this. People living in the first century who claim to be apostles could actually be evaluated And they could come to the point where they said, yes, a true apostle, no, not a true apostle. People in the 21st century can make that evaluation too. And you know what the evaluation is? Nobody living today. comes close to being qualified to do this. No matter what they say, no matter how they feel, no matter what they say that they're able to do, doesn't matter. Does not meet the qualification of being an apostle of Jesus. Jesus Christ. So that leads us to a second question. The question is, well, why does this matter? Well, I mean it matters a lot if somebody says I'm an apostle. And that I speak for Jesus and they're lying. Okay? It really matters a lot. It matters a lot because it muddies the water. It has the potential for someone to be given a kind of authority that doesn't belong to them. Or that they could be presenting a message that in fact is not true, but people are sucked into such a message. And so I want us to think about a couple of things under this point that are very, very important. The first is this: claiming to speak for God is a massive truth claim. Claiming to speak for God is a massive truth claim. Now I'm going to go to the Old Testament for this, but we're going to see that there's a consistency between the Old Testament practice and the New Testament practice. When you talk about prophets in the Old Testament and you talk about apostles who functioned as prophets in the New Testament. And also New Testament prophets who would have also functioned in the church in those early days. What you will see is the same standard applied in the Old Testament and in the New Testament. And so if someone says I'm a prophet or someone says I'm an apostle and I'm speaking for God, that is a massive truth claim that if they're lying, it's a really, really, really big deal. Here's what he says. Jeremiah 23, 30. Behold, I am against the prophets which The prophet saith the Lord, that steal my words everyone from his neighbor. Now in that situation, you have someone who is claiming to speak for God and he's not giving the whole message. So you could lie in a couple different ways. You could overstate. You could understate. Okay? He's talking about the understate first. Instead of speaking straight about the message, they're kind of cutting it short. He says, I'm against those prophets that steal my words from their neighbor. Behold, I'm against the prophet. Says the Lord that useth their tongue and says, he saith, Behold, I'm against them that prophesy false dreams, saith the Lord, and do tell them and cause my people to err. by their lies and by their lightness. Yet I sent them not, nor commanded them. Therefore they shall not profit this people at all, saith the Lord. Okay, that's the Old Testament standard. And God is a consistent God. If he valued his word in the Old Testament, he valued it during the time of the apostles. And he values it today as well. His character and his mind has in no way changed on this issue. Old Testament prophets were held to an inflexible standard. When I say inflexible, if the nation was following the commandments of the Lord under the Old Testament system , And someone spoke and said, I am a prophet of God. And in fact, their claim fell short. It was actually a death sentence. This would have been such a serious matter that they would have held this person as liable as someone who had taken the life of another person. This would have been on the same level as a person who murders, or the same level as a person who kidnaps. Or the same level as a person who commits a violent sexual attack. Same level. This is the very serious issue. Deuteronomy chapter 18, verse 20 says this. Which shall presume, that's a very loaded word, is it not? Presumption. Presume to speak a word in my name which I have not commanded him to speak. Or that shall speak in the name of other gods, even that prophet shall die. You say that's that's a little harsh. Well, you know what if you if you're telling people you're speaking for God and and people are taking that message and they're building their lives on it, there's gonna be absolute catastrophe for them if they're building their lives on a lie. Third thing I want to mention here is this. The apostles spoke as verified witnesses who carried the authority of Christ in his physical absence. In 2 Peter chapter 1, he talks a lot about this. And I want you to notice what he says. By the way, we're only going to get through part one tonight. Crazy. Truth number one. That's okay though. This is a really big one, all right? So 2 Peter chapter 1 verse 15. Listen to what it says Peter writes, I will endeavor that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance. You say, well, what are the these things? So Peter's an apostle. He is preaching and he's testifying to the resurrection of Christ. He's transmitting information that he says, Jesus taught this, and I'm supposed to teach it to you. He says, when I'm dead and I'm gone, I want you to go back to what has been taught. Now this is important to not miss. What this is telling you is that Peter does not anticipate that he is going to take the mantle of being an apostle And he's going to put it on somebody else's shoulders, and then that person is going to carry on in his absence. Did you catch that? He's not anticipating, when I die, then somebody I discipled, they're going to be a little apostle, and they're going to do what I did. He doesn't do that. He says, when I'm dead, I want you to remember what I wrote. That's the key. And this is why scripture is so extremely important. Because, you know, I don't know about you. I'm getting worse as I as I start to get a little bit older. Used to be I can remember like all the details of conversations I had. And now, you know, I sit down and have a conversation with someone. If I don't take notes on that, and I have to revisit this conversation six months later. I can assure you, I will not remember a lot of the details, especially the most important ones. And if someone wants to press me and say, you didn't say that I don't know. Maybe I didn't. Or they say you did say that. And I go, I I mean I don't think I would have said that, but maybe I did say that. Unless I write down notes so that I can remember and I go back and say, okay, after that conversation This is what I wrote down. And I wrote down such and such. That's different than what you're saying. Or that confirms what you're saying. Yes, I remember this very well. So writing something down makes it permanent. It gives you the ability to go back to it. It gives you the ability to refresh your memory on that thing. It establishes a standard that is far better than our remembrance of things because our memories are not all equally good and they certainly are not going to be equally good the rest of our lives. And so he says, after I'm dead, I want you to remember what I have said to you. Four, we have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. Now, what Peter is saying is that what we wrote to you was a first-hand knowledge. When I tell you about the death of Christ, I saw it. When I tell you about the resurrection of Christ, I saw it. When I tell you about the things that he taught me, I was sitting there, I ate with him, I remember these conversations But he's going to take it a step beyond that. He writes in verse 20, no prophecy of Scripture. Now what is Scripture? It's the written word. No prophecy of Scripture is of any private interpretation. Now, that word private interpretation isn't sort of like God gives you these like mystical little zaps so you know what he's saying. That's not what we're talking about. And some Christians kind of get that sense. Like as you read the Bible, like you just get these these weird impressions, and that's like the private interpretation. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. Private interpretation is basically this. When I saw it, what I wrote down wasn't just my opinion. It wasn't my spin on the situation. God literally guided me to write down what I did because it comes from him even more than it does from me. That's what he means by it's not of any private interpretation. The prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. And this is the teaching of the inspiration of Scripture. We talk about what scripture is. Scripture is every word, the written word, the scripture, the graphe. Every written word of scripture is breathed out by God. So we can see the pe the the the the the it we can see Peter's mindset, we can see his personality, his vocabulary, all those things come out. He's not he's not just like a robot writing this thing down. He knows what he's saying. It's in his heart. He's thinking about it. He is recalling things that he has seen and that he has heard. But as he's writing these things down , The Spirit of God is working through him in the same way that he did with prophets like Elijah and Elisha, who he put his word in their mouth. And so as Peter writes these things down, what he's basically saying is this: when I'm dead, my apostolic ministry is done with one exception. What I wrote Will remain, and that's the standard. In other words, the apostles' ministry continues to this day, not through their lives being lived in front of us, But through the word that they wrote being preserved for us today. And so when I get up and I read the scriptures, I'm reading the word of God. You might say that the apostle's ministry continues in the sense that as the word is being rightly divided, and being expounded clearly and being applied appropriately, and the Spirit of God takes it and he works it into our hearts, that is the apostle's ministry continued. And so the reason that this little little statement, Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, okay, why this This is so very are through the will of God. The reason that this is so very important is because Paul is saying, this is scripture. This is something that goes beyond just you, church at Corinth. This is something that other churches need to be reading in the first century. This is something that people can pick up a thousand years from now. Not that he would have thought a thousand years from now we're going to still be talking about this, or two thousand years we'll still be talking about this. But people can go back and they can know God's mind on the issues that are really, really important for us to know as Christians. So that leads me to a final statement under this point. That will be the only one we deal with tonight. The closest modern parallel is the preaching of Scripture. It is the closest modern parallel. And this is why the preaching of Scripture is so critically important. The way that people handle the Word of God can be absolutely detrimental to the lives of the people that are listening to them, or it could be one of the richest, most powerful, most influential things that a person can ever come under the. the under the influence of. And so when someone gets up and they read the text of scripture and they don't just say, I believe this is the word of God and I respect that this is the word of God and I believe that this is the final of authority of the church, they don't just state it, but the way they handle the text demonstrates that. In other words, it's not all the illustrations that they give that have the authority. They could pretty much not give a single illustration and the text is going to speak for its And when you read what is there and you hear what is taught and you see how it's applied, you see this consistency. Not perfection in the way that the person communicates it, but you see consistency And you see reverence, and you see that the Word of God is the center of everything. That is when the Apostles' ministry continues to this day. And when somebody gets up and they just talk about their ideas and they throw out all these funny little stories and they entertain people and they talk about cute little things that are going on in their lives, they're wasting your time. The doing something that has no spiritual impact. It might be funny and you might enjoy it for a little bit, but it ain't gonna change your soul. It ain't gonna strengthen you in the inner man. This is going to help you grow and walk in Christ's likeness. This is why expositional preaching and teaching has got to be the heartbeat of the church. And so I look at what Paul says in 2 Timothy 4 to Timothy. He says, I charge thee, that's a strong word, charge. I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom? Preach the word Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long suffering and doctrine. And by the way It's very interesting to note that 2 Timothy is the last stuff that Paul writes to Timothy. In the same way that 2 Peter is the last stuff that the Apostle Paul writes to the churches. You see the same tone in those two epistles. Peter's about to die. He says, go to the word. Paul's about to die. What does he say? Preach the word. Remember, you're going to stand before God. Remember, he is going to judge you and how you handle his word. So when people want to hear it and people don't want to hear it, doesn't matter. Preach it. And by the way, preach is not just like tell people what it says. Compel them. Compel them to respond. Preaching is different than reading a book. Preaching is different than having a panel discussion. Preaching is very unique because it is persuasive by nature. It's impactful. It's very direct. It's a sobering and sacred thing. And so when we think about this passage, how do we apply this very first part? We apply it by recognizing this is the Word of God. The principle applies this way in 2 Timothy 3. All scripture given by inspiration of God and what? Profitable For what reason? That the man of God may be perfect, that's full maturity, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. Lord willing, next week we'll talk about truth number two. But this is an important topic for us to understand. I think a lot of Christians don't understand the concept of an apostle and why it matters. They say, oh, I believe Matthew is an apostle, I believe Peter's an apostle, I believe John's an apostle. Maybe there's some today, I don't know. Why does it really matter? Good people disagree on these issues, right? It matters a lot because it's about authority It's about the standard. It's about what shapes and drives and what the church has to submit to. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to really let these things sink into our hearts. Father, we thank you for your sacred word. And we realize that the text in front of us is full of many rich truths. Not just good advice, but it is filled with your authoritative instruction through the Apostle Paul. It is your word May we approach it in such a way. Father, help us to have a strong conviction about both the sufficiency of Scripture and also the nature of Scripture. And help us to handle it very, very carefully and to let it fill our hearts and minds so that it shapes us into Christ-likeness. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.