All right, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our Bible study tonight and hope your week's going well. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer And then after that, we will sing a song and then jump into the text that we started last week. So let's bow together for a word of prayer tonight. Father, thank you for the gift of your word and the gift of the church and the opportunity tonight that we have to gather together as a body. And then to open your word. And I pray that as we look at this text in front of us and as we dig into the truths that are a part of it, that you would help me to communicate it very simply, very well, in a way that's very helpful to each person that's here tonight. As we reflect on these truths, I pray that you would impress them upon our hearts. And I pray that as we spend time together in prayer, that you would use that to encourage and strengthen us and build us up. Bless the Freedom That Last Class as we get together in those classes, that that would be very encouraging. And just pray that you would be at work in each of these situations. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, we're going to sing 251 together near the cross. We'll just sing the first and the last reunion, okay? First and the last verses 251 near the cross. Jesus, keep me. Near the cross, there are precious fountain free to all idea streams. Those rock countries mountain in the cross, in the cross, be my Till my rasters all shall find rest be on the river. Near the rust abortion way trust me till I eat the road. In the past, in the past. My holy effort, shill my hand soul shall find rest be on the bed. All right. Good seeing. Thank you, Drinian. Appreciate it a lot. Okay, well we are in 1 Corinthians chapter 1 tonight, and uh we just started a series through the book of 1 Corinthians. And last week we started out in verses 1 through 3, and unfortunately we only got through a a very small portion of the content that we were going to dig into. And so I want to invite you to take your Bibles and turn there again tonight. And we're looking at Paul's love for a troubled church. Paul's love for a troubled church. And in the introduction, we're going to kind of see the tone that he is setting for the rest of the letter. So here's what the scriptures say. Verse number one, Paul Called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, Ansosthenes, our brother, unto the church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus. Called to be saints, with all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. Grace be unto you, and peace from God our Father and from the Lord Jesus Christ. Now what I want to do is remind you of what we talked about just very briefly last week so that you Remember the focus of that, and then we're just going to pick right up with what we left off with. First of all, we gave the following summary statement for the text in front of us. Paul's warm greeting to the church affirmed his confidence in their position and set the tone for the way he would address their questions and internal problems as an apostle. So if you'll notice what I just said there, he affirms his confidence that they're Christians. So we we look at some of the content of the book of 1 Corinthians, and someone might say, well Is it possible maybe these people aren't true believers and that's why they have all of these issues? And the answer is no, that's not what Paul's suggesting at all. Now he is suggesting that it's possible for true believers to encounter all the different things that he's going to address. He does not bring into question whether or not they are Christians. He does bring into question whether or not they're living consistent with the position that they have as believers. But he really loves these people. And uh we we mentioned that the tone of his introduction is one of warmth, it's one of affection. Um there is a little bit of tension that's building between him. and the people at Corinth, but it's really not reached a high level at this point when he writes his second epistle, which is actually not the second letter, but the second that would we we would say are scripture, that the tone is very defensive. He is defending his apostleship. But he's not yet at that point. And he's also going to address a lot of questions that they have. So some of the things that we'll talk about as we work our way through the book of 1 Corinthians are not just things that Paul is bringing up. Because he's concerned based on reports that he's heard. But some of these are just questions that people in the church have, and he's addressing those questions. And so as we think about the content of this greeting, we're going to see that God wants us to see other Christians with a biblical perspective. And a biblical perspective has some nuance to it. I can see someone who I affirm they're a believer, I affirm that they are a saint in Christ Jesus, I affirm that God loves them. And that I love them and I can also at the same time see that they have flaws, they have challenges, they have issues, and the same way that when someone is looking at me, it would be the exact same thing. There's some nuance to the way that we look at one another as believers. And the things we're going to talk about, I think, will help us to strike a good, solid biblical balance on this issue. So the first truth that we looked at last week was that this letter is more than just sage wisdom. Down in verse number one, he says, Paul called to be a what? Apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of who? Of God. And the question that we asked is, well, who is an apostle And why does that matter at all? Well, the fact is that an apostle was someone who was tested and validated to be carrying the authority of Christ in Christ's absence. And so these are people who received an objective call by Christ. Their ministry was validated by Sign gifts, these are objective miracles that they were able to perform. And these are people who are eyewitnesses who are testifying to the work of Christ, his death. And his resurrection. So this is a really important topic for us to understand. Who is an apostle? And the question we answered last week was, well, why does this actually Well the reason that this matters so much is that claiming to speak for God is a massive truth claim. If I preach a sermon and I say God wants you to do, and then I lay it out, that is a really strong claim. If that's just my opinion, I have made a statement that I have no right to make. No business making such a statement. Or if I read the scriptures and then I go and I kind of like sugarcoat it and I I short circuit it a little bit and I kind of I qualify things that God doesn't qualify, I have no business to do that. It's so very important that we recognize when we stand in the position of saying God says, well, it better be accurate. It better be the truth. Old Testament prophets were held to an inflexible standard. In fact, we went back to Deuteronomy chapter 18. We saw that if someone says, the Lord has said, and he didn't say, Once the the testing had been done and they were found to not be a true apost uh excuse me, a true prophet of of of of God There was actually a death sentence for that. It was on the same level as committing murder or or some violent assault. This was a very, very serious matter because God's authority is behind the statement, thus says the Lord. We also see that the apostles spoke as verified witnesses who carried the authority of Christ in his physical absence. And we dealt with 2 Peter chapter 1, and that passage is really, really impactful. I'm not going to read some of the other verses we talked about, but this one I think is really important. He says, I will endeavor That after I after my decease you have these things always in remembrance. We have not followed cunningly devised fables when we made unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus. But were I witnesses of his majesty? That's a pretty amazing statement. He says, No prophecy of scripture is of any private interpretation. This isn't like our spin on the issue. This is the real facts from God through us, but we're not just giving you our own view of what happened. We're telling you what God said about what happened. The prophecy did not come in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. So very important that we understand why the statement, I'm an apostle of Jesus Christ. by the will of God is so very, very important. The closest parallel we have is biblical preaching. And so when someone gets up and preaches, hopefully they are expounding God's word, and it's very clear that what they're saying is consistent with what the Bible actually says. So we're going to move from that to our second truth. Our second truth is that Paul's authority did not cause him to do his work alone. Now this is an interesting point that I don't want us to miss. He says, and Sosthenes, our brother. Now, if I was teaching like Sunday school, I would ask you the question Have you ever heard the name Sosthenes in another part of Scripture? And I hope that if you were here on the first night that we talked about the birth of the church of Corinth from Acts 18, you would say, yes, I have heard that name before. The question is, well who was this person Sostanes, and why does this even matter? So let's table that for just a second, and I want to make a couple of comments before we dig into who Sosthenes is First of all, I want you to notice the tone of Paul's inclusion. When Paul talks about this person, Sosthenes, he speaks of him as if he is a peer. As if he is a partner. Okay? Now let's remember something. Paul is an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God. So when Paul says, Thus saith the Lord, he is carrying the full weight. of that statement or that formula. God has spoken by me through me. Very, very significant. But when he says, and Sosthenes our brother, he's basically saying, while I'm an apostle, there is a sense in which this guy, Sosthenes, and I, we are peers. We are co-laborers. We have the same faith. We have the same opportunity, the same ministry. And I think that that's very s that 's very significant. In fact, if we were to go back to the book of Acts and we were to look at the ministry of Paul, we will notice something about the way that Paul did his ministry work. Paul never, to my knowledge, I cannot think of one example, and if you can find one, fine, you can tell me later. But But the general rule, the practice of the Apostle Paul, was that he traveled with partners. He did not travel alone. He moved with people. Now there were times that he left someone somewhere, and when he left them there, he waited for them to come back. But that was his mode of operation. He moved and traveled in ministry teams In fact, when we think about the story of the birth of the Church of Corinth, he starts out with being at Troaz. Before he's abtroas, who's he traveling with? John, Mark, and Barnabas. And then there's this division between John, Mark, and Barnabas and Paul. And what does he do? He takes Silas. He takes Luke. He takes Timothy. And he begins to move to these different cities with them. And then after that, he meets Aquil and Priscilla at Corinth. where the church at Corinth is is founded and then they travel with him. We also know that Demas was traveling with him as well. So we know that as Paul moved, he moved with people like Barnabas, Mark Silas, Luke, Timothy, Aquila and Priscilla, Demas. Now, why does that matter? I think it matters because it tells us a guy like Paul, who was an apostle of Christ , who was a witness of the resurrection, who had the power to perform miraculous gifts that validated his ministry. That guy, the Apostle Paul, a very motivated, a very driven man, did not do ministry alone. He needed other people. He needed someone to shoulder the burden of the work of ministry with him. And he really states that here in this verse, verse number one, he is with Sosthenes, our brother. Now let's go back to that question of who is Sosthenes? Well, if you go back to Acts chapter 18, verses 7 through 8, you're going to see this name Sosthenes mentioned. I probably do need water, but I don't know. Anyway. In Acts chapter 18, verses 7 through 8. Thank you. Seltzer water. I don't know if this will be good for me or not. You know, I I hate drinking water when I'm teaching, but So here's what happened. I was in my office this afternoon and I was I was reading a book and instead of reading it uh silently I decided, you know, it would be great to read it out loud. So I spent an hour reading reading to myself out loud and now I'm now I'm now I'm paying for it, I'm suffering. So the mor moral of the story is on a Wednesday afternoon I shouldn't do that. Hopefully I don't do that next week, right? Alright, so who is Sophanes? Well, Sophanes is talked about in Acts chapter 18, and so I'm going to pick up in verses 7 and 8, and I want you to notice what it says. It's very, very interesting. It says, And he departed thence And entered into a certain man's house named Justice, one that worshipped God whose house joined hard to the synagogue. And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house, and many of the Corinthians, hearing, believed and were baptized. Now, if you could take your mind back to the very first lesson that we did on the birth of the Church of Corinth, you remember that when Paul came to Corinth, he went and he preached several weeks in the synagogue. So he walks in. Remember Paul is a rabbi, or he was a rabbi by training, and so he walks in and he opens the scroll and he reads and he would have sat down in Moses ' seat in the synagogue. And he would have expounded the text of Scripture. But the way that Paul expounded it was not like the way the rabbis would have expounded it. Because he takes the Old Testament and he points to Christ. He points to the finished work of Christ. He talks about the death and the resurrection of Jesus and how this is all fulfilled in the Old Testament. And as Paul is preaching in the synagogue on the Sabbath, there are many people that say, no, we don't believe this. And so essentially he's he's kicked out of the synagogue. But not everybody in the synagogue responded that way. And so as he leaves the synagogue and he focuses attention on In Corinth, he goes to this man's house, Crispus, a chief ruler of the synagogue, or excuse me, Justice. And he preaches in this man's house, and then he meets this other guy, Crispus, who is a chief ruler of the synagogue. These people believe and are baptized. But then we see that the Jewish people that were in the synagogue who rejected the gospel created an uproar in the city. And they dragged Paul to the ruler, and there was a big conflict, and basically the ruler in Corinth Settles this matter and says, I'm with Paul, I'm protecting him, leave him alone. And there's another little detail in verse 17 that is significant to our discussion tonight. It says, then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat, and Gallio cared for none of those things. Did you catch that? So here is Paul. He preaches in the synagogue. People reject him. He goes to a man's house. He's preaching the gospel. Gentiles are believing. One of the rulers of the synagogue, he believes the gospel. Then the Jews that are that are that rejected him there in the synagogue, they get angry. They drag him out and they they basically want to want want the government to uh to treat him very badly. And when this guy, Gallio, hears what's going on, he defends Paul He says, you don't have the right to do this. And so when he does this, when he makes his ruling, this guy Sosthenes, who apparently is another guy who's ruling in the synagogue, he gets beat up by a mob. And Gallio doesn't care. It's a little crazy to think about, but that's what's going on. Well, guess what? Apparently there is more to the story than what happened on that day that he got beat up. Because it appears this is the same guy. Now with Paul as a co-laborer. Who has had a change of heart? He's now someone who was once opposed to the gospel. He's now embraced the gospel. And so when his name is mentioned, the believers in Corinth, they know this man. It is likely that this man Sophanes, once an opponent to the gospel, is now a co-laborer with Paul. So the question is, well, why does this matter? A couple of thoughts. First of all, though he possessed, being Paul, possessed unparalleled ministry gifts and privileges, he ministered with other people. He did not isolate himself from other Christians. He labored to develop deep and enduring bonds and to share the burden of ministry as much as possible. And I think that a lot of people in theory say this is really great, but when you work with other people, the fact is no two people are entirely alike. And so there's going to be the potential for conflict and friction in these situations. However, it also has the potential for people to be strengthened. and built up and balanced out and to mature together and to carry a heavier load because they're spreading that load amongst themselves And so I want to make that second point, not just focusing in on the authority of Paul as an apostle, but the fact that he ministered in teams. The fact is that this is something that we need very, very much in the church. Truth number three. Every troubled Christian carries the full blessings of their position in Christ. Now this little part, I think, this little point I think is very, very important. In verse number two, he says this. Unto the church of God. And I think that that phrase church of God means that He owns them. They are His possession. He has purchased them for Himself. They are redeemed to God under the church of God, which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ. Now that word sanctified means set apart to God. Now I know a lot of times if we were sitting in a systematic theology class and we talked about Justification. We talk about justification in terms of this is a positional reality. We are declared righteous on the basis of the imputed righteousness of Christ, not our works. not what we do, but what he did for us. And so by grace through faith we are declared righteous before God. And yes, that is true. That is the correct way to look at the issue. But then when we move from justification, we move to sanctification, and we tend to talk about sanctification as something that is progressive. What I mean by that is we grow to become more and more and more like Christ Now, if what we mean by that is that a person is growing into Christ's likeness in the sense that they are maturing, they're becoming more spiritually matured, then that would be a correct way to look at this. But when the Bible speaks of sanctification, it does not always speak in terms of our progressive growth into Christ's likeness. This would be an example where that is not what it's talking about. It's speaking in terms of a position, in the exact same way that it refers to our justification as a position, he refers to our sanctification here as a position. Notice how he says to the Church of God Those who are sanctified, not those who are being sanctified, those who hope to be sanctified, those who are going through a process of sanctification. That's not what he says. Those who are sanctified. This is a positional reality. And this is a positional reality that is not going to change. And this positional reality is based on a position that we get from God So when he says sanctified, he means separated from the world, separated unto God. We could put it another way. We're saints. Okay? We are God's people. So when we hear the term saint, don't think, well, you know, there are some people that after they die, you know, did they ever perform a miracle? Did they ever do this or that? And then we could canonize them and call them saints. That is not a biblical concept, okay? We don't find that in the Bible at all. Every believer is called a saint. It doesn't mean we live saintly, but we are saints. That is our position. And so I want us to think about this for just a couple of minutes tonight. We know that this is a church that was very, very troubled. Now, how do we know that? Well, a couple reasons. First of all, think about where these people lived. These people lived in Corinth, and we talked about some of the background of the city of Corinth. It was a powerful city. It was a beautiful city. Um it was a modern city in an ancient world. Okay, I don't mean it's modern today. It's pretty much ruins. There is a modern city there. But at that time it was pretty much a modern city It had been completely destroyed. It had been laid waste for a hundred years, and then Julius Caesar comes and he rebuilds the city. And he moves all of these people into the city who were very wealthy people. They're very prosperous people. It was a colony of Rome. And so with this came a lot of potential problems. You can you think about the kind of sexual temptation that was prevalent in the city. The people lived in a lot of ease, and guess what? When people live in ease, they they often Look for things to do that are not so good. And that's just the honest truth. We think about the religious confusion. They actually blended the religious confusion of the time with the sexual temptations. And it was a very unsavory blending of those things. Think about the typical daily distractions. This was a city that was known for his at for its athletics, the Isthmian Games. I mean, this was like why it was on the map. And so people were very caught up in the athletic realm. They were pursuing political power, so there was a lot of maneuvering in the city so that people could get political advantage. People were pursuing prestige, a lot of infighting amongst the different groups. There was a tremendous amount of complacency that came with the wealth of the city. Now the reason that I bring this up is to simply state that when that is your hometown, it affects you. Like if you were to grow up in Las Vegas, Nevada. And this is the place that you were born and you were raised and all of your friends, you will have thinking that is going to be influenced by the city that you live in. Or we could talk about some other cities that are very known as, we could say, prosperous but sinful places. You will be affected by the culture where you live. And these people were clearly affected by the culture that they lived in. But there's a second side to this. They were also embroiled in lots of different controversies in the church. And out of all the churches that Paul planted, this one we know he spent more time in than any other church. Because we know he spent at least a year and a half. We know he sent several letters back and forth. We know that he spent a lot of energy in that particular city, in that particular church, yet in spite of all of that, they had a lot of problems. They were unwilling to address serious public sin in the church. Here's a guy, we're going to get to this at some point, who was involved in something that was so offensive. that even in Corinth, people blushed when they thought about this particular issue. And yet the church in their pride was unwilling to address the issue. We think about the Lord's table. He says when you come to the Lord's table, you're abusing it. And some of the people were getting intoxicated Okay? So you had like poor people that were pushed off to the side, rich people that were basically having this banquet where people were even getting intoxicated. You say, how is this even possible at the Lord's table? Well it happened at Corinth. People are using the law courts to destroy fellow citizens. When he talks about this issue of not taking your brother to court, He's not suggesting that Christians are are not allowed to protect themselves legally. That is not what Paul is suggesting. What he is suggesting is you do not use the legal system to destroy people you don't like. I mean that's that is the whole point of him addressing this issue. And so you have a person in the church, you don't like them, and you're like, you know, I know how to I know how to destroy them. I'll use the legal system. I'll throw out some accusations. I'll drag them into this environment. And in this environment, I can ruin them. I can destroy them. And Paul says, what are you doing? Settle your disputes one-on-one. Settle your disputes in the church. Don't take it out into the public forum and destroy your brother in Christ. These were people who were, they had false teachers within their congregation. And they were dealing with a lot of interesting issues of conscience. When we talk about this issue of meat offered unto idols, I think it will be extremely helpful and practical for us. But one of the things that it shows you is that their situations that we encounter as Christians, they're very complicated. They're not easy to work through. We've got to sit down and we've got to come to it with a biblical mind. We've got to come to it with humility. And we have to recognize where we draw the line, someone else may draw it differently. And we're going to have to work through those issues. in a gracious and peaceable and loving manner. So this is a church that had a lot going on. And despite where they lived And how they struggled, they were described in very comforting ways in the text. Notice what he says. You are the church of God. That word church has the idea of you are a called out body of people. You are people that I love He describes them as those who have been sanctified in Christ Jesus. Another way to put it is you are saints. You are holy in Christ. Later on in this he says, Grace be to you. They are the recipients of God's grace. And we can look at it on lots of different levels. Number one, they're saved. So they have been saved by grace alone, through faith alone in Christ. This is a group that this is a group of people that had a lot of giftedness, a lot of wealth, a lot of affluence, a lot of a lot of knowledge. These are people who are in a very strategic location. God had in his grace given them lots and lots of things. And they were the objects of God's peace. Last night when we were in our systematic theology class, we were talking about Ephesians chapter 6. And one of the pieces of the armor that you put on is you have your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. And the idea is that when someone went out into battle, they had shoes that had these spikes that would sink down into the ground. And the reason for that is if you're in the middle of a battle and you're standing your ground, you're fighting, and you slip and you fall down, you can't go to your opponent, hey, could you let me get back up? Because I I need to be able to stand up and fight with you. He'd say, you're done And he'd take you out, right? Because you didn't have shoes that give you good stability. And so he says that our feet are to be shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. You say, well, what's that? You know what gives people stability in the Christian life? They know there's peace between them and God. They know that he loves them. They know that they're forgiven. They know that they're cleansed. They know that they're righteous in Him. They know that they've been sanctified. There's no more condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. And if Satan plants those doubts in their head when they stumble, and every Christian does stumble, and when they go through those struggles of conscience and difficulty, or somebody levels an accusation at them, Or they hear some false teaching and it starts taking root and it starts messing with their thinking. There's something that plants their feet with a stable, strong position. You know what that is? There is peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. There's now no condemnation to them who are in Christ Jesus. And so when he talks about this issue of peace, he's saying, even though you live in a tough city, Even though you've got all these problems, you are the church of God, you are sanctified in Christ, you are the recipients of his grace, you are the objects of his peace. You say, why does it matter? Because we, like them, live in a country with a lot of struggles. Think about our political system. I mean think about some of the things being discussed and debated in our nation right now. You're like, we've come a really long way as a nation. I mean you just you just watch television. I guess do people still watch television? I mean through like sling or something like that, right? So you're you're watching television and you just you're bombarded with all kinds of stuff. And the fact is, the way that we as Christians think, if we're thinking biblically, our thinking is very different than the world around us. We live by a very different standard and expectation than the world around us. And the fact is, just like we live in a messed-up culture, they lived in a messed-up culture too. Yet God speaks so warmly to them through Paul. No matter what we encounter, these four descriptures apply to us right now as well. So when Paul writes these things, you are the church of God, you are sanctified in Christ, you're the recipients of his grace, you're the objects of his peace. They apply to us too. We are the church of God. We are a people who are sanctified in Christ Jesus. We are the recipients of God's grace. We are at peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And those are great comforts to us. We are the objects of grace and peace. Those things should be something we remind ourselves regularly of. You know, I think about this Freedom That Last journal. And when we write down things in our Freedom That Last journal, one of the things that's in there is remind yourself of who God is and praise Him. Remind yourself what he has done for you and thank him. Well, this would be a great little starting spot. I am a part of the church of God. Not because I'm good. Not because I'm perfect. Not because I'm sinless. Because of God's grace. I am sanctified. I am the object of his peace. I'm the object of his grace. That gives us something to thank him for. Fourth thing I want you to notice in this text is that we are called to a distinct walk. Now, in verse number two he says, called to be saints. With all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours. Now someone might be be sitting here going, Hold on a second, you just said they are saints. So how are they saints but called to be saints? Well, there's two aspects to this issue. If we really want to understand this concept of the Christian life correctly, we can look at it from a positional side, but we can also look at it from a practical side. If we only look at the positional side but we ignore the practical side, we have an incomplete picture of the concept. If we only look at the practical side, but we ignore the positional side, we only have an incomplete concept of this picture. And so we are both sanctified in Christ and called to be saints. That means that we are to live out the position that we have. We are righteous in Christ, but we are to walk righteously. We are holy in Christ, but we are to walk in conformity to his holiness. We have a perfect obedience imputed to us in Christ, yet we are to walk in newness of life. In fact, you could even put it this way. We are always called to obedience from a position of righteous in Christ. We are always called to obedience from a position of holy in Christ. And so why is this so important? There is nothing that while there is nothing that we can do to strengthen our position, and there is nothing we can do to make God love us more than He loves us now. We can and we must grow into spiritual maturity. We can and we must live like the saints that we are. Do you see those two things? They're not in conflict with one another. These are two truths that laid side by side give the full picture. I can't strengthen my position. I can't make God love me more, but I need to grow. And I need to live like the person that I am. That is the sense of what we're looking at here when he says we're called to a distinct walk. And we are constantly called from our position to walk consistent with that position. Let me give you a couple of examples. Colossians 2, 6. As ye therefore have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him. Do you see that? Here's who you are. Here's how you're to live. Colossians 3. 12, put on therefore as the elect of God. Those who are holy, those who are beloved, put on vows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long-suffering. This is an important thing for us to recognize. We are not the elect of God and holy and beloved because we put on vows of mercy or because of our kindness. or because of our humbleness of mind, or because of our meekness, or because of our long suffering. No, we are to put those things on because we are the elect of God, because we are holy, because we are beloved. And even though we are holy and beloved and the elect of God, we still have to make a choice to live like the people that we are. That is the sense of the text. Or Romans 6:4. We are buried with him by baptism into death, that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should Walk in newness of life. So we've been buried with him, and we're supposed to walk in newness of life And then if I'm going to beat this dead horse, I'll give you one more, right? Actually it's a living horse, if you want to put it that way. Romans 12, 2. Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind And you may prove what is that good and acceptable and perfect will of God. I hope you see there's a consistency here. This is who you are. This is how you're supposed to live. Because of who you are, you're not going to strengthen it or diminish it, but you're still supposed to do what's right. We have the balance. So that moves me to some final thoughts of application that I hope will be an encouragement to you tonight The first is this. We must cultivate a genuine and enduring love for other Christians, even those who are troubled and trouble us. Let me say that again. We must cultivate a genuine and enduring love for other Christians, even those who are troubled and those who trouble us. I think sometimes Christians get in their head. That we only love people because they're lovely. And we only love people because they got it all figured out. If that's the way that we went through life, guess what? Nobody loved anybody You got that? Nobody love anybody. That would mean God wouldn't love you. Okay? Yet He does love us. It says, even when we were the enemies of God, He loved us. Even when we were dead in trespasses and sins, He loved us. God commended His love to us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. And so we've got to recognize that this is this is a very practical thing. And you know, in the Christian life, sometimes the people around us, we we get along pretty well and things are going really smoothly, but I would say that's probably not the majority of our lives. Unless we live like in a really tight little group and there's nobody that we interact with except for like the the own the walls of our room kind of a thing, all right? But we really we interact with people, we're going to have conflicts with them. And it's easy for us to harbor a bitterness towards other people and an anger towards them. and resentment towards them and to look at them and say, if you don't meet my standard, I don't have to love you. I don't have to like you. I don't have to be kind to you. It couldn't be further from what the Bible teaches. We should love people who are troubled. And even people who trouble us. Such an important concept. And he's demonstrating this. This is how he opens the letter, 1 Corinthians 1. 4. I thank my God always on your behalf. If I had to write that letter to somebody that I knew, I think I'd have a really hard time saying, I thank my God on every remembrance of you. I'd really have a hard time. Because I wasn't really feeling that I mean, somebody that you know you're going to have a tough conversation. I mean, can you honestly tell God I love that person? Here Paul says, I love you. I thank God always on your behalf. Here's how he closes the letter, 1 Corinthians 16, 24. My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. I mean he hammered these people. He said some really tough things to them. He said some things that when I teach them to you, you're gonna be like, eh, I don't know how I feel about that. And you're not them But how did he start? I thank God always for you. I love you. My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. That's how he starts and how he ends the letter. Very important. Second truth. Application. We must diligently submit ourselves to the authority of Scripture. This is not an academic pursuit. This is about obedience, worship, and love. I have learned this about studying the Bible. Lots of Christians get far more delight in arguing with people about what they believe about a text of Scripture than obeying what is so very, very clear. I'm serious. A lot of times pastors will get down, you know, they want to discuss this thing, and it's really not about edification. It's really about I got my view, you got your view, my my view is better. Let's have an argument about it. I'm gonna win the debate I mean, that's not why God gave us his word. He didn't give us his word so we could have a bunch of debates with one another. He gave us his word so we'd read it, understand it, and obey it. Live it out. We've got to diligently submit ourselves to the authority of Scripture. Obedience, worship, and love. Third, we must be committed to the local church and Christian community. The local church is not an option. Now, I think all of we have different personalities. There's some people that you like being in a group of people. And there's some people, man, you'd like to be alone more than with people. Maybe I could put it like this. Do you like fishing with a friend or do you like fishing by yourself? Some of you go, I don't like fishing. Okay, doesn't work for you. Do you like hunting by yourself or do you like hunting with a friend? Still doesn't work for you. Alright. Do you like shopping by yourself? Or do you like shopping with a friend? Okay. We can go in all these different areas But the fact is that some people come into church and interacting with other people, it's actually a little bit tiring. All right, it's just the honest truth. Some people, man, they love the environment and interacting with other Christians But the fact is, whether we're more introverted or we're more extroverted, we need other people. We really do. We need the Church of God. And we see this in this text of Scripture. Isolated Christianity is a foreign concept to the Bible. We've got to prioritize our lives around the things that God emphasizes. Application four. We've got to go on in our growth into Christ's likeness. We are saints, but we need to grow. And we need to live out this position. We are justified, but we are to put off the works of darkness and put on the armor of light. And so I know this is just the introduction to the letter, but I think there's a lot that we can take from it. May God help us to apply these truths in a very simple and practical way. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for the word, its power to impact our minds, to stir up our hearts. To bring conviction where that is needed, to uplift us and strengthen us and shape how we look at life. Father, every one of us is made of flesh, and there is something that was touched on that will not be easy for us. I pray that we would recognize that as your people, we can walk in obedience to you. And so help us to seize what's in front of us and to walk with you. Bless our time of prayer together in the next few minutes. May it be very encouraging. The fellowship be very sweet. As we lift up these requests, I pray that you would work in each of these situations. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.