Let's take the c uh the word of God, please, and turn to Isaiah chapter 26 this evening. Isaiah 26 uh for just a few moments tonight. You know when you come to the end of a time like this, this week of for half week of meetings, Really begin to think of the implications and the spiritual realities that are present even in our meeting together this week. And I am just always mindful of the reality. Especially when you come to the concluding moments of a meeting like this, that this world, my friend, this world is temporal. And it very well could be that I'm looking at some dear, dear folks tonight who love the Lord, who know the Lord. But folks, that I will never see again this side of glory. But aren't you thankful? This world is not our home. We're just passing through. We're made for another kingdom. We're made for another world. And I hope that it is your heart's longing and your heart's affection to look for the blessed appearing of our great God and Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. And so I really want to leave you with a challenge tonight in Isaiah 26 that encourages us to press on. You come to the end of a week like this, and you often think, well, we're going to hear the charge, the challenge, to be faithful, to continue in the things that we have learned, to do what Paul said in Philippians 3 to press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. And no doubt in all of our minds tonight, that that surely would be our heart's desire. Not just because we have some special week of meetings, but because that's that should be the posture of all believers, to press on toward higher ground, to look for that glorious appearing of Jesus Christ, to stay faithful. And that's what the Lord requires in stewards. But here's the difficulty, here's the challenge when it comes to our being faithful, to our being consistent. Life doesn't always go according to plan. Have you noticed that? There's ups and downs, there's turmoil, there's trials. And so I want to leave you with a challenge from Isaiah 26. And a couple verses that are very familiar to us. And it's verse 3 and verse 4. Notice what the text says, beginning in verse 3. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. whose mind is stayed on thee because he trusteth in thee. Trust ye in the Lord forever, for in the Lord. Jehovah is everlasting strength. In that first phrase of verse 3, we are offered, we are shown In God's good providence, in God's good hand of mercy on our life, the opportunity to know and to experience this perfect peace. Isn't it true that the world around us is looking for peace? You think of even what's going on on the other side of the world and the two wars, major wars that are taking place in the Ukraine and in Israel. And the world looks at a situation like that and they say, we need peace. You know, you have peace talks, peace treaties , you even have a symbol for peace in many portions of the world, right? People want peace. Here's the problem with the world's definition of peace. The world defines peace as the absence of conflict. So they look at a war like what's being experienced in Ukraine, and there's these two opposing sides, and there's difficulty, there's strife, and peace to the world. Is the ceasing of that strife. Well, there's going to be no difficulty. We need no conflict. And it's very easy for us, even as believers, to buy into that definition of peace and really in our own lives to expect That type of peace, and here's the problem, all throughout Scripture, God's people are promised difficulty. God's people are guaranteed strife and conflict. Remember what Jesus told his disciples in this world you will have troubles, tribulations, trials. But be of good cheer, he said. I have overcome the world. Now Peter said to the believers to whom he wrote, he said, You're going to experience difficulty, so don't be surprised when you encounter the fiery trials. You claim to be a follower of Christ. Well, Christ endured affliction, Christ endured suffering, Christ endured persecution, so we as his followers should expect the very same thing. This word peace in Isaiah 26 and verse 3, or in verse 3, this perfect peace is the word shalom. You're familiar with this word if you know much of the Jewish cul Jewish culture. They don't greet each other by saying, hello, my friend, how are you? They greet each other by saying, Shalom. Okay? Peace to you. And this peace is not the absence of conflict. This peace in the Old Testament and in the New Testament is the inner wholeness of the soul. This is something that is unshakable that the Lord gives to us that no man can give or take away And I and when I first began to study this text in Isaiah 26 and verse 3, I thought to myself, how could God's shalom be any more, what the text says, perfect than it already is? And so I began to look up this word. And did you know that that word perfect in Isaiah 26 and verse 3 is the very same word as the word peace? Literally, in the Hebrew text, it is thou wilt keep him in shalom, shalom. Really neat to emphasize to us that this is the very best. There's no doubt that God can and will provide this peace. This restoration of the soul. And of course, as New Testament believers, many of us in here, most of us perhaps, we know that peace only comes through a personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And Paul writes about this in Romans, and he said, Jesus Christ is the only way to have peace with God. And that is our greatest need for shalom. The restoration of our soul, the restoration of our relationship with our Heavenly Father, which has once been marred by sin. But what's really cool about Isaiah 26, verses 3 and 4, and really this whole chapter, is this is written specifically to people, to God's people who were struggling through life's journey. As a matter of fact, Isaiah 25 and Isaiah 26 are two Hebrew poetry texts. Many believe they were like psalms. They were sung. And Isaiah 25 is all about the destination of God's people. If you look over at verse 8, it says he will swallow up death and victory, and the Lord God will wipe away tears from off all faces, and he will rebuke. And the rebuke of his people shall he take away from off all the earth. For the Lord hath spoken it. This is a direct this verse is directly quoted in the end times book, the revelation of Jesus Christ, in Revelation 7, verse 17, and Revelation 21 and verse 4. So that's helping us to see. This is this is a promise. This is a song. Maybe we could call it a hymn for the destination. The destination that we talked about even earlier tonight. Being with the Lord forever. But here's the really cool thing about Isaiah 26. Isaiah 26 is a psalm, a hymn, Hebrew poetry for the journey. Specifically for the people, for the journey of the people who are being carried off into exile, into captivity For sins that they themselves had not committed. Alright, so pause for just a moment and think of this verse. Thou wilt keep him in shalom, shalom, perfect peace. And that is being said to a person who lives in the nation of Israel who looks at the judgment that the whole nation is receiving and thinking to themselves, and maybe even saying to themselves. But Lord , I'm not like my neighbor. I'm not like all the idolaters. I'm not like those who have left you. I I've sought to be faithful. raised my family, knowing the Old Testament law. I'm going to be carried off to captivity. Think of that if you were carried off to captivity for sins that you had not committed. How much turmoil you would be in, how little sense that circumstance in your life would make. We would all shake our heads and say, this is not fair. Lord. I'm struggling. I don't understand. And it's in that direct context that this hymn, this poetry, is penned for the encouragement We don't have to think too hard tonight of the crossing over into our day and age where we are pilgrims on a journey destined for an eternal home with our Savior Jesus Christ. Aren't there things in your life that you look at and you think, this does not make sense How can I reconcile this circumstance, this trial, this trouble, with a God who claims to be good? With a God who claims to be gracious, look, I don't know what you're carrying with you tonight, but I'm sure there are major, major trials. Challenges, losses , fears , stresses that are represented in an audience this size What are you going to do through those circumstances when you just feel like you've come to the end of yourself, to the end of the rope? And this is the answer. There is the possibility. Listen, there is the possibility for perfect peace. And so I want to examine this and help you see this tonight in these wonderful verses, this encouraging text to our hearts as we pursue This shalom shalom, this perfect peace. Look at the text with me tonight and notice number one, number one, the giver of this peace. The giver of this peace. It's the very first word of verse 3, but it's so important. It's a four-letter word, and it's a small word, but it's vitally important. And if you missed this word, you've missed the whole lot. He begins by directing our attention to this giver of perfect peace. And it is not you, and it is not me, and it is not some preacher, and it is not some politician, it is the very God who made you. Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace. Now, folks, this is elementary, right? All right, the Lord is the giver of perfect peace. But how often do we go wandering after the things of this world for the peace that God promises to give. We really touched on this last night in our study of 1 John and chapter 2 and the worldly desires and the worldly affections. And folks, the very same could be said of our pursuit of perfect peace. You could look for it in money and in fame and in popularity and in a better job and in a better circumstance and in alleviation from your trials. But only God can give this perfect peace. God is the giver of this perfect peace. So he's the giver. And then notice, second of all, with me, the guarantee of this perfect peace. This is amazing. He says in verse 3, Thou, speaking of God, wilt keep him in perfect peace. So he's making a promise. We sing in church often, right? Standing on the promises. of Christ the Lord. And here's one promise that we can stand on. He is able to keep us. He will keep us in perfect peace. And it's of interest to us to note the word keep is the word to guard. It's the very same word that's used in Proverbs when Solomon tells his son, My son, keep. Your heart with all diligence. Fortify your heart with all diligence. Guard your heart with all diligence. That word is the same word that's used here in Isaiah 26 and verse 3 to describe what God promises to do. In providing perfect peace, he promises to fortify us, to protect us, to guard us in perfect peace. I don't know if you've ever traveled overseas or seen even here in the United States the fortresses, like a castle. I think that's really the picture here. of the mighty walls and the turrets at each corner. And in the middle of that castle or those four walls, you have this little building in It's fortified to an even greater degree. And that's the very keeping of something. And the king goes to the center. The most important things go there to the center. And the things that's in the center, the things that are inside that wall are safe. Folks, that's really the picture. That is presented here in this promise. He's able to keep us, to fortify us, to guard us in his perfect peace. Could I just remind you, if you're a believer tonight, he's able to do that with your salvation. We don't need to fear. We don't need to wonder. Well, am I really saved? He promises us eternal security. Once you're saved, you're always saved. And we're thankful for that. Amen. We don't have to earn it. We can't lose it. Faith in Jesus Christ fortifies us in peace with God. But the same could be said of our experience in life's journey. That he is able, he is powerful, and he is willing to keep us, to protect us, to guard us in this perfect peace. So God's the giver. Don't miss this tonight. In this pursuit of perfect peace, He's the giver and He alone. This is the guarantee, this is the promise. But notice, third of all, with me tonight, the grounds for this perfect peace. Because this does not just come to anybody. There are really some requirements that are laid out for us in verse 3. Notice this. Number one, mind is stayed on thee. And then he says, because he trusteth in thee. All right, so there's two different Two different conditions that he lays out, a mind that is stayed on the Lord, and a heart that is trusting in the Lord. And the order of those two are of great significance because he starts with the mind. He starts with the intellect. And I just want to say to you, when you go through difficulties and you're not experiencing and knowing perfect peace many times, many times in our life, it's because we don't have control of, we're a spirit-filled mind. The world is preaching to us this message. Well, just be guided by your heart. Follow your heart. And with the whole new parenting movement, it is all about, well, what is my child feeling? And when we go through difficulty, we really shouldn't start there. We're going to see in just a moment. Feelings matter. The Bible teaches what you feel matters to the Lord. But in the difficulties that we experience, we've got to start with a mind. that is able to, by the Holy Spirit and by the Word of God, think truth. So he uses this word in verse 3, the mind that is stayed on thee. And this is a very illustrative word. It's picturesque. Because Isaiah is going to use this later on in his prophetic writing to describe what a shepherd does with his staff. If you've ever seen a good Christmas program, you know all shepherds have a good staff, right? Sometimes they got the little hook on top. Well what is the staff what is the purpose of the staff? What's to prod the animals? It's to help the animals, to rescue the animals. But Isaiah uses this terminology to describe what the shepherd does when he leans onto his staff. And he puts full weight and he uses that staff, that piece of wood, that rod, to support his weight. He staves himself. on that staff. And if that staff is worth anything, it's going to hold his weight, right? It's going to be strong enough to hold him up, to stabilize him. That's the picture. That's the idea of this word to be stayed. It is not just like, well, I'm there on Sunday and I'm not there Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday. No, we're talking about a mind that is resting in, resting on the Lord. And this is why Like your pastor emphasizes many, many times, I'm sure, it is so important to have a scripture saturated mind. This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth, but thou shalt meditate thereon, therein, day and night. That thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein. For then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success. Folks, we wonder sometimes why we struggle emotionally. With the cares and the concerns of this life, and many, many times, maybe most times, it's because we do not have a scripture-controlled, scripture-saturated mind. A mind that knows the character of God. And this is why he starts here, a mind that is stayed on thee. But then notice this in verse 3, because he trusteth in thee. And remember I said this is The order of this is of extreme importance. What your heart trusts matter. But listen, you trust what you know You depend on something that you know is going to be able to hold you, that is going to be able to strengthen you. And so the trust, listen, the trusting heart is the result of a mind that has stayed on the Lord. This is a key principle that I think really helps us in our difficulty and in our suffering. And the ninth Psalm in the tenth verse says this, and listen very carefully. It's a great cross reference to this verse. The people that do know, know the name of the Lord, will put their trust in him. So I'm not going to ask you tonight how much, how well are you trusting the Lord? Maybe the question we need to ask ourselves tonight is, how well do I know the Lord? Because when I know the character of my God, the response to that is the trust. The response, the result is a heart that says, Yes, this is a God I can trust. That when life doesn't make sense God is still worthy of my faith and my trust. This could be illustrated in a very simple way. When I was very young, my dad began to teach me how to swim. And uh we grew up, of course, at the camp, which is a great place to to grow up, and at the camp we have an Olympic-sized swimming pool. And if any of you know my dad, you know that he's not the type of guy that takes His kids to the shallow end, the three foot end of the of the pool and kind of puts the floaties on our arms and puts on the life vest and then just like Gently sets us down like the paranoid parent. You know, that's not my dad, okay? My dad is a type A personality. He took me and my br my younger brother, no floaties, no life vests, deep end of the pool, twelve feet deep. He threw us in, he said Swim, son, you know, like this is the way to learn. And of course we start flailing around and he jumps in and he helps us and stuff. And you know, my brother and I learned how to swim at the very same time. He's younger than I am. And so I'll never forget, often we would go up there to the pool, and my dad would hop into the deep end of the pool, and he would begin to tread water, you know, and and then my brother and I we would stand on the edge of the pool of that deep end, and my dad would look up Jump on in, sons. You know, we're like, woo, let's go into the deep end. We knew that my dad was going to be able to hold us up. He was going to be able to Rescue us if we needed help. Now there are other times where we would go up to the pool and my dad wouldn't be there. Maybe there's another counselor there, maybe there's other staff members, sometimes even my younger brother Malachi. We'll go into the sha into the deep end of the pool and he did have on the floaties and the life vest and different things like that, and he would go into the deep end. And he would look up at me and he would open up his arms. Micah, jump to me. I'm like, no way man, I'm not jumping to you. What in the world? You're younger than I am, you're way weaker than I am. No way you're holding me up I'm going to jump in this deep end. I'm going to slip through your arms, fall to the bottom of this pool. I'm going to use uh lose all ability to breathe air, die, awkward. Not a good situation, you know? Look, what is the difference between my jumping to my dad and my not jumping to my brother? My not jumping to any other person that's in that pool saying, jump to me. It's what I know to be true about the person claiming they're gonna catch me. And listen, when we go through deep waters of life, the world is crying out, trust your money, trust your friendships, trust your job, trust your possessions. And they're crying out, and the father stands there and says, My child, trust me. When you go through deep waters, I can strengthen you. I can help you, and I can be your aid. And listen, all those things, they will disappoint you. They will fail you. But I'm telling you tonight, with whatever you're carrying, there is a God in heaven who knows and cares. And listen, he can sustain you. The same yesterday, today, and forever. My friend, what do you know? What do you know to be true of your God? Because the person that stays their mind on the Lord will trust in him. This is the condition. These are the requirements. These are the grounds for perfect peace. He says in verse 3, Thou, he's the giver, wilt keep him. There's the guarantee, there's this promise, but don't forget the conditions. Don't forget the grounds of this perfect peace. It's the mind that is stayed on the Lord. It's the person that as a result of that knowledge of God is trusting in him. And you even see that again in verse 4: this command, trust in the Lord. Forever. And then finally tonight, I want you to notice the grandeur of this perfect peace. We could say the greatness. of this perfect peace. Listen, it's great, not because of the product, but because of the one providing the perfect peace. Notice what he says in verse 4. This command Trust ye in the Lord forever. For in who? The Lord Jehovah is everlasting strength. He uses repetitive wording once again for the emphasis of this text. We saw in verse 3. Shalom, shalom. And then if you notice in verse 4, L -O-R-D in all caps, which is Yahweh. Jehovah, Yahweh. The proper name for our God in Yahweh, Yahweh is everlasting strength. Here is the wonderful news for us tonight, folks. When we stay our mind on the Lord and when we trust in him, we are staying in ourselves, we are trusting in, we are trusting in Yahweh, Yahweh, who will never fail. Who will never change. And though we go through all sorts of circumstances and all sorts of situations in life where we feel like everything is changing. One thing remains the same, and that is our God who is always faithful, who is consistent. You notice this in verse 4 that he says that God, Yahweh, Yahweh, there is everlasting strength. Now that word strength is a really interesting word for us to note. It's used 72 times in the Old Testament. And the vast majority of the time that that word is used, it's actually translated as rock. As a matter of fact, 63 out of the 72 times, that word strength Is translated rock. It's another very picturesque word. It's the same word that the psalmists use in Psalm 94 and verse 22. The Lord is my defense and my God. And here's the very same word. is the rock of my refuge. Same word as Psalm 71 and verse 3 Be thou my strong habitation whereunto I may continually resort. Thou hast given commandment to save me, for thou art my here's the word, thou art my rock And my fortress. And I love Psalm 61 and verse 2. From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee when my heart is overwhelmed. Ever been there before? Like this is this is overwhelming. Here's what the psalmist praise. Lead me, Lord, lead me, and here's the word to the rock that is higher than I. This is a fortress word. This is security. This is strength. This is going to the cleft of the rock and knowing that in that place is the very best and safest place to be. And it is not just some rock or some strength, but notice this in verse 4, it is everlasting, never-changing, never-ending. He's the rock. And when we, folks, when we flee to him, when we fly to him. Both in salvation and in our daily sanctification and the sustaining work that we need through the difficulties of life, we will find there with our God. Perfect peace. Shalom, shalom. So here's the call to all of us tonight. Go to him. Run to the rock. Go to the place to know this shalom, shalom. There's no other place you can go to find it. Other than The rock. Yahweh, Yahweh. On March 11, 2011, one of the greatest catastrophes. To ever hit the country of Japan occurred. They experienced on that day in 2011 the strongest earthquake in its recorded history. It was a 9. 0 magnitude earthquake. that struck below the North Pacific, just 81 miles to the east of the mainland of Japan. Massive, massive earthquake. It was called the Tehuku earthquake, and it caused a massive tsunami where these large, very large waves that were measured up to 132 feet, began to make their way. From 81 miles off the coast all the way inland to the country of Japan. Many of you remember seeing this on the news probably. Massive, massive tidal waves that were heading for for the nation, for the country. And I don't know if you remember this, but I remember vividly in my mind watching on the news and watching the folks' reaction. to that news. You know, the alarms sound and the bells go off. And those people over there are trained from a very young age how to respond to these types of things. You know, here in America, especially in the Midwest, you you're trained as a young child how to respond to something like a like a tornado, right? You know, get in the basement, go to the basement. But in Japan, they're trained to respond to tsunamis. As an island, this is something that very possibly could happen. And so all of those children from the very youngest of age know that when the tsunami warning goes off, you don't go to the basement. You don't stay in the classroom and just get under the desk and hope, well, I hope the wave doesn't hit my school. No, you take off from the building, you get out of the building, and you head to higher ground. You head to the highland. Maybe it's a little mountain in the village, the highest point in your village. That's where you go. So that when that wave comes and it begins to sweep through your village, you have some sort of chance that because you're on the rock, because you're on the high ground, you will be safe. And the waters swirl around. And if that ground is high enough, you'll survive. And folks, here's the call to us tonight. In our trials and distresses. And perplexing situations go to the high ground. And here's what's true about this text and about our God. It's not a 50-50 chance whether or not you'll know this perfect peace. Because God, our God, says, I will keep you in perfect peace. When your mind is stayed on me, when you're trusting in me, because in the Lord Jehovah. Is everlasting strength. Folks, the call tonight is so simple. Trust in the Lord. Don't lean on your own understanding. Take these cares and these concerns and give them, like Peter says in 1 Peter 5, cast them on the Lord. And we do that for this very one simple reason. He cares for you. Would you bow your head and close your eyes with me tonight? Thank you so much for your good attention. Emily's going to come to the piano and we're going to have an opportunity to respond. It's the final night of our time together. And this is encouraging to all of our hearts as we really think about and recommit ourselves to The pressing on, the moving forward. My friend, how are you going to move forward from a three days of meetings like this? How are you going to move forward with the obstacles of life that you're facing, the burdens that you're carrying? Can I tell you tonight you're not going to be able to move forward alone? You're going to need to move forward in faith. Faith is the victory we say just a moment ago that overcomes the world. And it's not faith in religion. Oh my friend, it's not faith in just, well, go through the motions and I'll be in the spot. No, it is faith in the living God of heaven. It's trusting in Him to provide us this perfect peace. If you're here tonight and you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as you are as your personal Savior, you've never been saved, then this perfect peace Is not even possible in your life apart from the personal relationship with Jesus Christ. And in just a moment, when we have an opportunity to respond, I want to encourage you to stand from your seat. Slip to the back of this auditorium, slip to the front, come and talk to one of the pastors here at the church and get that settled. You can know that you know that you know that you have peace with your creator. And it's only possible through the blood, the sacrifice, the death, burial, and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. And believers, the response for us is To cast our care on the Lord. Trust in the Lord Jehovah. Stay your mind on him. I'll have a word of prayer, and then we can just remain seated as As Emily plays and we respond. Lord, thank you so much for these verses. I pray that you would minister to our hearts. Would you mend our hearts with these verses tonight? Hearts that are broken, hearts that are hurting. Hearts that are afraid. Hearts that look down the road of life and have so many unknowns. Would you tonight, by your grace, lead us to the rock that is higher than we are? Because Lord, we know when we run to you, we're going to find safety and strength and security and what we've talked about tonight, this perfect peace. May we not be so proud to think we can handle on our own. May we tonight in humility run to you and find our hiding place in you. Speak to our hearts tonight. For your glory's sake, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.