Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our service today. We're looking forward to just a great time of focusing on the Lord and worshiping Him together. If you are visiting with us today for the first time. Or for maybe the first time in a long time, we'd like to say we are so glad that you joined us today and we pray that the service will be a great encouragement to you. And I hope that when you came you were able to get one of those welcome packets and inside of that there's a little mug. And there's also a connection card. And if you'd like us to reach out to you sometime this next week, please take a moment, fill out that little card. And then put it in the box there on the right side of the door when you uh head out later today. And uh we'll make sure that we reach out to you. And so so glad that you could join us today. We have a couple of announcements and we'll open up our service Good morning. Hope you guys get a chance to enjoy the beautiful weather next couple days. It's gonna be warm, so towards the end of the week it's gonna be cool. So hopefully no one gets sick. So definitely be praying for those that are sick and then just be praying that we try and stay healthy through this time This evening is the international dinner. It's an exciting opportunity to bring in some different international foods tonight, sample some different ones. But the back is already kind of is already set up. So we just asked also to be careful with the children back there that it is set up for this evening. Um this Friday is the Teen Bonfire and S'mores. Uh that there is a sign-up um in the hallway on the on the teen bulletin board. So teens, if you are interested, make sure you double check your name with signed up. Talk to your parents. Get ready for that. Next Saturday is this fall work day. I'll be here at 8 a. m. trying to prepare things for so there is a sign-up I believe for that as well. A lot of that's gonna be getting things ready as we're getting stuff for fall, trying to get things set up, tear things down, just general uh cleanup. But one of the big things to be looking forward to is the Lit conference, which is earlier than it has been the last few years. Uh instead of being on the first weekend or in in second weekend in January, now it's in November this year, we have A sign-up on the All Church Bulletin Board for both items to bring, but that's if you're not able to work. We'd also love if you have the opportunity to come and work. There's a sign-up there for volunteers. That can be working registration, serving food. Whatever time you have available, we'd love to have you be a part of it. And if you're not able to, there is again option for gifts for different things to sign up for that the church needs. We do have our business third quarter business meeting is going on on October 27th, and then a few more things going on, but some exciting stuff as we prepare for the holiday season. Brassen brought the all-port announcement that his wife is still has her baby in her womb. In case you were wondering, I'm trying to save you some healthy I mean she's probably been asked several times today, so just pray for her as it will be soon, but not yet. We're gonna open our um with uh their scripture reading in Isaiah 55 and starting in verse 6. Isaiah 55 starting in verse 6 Seek ye the Lord while he may be found. Call ye upon him while he is near. Let the wicked forsake his way, and unrighteous man his thoughts, and let him return unto the Lord. And he will have mercy upon him, and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon. For my thoughts are not your thoughts Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For, as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts higher than your thoughts. For the rain cometh down, and the snow from heaven, and returneth not thither, but watereth the earth, and maketh it forth, bring forth, and bud. And it may give seed to the sower and bread to the eater. So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth It shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I send it Our theme of worship for today is let's be committed to a high view of Scripture. Please let's bow together for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our time. And before we do that, I do want to draw your attention to the songs that we're going to open up our service with. The first song is rejoice, the Lord is king, and we are going to be reminded in that song that He is a God who reigns. And because he reigns, we need to proclaim his gospel. And so we're going to rejoice in that. And then the next song is going to be in our blue book, and that is God Has Spoken. And what I love about that song is it kind of moves through how God spoke in creation, how God speaks in his word, and how God speaks through the redemptive work of his son. And so that song will be just a tremendous thing for us to focus in on. And then the third song, which is one that we tend to sing at the end of our congregational singing, but we'll make it our third today, is for the sake of his name. And so you see this progression. Because he's the king, because he has spoken, we need to take his word to the nations. So let's keep that on the forefront of our minds as we sing that. Let's really sing it out. And let's go to the Lord in prayer and just dedicate this time to him. Father, we are so very grateful that we rejoice in a God who reigns and is King, who has spoken through the creation. through his word and through the redemptive work of the Lord Jesus and his death and resurrection. And Father, I pray that this morning as we rejoice and the sovereign rule of God over his creation, and as we reflect on the power of his word, that we would be impressed deeply in our hearts to be passionate about taking the gospel to the nations. Father, help us to think about the role that we are playing and the role that we need to play in that work of bringing the gospel all around the world. Father, as we sing praise to you, help our hearts to be knit together as a congregation. As we dwell on the truths of Scripture, I pray that we would think deeply about them. That the word would be planted in our heart and that it would be productive and fruitful and it would accomplish that for which you intended it. And Father, I pray that you would help us as a church, as There are people in our midst and those who are not with us physically but have joined us on live stream who carry great burdens. I pray that you will strengthen each of those I pray that you would take the word and minister very personally and very directly to us this morning. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Acre Baptist Church. It is uh we're calling kind of an audible here Kinda, it's kinda you you kinda get to wondering if the deacons are doing something, you know, in secret or something like that. Sometimes it can be a a bad omen But this is this is a good omen. And I would really like to commend the members of Anchor Baptist Church for your extreme generosity At this point in time, you know, we don't we don't observe the Hallmark calendar very ostentatiously, right? But there is one time in the year where we do like to uh mark the uh the occurrence. This month is Pastor Appreciation Month. And at this point in time, on behalf of the deacons and your generous gifts. I'd like to have uh Pastor Joel and Mrs. Deanna come to the stage. Pastor Josh is already up here. Miss Becky, please come up. And Brother Braxton, I guess you're gonna have to sub in for uh your wife But folks, honestly , on behalf of the deacons, this is your staff that are our leaderships. And I couldn't ask for a better group. They are doing a wonderful job administratively and spiritually. You should have been here five years ago. The spiritual growth that has occurred in just the last couple years. uh is has been tremendous. And uh this these are the folks that are to be commended to be leading on that Now you are good followers, and of course we uh try to honor those who deserve honor, double honor to those who deserve it. But uh we certainly are appreciative of all the work. You don't see a lot of it. You see this, but unless you're around here day to day, you don't see a lot that goes on behind the scenes. So At this point in time, we have some gifts. For both the hundreds of us, we uh we acknowledge that the pastors can't do their jobs without their their wives. And so brother Brother Braxton, you're going to have to uh accept on behalf of Yourself and Danielle. We have some flowers for Danielle. Pastor Josh, Miss Becky. Thank you. Thank you very much. Finally , Pastor Joel. You're very welcome. Folks, these are your leaders. Follow them when they follow as they follow Christ. And I hope to see a tremendous spiritual growth at this time next year. Amen? With that, please stand, open your hymn books to hymn number one. Hymn number one, rejoice, the Lord is king. We'll sing all four verses of hymn number one. Great singing. Our next song will be in the blue book, number sixty-five. In the blue book. God has spoken, we'll sing all three verses. Porque queremos que nos ha cuestionado el NRU para el barrio del tribunal. Great singing. Please be seated as we turn you direct your attention to the screen. For the musicians, it'll be 402 in the Rejoice Book. For the sake of his name, we'll sing all four verses. Making Right. Oh Well, it's like the cause of my own. Amen. Great singing. Our scripture reading this morning will be found And Paul's epistle to Timothy, 2 Timothy chapter 3. 2 Timothy chapter 3, we'll be reading the first seven verses. 2 Timothy chapter 3, verses One through seven The scriptures say, This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy without natural affection, truce breakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good, traitors, heady, high minded, lovers of pleasures, More than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. From such Turn away. For of this sort are they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with diverse lusts. Ever learning and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Please stand with me as we continue our singing. Hymn number five hundred thirty-four. And our hymn book. Hymn number five hundred thirty-four. Send the light. We'll sing the first two verses. We'll take a moment to greet one another after the second verse. We'll come back together And sing verse three together. Hymn number five hundred thirty-four. Our last song before the preaching hymn number 540. 540, we've a story to tell to the nations to sing all four verses. Sing it out this morning. And the God is even dead, and by the crossing. There is no letter God in the world. There is no letters of your Great thing. Please be seated. Let all the people sing out his praise, let every nation rejoice. Glory and frame will night more than all Mountains and hills go sing out and spread. And the water will speak for God. Let every voice contain our venue with us is only. Jesus, ever is a share, I believe I held a king single before. Glory and honor we bring to you. All power and praise be given you our favor and Lord and King. Mighty defender or strength and skill forever your kingdom will rest Pan If you're not going to be able to do it, I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. The boy of God. Okay, well our children who are in the junior church class can be dismissed to the back your class. The couple's parents, hopefully. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to the book of Second Timothy. And this morning we're looking at 2 Timothy chapter 3. We're looking at verses 1 through 7. But there's actually a thought that begins in 3-1 and it moves deeper into chapter four we're not going to read all those verses but to kind of understand the the totality of what is being stated in these verses I think it's important that we recognize that the section is bigger than just what we're reading for our scripture reading here this morning. So I'm going to go ahead and begin in verse number one. Here's what God's word says. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous Boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy, without natural affection Truthbreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good Traitors, heady, high-minded, lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God, having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof. From such turn away. For of this sort are they which creep into houses and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away by diverse lusts, ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of God. the truth. Please let's bow for a moment and ask the Lord to help us to understand what the scriptures are telling us we must do in these last days. Our Father, thank you for your word. As we read these verses, we are reminded that we are living in a time that was just described. And Father, as we read this passage of Scripture, I pray that that would sink deeply into our souls. That we live in a complicated time, we live in a sinful time, we live in a time of great spiritual darkness and confusion. Yet your mission has not changed for 2,000 years. Your mission is the same. It is to reach the nations through the preaching of the gospel. and the expounding of your precious word. And so I pray that this morning, as we dig into these truths, you would strengthen us in our conviction of the power of your word, and strengthen us in our resolve to obey you in this very important matter. And we ask that you would just speak to our hearts in a very special way this morning. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. And what I like to do when I dig into a passage of scripture is I like to try to summarize it so that we kind of get a sense. of the big picture of what is being communicated. And so this is the summary I'd like to present to you this morning. Utilize the pressure of the times we are living in to drive you to faithful endurance. rather than distract and discourage you in the work. Now notice that word utilize and then the word What we're going to see as we dig into this passage of Scripture is that his description of the last days, and we are living in the last days According to the scriptures, his description of the last days is very dark and very troubling, yet the intention of that is not to describe Discourage us. It's not to frustrate us. It's not to make us bury our heads in the sand. More than anything else, that description is meant to press our souls so that we actually follow through with the one thing that has the power to actually push back the darkness and for light to shine into the lives of people. And so the text in front of us tells us Step up rather than stick your head in the sand. That really is the sense of what's in front of us. So as we work our way through this passage, I think what you're gonna see is that God's desire for us is a very simple one. The pressure of perilous times should drive us to being faithful and enduring in this work God has called all of us to do. So before we dig into the details of the passage, I want to remind you where we've been over the last month. And if you're joining us today for the first time in person or maybe first time you've ever been on the live stream, you go, what's going on here? Well our typical practice in our churches to go verse by verse, chapter by chapter, through books of the Bible. So if it's the first Sunday of the month, we go through a Psalm. And if it's one of the other Sundays of the month, we are going through the book of Luke. But during missions month, we pause and we do things differently because this is a topic that is extremely important for us to be focused in on. It's something that should stir up our hearts. Time to time we have to think about this issue. And so this month, our focus has been showing forth his praises to the nations. And so the very first text of Scripture that we dealt with was First Peter chapter two. And we looked at this concept because of who we are as Christians We have a duty, a responsibility to proclaim his glories in places where the gospel is not being heard. It's not being told. It is not readily available to the average person. There is a very small, if any, gospel influence in that region. So that is where we started. And then from that, we moved in our second week to looking at the story of a woman who met Jesus in Samaria. The Samaritan woman was a woman who was very troubled in her life. Her life was overcome by sin and struggle and difficulty. And Jesus desired to go through that region to meet that woman, not just to see her be saved from her sins and have her life transformed, but God wanted to use her to reach into that city, that town. And he wanted the disciples to be involved in it as well. And there was all kinds of cultural baggage and all kinds of difficulties that made that what would seem to be an absolutely impossible task. Yet Jesus did it. He reached that community through that woman with the assistance of his disciples who weren't understanding the significance of what they were living through until it was already in process. Then the third week, that would be last week, we move from this understanding that we have a responsibility and that we need to look at the situation we're in today and get engaged in it. To recognizing that as a church, we need to be involved in making disciples. And making disciples is something that is person to person. It's one-on-one. It's it's one on a group of people, but it's giving people the gospel And then discipling them, teaching them the basics of the Christian faith, walking through life with them, going through the challenges of life, answering all kinds of questions. Seeing those people not just trust Christ, but grow into maturity to such an extent that they'll have the ability to do what you're doing when you can't do it anymore. And so if the church does this, then we have a passing on of the baton from one generation to the next generation to the next generation. And as we see that transition of generation, we see that people are positioned to run well because of the way that it was prepared before they came. Well, this morning what we're going to do is just kind of continue the thought of last week. So we were in 2 Timothy 2. Today we're in 2 Timothy Three. And so what we're going to see is the kind of situation that the church is going to encounter in the last days. And when I say going to, I mean we are encountering right now in the last days. The fact is the Lord Jesus can come at any moment. And we should be living with this anticipation that he could come any moment. What is also true is that when we talk about the last days, there is no explanation of like how long that time period is going to last. And so while we should be anticipating the return of Christ today, we should also recognize he may not come for a thousand years. And if he doesn't come for a thousand years, well who's going to be here? Well, the people that we led to Christ, we discipled, we trained, and those people who did the same thing, and those people who did the same thing, and it goes on and on and on and on and on throughout church history. And so this is going to help us to put some meat on the bones to help us to understand why what we learned last week is so important. And how we're supposed to go about doing it. Not just from the practical pass on the baton from one generation to the next, but how we're supposed to do it from a convictional standpoint. And so I want to look at this text in front of us by kind of helping you to understand the basic structure of what we're looking at. This is what we're looking at. Verse number one of chapter three and verse number five of chapter four tell you what Paul is trying to communicate to Timothy. Here's what he says. This know that in the last days perilous times shall come. And then when he finishes up this thought in verse 5, he says, watch. In all things, endure affliction, do the work of an evangelist, and make full proof of thy ministry So everything that Paul says between 3-1 and 4-5 is to support why, it's to tell how, and it's to compel us to do it. That's the whole point of everything we're going to talk about this morning. Here's why we need to do this. This is how we do it. Let's go do it. That's the idea of the passage in front of us. So with that introduction, let's look at truth number one. The church has always been pressured by perilous times. Notice what he says in verse 1. This know also that in the last days perilous times shall come. Now before we ask the question of what he says, let's ask the question of where Paul is. Where is Paul? He's in prison. How many people are with him? Zero. Why are they not with him? Well they're afraid. They're afraid to be identified with him. They're afraid to be sandwiched in with Paul because they don't want to die with Paul. They know it's about to happen. And the fact is, from that moment forward, they're going to experience tremendous persecution from their communities and then ultimately even from the empire itself. And so when he talks about perilous times, there's a sense in which They're in perilous times. There's a sense in which they're going to be in more perilous times. And then we're going to see by the end of this, if you look back, they were already in perilous times leading up to this. What's the point? The point is that the church has always been pressured. Do not for a moment think that you are living in a unique time period. The kinds of problems that we encounter today in our culture at this moment, they are no different than they were a thousand years ago if you want to talk about the foundational types of issues that we're dealing with. Different names, different names of nations. There's a lot of technology people didn't have in those days, but the same human problems today are the same human problems that we had many, many, many years ago. And I want you to notice how he describes the last days. The first thing is Paul uses very simple and direct language to talk about what people are like. And verses 1 through 4, he describes what people are like in the last days. And here's the simplest way to put it. People love themselves. People love themselves. And he describes it, okay? And when he describes it, I I could like spend a lot of time here. I'm not going to, but I want you to kind of get a little bit of the sense of it because he describes it with 20. Did you hear that? 20 different kinds of descriptions so that we get the idea that people are gonna be selfish in the last days. For instance, they're gonna be discontent, covetous. They will be constantly trying to lift themselves up, boasters. They're going to despise other people, proud. They will be viciously destroying other people, blasphemers. They will not love and honor their parents. Dishonor to parents. They will be entitled. Unthankful. They will have no regard for sacred things. Unholy. They will not embrace, but rather abuse God's design for marriage, family, children without natural affection. They will be impossible to trust. Truth breakers. They will lie to destroy other people. False accusers. They will have no ability to restrain themselves. Incontinent. They will have terrifying and bridal tempest tempers. Fierce. They will hate and persecute the righteous, despisers of those that are good. They will have no regard for their commitments. Traitors. They will be reckless. Heavy. They will be blinded and crippled by their pride. High-minded. You never thought you would go through 20 20 statements from the scriptures so quickly. My goal is not for you to write all that down, though if you want to do that, I can give you the notes later. But I will say this His whole point is these are a whole bunch of different ways of saying people love themselves and they don't care about other people. Self-centered. I think the word that we use today is narcissists. Is that the word we use today? A lot of people use that word. Why? Because that's what it is. It is I love myself. I don't care about anybody else. It's about me and the decisions I make. Who cares how they affect other people? All I care about is making me happy. Second fact. People will be slaves to their fleshly passions. If you love yourself, guess what? All you care about is satisfying your flesh. And maybe another way to put it is people live based upon their passions, their bellies. All they care about is satisfying desire. And so he states it this way: lovers of pleasure more than lovers of God. Maybe we could even put it like this. It's a form of idolatry. The highest form of idolatry is when you put yourself on that pedestal and say, let me worship me. And by the way, when people worship idols, they create those idols in their own image so that they can worship that idol because it's exactly what they want. That's what it is. Last days. Fact three, religious practices will be void of true spiritual life. So, you know, it's really easy for us when we look at this topic of the last days to get very focused on the self-centeredness of people. And the sexual passions that seem to be unbridled. And how people just follow and pursue what they want to do in the moment. And then we look at those who are religious and say, at least there's good people still left in the world. And guess what? He says, yeah, even those people have a problem too. Because their worship is dead. Their worship has no Jesus. Their worship has no gospel. Their worship has no life. It is not a living, transforming, gospel-centered passion. It's just a form that is dead. Think about that. Does that sound a little bit like the time we live in? Yeah, it does. Fact four The influencers of that generation, I kind of use that on purpose. The influencers of that generation will have a very twisted worldview. These resist the truth. These are men of corrupt minds. These are reprobate concerning the faith. It's interesting how he talks about going into people's houses. Sounds a little like what happens in social media. I mean you could just sit there on your phone, you can just like fill your mind with all the nonsense that's there. Hour after hour after hour after hour. The influencers of the generation. Question is, with such a terrible time to live in. Is there hope? The answer is yeah. There absolutely is. But it might not be where you think it is Observation 2, this is not a new phenomenon. I kind of mentioned this, but in verse 16 of chapter 4, he says, At my first answer, no man stood with me, all men forsook me. That is Paul's experience at the moment. Chapter 4, verse 3, he says, The time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine, but after their own lust will lead to he will heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears. So he says This is going to get even worse than what we're experiencing now. And then he goes back earlier in the text and he says, Do you remember the story of Moses, Janice and Jambres, who withstood Moses? These also resist the truth. He goes back. So here Paul is basically saying, if you go all the way back to the Exodus And you follow the history of the nation of Israel up to the time that we're living in. We have the cross, and we have the resurrection, and we have the ascension, and we have the apostles, and here is Paul, he's about to die as a martyr. He said, whether you look all the way back to Moses or you look all the way forward to the time when Jesus comes, it's all a mess. Perilous times. Truth number two. The gospel can penetrate any heart. Now I do not know what is going through your mind when you come to this place today. I don't know what your weekend was like. I don't know what your week was like. I don't know what your month's been like. I don't know what kind of a season of life you're in. But the truth is that there are some people that when they think about the times they're living in, they are so discouraged because they say, There's no hope for the times we live in. Stick their head in the sand. There's another group of people that they're a part of what's going on in the world and they say, I am so dominated by my sinful passions I am so troubled. I am so disillusioned. I seem like I have no purpose in my life. I do not know where to turn. Is there hope for me? And they're not asking the same question you're asking. They're asking a different question. Is there hope for me? The answer to both of those is yes. There's hope. But that hope has to be in the right thing. And so we see in verse 14 of chapter 3 he says, but continue thou in the things thou hast learned and been assured of. Let me make a couple of observations here. The first thing is that God has a redemptive plan, and that plan is solid. And that plan is unshakable. And that plan is immovable. And it doesn't matter what's going on in the world. His plan Is going to accomplish its work. Think back to what we just said earlier this morning as the text was was read in the opening scripture So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It will not return unto me void, but it will accomplish the thing whereunto I suck it. Why is that? Faith comes by hearing and hearing by the Word of God. Why is that? Because the Word of God is powerful. And we see this in Matthew 16, 18. He promises, I'm going to build my church, and there are no exceptions. Jesus says, I will build my church, the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. That's a promise. When Jesus made that statement, it wasn't like I hope to do this. It says I will do it. It's going to happen. Nothing can stop it. And so what does he do in Matthew 28? He appoints his apostles. He says, go therefore and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, Son, Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all things that I have commanded you. This next little statement's interesting. I'm with you always, even unto the end of the world. You say, well, they're dead. So who's he with? That's a good question. That promise and that commission is something that was meant to be perpetuated generation after generation after generation. And when we go to 2 Timothy 5, or 2 Corinthians 5, this is what we're going to look at next week, actually. We see the apostles took it very seriously. He says, All things are of God who hath reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ, and hath given to us the ministry of reconciliation, and hath committed to us the word of reconciliation. Very important statement. So now we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us. How does he beseech him? Through his word, be reconciled to God. And so this is the foundation for what's going on. We go to 2 Timothy 2, like we talked about last week. The foundation is built on this pattern that's established. When we go to 2 Timothy 3, the foundation is built and it is filled out based upon the things that Jesus has stated. Second observation. There is a very distinct pattern despite all of the obstacles. And this is something that's really interesting. If you're to step back and you were to look at these verses, you're going to see something that's repeated a couple of times. The first example is this. He says, perilous times shall come, but you have known my doctrine and manner of life. The second example, it says, evil men and seducers will wax worse and worse. But Continue in the things which you have learned. The third example is this. They will turn away from the truth and the fables, but Watch, endure, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of your ministry. What is the point? He states how bad it is, and then he states how you step up into it He doesn't say perilous times will be coming, so just just hold on until the rapture comes. Be really angry because of what's going on in your society. He says, preach the word. Perilous times are come. That's true. Endure affliction. Do the work of the ministry. Make foolproof. His ideas that it doesn't matter what's going on in the society so long as you consider your responsibility. What Christians are supposed to be doing today hasn't changed for 2,000 years, folks. In fact, I would say, as bad as we get frustrated about what's going on in our own society, it's not worse than what a lot of Christians have lived through. And so keep that in your mind. Observation two. Observation three. There are three examples referenced by Paul that really emphasize the power of the gospel. The first one is Paul talks about his own experience. In verses 10 and 11 he says, but thou hast known my doctrine, my manner of life. My purpose, my faith, my long-suffering, my charity, my patience, my persecutions and afflictions which came to me at Antioch. at Iconium, at Lystra, what persecutions I endured, but out of them all the Lord delivered me. There's a lot to say about this. But I'm going to try to make it real real simple. Paul was the last person on the planet that Christians in Jerusalem would have thought would become a Christian. Paul hated Christians. Paul was going into Damascus not to evangelize, but to find every single Christian he could find and to drag them out of their homes and to drag them back to Jerusalem. And to have them punished in Jerusalem because they were Christians. When he meets Jesus on the road to Damascus, he says, Why are you kicking against the pricks? In other words, this man hated Christianity. He hated Jesus. And in his own conscience, he knew there was something there. And as soon as Jesus confronts him, what happens? He breaks down. You know how many people live in this world and they fight their conscience? They say I don't believe in God. Okay, why not? Because I don't see him. Do you see any evidence that he uh that this is a created world? It's all all random chance. And I don't like the bad things that are going on in our society. Bad? What makes them bad? Like, why is it a problem if a person kills a person? I mean, we don't get upset if an animal kills another animal. Like, if you really believe in evolution, I mean survival of the fittest, like, that's actually good for humanity, right? People will judge the Christian worldview and they have absolutely no basis to make those judgments because there's no right and there's no wrong because there's no standard. And they look at a world that says created, designed, purposed, and they say, I don't believe that. That you can study math and you can study science. You can even study languages. You can look at human nature and you realize something. There is evidence of the fingerprint of God in all of those things. And you know what? Just like Paul was fighting against his conscience, there are people, maybe even here or listening. You fight your conscience. Why do you do that? Your conscience is a gift from God that says there's right and there's wrong, and he is the standard. And he says, turn to me and be saved. Embrace what I've done for you. And then it's interesting, after Paul becomes a Christian, one of the most stunning and shocking reversals in all of human history, if you want to call it that. When he talks about Iconium and Lystra, he's talking about when Paul led Timothy to Christ. And the very first things that Timothy knew about Paul were his sufferings. When Timothy was a very young and impressionable disciple, he saw this man suffer immensely. And so Paul says, if you don't believe in the power of the gospel, don't forget my story. Because it says, truth prevails. Then he goes back, chapter 3, verse 8, he says, Even as Janice and Jambries with Sid Moses, so do these also resist the truth. This is a fascinating passage of Scripture because what we see in the book of Exodus is that you have a people who were slaves in Egypt for 400 years. Can you imagine that? Four hundred years. And they were an oppressed people, and the person that was in charge of the nation at that time was the most vicious of all of the people. That had ruled them. And there seemed to be no way humanly possible that this family, who is becoming a nation, would have the ability to throw off those who oppress them. And here's this guy, Moses, who had a history in Egypt, and he walks into the king's palace as an 80-year-old man, nonetheless. 80 years old. And he says, the God of the Hebrews, the ones who you've enslaved, he says to you, let my people go. And he goes, Who's your God? They're in his people, they're my people. And Moses says, well, he'd like to show you that they are his people. And so here's what's going to happen because you won't let them go. And he walks out, and guess what? River turns the blood. He's like, ooh, that's a problem. And we see this succession of plagues. You know what they are? They're God telling the Pharaoh, this hardened, arrogant man: These are my people, not your people, let them go. And he says, no. He says, all right, crunch. No, crunch. Got tighter and tighter until it came to the point where the Pharaoh's own household lost their firstborn. The one who is going to replace the Pharaoh when he died is dead. And the Pharaoh realizes, I guess I'm on the wrong side of this story. And the point is, truth wins. Even in situations like that. And then in verse 15, he talks about Timothy's conversion. He says, From a child thou hast known the holy scriptures which are able to make thee wise unto salvation. And if what we know of Timothy's life is very little as far as his background, but what we do know is this: He had a Greek father. Who it it never appears that the man was involved in his life. It never talks about it talks about mom. It talks about grandma. It doesn't talk about dad. And the fact is that this was the last guy that you would think Paul would choose , a Hellenistic Jew whose father wasn't involved in his life. That this is the guy that Paul would say, there's nobody I trust more than Timothy. He will care for you like I care for you myself. What's the point? The gospel's power to take the most uncomfortable of situations, the most complicated of situations, and the truth will prevail. Truth 3. The scriptures have an unbreakable power. He says in verse 15 and 16, from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures Which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. All scripture is given by inspiration of God and is profitable. Now there are a couple of things that are very important for you to not miss here. The first thing is this. Every word of Scripture, according to this statement, is breathed out by God. Okay, if we were to look at it in the Greek text, it literally means every written word that we call Scripture. Breathe from God. So Paul writes it, but it's the breath of God. Peter writes it, it's the breath of God. John writes it, it's the breath of God. Because it's the breath of God, it has a power that is totally different from anything else that those men wrote. It has the power to draw a man who is in the darkness into the light. It has the power to take a rebel and cause him to be repented and humbled and place their faith in Christ. It has the power to take someone who's a skeptic and they become a believer. Why? It's God's word. All scripture given by inspiration of God. Second thing is this: it is sufficient to shape us into Christ's likeness. And it is profitable for doctrine, reproof, correction, instruction, and righteousness. So that the man of God may be perfect, that is, full maturity, thruly furnished unto all good works. Another way to put that is, this word has the power to save you. And this word has the power to transform you. And this word is enough to do both of those things because of its nature. It's not about the people communicating it. It's about the power of the word itself. You might just stumble across the scriptures and you start reading it as you read it, you go, this is speaking the truth. I feel something internally I've never really understood. I'm finding answers to questions that I've been asking myself over and over and over again. I can't find them anywhere. The Bible is a powerful book. Because it's the Word of God. It reaches into people's hearts and directs them to the truth. Thirdly, its nature and power compel us to preach it. He says, Therefore, I charge thee, preach the word. So we think about that little practice of making disciples. Making disciples isn't about getting people to think like you It's not about getting people to conform to your viewpoints. It's about people going to Jesus, and you're the conduit that he uses to point them to himself. And so this is the nature of the Word of God. I'm reminded of this text, Jeremiah 1, verse 5. Listen to what it says. This obviously nobody in here is Jeremiah. I mean if your name's Jeremiah, you're not this Jeremiah. Okay? I don't know. Maybe this is Jeremiah in here. But here's a man who is living one of the darkest moments in Israel's history. They're about to be captured and conquered by the Babylonians, and they're going to just absolutely destroy the city. There's a siege on the city. They're dragging captives back to Babylon, and those people are going to be there for over 70 years. And the people of the city and the people of the regions, they were callous and hardened to the preaching of the word. And this is what God says to Jeremiah. He says, before I formed thee in the belly, I knew thee. Before thou cameest forth out of the womb, I sanctified thee. I ordained thee to be a prophet unto the nations. Then said I, How Lord God, behold, I cannot speak, I am a child. The Lord said unto me, Say not, I am a child. Thou shalt go to all that, and I shall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee, thou shalt speak it. Be not afraid of their faces. I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the Lord. Then the Lord hath put his hand and touched my mouth. And the Lord said unto me, Behold, I have put my mouth of my words in thy mouth. See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms to root out, to pull down, to destroy, and to throw down, and to build up and to plant. And verse 15 he says, Lo, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north, saith the Lord. Verse 19, they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee. I am with thee, saith the Lord, to deliver thee. Let me tell you something interesting. The word that was in Jeremiah's mouth is still doing that. You said, but Jeremiah's dead But he wrote those things down by the command of the Lord. And God is continuing to work through people because of how he spoke to these individuals. Folks, we need to believe in the power of the gospel and the power of God's word to change people. Truth number four. God's servants in every generation have been called to rise to the occasion. Now I mentioned this last week. When I talk about those in ministry, don't think, oh, Pastor Joel, he's the guy that he's the ministry guy at the church, Pastor Josh. Those are the ministry guys. We're not the ministry guys. We're the guys who are here to be ministered too. I mean, and there's a truth to that. Okay, don't get me wrong. But the job of those who minister the word is to do what? It's to equip the saints to do the work of the ministry. To do the work of the ministry. Starting at home. Teaching our children. Living in front of them so they understand what a Christian is supposed to do, how they're supposed to live. I tell them this, I show them this problem. I show them what is right, I teach them what is right. I say, come with me, let's do this. We work through life together. We talk together as we're rising up and sitting down and all throughout life. That's discipleship at home. God's servants in every generation have been called to rise to the occasion. He says, I charge thee, chapter 4, verse 1, I charge thee before God and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing. Preach the word. Be instant in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctor. Let me break it down in a way that I hope is simple. Despite all the trouble, Paul exhorts Timothy to rise to the occasion. He tells him what to do. Preach the word. He told him when to do it. In season, out of season. That kind of like covers everything, doesn't it? So we're always doing this. Third, his exhortation covers the full scope of the kind of ministry that he would have. Reprove means preach to bring conviction. Rebuke means preach to call people to change. Exhort means come alongside and encourage people. Interestingly, that word exhort is the exact same word that is used to describe the Holy Spirit as the comforter. So the comforter comes alongside and he strengthens us. That's the same word. So part of preaching isn't just like You gotta get right with God. It's coming alongside you and helping you do it. It's being in the trenches with people. It's encouraging them. That's what he means by exhort. It's like the coach Teach the basics of sound doctrine. Teach doctrine. He tells them how it is to be done with all long suffering. Patience, patience, patience. Nobody changes fast in life. Nobody. You didn't. You say, I didn't because I haven't yet. We're all a work in progress, folks. That's the truth. We're the work in progress. And there are people who are laboring with long suffering for us. And then guess what? One day we're doing it for others. Maybe there's different people that God brings along the way. Some plants some water, God gives the increase. But this is what he tells them to do He says, despite all the opposition, his instruction is so simple and so direct. Preach the word. He calls us to follow in the same pattern with the same conviction and the same commitment to endurance. If we could call the Apostle Paul up on a phone and say, hey, could you talk to the people today about what they need to do in this very tumultuous time in American society, 21st century. We got all this trouble in our land and trouble worldwide. And he'd say, well, I don't need to talk to them because it's in the word. Tell him to read what's been written. Tell him to do what Timothy was told to do. I mean, he's not going to do that, don't get me wrong. But what's he saying? The command for the last days, no matter what culture we live in, no matter what season of highs and lows, it's the same. God changes people through the preaching of his word. And preaching isn't just getting up and doing what I'm doing right here. Preaching is like sitting down in somebody's living room. Going through the Word of God and answering their questions and pulling them back. Pulling them back. Using some of those questions to open up opportunities. And as a person's listening, they go, I get it. I never seen that before. That makes sense. I need to trust Christ. I need to live for God. That is how people change. You say, well, that's small. That's like one at a time. That doesn't matter. You realize that the gospel started with one guy and 12 disciples? And at Pentecost there was just a small handful of people. There are fuller, fewer people in the church at Pentecost than there are in this row right here. Do you realize that? Somebody's like gonna count them up. Maybe I was wrong about that, alright? But I would say pretty close, alright? Probably what you got right here in this this this section right here. That's how many people were there at Pentecost. Yet the gospel spread to the uttermost parts of the world in the first century. And here we are today, from lots of different cultures, 2,000 years removed, preaching the same gospel from the same Bible. Calling people to repent and believe. Folks, this is a text we need to listen to. And so I give you these final thoughts of application. Number one, do not allow your eyes to drift off of your duty. Number two, do not allow the tension of perilous times to drive you. Allow the tension of perilous times to drive you to step up and seize your duty. When you get frustrated, let that frustration drive you to truth, to your knees, to pick up a Bible and engage in conversation with people. To think about how you can actually have a positive, gospel-oriented interaction with somebody you work with, somebody in your family, somebody you care about. Have an unwavering conviction that the gospel saves and scripture transforms. What people need is not more church buildings More people saying Merry Christmas. You know what they need? The gospel. That's what they need. They need churches that preach it and teach it and live it out. They need churches that have people taking others under wing and strengthening them one-on-one, one-on-two, one-on-three. Those kinds of interactions all over the place. Make sure your priorities and practices follow out of a high view of Scripture. I think a lot of people don't do this, one, because they're lazy, and two, because they don't actually believe what they say they believe. Do you believe in the power of the gospel to change people, then why don't you give it? It's really a simple thing. Do you believe that discipleship works? Why not be engaged in it? Remember, this is why we need missionaries. This is why we send missionaries. This is why we're selective in our missions partnerships. This is why we anticipate the advance of God's kingdom through their faithful labors. If you were in Sunday school this morning, you heard a great story. About a young man who's now pastoring Biblical Baptist Church there in Kamasi. And when he was a young teenager, his dad, uncle, dad to uncle. Huh? Uncle. His uncle took him on a boat from Ghana all the way down around the tip of Africa and up to Dubai. Is that right? Dubai, I got that right. All right. And then he went back. Somebody gave him a track. And for years that track just sat in a pile of stuff in his room. And one day he's like, I'd like to find that track again. Guess what? He's saved today. His wife was someone who was a Liberian refugee , whose house burned to the ground. And in God's great work of providence, what do you do? He brought these two people to himself through the preaching of the gospel. He brought them to one another through their interaction in the local church. And now he's a pastor. And this is what the gospel does. Those stories are all over the place. You just don't know them. There's stories like that in this church right now, and you don't know them. God 's gospel works. Are you involved in what he's doing? Let's bow for prayer. Before I close in prayer, I want to ask one simple question. I'm not going to ask you to come forward or anything like that. But is there anyone here this morning that would say , Joel, I do not know for sure if I were to die today that I would spend eternity with God. You talked about the gospel, its power to change and transform people. I don't even really understand what you mean by gospel. I'd like to let you know that so that maybe we could talk about it. Is there anybody that would just quietly raise up your hand? I'm the only one looking. I'm not going to ask you to stand up, say your name, or anything like that. I just want to make note that you need to speak with me And I want to make that happen. Is there anyone that would raise your hand and say, that's me? Pastor Joel, I need to speak with you. I don't know for sure that I'm saved. I don't understand the gospel. I need to talk to someone. Anyone at all? Anyone at all? Now listen, you might say, I'm not raising my hand, but I need to. Fine. Reach out to me. Send an email to the church office. Reach out through Facebook Messenger. Come by and shake my hand when you walk through the door. Say, Pastor, I need to talk to you about the message. I got a lot of things I don't understand. Can you help me? I will do it. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help these things to submit in our hearts. Our Father, we thank you for your word and its power to change people who are stumbling in darkness. People who our lives are dominated by sin. People who feel that life is pointless and that it's going nowhere. Lord, help them to see that your word has the answer And it is a vibrant relationship with the living God through the redemptive work of Christ. And so if anyone here does not know you as Savior, I pray that today would be the day that they get that answer settled. And I pray for every person that's a part of this church or listening on the live stream. I pray that we would be convinced in the power of your word in one-on-one discipleship, that we would take this very seriously as a congregation, especially in our homes. And I pray that we would see the long-term fruit of how you work in people's lives through your word. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's pull out our hymn books for our final closing hymn. Please, if anyone needs to reach out, do not hesitate. I'll be very happy to sit down with you. Go through the word, answer any questions you have. Just be an encouragement to you. Hymn number 548, Servant's Heart. Please let's stand together as we sing this song. And may it be our prayer, our concern that we have a servant's heart and God uses us In his work of reaching into people's lives. May be of the night maybe call the How we call you, that you love a good May be not in you. I mean God is you 're not shiny You can be all May that be our prayer. I'm going to ask you if the summers can go and stand in the back by their display boards. You can go by and greet them. And if you're visiting with us today, I hope that you'll take a moment to just drop by and speak to my wife and I and we'd like to just be an encouragement to you and hope you felt warmly welcomed. Also don't forget that tonight uh we have a special After our service is done, we're going to go to the back and we're going to have our international meal. And so there is a sign-up sheet so that we can make sure we have a good balance of Food's there. We're part of the nations too, so if you want to bring pizza, I'm okay without hot dogs, but uh we are trying to also get some international food outside of this country. And uh so uh do sign up for that, please, if you're coming tonight. And uh we're gonna have a great time. We always have a really, really good time when we have our um our missions uh missions dinner like that. I'd like to ask you, Brother Frank, uh Dumsha can close us in prayer and uh and we'll be dismissed.