Let's turn to the book of 2 Chronicles, and we are looking at 2 Chronicles chapter 9 tonight, and we've been working our way through the story of King Solomon. And the passage that we're going to look at tonight is in fact probably one of the crowning moments of Solomon's reign, and it's very significant in the story of Solomon, as well as the covenant promises that God had made to his people, specifically Solomon. So let's go ahead and look down at verses one through nine together tonight. Again at 2 Chronicles chapter 9, verses 1 through 9. And we could actually look at a cross-reference if we were, uh, and it's almost the exact same story, like almost the exact same wording in fact, in 1 Kings chapter 9 as well, but we will focus in on The uh the presentation in 2 Chronicles. So let's go ahead and begin reading in verse number one. It says, and when the queen of Shiva heard of the fame of Solomon, She came to prove Solomon with hard questions at Jerusalem, with a very great company and camels that bear spices and gold in abundance. and precious stones, and when she was come to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart. And Solomon told her all her questions, and there was nothing hid from Solomon, which he told her not. When the queen of Sheba had been had seen the wisdom of Solomon in the house that he had built, the meat of his table, the sitting of his servants, the attendance of his ministers. in their apparel as cupbearers also in their apparel, his ascent by which he went up into the house of the Lord, there was no more spirit in her. She said to the king, It was a true report, which I heard in mine own land of thine acts and of thy wisdom. Howbeit that I believe not their word until I came. My eyes have seen it. Behold, the one half of the greatness of thy wisdom was not told me. For thou exceedest the fame that I heard. Happy are thy men, happy are these, thy servants, which stand continually before thee and hear thy wisdom. Blessed be the Lord. thy God, which delighted in thee, to set thee on his throne, to be king for the Lord thy God, because thy God loved Israel to establish them forever. Therefore made he thee king for them to do judgment and justice. Let's down together and ask the Lord to really help us. to understand the text in front of us and what it really has to say about how we should respond today. Our Father, we thank you for your word. As it is presented tonight, I pray that you would help the word to be presented clearly. Help everyone to understand exactly what is going on, especially when we consider the context. of this passage. We also consider the occasion for which it was being written. I pray that you would speak through your word in Christ's name. Amen Amen. I want to begin by make making a simple summary of the text and then kind of begin by just telling you the story that's in front of us. So first of all, the summary statement. God has always wanted to use his people to draw others to himself. Let me say it again. God has always wanted to use his people to draw others to himself. And let me just pause and say this. God doesn't need you. And God doesn't need me to draw people to himself. He can use any means that he chooses. But God delights And us as ministers of the gospel, he delights in using us because he wants us to be partnered with him in the work that he's doing. And so as we look at these verses, what we are reminded is that he wants to use you, and he wants to use me to point people to himself. And in these verses, we see an amazing example of God drawing someone who was a Gentile from a very far and distant land to himself because of the way he was working in Solomon's life and in the life of the people of Israel. So first of all, let's begin with a couple of thoughts in the background. There are three important reminders about the timing of this being written. What I mean by that is we're talking about the occasion We're not talking about the event when that took place, but what was going on in the lives of the people when God moved the prophet to record these stories from their history. Well, the first thing I want to mention is that the temple had been completely destroyed and now was being rebuilt. Remember that these are exiles who were coming back, not from Babylon. But now from Persia, because the Persians have conquered the Babylonians. And as they come back to the land of promise, they're coming back to a city that's completely destroyed. They're coming back to a temple that's not even there. And so they're reading the story of the greatness of a temple that when they come back into the land, it's gone. It doesn't even exist. And so the temple that they're now looking at is a temple that they have built, that God has raised up the revenue needed, He's raised up the the hands to do the work, He's raised up the skill sets to do the work. God has done all of this. And the people are a bit disillusioned, and they need to be reminded that God's purposes for them haven't changed. Even though their history has gone through all this turmoil, God still loves them and he has a purpose for them. And so that's a part of the background of this story. Secondly, God's people needed to be reminded that his purpose is unchanging. And so as they look back at their history, as they think about all the things that they have gone through, and now where they stand, they're reminded that there's a testimony that God's promises are sure. The most horrific things that you could imagine that could happen to people happened to these people, and they still exist. They're still in Jerusalem. There's still a temple in this place. Yes, a rebuilt temple, but a temple. There is still worship in that temple. They still have the scriptures. They still have the promises. God isn't done with them. That is in the background of this story. And then thirdly, his promises are sure. The rebuilding of the temple has reminded them God is not done with them. And let me say something. There are times in our life that we blow it. You ever been there? I have. You do something and when that happens, you go, God's done with me I have crossed the line and now there's no way he could bless me again. I I I've blown the perfect will of God. I know there's a lot of people that think in this way like God has this dot, and if you get lucky and you make all the right decisions in life, you're going to end up at that dot. That's not how we should look at the will of God God's will is for you to do right today. And God's will is for you to learn from your past mistakes. And God's will is for you to grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. And the fact is that God in his mercy and his wisdom can even use our foolish decisions to build us into the people that he wants us to be. Not saying that he blessed our sin. It's that he's a God of grace. And so this is an important reminder in the background of the passage. Second thing I want you to notice is the context. That is in the immediate storyline. And there are a couple of pieces of this story that Pastor Josh and Brother Braxton have been talking about, and I just kind of want to rehearse them very, very briefly so that you see how this story fits into what has been stated already. First of all, there are covenant promises that God has made to his people. And these promises go all the way back to Abraham and to Isaac. and to Jacob. And the one that is really focused in on in this immediate passage is the promise that God made to David. Listen to what it says in 2 Chronicles 6, verse 14. In fact, maybe you could turn back there in your Bible just a couple of chapters back and you will see this statement. It says, O Lord God of Israel, there's no God like thee in heaven nor in earth. Next statement's important. Look at your Bible and see it. You are the God which keepest covenants, and you show mercy unto thy servants that walk before thee with all their heart. Thou which hast kept with thy servant David , my father, that which thou hast promised him. and spake it with thy mouth, hast fulfilled it with thine hand, as it is this day. So before we look at the storyline here, we are reminded that Solomon knows that his life is a part of a story. And this is something that we're losing in our culture today. We've become so individualistic in our thinking. That we fail to realize that our life is a part of a storyline. I just think about the example I just recently went to a family funeral for my grandfather. And I'm thankful that I've had the privilege to know my grandfather, and my children have had the privilege to know not just their grandfather, but their great-grandfather. And as we were gathered together at that funeral, there were hundreds of people there, but over 50 of them are directly descended or the spouses of direct descendants of my grandfather and grandmother. That's a pretty amazing thing to think about. And so when I sit there and I look at all these people, and by the way, we all have different family backgrounds. We there's there's we have different beliefs in certain areas. There's a lot of things that you could say we're different in, but there are certain fundamental things that to be honest with you, they really come back from that first union of my grandparents There are things that my grandparents did in their family that have have transferred over to the way that my dad did things in our family. And there are things that my dad did. I don't even realize I'm doing them sometimes And I'm doing them themselves and then those things in my family. And then by God's grace, my children someday will marry and have children. And then they will do some of those things. And I hope that they they spit out all the bones and I hope that they chew all the good stuff. Let's just be honest. But the the whole point is this. We're part of a story Okay? Solomon's a part of a story. He looks back at David and he goes, I'm David's son, and God made promises to him, and I'm just a part of a story that's going to continue from generation to generation to generation. Don't miss that. Young people, don't miss that. Live for God today. Marry wisely when you come of age. Have a family and live for Jesus. And the reality is that you'll have the opportunity to invest in a story that's going to go on and on and on and on until the Lord Jesus returns. And then we get to be a part of eternity together. And so that's a part of the storyline. The second thing we see in the context is Solomon's prayer. 2 Chronicles 6. 17 Maybe stay there in 2 Chronicles 6 and notice what he says. Now then, O Lord God of Israel, let thy word be, does anyone see that next word? It's the word verified Verified. What's he saying? Prove your word. You said you were going to do this. Show me that in fact you're going to do this. Put your word to the test and let me see with my eyes the evidence of your faithfulness to the promises that you made. And then we see in verses thirty-two and thirty-three, also, moreover, concerning the stranger, which is not of thy people Israel, but is come from a far country, for thy great name's sake, for thy mighty hand, thy stretched out arm. If they come and pray in this house, then hear thou from the heavens, even from thy dwelling place, and do according to all the stranger calleth to thee. For that all people of the earth may know thy name and fear thee, as doth thy people Israel, and may know that this house which I have built is called by thy name. Now this is something that I think a lot of people that lived at the time of Solomon missed. And a lot of people that lived throughout Israel's history missed. And a lot of people living at the time of Christ missed. In fact, just go back in your mind to the story that we talked about where Christ is throwing out the money changers, and I said something. I said that I think out of all the people that were being abused by that religious system It was the strangers who came a great distance , who had to exchange the money. They had no idea what an appropriate exchange rate was. They had to buy the sacrifices because they did not have the ability to bring all of these animals together with their entourage there to worship in the temple. They had come a great distance out of all the people. They're the ones that got treated the worst. And you know what's amazing? Part of God's covenant promises to his people. was not just to Israel, but was to the stranger. It was to the foreigner. It was to the Gentile. And notice what he said. God, let your word be verified concerning strangers, people of Israel, but also those from far countries. that all the world may know that this house which I have built is called by thy name. You know what that tells me? God 's will has always been for more than just the Jewish people to be a part of his kingdom purposes God has desired all the way back to Abraham, I will bless you and make you a great nation, and through your descendants, all the nations of the earth will be blessed. That has always been God's plan. And that's a part of this story. Third thing I want you to notice is how God responds. In verses 1 and 2 of chapter 7, the next chapter over, it says, when Solomon had made an end of praying, The fire came down from heaven, consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifice, and the glory of the Lord filled the house, and the priest could not enter into the house of the Lord, because the glory of the Lord had filled the house. Verse 12 And the Lord appeared to Solomon by night and said, I have heard thy prayer and chosen this place to myself for a house of sacrifice. So this is an important part of what we are reading in 2 Chronicles chapter 9. Because Solomon and all of Israel should have desired That it would not just be people who were Jewish in ancestry, but it would be people from all over the world that would be drawn to Jerusalem. That would recognize that the true God of heaven who made everything is the God of Israel. And these people would come up to Jerusalem and they would worship in that temple and God would accept their sacrifice because he is a God who wants to save people from all over the world. They should have anticipated that. And so should we. And so we come to chapter 9. And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to prove Solomon. with hard questions at Jerusalem. There it is. Why did this woman come? Because God was verifying his word. God 's blessings on the nation of Israel at that time. God's blessings in his prospering of Solomon was something that God wanted for the nations to hear about, and he wanted them to be drawn to Jerusalem to ask the question, why? Why are these people experiencing what they experience? What is the fundamental cause of this great blessing? And here we see it happening. In verse number eight, we're going to come to this, but notice the conclusion of this woman's consideration of all that she's heard and all that she's seen. This is what she said. Blessed be the Lord thy God, which delighted in thee to set thee on the throne to be king for the Lord thy God, because God loved Israel. To establish them forever, therefore made he thee king over them to do judgment and justice. What's the conclusion? She heard, she came, she saw, and she said, God is with these people. Let me ask you a question. Do your neighbors see that in your life? Do they see that God is with you? When they see how you conduct yourself as a family, when they see the way that you interact, is there something that causes them to ask a question? What's different about this family? I don't mean why are they weird? They might think that. I don't know. My neighbors might think that of us. I have no idea. I hope they don't tell me. That's okay. They won't be watching the live stream tonight. No, you never know. But When there's a tough time, who are they going to go to? Who do they say the most stable person I know is? The wisest person I know is The person who's doing things right is. The person that's raising their children the right way is. And you're the one that comes to their mind. That's not an accident. You cannot make people come to that conclusion. How you live your life day in and day out will ultimately determine whether or not people come to that conclusion or not. And there was something that Solomon was doing and something about the way that God was working in the midst of those people. that caused this woman to want to come and ask questions. Don't forget that. So let's work our way through the story a little bit quickly here. First of all, we have the Queen's Quest. What is her quest? In verses 1 and 2 it says, when the queen of Sheba heard, she came to prove Solomon. When she comes, I think it's important for us to know a little bit about the background of this person. And some of this we can't be a hundred percent certain of, but I tried to do my research. and find out what we know about the Queen of Sheba. First of all, the land of Sheba was more than likely a region that was inhabited by a group of people called the Sabans. These people lived in what is modern-day Yemen, and on the other side of that strait where the Red Sea meets the Indian Ocean, on the other side we have Djibouti, we have a lot of soldiers that uh work in that particular place. We also have Eastern Ethiopia on the other side of Eritrea. So The region that this woman would have would have worked over was probably on both sides of that strait. We don't know if she was coming from the African side of the strait or from the Arabian side of the strait, but that's more than likely where she came from These people were exceptionally wealthy. They engaged in trade by land and by sea. That's why she brought all this stuff. And that's how she heard about what was going on in the land of Israel. In fact, it's interesting if you go to 1 Kings chapter 9. In that passage, it emphasizes the might and the power of Solomon. And Solomon had a navy in the Red Sea. He was engaged in trade all over that region. And so people talked about what was going on in Jerusalem. Interestingly, these are the exact same people that plundered Job's wealth during Job's great trial of faith. These are also the same group of people that had enslaved the Judeans after the destruction of Jerusalem by the hand of the Babylonians. So think about it this way. You have the 70-year period from the destruction of Jerusalem at the hand of the Babylonians. You have these people who are in exile. Now they're coming back and they're hearing the story of the Queen of Sheba. and her descendants, the people that she had ruled hundreds and hundreds of years before, those very people were waiting at the gates of Jerusalem that were being destroyed. And whoever survived and didn't get taken away to the land of Babylon, they grabbed them and they enslaved them and they traded them all over the world. Kind of crazy to think about. It's also kind of crazy to think about is in the news we took we hear a lot of stories about the Houthis in Yemen. What's going on there? They aren't exactly lovers of Israel today, are they? And so what really makes this story amazing is here are these people that it had been a wild group of people, they they plundered Job during the time of the patriarchs. They're waiting at the gates of the city to capture whoever survives the destruction of Jerusalem in 586. And then these people, even today, are still a thorn in the side of the nation of Israel. Yet during this moment in their history, this woman came to Jerusalem because she heard of the greatness of Solomon. Start with her quest. Secondly, I want you to notice Solomon's test. Verses 3 to 8. She wanted to verify what she heard. Good, sensible thing. Just because you hear a thing doesn't mean it's true, right? Just because you hear a thing doesn't mean it's exactly how you've heard. It might be partially true, but not entirely true. And so rather than this woman just saying, okay, I believe what I've heard She says, I'm going to go and I'm going to look and I'm going to ask questions and I'm going to verify whether or not what you say is true. And so in verses 5 and 6, this is her conclusion. It was true, which I heard in mine own land of thine acts. And of thy wisdom. How be it? I believe not their words until I came, and my eyes had seen it. And behold, the one half of the greatness of thy wisdom was not told me, for thou exceedest the fame that I heard. What she's basically saying is the rumor was wrong. It didn't go far enough. I heard about how great you were, and it's more than I even understood from what I'd heard. In other words, the rumor fell short. It's crazy to think about, isn't it? What are the things that she kind of focuses in on? Well, in verse number three, she focuses in on Solomon's wisdom. When the Queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon. Verse number three, when she saw the house that he had built, she's talking about his power and his skill and how much material possession he had gathered together. But verse number four is the one that should catch your attention. Listen to what it says. His ascent by which he went up into the house of the Lord. And there was no more spirit in her. It wasn't Solomon's wisdom that took her breath away. It wasn't Solomon's house that took her breath away. It was Solomon's worship of his God that took her breath away. Did you catch that? Interestingly, when she talks about the foundation of all of these things, she's going to focus in on God. She's not going to focus in on Solomon. She's not going to focus on the greatness of the people. She's going to focus in on the God of these people. Because everything that they had came from his hand. In fact, I think it's important when we talk about wisdom and we go to the book of Proverbs. What does it say? The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The knowledge of the holy is understanding. So it's not just that this woman is asking him all these questions, but there's something about the worldview of Solomon. that is rooted on the Lord, and that worldview is what's caused him to be wise. And so she understands that at the heart of all of these things is a God in heaven. Who Solomon worships. We then see in verse 8 how she declares the ultimate source of his blessing. She says, Blessed be the Lord thy God. She says he has delighted to set thee on his throne. Interesting word. There is no power but of God. The powers that be are ordained of God. People do not rise to authority without the providence of God permitting it or causing it. And so when this woman talks about the greatness of Solomon, she says, it's your God that is the cause. It's his throne, not your throne. Third statement is to be king. For the Lord thy God. Interestingly, the responsibility of a king in Israel was that they were to take the law and not just read it. And not just study it, but they were to hand copy their own copy of the Word of God And that's because their job was to rule for him on his throne. This woman got it. She recognizes all these blessings come because God's hand is on these people. God's blessings are on these people. He 's delighted to give this man a privileged opportunity amongst his people. This person has been delegated authority to rule God's people on his behalf. And then I love the fourth statement. Thy God loved Israel to establish them forever. Isn't that an amazing statement? He loved them, and he's going to establish them what? Beyond Solomon's time. You say, well, what's that? That's going back to the covenant promises. Do you see the connection between the history, the covenants, the prayer, and what this woman saw. Third thing I'll mention here is that they were both blessed. In verse 9, it says that she gave out of abundance to the king, and in verse 12 it says he gave out of abundance to her. Second thing I want you to notice here is the point of the story. That helps us to know what happened. The question is, why does it matter? And so I want to give you a couple of simple thoughts here. The first one is this. We must point people to him. Because his covenant blessings are not isolated to one people or one region. There was a time in church history where the gospel was very, very well known in places like England and Scotland and in Northern Ireland. And there were people like Adonairam Dudson. William Carey, who wanted to take the gospel to the uttermost parts of the world. And when they had conversations with people in their congregations, the attitude of the people was, what's the point? If God wants to save the heathens, he'll do it in his own way. And the point was, God saves the nations through the work of his people. He brings the gospel through those individuals. And so people like Judson and Kerry, and we could talk about other missionaries, despite the lack of excitement on the parts of the people and the places that they live, people like John Payton who went to the Pacific. These individuals did not listen to the doubters and the naysayers, and they said, we will go and we will take the gospel to those places. Why? Because they realize the gospel's not just for us, it's for the nations. And that has always been God's plan. Genesis 28: Thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth. Spread abroad to the west, to the east, to the north, to the south, in thee and in thy seed shall all families of the earth be blessed. I will not leave thee until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of. That's all the way back to Jacob. Christ in Luke 13, 29. They shall come from east and from west and from north and from south and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. John writes about what will take place at the end of time in Revelation. He says in Revelation 5, 9, they sing a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take up the book and to open the seal. For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation, and hast made unto us to our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. It's always been God's plan. Are you taking part in it? Second truth, we must point people to Him because His grace can draw people from shockingly unlikely places. I want you to listen to one of the most amazing texts in the Old Testament. In Isaiah chapter 19. In Isaiah chapter 19, this is written at a time in Judah when Assyria has been a scourge to the northern tribes of Israel, and the Babylonians are a concern for Judah. And listen to what the prophet Isaiah says in Isaiah chapter 19, verses 21 through 25. He says, the Lord shall be known to Egypt And the Egyptians shall know the Lord in that day. He shall be entreated by them and shall heal them. In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria. And the Assyrians shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptians into Assyria. And the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians. Now, pause for a moment. When the people hear that, in their minds they're like, so what happens to us? Are we like going to be annihilated by Egypt in the south and the Assyrians in the north? Are we just going to be the roadway between these two powerful empires and we're just collateral damage for these two groups of people? The answer is no. Because here's what it says. In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land. Whom the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt, my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance. I asked this question. How in the world does that happen when you consider the geopolitical situation today? It's gonna happen. I don't know how God's gonna make it happen. It's gonna play out in history. But the reality is there's going to be a day that that people from some of Israel's greatest enemies throughout all of its history will not just be allies, but they will worship the same God together. As a part of a people that God calls his inheritance. It's always been God's plan. God has the ability to do this. I think about Romans chapter 9. What shall we say then? That the Gentiles which followed not after righteousness have obtained righteousness? Even the righteousness which is of faith. Romans eleven, blindness in part happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles become in So all Israel shall be saved. Yea, in times past, they have not believed God, yet now have obtained mercy through their unbelief. Even so, have these also now not believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy. God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy on all. Of the depth of the riches and wisdom of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. Are there people in your life that you say there's no way that that person could ever become a Christian? Are there people that you say there's no way that they would ever believe? You 'd be surprised what God does when the gospel comes to people. Third truth. We must point people to him because he uses his people to draw others to himself. Matthew 5. 14, ye are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hid. Ephesians 5. 8, ye were sometime darkness, but are now light in the Lord. Walk as children of light. 1 Peter 2, 9, ye are a chosen generation, a royal priest, and a holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praises of him that hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. You know who he's talking about? He's not talking about me. He's talking about all of us. He's not talking about the missionaries on this wall back here. He's talking about all of us. He's talking about every believer being a part of this body that is light in darkness. It's God's will to use people to take the truth into the darkness. Truth number four, when God's people walk with him, he will use them to open doors to communicate the truth. And to me, this is probably one of the greatest takeaways from the text in front of us. Why did this woman come to Jerusalem? It's because God's hand of blessing was on that nation at that time. They were being led by a king who was truly wise at that time. He was wise because at the end of David's life He poured and invested what he knew about God, his love for the Lord, into his son Solomon. And Solomon took it and he asked God for wisdom. And as Solomon was faithful to the Lord, and as he guided the people in the fear of the Lord, God's hand of blessing was on the people, and the nations heard about what God was doing. When God's people walk with him, he opens doors for them to communicate the truth. You know what the problem is? God's people don't often walk with him. What was going on in Israel after the time of Solomon? What was going on after uh in Israel after the time of Solomon is that the people were not walking with God. And the fact is the nations weren't drawn to him. That's why God had to chasten the nation. That's why they had to go into captivity. And God in his mercy brought them back. And God works in these kinds of ways. Matthew 5, 16, let your light so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. You are light. Don't hide it. First Peter 3 15, Sanctify the Lord in your heart. Be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness. and fear. This is how the Christians should live. Some of the greatest opportunities to evangelize are the ones that are put together entirely by the providence of God. God's using you and you don't even realize it. And God's drawing people to a point of question and he gives you an opportunity in those moments to speak Of the hope that lies within you in meekness and fear. That's what happens at funerals. That's what happens at weddings. That's what happens at Gatherings where maybe it's a class reunion and somebody hasn't seen you for 30 years and then they see you again and they're asking you all these questions and they're starting to see some things about your worldview and they go That's not who I knew 30 years ago. What changed? Ah, I can tell you about it. Hey, I remember when you were, and they talk about who you were. Why aren't you that anymore? Well, by the grace of God I am what I am. And he opens doors of opportunity. Some of the greatest opportunities to witness come through those very organic, providentially open doors. Don't miss them. So how do we apply this? Two simple thoughts. I want to begin with an application that is logically connected through three statements. One God has always wanted to save people from every nation. Since that is true, he has always called people to take truth into the world. Since that is true, when Christians live with a biblical distinction, God opens opportunity to proclaim the gospel. If you walk with God, you're going to get opportunities to witness. If you walk with God, there are going to be conversations that are stirred up. With somebody that you work with. Or somebody in your in your neighborhood, somebody that your kids are playing baseball with or whatever sport you're in or music or whatever the atmosphere is. God will open doors in ways that you would not have anticipated because He wants to use you as conduit to reach into the lives of people. Second thought is this. We've got to have his heartbeat. We need to be burdened as he is burdened. We need to feel the weight of his plan for humanity. We need to be motivated to resist concealing the light. You may not realize this, but I I get tongue-tied too. Spare times that I should give a track and I know I should and in my heart I'm convicted and I just kinda like, you know, kinda melt in that moment. You're like, oh you're a pastor, it's easy for you. Not true. I'm not made of the same stuff everybody else is. The fact is there are moments where we should speak up and we don't. We feel very bad about it. We need to not conceal the light. We should anticipate that there will be opportunities to engage the lost when they come to speak to us. When you stumble, get back up. My goal is not to make everybody walk out of here in misery going, oh, I have all these divine appointments that I dropped. Don't get focused on that, folks. Just get up and focus on what's in front of you tomorrow. You don't know what opportunities in front of you. Take it. Don't get bogged down with past moments where you feel like, oh, I kind of bumbled that conversation. I didn't give that track. I didn't have that conversation. This isn't about putting people on guilt trips. It's about saying, hey, let's be self-aware here. Let's be looking for opportunity. And when it happens, let's take it. See what God does with it. We walk away from this passage of Scripture. I think that the thing that should be so prominent in our minds is this. God wants to use us to point people to Himself. It's why he works in our lives. One of the great reasons that he blesses his people as he does is to draw people to ask questions. May God use us this week in that way. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. So good. So rich, so powerful. I think of this story of a woman who came from a land of restless people. who had a history of trouble, both before and after this event, but she was drawn to Jerusalem with questions because of what she heard. And she heard because of your rich blessings on these people. May we be a people who walk with you in such a way that your blessing is evident in our lives. And people desire to know the cause of this blessedness. And may we point them to Christ, who is all sufficient. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.