Yeah Wanna welcome everybody tonight? Hope that you've had a great week. And uh nice to see the sun again, right? All right, well let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will get started with a song, and then I want to mention something about our missions month uh starting this Sunday. Looking forward to that And then we're going to dig into an important passage of Scripture that we will spend a couple of weeks in, more than likely. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we're so grateful that tonight we can gather together as a body of believers. And as we have fellowship together, I pray that our time together would be encouraging. You know every burden that is being carried in this room. you know, the challenges that uh each person in here has uh been dealing with and those who've joined us on the live stream who are dealing with challenges. I pray that the Word of God would minister to us richly tonight and instruct us and teach us in the way which we should go. Open our eyes to behold wondrous things out of your law. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Before we sing, I want to mention that this Sunday is the beginning of our missions month, and we have these beautiful God's plan, our privilege. missions booklets and you can see highlighted who the different missionaries that are that are in there. Uh I'm not a missionary, but I'm going to be doing one of the Sundays because one of the guys bailed on us. And uh I kind of got the sense it might happen. So um I Just kind of prepared mentally for that. So anyway, I'm actually looking forward to getting to do that because sometimes it's really good just as a pastor to be able to talk about uh missions um not just on a Sunday morning service but on the Sunday night as well. And there's some missionary quotes in here, obviously the contact information for our missionaries. There's some visuals that show you a little bit about our giving to missions over the last several years, some historic data there. So I want to encourage you pick this up. They're in the lobby, and then obviously All supplies last. They're going for free, guys. So um we'll start selling them on eBay, you know, if we if we go through them through them all. No, we'll have to put up some more, but Um, hope that you guys pick those up and uh just pray for the missionaries that we have coming in. It's gonna be a great uh a great month. Looking forward to it. Okay. 105 in our blue books is what we'll sing tonight. And I think as we sing this song, you'll see how it fits in pretty well with what we'll be talking about from the Sermon on the Mount. We'll just sing the first and the last verses together tonight. In life, for tell thou not despair by Hope in him, I'll hold me share to live his Christ, to die his king, I seek to magnify his name for me to live. My highest price for me to live is Christ. So joy in Christ has never seen and come to give brings true peace, content, in every state, in all beauty. Strengthen my strings for me to them is Christ, for me to them is Christ. It's a good song. Okay. Well tonight we're going to be back in the Sermon on the Mount, and we're looking at uh verses 10 through 12 together. And um the topic that I'm going to be addressing tonight is is really almost like an introduction to this passage of scripture. And so I'm going to treat it as an independent message because as a topic, I think it's an extremely important one. But in many ways, it's almost as if it would be an introduction to what we'll be talking about over the next couple of weeks. So Matthew 5, we'll begin reading in verse number 1, work our way down to verse 10. It says, and seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain. When he was set, his disciples came unto him. He opened his mouth and taught them saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness For they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice, be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now when I read these verses, verses 10, 11, and 12, you'll notice that in each of the Beatitudes it's a s it's a very simple statement. Blessed are, for they shall. That has been the the the the way that this Beatitudes section has been laying things out. But when we come to the end of the Beatitudes, verses 10, 11, and 12, he takes a topic, and that is the topic of persecution. And he spends three verses addressing this issue. And obviously, when we read this, this has a paradox side to it. I'm going to draw your attention to that in a minute. But out of all of the things that he says This is the one that he actually spends the most time with. And I think that that is very significant. And tonight we're going to address something that is a false teaching. that this does not they they do not have this uh as a part of the paradigm of their teaching philosophy. So first of all let me give you a summary statement, kind of see what the text is saying, and then I want us to move into this topic uh carefully tonight. Here's our summary. Even though God's children pr possess exemplary character Their association with Christ will inevitably result in the blessing of persecution and baseless false accusations Let me read that to you again because you might go, that doesn't make sense, does it? The blessing of persecution. Let me read again. Even though God's children possess exemplary character, their association with Christ will inevitably result in the blessing of persecution and baseless false accusations God wants his children to be prepared for the potential for great hardship even when they are doing what is right. And so I want to start with this first fact that is a part of what we're looking at this morning or this evening. We have to be realistic about human nature. We have to be realistic about human nature. The two statements that we're reading in these verses, in fact, they're startling statements. Verse 10 Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Verse 11. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you. falsely for my sake. Being blessed and persecuted do not seem to go together logically, do they? Persecution and doing what's right do not seem like they should go together. I think a lot of us, I mean I grew up in a in a Christian context where my parents taught me right and wrong, they taught me in this house when you do the right thing, there are blessings that flow from that. When you do the wrong thing, there are consequences that flow from those decisions. I went to a Christian school And the Christian school context, one of the things that was constantly emphasized is we want to do the right thing, and God's blessings come to those who do the right thing. And we're going to uh talk about those who show exemplary character and we want to make sure that we are wise and godly people. And so in those contexts In the church context, in the home context, in the school context, we were constantly having this principle reinforced in our lives. that when you do right, there are blessings that flow from that. When you do wrong, there are negative consequences. And by the way, as a general principle, in fact, that is true. But there's a caveat to this. And we're going to dig into this a little bit tonight. It's like the difference between reading the book of Proverbs and the Book of Ecclesiastes. The book of Proverbs talks about all these blessings that flow from wisdom. But the question is this: what happens when you do right and you live in a very corrupt society? Like let's look at an example like Lot. Lot is living in Sodom. And Lot's righteous living in Sodom, what did that ultimately lead to? Well, it led to a lot of problems. For Lot. Or we look at the early church. We look at the Apostle Paul. He's preaching the gospel. He's taking the gospel all over the Roman world. And what happens to the Apostle Paul? Was he received in every city? The answer is. No, he was persecuted. He was stoned to death. Terrible things happened to him. We look at all of the apostles, and we will see that every single one of the apostles, save one, died a martyr's death. We read the stories of England during the reign of Bloody Mary, and we talk about the terrible things that Christians experienced during that time period. And we read things like Fox 's Book of Martyrs. We talk about William Tyndale and the sacrifices that he ha that he made so that the Bible could actually be translated into the native tongue, English speaking, from the original languages. And what we see is many examples of people who did the right thing and they suffered for it. Verse 11, we see that being blessed and being reviled, they don't seem to go together, but Jesus puts them together in these verses. And that word reviled means that people despise you, they hate you, they talk evil about you behind your back. Being the object of false accusations while doing what is right does not seem to go together. But guess what? There are times that they do. And Jesus talks about this, and he says that if you are persecuted for righteousness' sake, or because of your association with Christ And people revile you and they hate you and they speak evil of you, you should actually view yourself as a blessed person. That's where we're going in these studies. But tonight I want us to focus in on a false teaching that I think has really gripped the church at large, in particular the Western Church, and it has gone all over the world, and we're going to talk about that tonight because I think It is something that has to be addressed when we're reading these verses. But the statements that Jesus makes in verses 10 and 11 are not isolative statements. We see similar things, Romans 8. 7. The carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. They that are in the flesh cannot please God. John fifteen eighteen. If the world hates you, you know that it hated me before it hated you. First John 3. 11 This is the message that you've heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of the wicked one and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. We know we pass from death to life because we love the brethren. And the world hates us. That's really what he's saying. So the second thing we're going to see tonight is that we have to be very discerning about this dangerous false teaching that has crept into the church in our time. There are two texts of scripture I want to invite you to turn to, and I want us to just examine a couple of details, and then I want us to see what they have to say about this false teaching that is very prevalent in the church. I don't mean our church, but in the church at large. The first text is 2 Peter 2. So please turn there with me. 2 Peter 2, verse 1. Here's what it says. There were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you. Did you catch that? He's saying, you know, if you read the Old Testament, you're going to see that not everybody that was a prophet, supposedly, was a true prophet of God. There were some prophets in those days who were false prophets and they sent deceiving words out to my people. In the same way that this was a problem in those days, there are going to be false teachers who will privily bring in Damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring into themselves swift destruction. Many shall follow their pernicious ways, by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. Through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you, whose judgment now is of long time, lingereth not, their damnation slumbereth not Now, there's a lot that I could say about the verses that I just read, but I want to draw your attention to four statements that were made in these verses. The first one is in verse 1. It says, There were and there shall be. This is not a new problem. The things that I'm going to talk about in just a minute are not new to Christianity. These kinds of infiltration of false teachings are things that have been a regular problem when it comes to Christianity. The second statement is found in verse 2. It says that they are among you. Now, the idea is that these are enemies of the truth who will come from within the church. Probably the best way to put that is this. The kind of false teachers that Peter is talking about in 2 Peter chapter 2 are false teachers who call themselves Christians. Not only do they call themselves Christians, I will say that they are some of the most published and most distributed Christian teachers in America today. Some of those popular books that you can find in Christian bookstores in this county are written by people who actually would fall into this very false teaching category. The third statement is this: Many shall follow their pernicious ways. That's a good word right there. These false teachers will be popular and deceive large numbers of people. And one of the reasons I'm passionate about this is because as the missionary, I saw the effects of this kind of false teaching. Very destructive, very hurtful to true Christians, and very destructive to those who are not yet Christians and are coming in contact with the gospel, but they already believe that they're Christians. And they do not have the ability to read the Bible and look at it objectively the way that the average person who's never come in contact with this kind of false teaching would ever experience. The fourth statement. Through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you. That's an amazing statement. I'm going to read again. Through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you. And I put it this way, their success will ultimately expose and exploit people's. Greed. Why is the kind of false teaching that I'm going to mention in just a moment? Why is it so seductive? It's because people are by nature greedy. Both those who give these kinds of teachings and those who embrace these kinds of teachings. You might say that there is a symbiotic relationship that we could say is a parasitic symbiotic relationship between the false teacher and those who are embracing the false teaching. The second passage I want to draw your attention to is 1 Timothy 6, verses 3 to 11. And what you're going to see is that there's a lot of overlap between the things that are stated and 2 Timothy or 2nd 1 Timothy 6 and 2 Peter chapter 2. This is what Paul writes. If any man teach otherwise , That would be contrary to what Paul has talked about, sound doctrine that is focused on the person of Christ, the work of Christ, redemption, and consents not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ. And to the doctrine which is according to godliness, he is proud, knowing nothing, doting about questions and strives of words, whereof comes envy, strife, railing, evil surmisings. Perverse disputes of men of corrupt minds, destined hear the truth, and I love this statement. Supposing that gain is godliness. That statement is a very important one for us to understand. They suppose that gain is godliness. He says, From such withdraw thyself. But godliness with contentment, very important word, is great gain. We brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out. Having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and hurtful lusts which drown men in perdition. The love of money is the root of all evil, which while some coveted after have erred from the faith, piercing themselves through with many sorrows. Thou men of God, flee these things, follow after righteousness, galliness, faith, love, patience, and meekness. Now, I need to explain some very important statements in that text of Scripture. Because these statements that we find in 1 Timothy and in 2 Peter, if you put them side by side, you'll say, you know what? Peter is talking about the same kind of false teaching that Paul is talking about. And people that are duped by this false teaching have the exact same problem. And the thing that is motivating these false teachers to dupe these people and to use religion and Christianity as a means to make people healthy and wealthy and prosperous That is the same motivation. That's what we're going to see. So the first statement, the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, the doctrine which is according to godliness. Submission to Christ's authority produces genuine godliness. You can almost judge the kind of teaching that's going on in the church by what it produces in the lives of the people. In fact, Jesus makes the statement. You can judge a teacher by the fruits that follow. You look at the long-term effects of the teaching of a certain group of people, and you know what you'll recognize? That's true because you know what it does? It produces humility and it produces godliness and it it is something that is in accordance with the true gospel message. And then you look at the other side and you go That produces greed and rivalry and contention, and the gospel has nothing to do with this message, and you see the end result is drastically different. Submission to Christ's authority produces real godliness Verse 4. He is proud knowing nothing. Establishing her own authority rather than submitting to Christ's authority is rooted in pride. Verse 5. This is destitute of the truth. Supposing that gain is godliness, it believes that godliness is a way to receive prosperity. Another way to put it is I want God to give me stuff. I want God to give me a new car. I want God to give me a new house. I want God to give me a pay raise. I want God to help me to prosper and have good health and all those things. And so I believe that somehow I can use religion and Christianity to give me the things that my soul lusts for. Do you realize that that's what idolaters actually ultimately do? They view their gods as a means to get gain. There are a lot of people that view God as just another one of the gods to give them what they want. Genuine Christianity calls us to be content Not greedy. Verses 6 through 8, godliness with contentment is great gain. We brought nothing into this world. It is certain we can carry nothing out. Having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. Verses 9 and 10, they that will be rich, and that word means that they desire it, they crave it, it's their passion. They want money. There's nothing wrong with being prosperous. There is something wrong with your being captured by prosperity. And that's what he means by they will be rich. It is their passion, it is their consuming lust. They want to be rich. They fall into temptation, a snare, many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction. The love of money is the root of all evil. And then verse 11 he says, flee these things and follow after righteousness and godliness. These two texts are describing what we call prosperity theology. And so my third statement is this. We need to understand that prosperity theology is a particularly debilitating kind of false doctrine. I would assume that most of you have heard of the statement prosperity theology. Okay? But prosperity theology is something that we need to define. And I want you to see how this definition really does fit very well, not with just what is being taught in many churches. but what is actually being described in the Peter and in the Timothy passages. Here is my definition. It's actually a little long. The false teaching that God guarantees good health and material prosperity to all Christians who will follow a simple ritualistic pattern established by the false teacher. These rituals generally follow a pattern of positive thoughts or declarations that accompany sowing seeds through financial donations that will reap an exponential harvest of material success. Have you ever heard of that kind of teaching? Let me see it again. The false teaching that God guarantees good health and material prosperity to all Christians who will follow a simple ritualistic pattern established by the false teacher These rituals generally follow a pattern of positive thoughts or declarations that accompany sowing seeds through financial donations that will reap an exponential harvest of material success. So sad that Paul never figured this out. He had his head cut off as a martyr. He never understood the prosperity theology. I know I'm being a little facetious. It's really unfortunate that Peter didn't understand this. He he was crucified upside down. It's really unfortunate that William Tyndale didn't know this, or some of the people during that that time period who were burned at the stake and they took the ashes and threw them in the river because They so despised these people. Folks, when we read the Bible very carefully, what we will learn is that God does not promise us financial and material success. What he does promise us is a real and vibrant relationship with him. And that is so very, very important. If the gospel was about making you wealthy, then all of America is Christian. And if the gospel is about saving you from eternal destruction and the consequence of your sin, then America is in big This teaching is built on sometimes very subtle misinterpretations of Scripture. In Hebrews chapter 5 verse 14, it tells us that strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age. And this statement is very important. Even those who by reason of use have exercised their senses to discern both good and evil. Very important statement. By reason of use. They have exercised their senses to discern good and evil. When we open up our Bibles, part of the maturity that we demonstrate is our ability to rightly divide the word of truth. Part of our maturity is that when we hear preaching and teaching that is sound doctrine, it resonates with us. And when we hear teaching that is not sound doctrine, it resonates with We go, something's not right there. And we actually have the ability to pick up on the fact that that preacher has used the sleight of hand, they've taken a text of scripture. lifted it out of its context, and they've misused it and they've abused it and they've applied it in a way that it was never intended to be applied. 2 Peter 316 He says in all his epistles, speaking of Paul, he speaks of these things in which are some things hard to be understood. Which they that are unlearned and unstable rest. And that means they take it and they twist it as they do all the other scriptures under their own destruction. You realize that if a person takes the Bible and they're very haphazard with the way that they apply it and they preach it and they teach it, they can teach you almost anything. They can teach you almost anything. You know, just like a person can get up and give a speech and you hear the whole thing. I love C-SPAN because C-SPAN, you get the whole story. You hear all the back and forth, you know what they said, but then when you listen to it on the radio, you go, I mean I know he said that, but he said a whole lot more than what they just said in that clip. I think it kind of misrepresents what he actually was saying. I remember, I won't get into all the specifics of it, but I remember there was a very hot moment there in the Congress where There were a lot of things being stated out of context. And I listened to C-SPAN and I heard like everything that was going on in those contexts. And then I listened to the news reports and I said, wow. You get in the conservative spin, you're getting the liberal spin. I want the facts as they really are. We know that people do this in the political world, but you realize people do it in the Bible? They take the Bible and they take a little statement and they apply it in a way it was never intended to be applied. And so their teaching is built on sometimes very subtle misrepresentations of Scripture. This theological pattern of teaching is built on a misunderstanding of lots and lots of scriptures. For instance, the Proverbs are a great example of this. For instance, in Proverbs 15:1, it says, A soft answer turneth away wrath. Grievous words stir up anger. Have you ever had a person that you were in conflict with and you spoke softly to them and it dissolved the issue? Anybody had a situation like that? I have many, many times You ever had a situation just like that and you respond very gently back and it actually does not improve the situation at all? I have too. So the question is this, does the proverb stand? The answer is it is yeah of course it stands. It's not an absolute statement about every single situation. This is a general observation. When there is contention and you speak softly, guess what? Many times people respond the right way. You certainly aren't throwing more wood on the fire, making things worse. But if somebody's cold and callous and hard-headed, guess what? They're going to respond however they want to. Proverbs 10:4, He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand. The hand of the diligent maketh rich. And we know for a fact that people who work hard they excel in life. But I lived. In Africa, and I watched people who are very hardworking that made five bucks a week. They didn't get very wealthy and very rich. The fact is that a person who just sits there on their hands and doesn't do anything, they're not going to be successful in life. That's absolutely true. But again, this is not an absolute statement about every single scenario in life. Or Proverbs 22, 29, seeest thou a man diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings, he shall not stand before mean men. The idea is people that are obscure. So a person who is diligent, a person who works hard, that's the person that excels. We understand the proverb. But does that mean that every single person that is diligent in their work is going to stand up in front of the President of the United States? Or is he going to have the opportunity to stay in the presence of a king? And the answer is, well no. We understand these are general observations of life. And if we apply them the way that they're intended to be used, we don't have any problem But that's not the way they're always used. I'll give you another example. Sometimes people will misapply Old Testament text regarding the Mosaic Covenant. Isaiah 54, 17. No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper. Every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment, thou shalt condemn. I remember when we lived in Ghana seeing people's taxis. This is this is on the back of their taxi. No weapon. And I was like, what is that? And then I realized, oh, this is Isaiah 54, 17. And it was almost like if I put this on my car then nobody can touch me. I'm an invincible person. Well that statement has a context, and that context is a covenant between God and the nation of Israel. And there are lots and lots of implications that are connected back to that. It's not just this general statement that any person at any time can apply and say, I'll just I'll put it on my windshield and nobody can touch me now. Yeah, that's the way it'll be preached in some church contexts. Deuteronomy 30, verse 19. I call heaven and earth to record this day Against you that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Choose life, thou and thy seed may live. We talk about the Mosaic Law. There are some very specific things that are stated. Statements about the ability to have children, statements about prosperity, statements about triumphing over their enemies, Statements about famine, statements about prosperous uh vineyards and fig trees and all those various things And one of the things that we have to recognize, and we're looking at a passage like Deuteronomy 30, is that the context is that the nation of Israel was in covenant with God. And so a passage like this, when it comes to us applying it, we have to be very cautious and recognize we're not Israelites. We're not under the Mosaic Law, we don't have these promises that they had. We see a lot about God's character and ways, and there is an appropriate way to preach and teach a passage like this one. But it can be very easily misrepresented. One of the most dangerous examples is how I've heard Isaiah 53, 5 taught. It says, he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. I have a question. When he says we are healed, do you think that Isaiah is thinking that someone who has leprosy, because of the Messiah coming and dying on the cross That that person is going to no longer have a leprosy. Is that what he's thinking? Or a person that has a cold like me, you know, for the last week and a half. I just can't take this thing. Like, my problem is that I'm not claiming Isaiah 53, 5, because by his strikes I'm healed, right? Is he talking about a physical healing in this text? He's talking about being wounded for our transgressions, bruised for our iniquities, the chastisement of our peace was on him. We look at the Lord laying on him the iniquity of us all. Everything about this entire context is our sin, God's justice. forgiveness, reconciliation. And so when he talks about us being healed, he's not talking about a physical healing here. Yet many people will misrepresent and present it in such a way. A misrepresentation of these texts can be extremely, extremely destructive. I'm going to give you an example of one that I heard in a missions conference that I was presenting in many, many years ago. We all know Galatians 6, 7 and 9. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall also reap. He that soweth to his flesh shall the flesh reap corruption. He that soweth to the spirit shall the spirit reap life everlasting. Let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Now, in the context of this passage, I think it's very obvious what he means by sowing and reaping. He's talking about a person who is sowing to his flesh, and the end result of sowing to your flesh is going to be what? Corruption. He talks about a person who shows to the Spirit, and there's going to be a bountiful harvest that flows from that. Yeah, let me tell you how it was applied at a missions conference that I was at many, many years ago. This brother got up and he said, he said, there's a law of sowing and reaping in the world. And some of you need to get behind missions And one of the ways you get behind missions is you put your money, and you know what that money is? That money is a seed. That's a seed that you're planting for the kingdom of God. And if you sow a seed, guess what? You're going to reap a harvest back. He said, I I've experienced this personally. I remember one time I had a pair of shoes and I said, you know, I should probably give those shoes away to somebody that needs them. And you know what happened when I gave the shoes away? Guess what? God gave me shoes back. Better than the ones that I gave out. All sowing and reaping. He said, but I didn't stop the shoes. He says, one day, I had a car. He said, that's all a person I need. I said, you know, I don't need this car anymore. So I gave him my car, and guess what? Somebody gave me a car that's even bigger and better than the one that happened before. And folks, this is at an independent Baptist Church mission's conference that I was in. Okay It was very embarrassing. He went so far as to talk about giving away his house. I'm not joking, and I'm not exaggerating. My wife is right back there and she can tell you it's true. This was fully stated. There's a reason I bring this up. I'm bringing it up because this is not just an out there problem. There are lots and lots of people who misuse the Bible And this area of prosperity theology is potentially debilitating for people. It's built on an unorthodox approach to interpreting the scripture. It creates an enslaving dependence. on those who teach the word and establish themselves as authorities. Hey, you know what? If if your pastor gets up and he preaches the word week in and week out, You sit there in your seat and you see the words and you see the context and you walk out and you go, you know what? That makes sense. That's exactly what it's saying. But if your pastor is always lifting these strange little statements out, and nobody in the room can see it but the guy who's teaching it, but everybody's accepting it hook, line, and sink, you know what that does? That takes people's ability to study the Bible for themselves and it just cuts it off. And you know what it does? It makes them 100% dependent on that guy. Because they can't see what he sees because he doesn't see it. He makes it up. That's just the honest truth. Second, it can create pride and a lack of vigilance when we experience prosperity. It's like a person who you go up to and you say, you know what? Do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? They say, I'm good. And you say, Well, how do you know that? Look at the house I live in. Look at the car I drive. Look at my family. God's blessed me. I must be his child. And you go, well The car you drive, the house you live in, how much money is in your bank account, the number of kids you have, those things don't have anything to do with you being a Christian. It's what you do with the gospel. There's people who are Christians that have everything that you have in war. And there's people who are genuine Christians who have nothing. Guess what That kind of teaching can cause a person who is thriving materially to become very proud and very self-centered, and even to justify their self-righteousness. It can produce a discouragement and a morbid introspection when life becomes painful. Now, I actually think this is where a lot of us end up sometimes You ever gotten bad news of the doctor and all of a sudden in the back of your mind you're like, I wonder what I did that caused God to give me this. I know for a fact we think this way sometimes. I mean, does is that how God works? Like, oh well, you know, you you messed up here, so I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm gonna just throw cancer away because I want to make your life a miserable. That's not the way God works. works. He doesn't do that. Yet when people embrace this prosperity theology thinking, there's a hook on the front side and there's a hook on the other side. It can create distrust and bitterness against God when we experience injustice from others that we conflate with injustice from Him. I mean, what's amazing about this Matthew 5 passage is he says when you're persecuted for righteousness' sake, you're blessed. When you are reviled, you are blessed. When they speak evil against you falsely for my sake, you are blessed. Yet when someone embraces a prosperity theology mindset, in their mind they say, I'm receiving injustice at the hand of God. He's wrong to allow me to face what I'm facing. It creates an enslaving ritualistic view of the Christian life that drives us to an unsustainable list of sacrifices that keeps us in God's good graces. Now, some of those things that I've mentioned, I know that we as Christians who do not embrace this theology, we actually in our practice live as if we do sometimes. And so it's extremely important that we recognize the danger of this. The last thing I'm going to say is this. The text in front of us shows us we've got to be prepared for the potential for great hardship in life. The character of a vibrant Christian lends itself to peace and prosperity. People who are poor in spirit, mourn over their sin, meek, merciful. Pure in heart, peacemakers, these are the kinds of people you can get along with in life. Why is that? Well, because when they wrong you, they admit it When there's something between you, guess what? They come to address the issue. When you're the one who is the troublemaker and you're the stinker, they're patient with you and they're kind towards you. And when there's a problem between two people, they're the ones that initiate trying to resolve the issue. If there's anybody in the world that should get along with people, it's people who have these character qualities. Yet in a fallen world there's other potential possible outcomes. Proverbs 29, see, when the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice. When the wicked bear rule, the people what? They mourn. Psalm 73. I was envious at the foolish when I saw the prosperity of the wicked. There are no bands in their death, their strength is firm. They're not in trouble as other men. Therefore pride compassed them about as a chain. Their eyes stand out with fatness. They have more than heart could wish. They are corrupt and speak wickedly considering oppression. They speak loft loftily. Asaf saw that and he said, I can hardly bear witnessing this. Psalm 38, my enemies are lively, strong. They that hate me wrongfully are multiplied. They also render evil for good. They are my adversaries. I follow the things that are good. Forsake me not, O Lord God. Be not far from me. Do you see how they're talking? These are godly people. These are people who are doing what's right, yet they're struggling with the presence of evil and how evil people have actually persecuted and harmed them. I'll give you one other example, Romans 12. Be of the same mind to one another, mind not high things, condescend to men in lowest state, be not wise in your own conceits, recompense to no man evil for evil, provide things honest in the sight of men. This next statement is very important. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. You know what that statement tells me? You could do things right 100% on your side and still have problems between you and some people That's what it means. I'm sure there's some people in here that you you don't like knowing that somebody dislikes you or that somebody has an issue with you. And I mean as a pastor, I don't enjoy that. Okay? I've had a few enemies over my lifetime. Hard to believe, I know. This this glowing personality right here has had enemies. It's unbelievable. Well, maybe maybe some of it was justifiable. I don't know. But the truth is this, you can do the right thing and still have people hate you. Still have people despise you. Still have people plotting behind the scenes to ruin your life. Those things are possible. And so the point of the text in front of us is to say, listen, you've got to be prepared. If you live like Christ and the world hates him, guess what? You're going to face it sometime. The same kind of hatred, the same kind of difficulties. Not everybody in the world values the lives of other people. They don't value the truth. They don't fear God's authority. Many people live as if This is all there is. They live filled with pride and greed. They plot to exploit others. We would be absolutely naive to go through life believing. That what Jesus talks about in Matthew 5, 10 to 12 is not possible. It is. And the fact is, one day we may very well face these things. And so part of what we're looking at this evening is a very gentle encouragement to the Christian that you may very well face tremendous hardship for your association with Christ. Christ. And when it happens, you're still blessed. That's what he's saying. There's a lot more I think I need to say about this on another night, but I'll conclude with this final thought. We need to be a discerning people. We need to develop real strength. One of my jobs as a pastor is to teach you the truth so that when you go through hard times, you're not just like slammed and laid out on the floor and you don't know what to do. But you've actually had a framework that has strengthened you and built you so that when you walk through these things, you rely on the grace of God and you're strengthened by his mind in the inner man. And so part of my job as a pastor is to help prepare you for those things. Like a coach says, I know you got a competition, you need to get ready, and he trains you and he pushes you through all these difficulties and you step out out there on the mat, you step out there on the court, you step out there on the field. And you're ready because you have been trained well, we need to develop strength and discernment. We need to be prepared for what we may face as the society around us becomes increasingly secondary. And so I remind you again of the texts in front of us. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice, be exceeding glad. Great is your reward in heaven. So persecuted they, the prophets who were before you. Let's bow for prayer. Father in heaven, I pray that you'll take the word of God The things that we looked at this evening, use them to strengthen and encourage us as your people. May someone who's in the midst of difficulty be strengthened by this text. May all of us who will one day encounter challenges be strengthened by this text I pray that you will help us to be a discerning, strengthened people who are prepared when our day comes. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.