Okay, we're in Proverbs chapter 1 this evening, and I want to remind you a little bit about what we talked about last week, and then this week we're going to kind of dig into part number two. of this issue of preparing our children for life, some special practical considerations for this issue. And what I'm going to do today is I'm not necessarily going to say Here are the ten different things you're supposed to do under this particular topic. What I really want to do is I want to put in front of you some questions that you need to think about And then I want to encourage you to go home and say, okay, how do we practically work this out in our family? How do we develop these particular issues in our children? Maybe we need to evaluate the way that we're giving them more than than we should. Maybe we need to make them work a little bit for what they're doing. Maybe we need to look at how we're doing our education or how involved we're in our children's education. Maybe we need to incorporate some areas where there are just some practical skills that dad deals with our son with or I deal with my daughter. And um there's just a lot of different things that maybe this will kind of stir up your thinking on that. And it's not just for our parents. The fact is that on these issues Within a church context, there is help that can come from others who are not necessarily raising their own children. For instance, if we were to talk about something like how to build something. Or we were to talk about how to do some maintenance type work or how to fix a car and some of those issues. I mean, those are things that there are men in our church that maybe you don't have children, your children are already grown. You have a lot of insight, a lot of skills in those areas. And you can be extremely helpful. Come alongside some of our young men, these issues. So I'm not here to tell you Exactly what you're supposed to do on some of these issues. It's to put some ideas to get you thinking so that you can sit down and work through these issues. So we're going to start with some foundations. Proverbs chapter 1, verse number 1. Here's what it says. The Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, king of Israel, to know wisdom and instruction, to perceive the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment and equity. To give subtlety to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion, a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels. to understand a proverb in the interpretation of the words of the wise and their dark sayings. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. My son, hear the instruction of thy father. Forsake not the law of thy mother. They shall be grace unto thy head and chains unto thy head. Now if you can remember, last week we talked about the fact that God's blessings generally speaking, come through means. So what I mean by that is God doesn't just just zap us with blessing. A lot of the blessings that we enjoy in life are a direct result of the decisions that we make. You could say the law of sowing and reaping. If you sow to the flesh, you'll reap what? Corruption. If you sow to the spirit, you'll receive what? Life everlasting. Okay? And it's not talking about how you get saved. He's talking about a life that is full and a life that is rich. He's talking to believers there. The idea is that what you plant, eventually you're going to reap a harvest. And so if we sow wisely There are going to be blessings that come as a result downstream of that. If we sow foolishly, well then we're going to have a lot of complications that we're going to have to deal with. And that's not to say that God's grace can't intervene in these situations. Or that God doesn't have the ability to really bless us in spite of our failures and in spite of our poor decisions. He most certainly does do that. But as a general rule, blessing comes through the means of wisdom. And so we saw in Psalm chapter or Psalm 1, 1 through 3, that there were some very specific things that the blessed man does and that he doesn't do. He does not walk in the counsel of the ungodly, rather he delights in the law of the Lord, and he meditates in his law day and night. And so we talked about those things. We also work through what wisdom and justice and judgment and equity and discretion, what all of those things mean, and then we look at some examples of Individuals who actually were tremendous examples of faithfulness who God blessed in spite of very difficult circumstances. We talked about Joseph We talked about David. We talked about Daniel. These were three men who overcame tremendous obstacles, and God really, really blessed them. And and really he blessed them in spite of the frailties of the homes that they grew up in. All of those uh well at least two of those men, we know that they had some complications in their life, especially for Joseph in his growing up years So what I'd like to do is I'd kind of like to transition from those foundational things that we talked about last week, and I'd like us to get into some basic Skill sets that I think are important for us to prayerfully ask the Lord to help us to see developed in our children. I want to begin first of all with talking about our sons. And then we're going to move from our sons to our daughters, because the way that we work with our boys and the way that we work with our girls. There's going to be overlap and there are going to be a lot of similarities, but there's also a lot of distinction. God does not call men and women to the same roles in the family. Okay? He created the distinction, male and female, different for a reason. And so we recognize that biblically the way that we prepare our children will be different depending on the kind of role that God has assigned to them in the family. So first of all, I want to mention this Our sons need to be prepared to be the heads of households. That has a lot to do with the kind of work that we encourage them to do when they're young. The kind of work we encourage them to prepare for in their futures. The kinds of skills that we want them to develop. We want our boys to be men who can head a household wisely Does not happen accidentally. I mean it will in some cases, all right? People get married, they have children, they're going to be the head of a household, and they may really stumble through the process. We want to prepare our children very well. So the first thing I want to address is the issue of work ethic. Our job as parents is to teach our kids how to work. Not to protect them from work, not to make them afraid of work, not to teach them to complain while they're expected to work. Not to teach them how to watch others work. It's to teach them how to work. And one of the best ways we do it is we show them And then we bring them alongside with us. There are lots and lots of fathers who are very hard workers, but their children don't learn how to work because they never show them and say, come with me. I I don't know about you, but it's really easy to get things done by yourself sometimes than it is to have, you know, a little helper that's kind of like kind of making things a little bit harder on the way. But but frankly, which one is better for our son? Or for our children is not to just to watch dad work, but it's to actually work with dad so that it's a project that's being done together. The Bible has a lot to say about work. Proverbs chapter ten, verse number four. He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand, but the hand of the diligent maketh rich. I guess unless the government just gives people money for doing nothing. But he says if you work and you're diligent, you'll become rich. If you are slack, that means you're lazy, you don't work with your hands, you're going to become poor. That's a general rule. I understand that there are weird situations that happen, but as a general rule, Solomon's saying Hard workers prosper. People who are lazy don't. Proverbs 12, 24, the hand of the diligent shall bear rule, and the slothful shall be under tribute. Well the idea is that a person who works hard is the kind of person that rises to a position of oversight. The kind of oversight he's talking about in this verse and the kind of oversight that we would have in a a general working environment is actually a little bit different here. Okay, we don't pay tribute to our bosses. But the idea is that a diligent person rises to a position through their diligence, through their work ethic, so that they actually manage. Proverbs twelve twenty-seven The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting. The substance of a diligent man is precious. I remember my mother quoting this verse to me when I would go catch fish, and then it would be sitting on the dock in a bucket and she's like, Did you clean your fish yet? I'll be like, oh no, I'm not gonna do that. She's like, oh yes you will. You need to clean that fish, okay? Well the idea is that when you work for something and you see the benefit of it and then you just let it rot in the the field or you let it rot in a bucket, you do not value the nature of that work. And so we say that's what lazy people do A person who is diligent recognizes that the reward of the hunting trip and the reward of the fishing trip and the reward of the farming or whatever it is is something that has value You see how much Proverbs talks about this issue. Proverbs 13:4. The soul of the sluggard desireth and hath nothing, the soul of the diligent shall be made fat. Fat is another way of saying prosperous. It's the person who has what they need, not the person who's starving. And so what he says is that a person that's lazy wants stuff, but they're not willing to do the work to get stuff. Proverbs 21, 5, the thought of the diligent tend only to Plenteousness, but everyone that is hasty only to want. And so the idea is that he talks about someone learning how part of your work is planning. It's making sure that you prepare well for the work that you're doing. You don't just rush out and do something without thinking it through, and that's another aspect of work. And then I'll give you a final example, Proverbs 22, 29. Seest thou a man that is diligent in his business? He shall stand before kings He shall not stand before mean men. Now that old English word mean man doesn't mean a cruel person. But this is a person who is not a person of means. Okay, that's what he means by that. And so he's saying that a person who works hard, a person who He's diligent. That's the kind of person that ends up rising to a level where they interact with influential people. That's exactly what happened to Joseph. That's exactly what happened to Daniel. That's exactly what happened to David. Every single one of these proverbs, people like Joseph and David and Daniel, no matter the limitations that they experienced, Someone ends up in prison. The king wants to kill them because he is envious of them. This is a person who's been uprooted from his homeland. All of them they demonstrated at a very young age in their early teen years That they had good work ethics. This is something we need to instill in our children. There's no excuse for us as parents to allow our children to be lazy. Okay? No excuse. That means when it comes to their schoolwork, don't let them be lazy. That means when it comes to doing housework, don't let them be lazy. That means give them work that's going to get dirt under their fingernails, all right? Give give them the kind of work that will prepare them for life. Because the truth is when you live in a house things break. Who br who who fixes the stuff that breaks? Somebody in the house or you pay somebody to do it. How do you have the money to pay them to do it? Well you gotta work so you have the money to do that If you're going to keep your house clean, those are all skills that develop when we're children. When we're young, when we're adolescents, when we're young adults, we need to instill these things In our kids. So let me give you a couple of examples of what I mean by hard work. Dependability. When you ask, should I say, when you assign a responsibility to your child , Make sure that they follow through with it. Now, it's not just that they started the task. There's sometimes we we'll have someone get assigned a task and they won't start it. They'll complain and I'm tired and I'm weary and I can't do this. No, the fact is that they can't. And I'm not saying we should be unreasonable in our expectations. We need to recognize what a person of that age and maturity can and can't do. So we do need to be reasonable on these things. But we assign them a task, a task that that they should be able to accomplish. And we expect them to start it. We expect them to work through it. And we expect them to finish it. And by the way, they may ask you. for help along the way. And if they ask you for help, well then then step in and help them. But that's what dependability is. If your child at 14 or 16 16 or 17 years of age does not learn that when they're assigned a task, a duty, a responsibility, that they need to start it, they need to ask questions to get the help, they need to finish And they complete the task, what's going to happen is they're going to go into the workforce and somebody's going to say, I need you to do this, and they're going to come back two hours later and say, hey, are you done? And they're going to be like, uh And they're gonna do that a couple of times and eventually they won't assign them hours anymore. Eventually they're gonna say, you know what? I don't really need you to come to work today. And they're going to be going and looking for another job. And it's going to happen over and over and over again until they finally learn dependability matters. That is a work ethic issue. Perseverance. When I say perseverance, work involves labor. You know, we get tired. We get mentally tired. We get physically tired. Our body sometimes aches. There are lots and lots of things that are easy to excuse not following through. And this isn't just physical work. You know, a lot of times they think, oh, you know, digging ditches, cutting grass, weeding, uh painting a house, doing those kinds of things. of duties. But the fact is that there's a lot of mental energy that goes into planning and working with our brains too. Perseverance is important. Teach your children not to be quitters. The reason that my mother had me play baseball when I was a third grader was because I was not one that was willing to persevere through things. And and the truth is that there there are things that sometimes we look at our kids and we'll say, you know what? I see this as a weakness. I'm not going to be harsh and condescending toward my child. Part of the reasons the weakness is is because I've not really dedicated the time and energy to this issue. And so I'm going to start conscientiously giving them tasks and I will expect them to work through them And I'm going to help them through that so that they develop those skills. Perseverance. Problem solving. What I mean by problem solving is we encounter problems all the time in life. It doesn't matter what you do, you're going to encounter problems. Some people are the kind of people that when they encounter a problem, they quit. And others are the kind of people that when they encounter a problem they say, how can I figure this out? Now, which of those two people are the ones that you want to have working for you? Which of those two people are the ones that you're going to want to be working with? Which of those people do you want to be the head of the household? Well, the one who is willing to take on the task. The fact is that our society desperately needs people that have the ability to problem-solve They're willing to rise. And by the way, some of us are more naturally inclined to this than others. And I understand that. But part of developing a work ethic is learning how to solve problems. And some of that is you sit down with your son, you sit down with your daughter, and you say, Oh no, we've encountered this problem. How do you think we should address this issue? We had an example of this just the other day. My son is he's cutting grass to earn money to go to camp this summer. And he He was cutting the grass and all of a sudden he said, Daddy, I have a problem with the lawnmower. There's a bolt missing. And when I say a bolt missing, it was not possible to use a lawnmower anymore. So I said, okay, we have a problem. What are we going to do? And so we sat down, we talked about it. I said, all right, let's load up the lawnmower. We're gonna have to find the parts. And I said, we don't have the parts available in the lawn mower our house that are exactly gonna fit this, but we can rig it so that we can finish the job. Okay. Problem solving right here. And uh great engineering. We can rig it and uh and then we'll go and we'll fix it properly down the road. Problem solving. Maybe you'll see that as a bad example because I should teach them to do it the right way. But the idea is that we learn how to not quit when we encounter challenges. We learn how to figure it out. How to work with children. You say, oh, men don't have to learn that. Oh, yeah, they do. They do. They do. Our children need dad and mom, not just mom, or not just dad. They need mom and dad. Teach them how to work with their kids. kids, not their kids, but working with children. Learning how to sacrifice time and energy. You know when kids are playing with toys, that's my toy. Technically that's true. But perhaps we can learn how to share from time to time. Okay? Let's learn how to work out this issue. You know, sometimes with my kids they'll they'll be fighting about something and the kind of and that's going on. It's like, oh, timeout. Do you like doing what you're doing? Yes I do. You work it out amongst yourselves or you're gonna have to stop this all together. Who? It's amazing how it gets resolved sometimes. Sometimes it doesn't. And that means we're going to have to sit down, we're going to have to work it out. But the idea is that try to teach your kids how to do those This is part of a work ethic. Managing finances. I say managing finances, learn teach your children the value of work so that when they buy something They realize what it takes to be able to buy stuff. Don't just give them money so they can go and buy stuff. Teach them not to go into debt to buy something that they don't need just because they want it. Teach them very simple financial management skills. By the way, all these things are things that fall under the issue of work. Epic. And if we will do these things with our children, we prepare them for a lot of success down the road. And if we don't, we prepare them to be frustrated with us when they figure out, you know, I wish mom and dad would have taught me this. Or they just experience a lot of frustration in life. Move to another point. A well-rounded knowledge base. We need our children to be as well-rounded as possible. Now, I'm not saying we need to pick their careers. Oh, my son's going to be this. I have no aspiration that all my children go into some kind of ministry. Now if they decide that they want to go into mission, I'm gonna be thrilled about that. But don't expect that. If God puts it in their heart, then praise the Lord for that. If he puts in their heart to do something else, fine. As long as you're doing it to the glory of God, I'm very, very thankful for that. But what I do want is my children to be well-rounded, so whatever they desire to go into, they actually have the skill sets to be able to do that. Or that their desires will be shaped in a way that they're they're pursuing things that actually have value. You know how many young people go to college and go to into massive debt and have a degree that has zero value. Zero. If you want a valuable degree, go into engineering. Okay. Go into some of the some some of those kinds of fields. I'm not telling you you need to all go into engineering. But the idea is you want your children to be well-rounded. Teach them scripture, theology, teach them how to think biblically. The foundation for wisdom is a right view of God. Encourage them when it comes to things like math, science, history, music, art. Sports. You say, well, my my child doesn't like music. They just like sports. Or my children only like music. They don't like sports. Okay, I'm not suggesting that you introduce them to sports so they become a professional athlete or music so they become a professional musician. It's about well-rounding them so that they can actually interact with people in these in these fields of interest. We talk about science. They start realizing that you know this is God's creation. And they they learn about the order of creation and they actually appreciate the beauty of what is out there. We talk about mathematics. I mean You want to be good in uh on the financial side, you've got to do some level of mathematics. There are certain kinds of jobs that demand that. start a business down the road and maybe they're a plumber or they're an electrician or they're going to be cutting grass or they're going to go into welding. They want to start a business. They need to understand mathematics. These are parts of just having a well-rounded, balanced knowledge base so that when a person steps into a context They can rub shoulders with people and they can make connections and they can speak intelligibly with them in these areas. Most importantly, preparing them well to go into life and to provide for a family The third thing I'll mention. A sense of purpose that is rooted in God's design for the family. The reason that you want your children to be well-rounded and have a strong work ethic, I hope, is not because you aspire to see them become multimodal. Millionaires who have these massive corporations that they manage. I hope it's that you say I want them to be a faithful Christian wherever God places them. I want them to be a well-rounded Christian who can be used of God in any field or any context that he puts them in. And a major part of helping our children to be well-rounded is that they have a sense of purpose that is rooted in God's design for the family. Before God instituted government, he created family. Before we had nations and all things, he created the family. If we don't have family, guess what? We don't have people anymore. That's the way it works. God created us, male and female, so that as a general rule, we will get married, have children, and raise those children. And so it would make sense that when it comes to the raising of our children, that we teach them oriented around that. Now I'm not suggesting that we put this undue pressure on our children. Especially when they're going through different stages in life where, you know, I don't like girls and your boys they won't admit that and you're like I'm not Not sure if they do or they don't at the moment, but they they they they they might just be uncomfortable admitting like, oh yeah, I've noticed some of the girls in my class. Don't don't push that on them. Don't don't get all agitated. But in your mind, you sit down and you go, I want to raise my son to be the head of a household, a family. And I want Same thing with our daughters. Hebrew or Genesis chapter 2, verse 18, the Lord God said, It is not good for the man that he should be alone. I will make him and help me for him. Genesis 2 24. Therefore shall a man leave his father and mother, cleave to his wife, and they shall be one flesh. We really need to emphasize with our children a proper alignment of priorities. You are not a businessman first, or a plumber first, or an electrician first, or I'm not a pastor first We are Christians first. Okay? And from our position in Christ, everything else goes out. That is like the hub. That is the centerpiece. And from being a Christian, my next highest priority is not dad. And it's not pastor. It's husband. I have a higher prioritization of my relationship to my wife than I do to my children. If you have a higher relation, a higher priority to your kids, that hurts your marriage, which ultimately is going to hurt your children. So it's God first. Spouse, children, and then what I do for vocation. And then what I do for work. We need to be thinking about the what how this affects my family more than how it affects my career. We need to think about faithfulness, not influence and power and money. The truth is many, many people, they sacrifice their marriage so that they can get a position of influence. So they can get a position of power so they can make more money. They will sacrifice their children so that they can have a career. And it is so, so selfish. God gave you children so that you will raise them, not so that someone else will raise them. God gave you a spouse so that you will have a strong marriage. And so we need to make sure that we don't flip these things outside of it. The vast majority of people, they are a career person first And then well I'm worried about my kids because that's the future. And then, well, my spouse, I mean, yeah, that's important too. And then, oh yeah, I happen to be a Christian too. I'll I'll come to church every, you know a couple of weeks and show up and you know do my thing because I know I'm supposed to do that as a Christian. Completely flipped upside down. If I start with my position as a Christian And I move from there, and those priorities are proper line. It's amazing how there'll be health and vitality at every single level. Not perfection, but health and vitality at every single level. level. Very, very important. A fourth issue I want to mention is interpersonal skills that give them a favorable impression with others You know, we may teach our kids how to do math and science and history and give them a great education, but the bottom line is they need to learn how to get along with people By the way, how do people learn how to get along with people? In in the context where other people are. And where is the context that you most deal with people? Family. Okay? So brothers need to learn how to get along with their sisters, and sisters need to learn how to get along with their brothers, and brothers need to learn how to get along with Brothers and sisters need to learn to get along with their brothers and all those things The fact is that these interpersonal skills that are going to really be a detriment to them down the road if they have poor interpersonal skills. Or they're going to give them very favorable scenarios because they have developed in these areas. They develop between them and their parents and their siblings and in their schooling context and in the church context and all those other issues. Learning how to talk to people. Public speaking is not necessarily an expectation for everybody, but you know, it's good to try to learn these things. But one-on-one communication, being able to actually express what you are thinking. That's really important. You know, a lot of people can't do that. They don't have that ability. And part of it is because it was never developed. Learning how to look someone in the eye, shake their hands, yes, a seven-year-old can do that. A ten-year-old can do that. It expresses that you're taking this person seriously, respecting them, learning how to listen. You know how many people Do not listen to what other people have to say. They just talk and talk and talk and talk and talk. And once everybody's exhausted, everybody leaves and then they're kind of done. Because there's nobody listening. Well, conversation isn't one-sided. Conversation involves speaking, listening. It involves processing and speaking, you can say in response to what you heard. These are skills that actually have to be learned. learned. They they're learned at a dinner table. They're learned in the car. These are very challenging contexts for us. My wife gave me this look, yeah. You know, they're learned in those kinds of contexts. Restraining what you say. Just because you're thinking it doesn't mean you have to say it. Lots of people are laughing right now. But but but but learning to restrain ourselves. So we only say what needs to be said, what actually has the potential to be productive. These are interpersonal skills That are going to cause you to lose a job because you don't have them, or to gain a job because you do, or to keep a job, or or to no longer be on that job, or to rise to a position of opportunity that you would not be given. Or you understand. Interpersonal skills are virtual important. We as parents need to take charge in these areas and help our kids work through this. And this isn't something they develop on one day. All right, today we're going to learn how to do interpersonal skills. Son, daughter, sit down. Let me tell you how this works. All right. Whew, glad that's done. No, every single day you get up and you go through these things. And hopefully by the end of this process of growing up, they go out into the world and they can do this. Good grooming. Some people are better at this than others. But you need to do the best you can with what you have. It communicates the attitude that you're taking into the context. I remember the very first job that I interviewed for. It was a nightmare. It was a McDonald's interview, and I'm sure that that poor lady that interviewed me walked away and said That kid wants a job? Oh boy. You don't want that to be your child. Perhaps we've all been in this situation before. And maybe you have to do it once or twice before you realize not to do this. But we should teach Teach our children basic grooming. Brush your teeth, comb your hair, wear deodorant. Lots and lots of things we could say there. I'll just move on. Interpersonal skills that enhance your ability to maintain in work. Listening when people have disagreements. By the way, this is a great skill that we don't just need to learn when it comes to our working arrangements. It's also for Working with our children, working with our spouse, lots working with the neighbor, lots and lots of different areas. Listening when you disagree. Just because you disagree doesn't mean you need to just write somebody off. You know, figure out where they're coming from. You might disagree with where it ends, but you might appreciate how they got there. And by appreciating how they got there, you're able to work through the issue and you find a common ground on that issue. Learning how to engage in conversation by repeating what somebody says so they actually know that you heard them. Or maybe they can correct what you heard. Having the ability to humbly value other people. Men need to learn to communicate respect and grace in their interactions. I think by nature, uh men uh are much more aggressive and It's all about strength and power. The fact is, it should be about grace and humility and respect. Developing in these areas is going to make someone either a desirable spouse or an undesirable spouse. There are some people that the reason that they're single is because they probably shouldn't get married in the state that they're in. I'm serious. Because they're gonna get married and they're gonna make life really miserable for the the other person. But that doesn't mean that they should stay that way. Maybe they should recognize there's some things I need to change in my attitude. There's some things I need to change in my approach in certain areas of life. It'd be a lot better if our kids would learn that when they're twelve, thirteen, fourteen, they're not even thinking about getting married. So that when they step into that stage they go, you know what, I would like to find a spouse and that's a person I'm interested in, they'll give them the time of day. Because of the way they carry themselves, because of the kind of character that they demonstrate, because they listen, because they can actually converse. When they go to meet this girl's parents, they're not going, oh boy, what in the world do we have to deal with here? Or they're gonna go, man, I like that guy. He's sharp. I'll be really happy if he decides he wants to marry our daughter. Well, you know what? Where do those those things start? They start when you're young. Good healthy choices that increase longevity. We need to eat right. Healthy dietary choices. Exercising our bodies. Exercising our minds. Now listen, I'm not saying have a healthy diet because you just want to look really good and fit You want to be a good steward of the body that God gave you. You'd like to live a long time because you can actually bless other people's lives. You'd like to actually be able to move and work and do those things because you have a sound mind and a strong body and you're in good health. Now listen, there are aspects of our health that we absolutely cannot control. There are also aspects of our health that we absolutely can control. And there are some people that the fact is the last twenty years of their life were not very good and healthy. and strong because they made very, very poor choices forty years before. And there are some people who are vibrant and strong and sharp well into the end of their life. Now I understand there's a side to this that we can't control, but what we can control is being good stewards, being healthy in our choices, eating right, exercising our bodies, making sure our minds are sharp. You know, it's easy for us to just kind of push these things to the side and say, ah, what's the deal? But the fact is we're supposed to glorify God in our body and in our spirit, which are Him. his. And so we need to instill these things in our children. By the way, I I could go into this issue uh with the ladies as well, but I I'm pretty much gonna kind of parallel on the ladies' side all these same things. But there was one thing that I wanted to add on the ladies' side that I thought was unique. This is sad but it is true, because the pool of potential spouses is smaller than it used to be. We need to guide our daughter into two veins of spouse. One is they need to learn how to support themselves as a single woman, and one how they can contribute when they are married to their family without neglecting their duties as a wife and as a mother. There's a difference between saying, I'm going to be a career person, and if I get married, my husband's going to move with me, and he's He's gonna follow my career and he's gonna do what I wanna do. And if I have kids, I'll just go ahead and let them do their thing and I'll make sure that I can find people to raise them and teach them and tutor them them and all those things. There's a really big difference between that and saying, you know what, I want to be able to support myself if I never get married. Those are two totally different things. Okay? One is a career -oriented thing that says, I don't care about marriage and I don't care about family, whether I'm married or not, whether I have children or not. And when it says, you know what, practically speaking, I don't know if I'll ever get married. I don't know how long I'm going to be single. And so we need to prepare our daughters in these areas. Just like we talked about men needing to be dependable and persevering and pro problem solve and love sacrificially and work with children and manage finances, all those are skills that our daughters need to learn as well. Cooking, cleaning, how to manage a household, how to raise children, how to lovingly support a husband. These are things that our daughters need to learn. Our daughters need a good knowledge base just like our our our our sons do. Understanding the Bible theologically, math, science, history, how to communicate, music, art, even sports. I think our girls need to learn all these things as well. Tools. Well , that's debatable. Sure, why not? Put a hammer in your daughter's hand Just make sure she's not too close to her brother when she gets it. She could be a doctor, right? Um just like uh uh our men need to have a sense of purpose that is rooted in God's design for the family, so so do our daughters. daughters, thinking family, not career, thinking faithfulness, not influence. All of those areas that we have talked about, we parallel them on the lady side. And so I asked this question. Is that how we're raising our kids? Is that how we're raising our kids? I mean, we can look at our culture and say, man, our culture is a real mess. And you be right. And I say, and so what kind of culture are kids gonna live in? The one that they have right now. So do you think that they need to be better equipped or less equipped than you were. I mean really think about that. Some of the theological questions that are being debated, some of the some of the vices in our culture that were not very commonplace twenty, thirty, forty years ago, they're very common today. The kind of equipping that our children need today is even more arguably than what we have When we were kids. And our children, if they will have a good work ethic and they'll learn how to deal with people interpersonally, and they'll have a good, solid, well-rounded base of knowledge. They develop these skills. Guess what? God's going to really use them. He's going to use them in the spheres that He puts them in. And He's going to bless people's lives. Through our children's lives. That's that's the truth. It's not about them being powerful and wealthy and influential. It's about God using them in the sphere that He plays And so I really want to encourage you, exhort you, and pray with you and for you that we would work together to establish these things in our children's lives. I'm not going to get into this tonight because of our time, but we're going to talk about how the family and the church are two great contexts to develop these skills. I'm going to talk about the limitations of We could say the peer group scenario. And I'm also going to talk about social media. Now I can tell you social media is evil, but I'm going to tell you It's dangerous. And we'll talk a good bit about that one too. I don't want you to think that I despise social media after I talk about it, but I do think it's a tremendously dangerous tool that we need We need to prepare our children for it before they engage in that, not after they have problems, before they encounter these things, before they're in the mix. We need to help them be well prepared. to think critically and wisely and not be controlled by these things. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the time we've spent tonight Night, a lot of things we've talked about, and I pray that the intent would would come through that as parents we would We would be fully engaged in raising our children wisely. We would love them, we would pray for them, we'd bring them alongside of us, we would invest in them, we would we would help them to be very well equipped. To enter into adulthood in a very difficult, difficult cultural context. We ask that you would be with our young people, prepare them, use them mightily in your service wherever you would plant them. We ask that It all in Christ's name, amen.