Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we're looking at 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, verses 12 through 14. If you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn there. And we will be looking together at 1 Thessalonians 5, verses 12 through 24. I'll begin reading the passage together. And we, brethren, and we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labor among you and are over you in the Lord, and to admonish you. and to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. Be at peace amongst yourselves. Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient toward all men. See that none render evil for evil unto any men, but ever follow that which is good, both amongst yourselves and to all men. Rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing, and everything give thanks For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. Quench not the spirit. Despise not prophesyings. Prove all things. Hold fast to that which is good. Abstain from all appearance of evil. And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly. And I pray your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless under the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it. Now this little section of 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, this final section, is really a meant is really meant to be a practical daily living encouragement. And so let me give you a simple summary statement for the passage, and then we'll look at several encouragements that Paul gave to these Christians at the end of this letter. The summary of this passage is that it is the final section of Paul's letter, and he gives a series of seven general practical encouragements that the church needed as they were dealing with very difficult times. What I'd like to do this morning is just go point by point through those seven encouragements. They're simple, they're practical, and I think that there'll be things that we should meditate on this morning. The first encouragement we find is in verse 12 We're to appreciate those who are looking out for our spiritual well-being. Verse 12 he says, I beseech you, brethren, to one, know them which labor among you and are over you in the Lord. And then two, to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. Now one of the things that I've experienced in my own life, and I'm sure you have as well, is that when we're under pressure and there are people that are over us in authority who are looking out for us. Maybe it's mom and dad, if you're a a teenager. Maybe it's a pastor if you're a church member. Maybe it's a teacher if you're in a classroom. But a lot of times when we're under pressure, the people we get the most frustrated with are the ones who are looking out for us. They're the ones that are overseeing us. They're the ones that have to rebuke us. They're the ones that have to sometimes come alongside of us and tell us, you know, what you're doing is not right here. And it's hard to accept that sometimes. And so Paul's reminding these Christians that as they're going through difficulty, there are people who God in his kindness and love for them has put over them to give spiritual oversight to them. And they need to be thankful for those people. They need to appreciate them. They need to love them. They need to pray for them, uplift them. And so his first encouragement is appreciate those who are in spiritual oversight. Caring for your soul, whether it's mom and dad, teacher, pastor, whoever it is, be appreciative of those people. The second encouragement he gives is this, know how to take care of the people around you. There are always people in our lives who have needs. We are constantly rubbing shoulders with people who need to be encouraged. And basically what Paul will do is explain that each person that we're dealing with will have a different area of need, and we need to know how to address those issues. So in verse number 13, or excuse me, in verse number 14, he puts it this way, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feeble-minded, support the weak, be patient toward all men. In other words, not everybody needs to be dealt with the same way. There's one group that we need to warn. In other words, the way that they're living, it's really dangerous. It's wrong. They need to stop And we need to come alongside of them and say, what you're doing is dangerous. You need to stop. There's another group of people that we need to comfort. They're under a tremendous load. They're burdened down. They feel like there's no hope. They need you to come alongside and not warn them. They need you to uplift them and encourage them and strengthen them. They need you to come alongside and be the coach that's encouraging them as they're going through their difficulties. There are others who you simply need to actually physically carry that burden for them. They're weak. They can't do it. They need to be supported. They need somebody to actually come alongside and not just encourage them as the cheerleader. but physically bear a burden of care in their lives. And then and then we need to be patient with everyone. Whether it's a person that you're warning, whether it's a person that you're encouraging, whether it's a person that you're caring for physically. You need to be patient toward all of those people. And that's part of knowing how to care for others. The third encouragement that he gives is this: get along with the people around you. When we're under pressure, the people closest to us are the ones we tend to take it out on the quickest. And he says, you need to know how to how to get along with the people around you, whether it's your spouse, whether it's your kids. Whether it's those people that you work with, the people that you're in isolation with right now, we have to get along with them. It's what God wants us to do. And this is what he says in verse 15. See that none render evil for evil unto any man, but ever follow that which is good, both amongst yourselves and to all men. The idea is that getting along with people means that when they wrong us, we don't step up the rhetoric. When they say something that's inappropriate, we don't say, I'm going to get you back. It's blow for blow. No, getting along with people means when people wrong you, you let the situation diffuse. You learn to let situations go to the side. You gotta be patient. You gotta bear along with one another. And so just a very practical encouragement. Do what is right. Do what is kind. Do what is gracious when it comes to dealing with the people around you. A fourth encouragement, keep a joyful, God-directed appreciation in the midst of everything you go through. You know, there are some people that can be experiencing tremendous blessing and they don't appreciate it They can find something negative in what is clearly and objectively good. And the truth is that when we are going through difficulty, we can find the good in it And it might be hard to do that. It might be that the situation isn't entirely good, but there will always be some good that God is accomplishing in what we're going through. And there will be some good that God is using in that set of circumstances. And so we have to learn to do that. In verses 16 to 18, he puts it this way. Rejoice evermore. Pray without ceasing. In everything give thanks. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you. The truth is, it takes discipline to be able to look at your circumstances and rather than being burdened down by all the negative, to take a look at the good that God is accomplishing through it. Yeah, I think about the things that we're dealing with right now. A great example is is is church. I mean, I'm a pastor. I love gathering on Sunday and preaching the word to a full congregation. And right now I go to to the uh to the church and I I preach to an empty building. I'm basically preaching to my wife and my kids sitting there. And the truth is that that can be something that we look at as a very negative thing Something that's very frustrating. I can't go and visit people that normally I'd be able to go and visit. Can't go about and do the things that I'd like to normally do. But at the same time, there are blessings that God has given through this. There are people that we have connected with as a church that we would have never connected with if it wasn't for the fact that we were live streaming our services. And that people were going through tremendous difficulties and they're looking for a place for answers. I'm getting to spend more time with my family right now than I have in years. I'm getting to do more projects around the house than I've ever done. I'm getting to read and study and do things that maybe a lot of times I don't have time to do. And the truth is that God's teaching me patience and God's teaching me what's really important. And the truth is that there's a lot of good that God is accomplishing in the midst of the challenges we're facing. So when a person can take what's really good and look at all the negative, we should on the other side take what's very difficult. But see that God's still in control and God's still doing good things through those things. A fifth encouragement, we need to listen to what God is saying. In verses 19 through 21, he says some very interesting things. He says, quench not the spirit. Despise not prophesying. Prove all things, hold fast to that which is good. Now at the time that Paul wrote this epistle, there were prophets in the church. That was a gift given to the early church while God's word was being written and given to us. Apostles were alive who were giving testimony to the resurrection of Christ. They were writing scripture and there were prophets who were active in the church. And that's unquestionably true. And so when there were people that were prophesying in the church at that time , Some of the people were genuinely prophesying for God. They were genuine prophets. In fact, the people in the church recognized that God spoke through those individuals. And some of those people's names are actually recorded in the New Testament. A man named Agabus is an example of this. Paul technically is a prophet. Peter technically is a prophet. Though they were apostles, they were also prophets because they spoke for God. But there are other people in the church that would claim to have the ability to prophesy as well. And those people didn't always have the gift. Some of those people were giving messages from God that were not from God. And so what Paul is basically saying is when a person says, I have a word from God, don't just dismiss it. You need to listen to it. On the other side, you need to see if it's true, if it's genuine. In other words, don't despise prophesying, prove all things, and hold fast to what is good. If it's truly from God. And you know that, then you need to embrace it. We say, well, we don't have prophets active in the church today. The gift of prophecy has passed on. We have the word of God and it's sealed and it's settled and we can read it. So how does this verse apply to me today? Well here's how it applies. The way you don't quench the spirit and the way that you hold fast to what is good is you read your Bible and you study what the scripture says In a very practical way, when your pastor gets up and preaches the word or when you're listening to another person expound the scripture, listen carefully to what they're saying and ask the question. Is what they're saying consistent with what God is saying in his word? If it is, hold fast to it. Embrace it. Live in the light of it. And if it's not, well, he either made a mistake or you should be careful about that kind of a teacher. But the idea is we need to listen to what God is saying. In the midst of the circumstances we face, we need to have God's word in our heart, and it needs to be something that is a part of us. Number six , restrain yourself from being involved in every kind of evil. This is a verse that's very very well known. I've used it many times when I'm talking to people and I've heard it used to me many times But the verse says this, abstain from all appearance of evil. We tend to think of the word appearance meaning something that looks like evil. In other words, If I'm doing this and it looks like it's bad, I shouldn't do it because I don't want people to think I'm doing something that's wrong. And I think that that's part of it, but that's not the full sense of it. An appearance is a form of something. In other words, any form of something that's evil, we need to stay away from it. And Paul's talked about a lot of different ways that evil finds itself in our lives and in our relationships. And so he's basically saying if it looks evil, if it's evil in any way, have no part of it. Very simple encouragement. Restrain yourself. from being involved in any kind of evil. And the last encouragement is this. Have confidence that God will bring you to spiritual maturity. In verses 23 and 24 he says this. And the very God of peace sanctify you holy. That word sanctify means sets you apart. He's going to make you holy. He's going to do it entirely. And I pray, God, your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. And this is probably the most encouraging statement in the entire book. He says, Faithful is he who calleth you, who also will do it Paul wanted these Christians to be found fully matured when they went to meet the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, that's what I'm praying for, and I'm confident that God has called you to this and he's going to do it in you. And so this entire letter that Paul has written to these churches, all of these encouragements, these exhortations, he's saying, I know that God is going to work in your life, and he's going to accomplish exactly what he's called you to do. So this morning we asked the question, how can we practically apply these things? And I just jotted down a couple of simple thoughts that I hope will encourage you today. First is this. I need to be thankful for the people God has put in my life through every crisis I encounter, in every season of life. There will be people that God brings alongside of us that are over us in authority, that are alongside of us to encourage us. God in His goodness brings people into our lives at the right time when we need it. And we need to be thankful to God for those people that God brings into our lives. And just allow God to work through them in our lives. A second application is this. I need to develop the discipline of looking past The negatives to see the blessings that God has given in the midst and what God is doing through the difficult circumstances of my life. There's no question that what we're going through right now is very negative. There's a lot of negative. We could dwell on that negative. But what God wants us to do is he wants us to look past the negative side of these things. And he wants us to see the blessings. They're there. In fact, the blessings are very real. There are some very good things God's doing in the midst of the things we encounter. But we have to be willing to be disciplined to focus on those things and then to express that to God and the people around us. Three, I need to develop the necessary skills to help me encourage the people around me Every person that I encounter needs to be ministered to in some way. It might be to encourage, it might be to say, I don't think that's right. It might be to support them physically. We need to develop the necessary skills to minister to the people around us. The fourth thing, we need to discern what we're hearing You know, when I get on Facebook and social media, sometimes I read stories and things that are posted. And the truth is that there is something called fake news. There's a lot that people put out there as fact. It's just not true. And the reality is that we have to learn how to filter through everything that we hear and everything that we read and everything that we listen to. Just because somebody has published it and somebody states it, and even a person who's very knowledgeable, that doesn't mean that it's true And so before we embrace something as factual, we need to do the the necessary due diligence to make sure that it's true. And if we're going to pass it along Let's make sure that we know it's factually accurate and that it's uplifting and necessary before we pass it along. And the last thing I mention I'll mention is this. I need to trust God to make me what He's called me to be God is going to accomplish his work in us. And I'm thankful for that. He promises that in his word. And so we ought to live each day with a confidence that God is doing what he's going to do. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. It's been good to see each of you this morning. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study your word. 1 Thessalonians has been a wonderful study for us. I pray that you'll encourage each person that's been able to join us this morning and encourage those who will join us later in the day. May you bless them and may we be a people who are able to look past the negatives we're encountering right now. and focus on the rich blessings that you are accomplishing through these circumstances and the rich blessings that you've already given us at this time. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to see some of you this morning. I hope that you have a wonderful day. And we'll catch up with you next time. Bye now.