Niemj mahim ħih ma ħajjihom inħamnihom jim jim om. Ima himni jemm maħhemih ħamil ma jamin jagħti ma jim mahom ni jim homhom niħem jaħdhom Want to welcome you. Hope that you're having a good week. And uh let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, then we'll sing a song and then jump into our study this evening. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you help us tonight to be able to set aside the cares of our week and the discouragements, the frustrations, the things that distract us. And help us to give our attention to the Word of God. I pray that you'd help me as I look into this passage and as I lay it before us that you would speak to our hearts with great clarity. And I pray the things that are shared tonight would be helpful to each of us, especially for our parents as we work with our young people. I pray that you give us wisdom, help us to be diligent and steadfast. And not to give up, but to stay diligent in our duties. I pray for our young people as they are maturing, as they are going through a challenging season of life. I pray that you'd help them to mature. uh to develop biblical convictions and most importantly I pray that they would be well equipped uh to start uh as uh as adults in the world. I pray that you'd you'd help them to have strong Families. Give them wisdom as they make important decisions. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, 550 is the song we're going to sing for opening, and we'll just sing the first and the last verses. of channels only. Channels only How I praise thee, precious Savior, that thy love laid hold of me Thou hast saved and cleansed and filled me that I might thy channels be, channels only, blessed past one, and Oh my wondrous heart, flowing to us thou canst choose us every day and every Let us fell now with thy spirit or thy hold surrender no That the streams of living water from our inner man may flow channels of the blessed master, but with All thy wondrous heart flowing through us thou canst use us every day and every hour Okay, it's a good song. And it's a great song as we think about what we're going to talk about this evening. And so if you have your Bible, I want to ask you to turn with me to Proverbs chapter 1. Proverbs chapter 1, and uh tonight we're going to be talking about practical considerations for preparing our children for life. And we've talked about all kinds of different issues. We've talked about discipline, we've talked about expectations, we've talked about roles within the family, husband's role, wife's role, dad's role, mom's role. We've gone into all kinds of different areas. Well, tonight what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at this issue of preparing our children for life. And I want to get into some really practical issues. Not that the other issues are not practical, but I want to talk about some practical preparation kind of issues. And in order to do that, I want to start in Proverbs chapter 1. And we're going to read verses 1 through 9. Obviously, this is the opening to the book of Proverbs. If you want wisdom, then that's the book where you need to spend a lot of time. Obviously, Ecclesiastes as well. They go well together. Proverbs chapter 1, verse 1 says the following. The Proverbs of Solomon, the son of David, King of Israel, to know wisdom and instruction. to perceive the words of understanding, to receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment and equity. To give subtlety to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion. A wise man will hear and will increase learning, and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels. To understand a proverb in the interpretation of the words of the wise and their dark sayings, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother, for they shall be in ornaments of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not. Now this passage of scripture is obviously introduction to the book of Proverbs, but what's great about the passage is it gives us some very important words that are really at the heart of preparing our children to be wise. And I'm going to go over those in just a minute. But before we do, I want to kind of summarize this study that we'll do tonight, and I'm sure it's going to bleed over into more than one evening. And I want us to notice some important details from from the uh Psalm 1 before we get into this. Here's our summary. Part of preparing our children for life is giving them access to the necessary tools that God will use to bless them as adults. I'm sure every single one of us, at some point, in fact, probably repeatedly, when we think about our children, we say, God, please bless our children. Or sometimes we'll say things like, God please bless our family, or God please bless my wife, or God please bless my husband, or God please bless the missionaries, or bless our church. We use that kind of terminology. The question we should ask ourselves is, how does God bless your children? How does he bless the church? How does he Bless your wife, husbands. How does he bless your husband's wife? How does he bless the missionaries? How does God do this? Well, God's blessings come through means. There are tools that he uses. to give us those blessings. In other words, his blessings don't come in a vacuum. It's not like God just zaps our our life with blessings. As we take the Word of God and we internalize it and we obey it and we actually consistently live in the light of the truths of Scripture, it is through those means that God gives us blessing. A lot of the blessings that you and I experience are the direct result of wise decisions. And we also know that God in his grace is kind to us in spite of poor decisions we make many times. But one of the primary ways God blesses is through the choices that we make. And I want you to see this in Psalm 1. Here's what it says Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful. But his delight is in the law of the Lord In his law doth he meditate day and night, and he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper Well, the text tells us that this is a person who is blessed. And that word blessed has the idea of this is a person who is happy. And when I say happy, I don't mean it's just a superficial temporary happiness. But because this person is living in a healthy manner, there is a joy and there is a radiance and there is a fullness. that is associated with this person's life. You might say this is a person whose quality of life is very good. But in the text it tells us some things that he doesn't do and some things that he does do that are ultimately the means through which God blesses the individual. Notice what it says. This is a person who does not walk in the counsel of the ungodly. This is a very practical thing There are two kinds of counsel in the world. There's God's wisdom, godly counsel, and there's the world's wisdom, worldly counsel. Okay? And then there's the there's the me counsel. I just do whatever I please, whatever I want to do Well, when I just do what I want to do and I don't have any concept of God's perspective on this issue, guess what happens? I experience hardship. I experience pain. I experience suffering. I experience unnecessary difficulty that is a direct result of those poor decisions. Or if I walk in the counsel of ungodly people, then what I'm going to do is I'm going to be following a path that's going to lead to destruction and frustration and misery and unnecessary pain. And so the person who is blessed is someone who chooses not to walk in the counsel of the ungodly. That means he understands there's two different ways I can walk. I'm going to choose to reject what is wrong and I'm going to embrace what is right. So God's blessings come through those means. A second example. His delight is in the law of the Lord. So, the fact that he rejects worldly counsel is not the end result. It's not just defining us by what we don't do, it's defining us by what we don't do and what we replace as What is what we need. And so he says that this person delights in the law of the Lord. Now, that's not just saying that he's aware of it. Or that he's knowledgeable in it. Delight has the idea of there's an affectionate aspect to this. So it's not just engaging my brain, it's engaging my heart. And so I'm motivated internally to go ahead and follow God's ways and God's laws. So he rejects the counsel of the ungodly. He delights in the law of the Lord. That means he's motivated to walk in those ways. Those are the means through which God blesses people. He says in his law he meditates day and night. Well, what you think about a lot ends up becoming the way that you respond. I'll give you an example when I was first learning how to shoot a basketball, or when I was first learning how to wrestle, and I remember, you know, what how you do a shot and how you do a counter and all those different things. I mean I mean it was like robotic kind of watching, you know, me take a basketball shot or robotic watching me take a a shot in a wrestling match or doing something defensively. And so what would happen is you would practice this over and over and over and over again. And my coach would say, you know, you do it a hundred times, that's a good start, right? What will eventually happens after all of this practice is whatever you practice will become your reaction. That means if you practice well, that's a good reaction. If you practice poorly, that's a bad reaction. So what you meditate on is what your brain is practicing. Okay? So there there's so many areas of life that are like this. It becomes your your your habitual mode of operation And so this person says, I'm not going to walk in the counsel of the ungodly. I'm going to delight in the law of the Lord, and I'm going to think about it all the time. So that the responses In those moments of pressure, they're going to be scripture-saturated responses. That's really what it is. And then at the end of it, he says this, and he's going to be like a tree. That's planted by the rivers of water. This is a tree that has a good solid root system. This is a tree that has a good source of water. This is a tree that is vibrant. It's productive. It's healthy. He said, that's the kind of life that a person has who does these things. Why do I start with this? These are means. You want God's blessing and you want to be vibrant? That means you have to reject the counsel of the ungodly. You can't embrace the counsel of the ungodly and thrive and be blessed and be like the tree planted by the rivers of water. It doesn't work that way It's an all or nothing thing. It's it's a rejection of one and embracing of the other. You've got to meditate in the law of the Lord day and night. You have to delight yourself in the law of the Lord. Those are the prerequisites, those are the means, those are the tools through which God blesses us. You say, well, how does this work in the area of raising our children? Well, in the same way that God uses means, tools, to help us have vibrant lives. We as parents, if we want to see a good product in our children, and I'm not suggesting that this is some kind of like mathematical equation and you you punch in the numbers just right and then boom you get something. That's not what we're suggesting. We are people We have wills. We can choose to reject what we're given or embrace what we're given. But the bottom line is what you put into something has a lot to do with what comes out of it. What you pattern in front of your children has a lot to do with what your children want or don't want. And so the idea is if we want our children to be well equipped for life, We've got to put into them and before them and give them the tools that are necessary to be successful in life That's really what it comes down to. And this is something that is multifaceted. There are some people that do a great job taking their children to church and teaching them the word of God. But the way that they educate their children is very, very poor. And so their children love the Lord, but the fact is they don't have the practical skills to go and get a good job and to take care of their family. There are examples like that Or you have people, they've got great education and they have they have good knowledge of the Bible, but the fact is that their people skills were never well developed. And that's not just the result of some of us are more naturally inclined to being people people and some of us are not, and there's nothing wrong with that at all. But there are some very basic things that really are the direct result of either being trained or not trained. It's really true. And so we're going to go into a lot of these different areas that I hope will be practical and helpful. So notice the words that we find in the text in front of us, Proverbs chapter 1. We see the words wisdom. And justice and judgment and equity and subtlety. That's kind of an odd word that you would see in there. When we think of the word subtlety, we don't think of something good, but the way that he's using the term subtlety here is actually a good thing. Knowledge, discretion, and then he talks about an ornament of grace chains about your neck. So what is he talking about? Well, first of all, he's telling us that our children need wisdom. And that word wisdom has the idea of the ability to skillfully navigate life from a biblical worldview. So I know what is right and I know what is wrong. I understand that ultimately it is rooted in God's character and the way he designed the world. And so I have the skills to not just know what is right. but to be able to navigate these challenging situations in life. That's what wisdom is. He says your children need wisdom. The second word is justice. Conducting oneself consistent with God's character. The word justice is used a lot in our society today. But I'm quite convinced that what we would say is like the guiding principle for what determines what is right and wrong in people's minds, it comes is completely disregarding God's laws and God's righteous character. Justice is only justice if it's connected to a standard. And whatever that standard is, if it's off, then your view of justice is off, okay? Justice has to be rooted back in the character of God. And so when he says justice, he's using it in relationship to God's righteous character. The word judgment is very important. It's the ability to consider a case and determine what is right and what is wrong. This has the idea of someone being able to reason. They're able to make a judgment of decision. They're able to think through a process. This is about discernment Our children should not just be robotic. They need to have good judgment, the ability to process a situation, to gather the information that's necessary to make the right decision. And then as they process it, they come to the right decision. How do they develop those skills? We've got to teach them. We've got to pattern these things in front of them. There's so much we've got to put into them. The next word is an interesting one. It's equity. By the way, the way that equity is being used in our culture is not the way it's used in the book of Proverbs. The word equity in the biblical text here has the idea of something that is straightforward. It is consistent. It is connected back to a basic fairness. I believe the way the equity is being used in our culture today is if I'm running a hundred yard meters, uh a hundred meters, not a hundred yard meters, a hundred meters then then I'm going to let this guy have two steps in front of you, and I'm going to let this guy have two steps in front of him. I'm going to let this person have two steps in front of him. And we' We're gonna say this is equity, we're just gonna see who wins the race. Equity is you all start at the same spot. And where it ends up at the end is it's it's based upon merit. It's based upon skill. It's who ran their race better. That's really what it comes down to. And so it has the idea of straightforward, consistent, basic fairness. A person that's not dubious in their dealings with others, showing favoritism or partiality to others. Oh, this is my friend, so I'm going to show favoritism, partiality. Oh, this is this is this is family, so I'm going to show partiality or favoritism. Equity is the exact opposite of that. I don't care if you're my brother. I don't care if you're my friend. I'm going to treat people with basic fairness. That's what it's saying. Subtlety. The idea is shrewdness or prudence. And really the way that he uses this is the exact opposite of someone who is simple or naive. Or they don't understand what is right and what is wrong simply because they they don't have experience in life. So when we think of the word subtlety, we tend to think of it as a negative thing. The serpent was more subtle than all the creatures, okay? But this word subtle simply means that someone is shrewd. And you can be shrewd in a good way or you can be shrewd in a bad way. Let's say that you're starting a business. Okay? A person who is shrewd would know how to manage their finances, and they would know how to find a good niche, and they would know how to market what they do, and they'd know how to get the right kinds of employees and they know how to get along with their employees and they know how to manage the the different uh relationships that they have with customers. That's what we mean by shrewdness. We wouldn't say that that's a bad thing. Now, we could say on the other side, you know, somebody is dubious and they're doing things wrong. But in in the sense that he's using it here, it has the idea of someone who is prudent. They are they are not naive, but they know how to navigate wisely. Then we see the word knowledge. It's the necessary information to make an informed decision. Knowledge isn't just I've got a lot of information. If you have a decision to make, then you need all the facts that are needed to make a good judgment. Does that make sense? That doesn't mean you need all the facts in the world. It just means that you need the facts necessary to make that judgment call. You know, for instance, let's say that I'm going to ride in an airplane. Okay? I I I think there's some basic information I need to know about that. I don't need to go and interview the pilot and say, can you tell me how long you were in school? And can be can you tell me how long you've worked for this airline? And I and I and I and I I say I'd like to see your medical records before I get on this airplane because I just want to make sure that it's safe for me to fly on this airplane. Like that's totally unnecessary. That's not what we mean by knowledge. What we mean is the amendment, the information necessary to be able to make an informed decision. On the same side, you may have lots and lots of information about a matter in front of you, but there's one little piece missing that if you knew it, it would completely change how you looked at it. Isn't that the truth? So when he says knowledge, it means you've got that piece too. And so part of the knowledge needed to make a decision, some of it is it it's it's just it's education. Some of it's just experience. Sometimes it's like I think I need to dig a little more. And that is almost like a gut feeling sometimes that we have. That's what he means by knowledge. You have the information you need. But he has the word discretion. You think through a plan carefully, not haphazard, not just Taking life on without any kind of idea of what you should do, just oh just see what happens and we hope for the best. No, it's planning, it's thinking through things. The last thing he mentions is an ornament of grace and chains about thy neck. The idea is that a young person That has these qualities because they have been ingrained in them through the instruction of mom and dad is a person that has beauty. When he talks about an ornament of grace, the idea is it's like it's like jewelry or a chain about the neck. He's not talking about like a chain like you're you're in prison or something like that. He's talking about jewelry. He's talking about something that's That's attractive. It enhances beauty. What he's basically saying is a person that has these qualities is not only in a position to thrive, but there is something very attractive about that. You know people that you say that person, I respect them. I respect them because of their knowledge I respect them because they have good judgment. I respect them because they have good character. I respect them because they are consistent. And so it's all based on what? These kinds of issues. These are the issues. The second thing I want to get into tonight is the importance of preparing our children for life's most significant areas. I want to look at a couple of biblical examples of people, and I want us to think about the lives that they lived. And and what is what is interesting about it is when we talk about Joseph, we know that he came from a very dysfunctional family. When we talk about David, we really don't know a whole lot about his family life. We know that there was A little bit of tension between between him and between uh and his older brothers, but we don't know anything about his his home life. And then Daniel, we don't know anything about his home life. But what we do know about these three people Is that they had the kind of character that allowed them to go into contexts that were very difficult, contexts that they were mistreated terribly, and they thrived in the midst of that. And the question is why did they thrive? It's because of these internal qualities that were in them. And the point that I want to make here is that these are the kinds of things we would like to see developed in our own children. Because we have no idea what the future holds. We really don't. We have no idea what the stability, the long-term stability is in our nation, in the Western world, all kinds of different things. We can't predict those things. We don't know what's going to happen. But what we do know is that God's people endure. And God blesses his people. And people have these qualities, they can thrive in the most difficult circumstances. So the first example is Joseph. Here's a man whose wisdom and character and demeanor allowed him to thrive in Egypt. Listen to these three statements about Joseph in Genesis 39. It says, And Joseph's master saw that the Lord was with him. And that the Lord made all that he did to prosper in his hand. What does that tell you about Joseph? Joseph was a slave. He was sold by his own brothers to their cousins, okay? They were like second cousins. These are the Midianites, okay? And so he ends up in Egypt, and as a slave, he could have said, you know, this is unjust treatment. I I I'm not going to be diligent. I'm not going to work hard. I don't care what happens. And he could have just had a rotten attitude, like a lot of us probably would have had. It's not the way he was. He worked hard. He was honest. He was diligent. Everything that that man touched, and everything that that man did, it prospered. And the conclusion that his master came to was: God's with this person. That's a fascinating statement, isn't it? This guy's not a believer, okay? His master is a pagan in Egypt. But he knows that God is with him. He knows that everything he does, it prospers. Because of the kind of man he was. Young man, might I say. Very young man. Genesis 39, 21. Same chapter. But the Lord was with Joseph and showed him mercy and gave him favor in the sight of the keeper of the prison. So we kind of move the story a little bit from here. So Joseph is working in Potiphar's house. He's lied about by Potiphar's wife. He gets thrown into the prison. And again, if he was like us, he would have, you know, said, I'm done, I I'm upset, I'm not going to do what uh anybody wants me to do, and I'm going to be a difficult person, but that's not the way Joseph was Again, God shows him mercy and he comes into favor with the person who's over him in the prison. That means everything that Joseph did in the prison, he was distinctly different than the other people that were there. Why was that? It's because of his character. It's the kind of man that he was. Genesis 39, 23. The keeper of the prison looked not to anything that was under his hand, because the Lord was with him. And that which he did, the Lord made it to prosper. Now, when I read these things, I'm sitting here going, okay, here's a guy who's been uprooted from his family. He's got all these issues within his family context, okay? And I know that those kinds of things affect us. All right? If you have tensions with a family member That affects you. If you have an older brother that was, you know, picking on you and beating up on you over the years, like that that's hard to deal with. I understand those things. Joseph dealt with all those things. Dysfunctional family. Family pressures, lied about, thrown into prison, treated awfully. Didn't change the fact that he was an excellent individual. You know what that tells me? People can thrive in all kinds of circumstances. People can thrive with all kinds of backgrounds. People can thrive with all kinds of baggage. It's about the choices you make. It's about your character. There's so many people that have tremendous opportunities in front of them, and they just they fall flat on their faces because they are so self-absorbed. Joseph wasn't like that. The second example is David. David's wisdom, character, and demeanor allowed him to thrive in the king's palace and ultimately rise to the throne. 1 Samuel chapter 18 verse 5. This is what it says. And David went whithersoever Saul sent him. And he behaved himself wisely. I think it's such a great statement. You know what that tells you? That tells you that the way that David conducted himself was above and beyond his peers. Okay? The kind of work that he did, the way he carried himself, he was a respectful individual. This is a guy that had good, solid character. He behaved himself wisely. It didn't go to his head when he started getting advancement. He was still humble. He got along with people. It's an amazing statement. Saul set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants. Alright. Anybody ever here worked on a job site? Do the young guys that come in, 18, 20 years old, do they get a lot of respect from the guys that have been there 20 years? Nope, they don't. Okay? It's like that in pretty much every context of life. But in the military? Especially when you think about the kind of men that these guys were. These were tough, battle-seasoned men. And when David walks in there as a teenager, they all said, we respect that guy. They loved David. It was the way he carried himself. He was the kind of person that they said, we want to follow this guy. That's character. 1 Samuel 18, 14. David behaved himself wisely in all his ways. The Lord was with him. 1 Samuel 18, 15. When Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him. Think about that one for a minute. Here's David. He is a prosperous young man. All the people in the military, they love him. They're willing to follow him. And Saul's sitting there going, ooh, this guy could take my place. He was going to take his place. Saul all of a sudden begins to envy David. Saul is the king of Israel. He's a big, strong guy. People loved Saul. They respected Saul. And he's afraid of this teenage boy. Why? Because he knew God was with him. It's because of the way he carried himself. First Samuel 18, verse 30. Then the princes of the Philistines went forth, and it came to pass after they went forth that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul, so that his name was much set by By the way, we could follow the whole story of David while while Saul is is chasing him, wants to kill him, because he recognizes that David is essentially God's hand is on him, he's going to end up being the next king. David continues to be a consistent person. And by the way, David was no perfect man. David sinned horrifically at other points in his life. But the greatest that we see in David's life, this is the period of time. where he really rises to the occasion. What's the point? The point is you want your kids to have this kind of character. You want them to be the kind of people, it doesn't matter the context they're in. They're the ones that work hard. They're the ones that carry themselves with respect. Respect and honor. They're the ones that people say, I I trust that person, I respect that person. If I gave them a job, I know that they're going to do it. That's what you want your children to be like But then Daniel. To me, this is one of the this is probably the best example of all of them. His wisdom, character, and demeanor allowed him to thrive as a captive in Babylon and then in Persia. Now what I think is amazing about all of these people, Joseph, David, Daniel. They were teenagers. These weren't guys in their thirties. These were kids in the youth group. Do you think that the kids in our youth group Have the maturity and the character to be a Joseph? Or a David or a Daniel? And just like, oh, I'm Joseph. Why the drop-off? What's going on? We've got the Bible. We've got the church. We've got good solid education options for our young people. Why is it that we have a generation of young people that cannot function in life when you had people like Joseph and David and Daniel uprooted from their households? I'm telling you, they rose to the occasion every single place they're put. It's character. It's not that our kids cannot be this way. It's that we expect too little of them. That we're not training them well. We're not expecting that our boys be men and our girls be women. We're expecting them to be perpetual children. An 18-year-old child, a 22-year-old child, a 30-year-old child. They need to be adults. Think about Daniel for just a moment. Here's a guy. He was uproot-the Babylonians were horribly vicious people. I mean when they came to Jerusalem, they destroyed the city. They completely destroyed the temple. They destroyed the walls. They destroyed everything. They murdered They literally wiped out an entire generation of people. And they basically said, we're either going to kill you or we're going to uproot you and take you back to Babylon and we're going to brainwash you so that you can be one of our subjects. or we'll leave you to basically be a serf on your own property. That's basically what they did. They were horrific people. By the way Most people throughout the ancient world were like this, okay? But the Babylonians were were extremely, extremely ruthless. And so they take Daniel and they take his friends in the purpose for them bringing them into the palace Is literally to reprogram them. They want Daniel to be servant to Nebuchadnezzar and all of all of his friends. Okay? They want them to rule their own people. This is not like we just hope they come out different. That is not the idea. It was a purposeful designed plan to basically take the very best in Israel who were young and they were moldable. And they were going to send them back to be subjects to the Babylonians, but to rule their own people. That's what they were going to do. Because listen to what it says. The king spake unto Ashonaz, the master of the eunuchs. That he should bring certain of the children of Israel, of the king's seed, and of the princes, children in whom was no blemish, but well favored. Skillful in all wisdom. By the way, notice the word children. Okay. They weren't like 30 and 40-year-old men. These are boys. Okay? Junior high boys. That's that's what we're talking about. Junior high boys. Kind of. Children whom is no blemish, well favoured, skillful in all wisdom, cunning in knowledge and understanding of science, such as had ability in them to stand in the king's palace. These are these are people that know how to carry themselves with respect. and honor, in whom they might teach the learning and the tongue of the Callideans, and the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat. I'm sure it was a lot of pork and shrimp and all the things that the Jewish dietary laws forbid. Okay? And so it says he appointed them a daily provision. The wine which he drank shall nourish them three years, and at the end of that thereof they might stand before the king. Essentially it's like a college degree, all right? That's what he's doing. Except the college degree is, let's brainwash these kids. Well, maybe that's what it is today too. Anyway. Now among them there were the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishia, and Azariah, unto whom the princes of the eunuchs gave names. He gave to Daniel Belshazzar, Abeltashazzar, Hananias, Shadrach, to Mishaw, Mishak, to Azurah Abendigo. By the way, changed their names because these were Babylonian names that were rejecting the gods of Israel, or the God of Israel, not gods of Israel, God of Israel, and giving them Babylonian names. You see what's going on here? And here's what it says. But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat. I just pause for a moment and I and I and I ask myself How much did they laugh at him behind his back when he walked out of that room? And they said , you want what? You don't want to eat our meat? Oh, because you want to follow your Jewish dietary laws? Do you not know what we just did to your temple? Do you not know what we just did to your your your Jerusalem Jerusalem, your city? Do you not realize that we have destroyed the worship of your God? And you don't want to eat our meat? Oh, really? You know what's amazing They let him do it. Here's what it says. Now God brought Daniel into favor and tender love with the Prince of the Eunuchs. That's no accident, folks. They respected that junior high boy. They respected him. This is the way that we need to think about the next generation. And we desperately need to think about the next generation this way. That if they ended up being slaves in a foreign land like a Joseph, they would still do right. That if they were uprooted like the Babylonians uprooted Daniel and these boys, they would They would rise and they would be diligent and faithful. And they would be the kind of people that their captors would say, we respect. You. And we will grant your wish. Tender love, favor. Those are strong words. They really respected Daniel. And that's the result of a process. And so, not tonight, next week, Lord willing, we're going to get into some of those issues. Issues, practically, that I think are at the root of that kind of character in our young men and our young ladies. We really need to pray for the next generation. of young people. Our country needs it. Our churches need it. There's a great, great need in our day. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I pray that you'll take the word as we have walked through some practical passages of Scripture, and I pray you'd use these things to help us to think Carefully about the generation coming behind us. Help us to love these young people. Help us to be burdened for their future success and their strength and their equipping. I pray that we would pour into them and that we would have the great joy and privilege of seeing a generation of biblically wise Hardworking young people who, whatever context you plant them in, they will thrive, they will be diligent, they will be respected, they will have an influence That is pointing honor and glory to the Lord Jesus Christ, their Savior. We ask all of this in Christ's name, Amen.