Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome everyone tonight. Hope that you've been having a good week and uh good to have our students back uh from college and looking forward to our study tonight. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will sing a song and then get into a very, I think, practical topic for us to discuss tonight. Let's pray. Father, thank you so much for the Word of God and the opportunity tonight to open it up and to think about uh some very basic foundational matters and then to take those principles and to try to work them into Areas that we really have to work through in our society today. I pray that as I work through that, you'd you'd use the things that are said. May it uh get us thinking. I pray that more than anything We would be committed to walk with you to prepare children for their future. And I pray that you would ultimately just guide in the conversation tonight. Be with our children in the back as they have Truth trackers and tiny trackers. We also pray for the English class in the back. May those things go very well tonight. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Three hundred thirty-six, my hope is in the Lord. We'll sing the first and the last verses. Look at that. That's a really good one. Okay. If you have your Bibles this evening, I want to invite you to turn with me to Proverbs chapter four, and we have been dealing with some very practical considerations when it comes to to preparing our children for their future and we uh talked about a lot a lot of different issues and tonight what I'd like to do is I'd like us to dig into a topic that I think is very very practical and that is how do we relate to this issue I say, what do we have in the Bible to talk about media? Well, directly, not anything, uh, but if you want to talk about the principles that are applying this topic. There's actually quite a bit. And so I hope that the things that we talk about will give you some things to think about and the Lord will really guide you as you seek to conduct your family according to wisdom. and to prepare your children for their future. Proverbs chapter 4, and we're going to look at verses 18 and 19. Here's what the text says. The path of the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. The way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. Let me read it again. It's only two verses. It says, The path of the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. The way of the wicked is as darkness. They know not at what they stumble. Let me kind of summarize what's what we're going to talk about this evening this way. Since there are two very distinct paths or ways of life that are set before all of us We understand their nature and their ends, so we must choose wisely and guide the next generation behind us wisely. One of the things that I think is important for us to realize as we talk about this topic this evening is that it would be really easy for us to come down hard on our teenagers, on our young adults, on our pre-teen age kids, and uh and really draw a hard line on this issue of social media without taking a hard look at ourselves. We may actually need to take a break from some of these things. We may recognize that in fact we have allowed this to get very much out of control. I got some looks already. And so I want us to really take some time to think about it. So first thing I want to do tonight is I want us to talk about these two verses and these two basic ways. That are set before all of us. And obviously as parents, we think about our children. We want our children to walk in wisdom. And if we want our children to walk in wisdom, well, it really starts with us giving them the right example. If we do not demonstrate to them how to walk in wisdom, it's kind of hard for us to expect them to do it. Now we want them to do it, but the fact is that they do a lot of what they see. If there is an inconsistency, this is something they're going to pick up on And either it's going to make them not respect you as a parent, or it's going to make them, we could say, uh ignore what you're saying and kind of excuse their own ways. It's important for us to be But let's talk about these verses for a couple of minutes because this is really going to focus the principle I want to talk about. The first statement is the statement, the path of the just. And it says that this path leads to light. And I want to just kind of take this and break it down one piece at a time. First of all, we see the word path. A path is not just a step. A path is a road that's leading somewhere. It's more than just one step. It's a habitual pattern of life. It's moving in a direction, and that direction is very clear. And it's ultimately going to lead to a very particular end or a very particular outcome, the word path. On the other side, we see that the way of the wicked is as darkness. So when he talks about the path and he talks about the way He's really using two different Hebrew terms, but he's dealing with the same concept. He's saying every person has ways in their life that they are moving. And those ways are either leading to light, and we could say more light, or they're leading to darkness and the results of that. So I don't want you to think about this illustration of light. The word light has the idea of an illumination or enlightenment. We talk about what it was like in the Middle Ages. in Europe and then we had the Enlightenment period where people said we see things more clearly and knowledge is abounding and books are being written and philosophies being discussed. That term enlightenment has the idea of there was darkness and there was ignorance and now people can see things that they didn't see before. Or illumination. This is a term that we use in theology when we talk about the Holy Spirit illumines the Word of God. And what we mean by that is that He takes the truth as we study the Word and as we understand what it's saying. And he takes the truth and he presses it on our heart and he helps us to appreciate and understand the significance and the weight of those truths. Illumination. He turns the light on so you can see something that before you couldn't see. So what he's doing is he's describing how darkness is tr is turned away by the light. It's going from a period of darkness and inner ignorance to a greater clarity and greater understanding. So the path of the just is like that Then we see the term just. That's someone who is righteous in conduct, and this righteousness in conduct is something that flows out of a position. The person's not just, you know, they're lucky to be righteous. No, because they understand God and they're walking with the Lord, they are positionally in a righteous position, the the just way he's talking about It's something that works its way out of that. And then I love this next statement that shineth more and more unto the perfect day. I want you to get this picture in your mind. If you get up early and you and you experience this, you get up early and it's dark and then all of a sudden there's just a little bit of a glow and you can just barely see things out in your yard or out in the road or out in the driveway. And then after another 10, 15 minutes, it's a little bit brighter. Another 10-15 minutes, it's a little bit brighter. And then pretty soon what happens is it just gets progressively brighter and brighter and brighter. And that is the illustration That Solomon is using when he talks about the path of the just. He says, as a person walks down this path, things become clearer and clearer and they can see things that formerly they couldn't. And by the way, this is an illustration that's used of our walk with God. God is light and in him is no darkness at all. And as we walk in the light We have fellowship and the blood of Jesus Christ, the Son cleanses us from all sin. So the idea is that as we walk with God He opens our understanding. We could see things more clearly that we could not before. So that's the path of the Joss. That's the path that you and I want to be walking on, need to be walking on, and we desire our children to be walking on it. But then there is the other side. The other side is the way of the wicked, and this leads to darkness. So we see the word way again. Obviously, it's not just a step but it is it is a directional path it's moving in a way it's a habitual pattern darkness has the idea of ignorance or depravity people are not able to see clearly that's what he's saying He talks about the wicked. These are people that do not have the ability to see it clearly because they've not been brought into the light. Then that last statement is very, very important. They know not at what they stumble. That is how so much of the world is. It's true. People get frustrated in life. They're experiencing the hardships of their very poor decisions. But because they cannot see clearly, they cannot figure out how to resolve the issue. You know, it's it's amazing to me when I listen to political discussion, and maybe I need to stop doing this sometimes, but I listen to political discussion and they're talking about problems in our society, and when I listen to the solutions that are being presented, I go That will never work. That's going to have no impact. Those are not dealing with the root cause of the societal problems we have. The problems we have in our society, they're in the heart of the people of this society. As we have rejected God and as we have rejected biblical ethics and biblical principles and ultimately the gospel that leads us to those things. As we've ignored God's authority, what has it led to? It's led to people stumbling and not knowing what they're stumbling at. They're stumbling in the darkness and they're being hurt by the way in which they're going, but they don't understand it. Now listen carefully Your children are going to engage with one of those two paths. In fact, really, they're going to engage with both throughout the course of their life, but they're going to choose one of those two paths. And I want us to talk for a few minutes about how we are to guide them onto the path that ultimately they need to. And I know at the heart of this is the gospel. It's got to lead our children to Christ. We could fight this battle, but if they're not a believer, it's just going to be an endless frustration. So ultimately it comes down to conversion, placing your faith in Christ, discipleship, growing into Christ's likeness. But we're talking about wisdom here. So the second fact I want you to notice is that parents must guide their children in the path of the just And I want us to talk for just a moment about two types of contexts that we find ourselves in when it comes to work with our children The first is what I would call an intergenerational context. This is an example of an intergenerational context. We have at least one person that is above 80 years in this room. Okay? We have some people that are like twelve years old. Okay? We've got all these groups in between. If we go down the hall and we uh go into tiny trackers And then we go into the nursery, and then we go to the truth trackers, we have all these different age groups. So what's very unique about a church context is you have you have babies. You have young children, you have teenagers, you have young adults You have young married people, young single people, you have people that have raised their children and now their children are teenagers. You have people that don't have kids in the house anymore. You have people that are seniors, you have people that are elderly, you have all these different groups within the church context. You know where you also find this? In your family. That's true. In your family, you have that. You have babies, you have young adults, you have grandparents, you have all these different age groups. And it's so very, very important that we recognize the value of that intergenerational context. And there is a tendency For us to kind of separate everybody out into their little groups. So let's put all the teens together, let's put all the little kids together, let's put all the seniors together, let's put all the college and career together, let's kind of separate everybody out. And by the way, I'm I'm okay with us having you know, teen activities in college incurred, all those different kinds of things. But if that's the only context that you engage in, that's dangerous. It really is. I'm going to talk to you about why that is. Go with me for just a moment to Psalm 78. Psalm 78 gives us a picture of how children are supposed to be guided and taught and instructed. This is God's methodology. Listen to what it says. So I will open my mouth in a parable, I will utter dark sayings of old, which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us. We will not hide them from their children, showing to the generation to come the praises of the Lord and his strength and his wonderful works that he hath done. He hath established a testimony in Jacob, appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers that they should make them known to their children. That the generation to come might know them, that even the children which should be born who should arise and declare them to their children, that they might set their hope in God, not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments. You see multiple generations. And that's really good. Do you understand how vital it is that our children are engaging in multi-generational contexts? We learn a lot just by observation. One of the things that we learn in a church how to do is how to minister to people who can't do anything for us. It 's called the nursery. It's also the senior ministry as well. What about when a person is elderly and they cannot get out of their house any longer? That's another example of of people that need to be ministered to. One of the things that you do is you see that there there are people that have a lot of strength and they have a lot of vitality, they have a lot of skills, and they're able to be active in lots of different aspects of church life. You see those things. So our young people have the opportunity to be involved in these things instead of separated out and kind of being in their own little peer group, and that's all they know is their own little peer group. They're able to minister to people that are a lot older than them. People that are a lot older than them are able to minister to those who are a lot younger than them. There there is there is a a a very healthy thing that goes on. We have this multi-generational thing. And children learn by example. It is a really good thing if a ten-year-old boy watches someone who's 80 years old pray during prayer time. Because I would say that an eight-year-old probably knows the Lord a little better than a 10-year-old. Hopefully. Hopefully, right? There's a lot of experience there, a lot of perspective. You put all the ten-year-old boys together and have them pray, guess what happens? Total chaos. You take that ten-year-old boy and you have him pray with his grandfather. Or with a man that's the age of his grandfather, he isn't going to be like that. He's going to learn something. He's going to learn a lot. And that older man or that older lady may be able to really invest in that person. This is a very healthy thing. A lot is learned by observation. This is why we have things like internships and apprenticeships. It used to be that people didn't go to college. They went and learned a skill working as an apprentice for someone. And by the way, it was It's almost like a an enslavement scenario uh on some ways, okay? They they they they they earned their keep and they learned a trade and by learning the trade eventually they would one day be the master and they would be able to do that themselves. They learn by observation. Well, every single skill in life that you learn and on some level really comes down to this issue of observation. Either you see something you're like, I don't want to do it that way, or you see you, I like to do it that way. You may not even conclude, I don't want to do it this way, or I'd like to do it this way, and you actually are responding, you don't even realize it We have opportunities within the churching context and within our family context to relate to people with diverse knowledge bases. By the way, lots of different areas of interest and lots of different areas of expertise. Not every single person in this room. is in the same field of of livelihood. We have lots of different disciplines and lots of different areas of interest. And all of those things give you a diverse, well-rounded understanding of knowledge base. We have opportunities to relate to people at different levels of maturity. I think about when I was a college student. And I go hang out with all my friends during the college year. And it was like when I came back into the house and I started interacting with my parents, all of a sudden my level of maturity just like boom it shot up because I couldn't say some of the things that I was saying with my buddies I'm not talking about things that were dirty and appropriate. I mean immature. Foolish. They didn't have any value. It was empty. It was worthless. Kind of endless chatter. You walk into this adult context, though you are technically an adult, but you don't think that way sometimes at that stage in life. And all of a sudden you rise up to this level. Why? Because you're interacting in that context. It's a very healthy thing for us to interact with people that are a lot more mature than we are. And by the way, it's good for us to interact with people that are a lot less mature than we are. Because we can really invest in their lives. We can be an encouragement to them. We have the opportunity to learn in real-life social structure that is well defined by the scripture. We have opportunities to have real-life working contexts. So many different things I could say about this. That is a very healthy environment. The reason I bring this up is to say this. Do not neglect that context. Don't neglect it in your home life. Don't neglect it in your extended family life. Don't neglect it in the church context. You know, the vast majority of people in our society do not go to church anymore. They do not live with a mom and dad anymore. They don't interact with their grandparents anymore. They don't have siblings. It's just them. They just go to school, they're in a context where it's just their peers, and they're on social media all day, and I asked the question: do you think that they're maturing like their peers did 20 and 40 and 60 and 80 years ago? I kind of doubt it. I really do. And that's not a fault to them. It's because our society's changed so much. There's a reason that people are getting married a decade later than they used to. There's a reason for that. It's because as a society we're not what we used to be. And it's because we are neglecting these kinds of contexts. Let me mention some of the limitations of a peer-dominated group. When I say limitations, I'm not suggesting that this is bad. We have peer-dominated groups when it comes to Sunday school. Okay? I'm not against that. I'm not against kids being in school at all. It's good for us to learn at an age-appropriate level, but it's not good for that to be the only context that we're learning in. And it's important for us to recognize that there are limitations to those kinds of things. For instance, as parents, we are a lot less involved when we are giving somebody else the opportunity to teach her children. And that might actually be good for them. It might be good for them to have another voice. But we better be careful which context we allow them to go into. What kind of adults are teaching them? What are they teaching them? What is their worldview? Are these the kind of people that are actually going to maybe harm your children's spiritual well-being? They're going to use them to impress an agenda on them? Or are these the kind of people that will help them blossom and pour into their lives what is good and helpful? The people that we assign these spaces to often lack experience in life. You know, everybody that graduates from college goes and teaches somewhere. In the first five to ten years of their teaching experience, guess what? They are not even close to the experience level of mom and dad. It's just the truth. Okay W when it comes to a lot of these areas that we that we fill in, there are people that are they're very new in a field and they're very immature and sometimes they do not have the same basic skills that a parent does who's sending their kids into these contexts Within these peer-exclusive groups, there's a lack of knowledge base, a lack of maturity, it's an artificial social structure, it's an artificial working context, there's a lack of historical perspective. Now, I'm not bringing these things up to say that we should abandon those things. I'm simply bringing them up to say we should be cautious. We need to think more critically when our children go into these contexts. We need to ask them a lot of questions. So, what did you learn in school today? What did you learn in your Sunday school class? Tell me about some of the conversations that you had with your friends. Who are the people that you're hanging out with? Why would you be asking those questions? Because you do not have control over that situation very much. You're controlling whether or not you send your kid into that environment, but do you know what's going on in that environment? And so the caution is necessary. We need to make the most of the family life context. We need to make the most of the church family context. We need to be active and purposeful in these peer-dominated contexts. I just want to throw that out there because I think it's important for us as parents. To think this through carefully. And I'm not here to tell you where you draw the lines and how you're supposed to do these things. I'm simply telling you there's two ways out there. There's the path of the just And there's the path of the wicked. And within the context of your family and your church, you see what's going on. You know what's being poured into your children. You're either neglecting great opportunity or you're embracing great opportunity. And when you put your kids into other contexts, you better make sure that you know what you're sending them into. And it's very important that you communicate them with them so you know what's going on within those contexts. The third thing I'd like to emphasize is that as parents, we face an uphill battle. When it comes to this issue of media, gaming, digital communication, and social media. Now This is something that I'm sure a lot of people don't want to talk about, but I think it's important for us to stop and think about this These areas that we have mentioned have changed our society a lot. And we live in a world where it's impossible to insulate our children from these tools indefinitely. And I am in no way suggesting that we should do that. Your children are one day going to use the internet just as much as you do. They're going to be on their cell phone just as much as you are. Yes, they're going to have social media accounts just like you do. And if you're to tell them no you can't do that, then you better put away your phone and you better get off of social media and you better quit using the internet because there's an inconsistency there. This is the world that we live in. If you're going to pay your bills, if you're going to do your banking, if you're going to do research, all of these things are things that we have to deal with. But these are tools that have tremendous potential for good and tremendous potential for evil. And if we're not careful, our lives can be absolutely ruined through these instruments. And it's not the fault necessarily of the phone or the social media or anything like that. It's our own fault. It's because we're choosing not to police ourselves. It's because we're allowing our lust and passions to dominate what we choose to do. And so it's important for us to also recognize that a lot of these tools are designed to manipulate and control you. There's a reason that when you get on social media, you get fed certain stories. There's a reason for it. It's because what you view gets pushed to you. And what they'd like you to view and what they'd like to sell to you and what they'd like you to think is going to get fed to you more and more and more and more. Is this not true? I mean it is true. You know, as adults we face these things. What about our kids? How early are we allowing them to be exposed to these things? Are we preparing them so that they have the basic tools to be able to handle these things. Or are we playing catch up after we go, what in the world's going on with my son? What in the world's going on with my daughter? What have I allowed? How could I not have thought this through? I want you to turn with me to Proverbs chapter two. I want to read this, and I want you to think about how much of what is talked about in Proverbs chapter two has very practical bearing on this issue of media, social media, and uh Digital gaming, all those different kinds of things. Proverbs chapter 2, verse 6. It says, the Lord giveth wisdom. Out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous. He is a buckler for them that walk uprightly. Now listen carefully. He keepeth the path of the just. He preserveth the way of his saints. That's what you want God to be doing for you, right? Keeping the path of the just, preserving the way of the saints. Then shalt thou understand righteousness and judgment and equity, yea, every good path. Here's where it starts getting interesting. Not that the other part 's not. He says, when wisdom entereth into thy heart and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul. Discretion shall preserve thee, and understanding shall keep thee, to deliver thee from the way of the evil man, from the man that speaketh throwered things. Now pause for a moment. When Solomon's writing this, he's not thinking about Twitter and Facebook and all these other different I know those aren't even the ones that most younger people are on these days. Instagram. He's not thinking about those things. He's thinking about your interaction with a person in front of you. But you have the opportunity to sit on your phone for mindless hours and literally interact with the very people that he's saying, stay away from, okay? Discretion preserves you from the way of the evil man. Well, how do people express their way? They post about it. Here's what I think. Here's a picture of me in this moment. Hey, check out this video What is that? That that's the way of either a righteous man or an evil man. It is really the bottom line. It is. It's one or the other. The question is, when your children get on social media, which one are they going to be more inclined to go towards? When you get on social media, which one are you more inclined towards? They leave the path of a brightness. They walk in the ways of darkness. Do you know why we have so much, so much mental health crisis amongst our young people? I am convinced it's social media. I really am. Because you have young people that are on the machines constantly. They do not have the tools to be able to handle these things. And the content that they're being fed is literally rotting their soul. It's destroying their mind. It's robbing them of their time. It's robbing them of their energy. It's robbing them of their sleep. It's putting thoughts into their head they would have never thought. And they're literally getting pumped. Over and over, day after day after day, with things that you'd never allow them to hear from a friend in this room You'd never let them have a sleepover with a friend who talk like that. But on their phone, they will literally watch hours of videos with people putting out this information, this content. They leave the path of brightness, they walk in the ways of darkness, they rejoice to do evil. Delight in the frowardness of the wicked, whose ways are crooked, froard in their path, to deliver thee from the strange woman, from the stranger with flattereth with her words Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, forgetteth the covenant of her God. I think there's a very popular hashtag called whatever boomer or something like that. Is that true? What do you think that is? Okay, boom. Yeah, you got it. Okay, boomer. That's exactly what the psalmist or what 's exactly what the psalmist talking about. Okay, boomer. Okay, boomer. This is what our children are filling their minds with. He says, The house inclines unto death, her path unto the dead. None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the path of life. I ask this question. Do you struggle in these areas? Are you better or less equipped than your children? It's a really important question to ask. Do you spend too much time on social media? Do you get into places that you shouldn't? We've got to prepare young people. And it's really impossible for us to draw a hard line with them if they're watching us violate these rules that we're putting in front of them. So let me give you a couple of things that I don't think should surprise anybody here on this issue. And these are just these are just some of my observations. And that these are observations from my own personal life. From my interaction with lots of people as a pastor, I interact with lots of different people in lots of different situations. Just watching people, just observing. Here's some things that I've noticed about this topic. And by the way, I'm not against social media. We're streaming this on Facebook right now. But we need to be cautious about this. It's highly addictive. It is created to be addictive. It it's absolutely created to be addictive. It's shocking how much time we may actually spend on these Things. It can harm the health of our brain function that we need in social contexts. We look at what narcotics do to somebody. You know, you can look uh a a medical doctor can scan a drug addict's brain. And can scan the brain of someone who's 14 or 15 and addicted to social media. And you know what they'll find out? Their brain looks the same. You know why that is? Because it does the same thing to you. It can really harm healthy brain function. By the way, healthy brain function can actually be rebuilt. You can actually have a healthy brain again if you end up in There are even many, many yeah, there's classes that actually help with these things, believe it or not. It can create unhealthy expectations on so many levels. It can design it's designed to encourage people to live for others' approval or to react to their disapproval. Think about this There's the thumbs up button and there's the thumbs down button. When you post something, do you post it and walk away and not look at it for for the next seven days? Or do you wonder how many likes I got? Hey, this this post isn't going very viral. Not many shares. Not many comments. What's going on here? It's actually literally You could say teaching us to live for the approval or disapproval of others. Is that a healthy way to live life? I'm not saying we should be cold and callous and care less what people think. But the fact is that the fear of man brings a snare. And so does pride. And, technically speaking, that is what social media is designed to do. It's to make you care about what other people think. It's really made to learn what you like so it can tell you what you like to make you want it. That's really what it's ultimately about. It can create the illusion that we're the center of everyone's concerns, or that nobody cares about us. It actually ends up on both sides. It can distract us from real life engagement. Have you ever sat in a room and seen 15 people and nobody's having a conversation? They're all on the phone? Yeah. Have you ever been invited to somebody's house? And they get done with dinner and everybody's like, what's their phone now? I mean like that would have been unthinkable years and years ago. Like how rude. You invited me to your house and now you're gonna plot a machine and just sit there on it? Like Come on. But the truth is, we've all done this. And when we see something else do it, it bothers us. We can't see ourselves do it. Our kids are watching us do these things. It can distract us from real life productivity. The truth is, people are probably the most engaged in this when they are the most physically active. And they have the most physical opportunity and they're wasting the most time. It can create the illusion that we are engaging and working and enhancing people's lives. Now listen. There is the potential to use social media for tremendous good. I know that for a fact. It can go two ways. It's a tool. I mean, printed literature can be used for tremendous good or tremendous evil. It's a tool. But it's very easy for us to get in our minds, hey, I'm really doing a lot. I'm really engaging in people's lives, and the fact is, I'm really not encountering anybody face to face at all. It's very dangerous. It can present an unrealistic picture of our physical appearance. You know how many people have body image issues because they're looking at images online that are just really not realistic? That's not how people actually look. It can allow destructive thinking and behavior to become celebrated virally. From 2020 to where we are today, if you were to look at some of the statistics that are coming out and some of the mainline groups news agencies, things like that, that are talking about the the kinds of problems going on, particularly in our teen and our young people's groups. It's really stunning. There's a reason for that. It can incentivize very destructive behavior. Anyone remember when kids were like putting tide pods in their mouth? There are people that died because they did that It's true. Where'd they get the idea? It was a hashtag. They thought it was cool. They thought it'd be funny. It actually is not. It can lead to dissatisfaction with ordinary life. You know, the truth is that life is very ordinary. Working a nine to five job is boring. I mean, it's not always boring, but it can be a drudgery. It can be frustrating. But God created you to work, and God created you to actually live a productive life. And the fact is that we have to learn how to deal with boredom. We have to learn how to deal with frustration. We have to learn how to work through the struggles of ordinary life. And what happens is everybody thinks I'm in Bermuda and look at this incredible meal that I ate and hey check out this new car that I'm gonna buy and and and life is just flash flash flash flash. That's not how life is. There's no way you can sustain such a lifestyle. But with social media, we can have this pumped into our brain all day. And it affects us. Covetousness is idolatry, that's what the Bible says. It's a very interesting statement. So the question you want to ask is: well, Pastor, what 's the point of all this? Here's the point. As parents, we're responsibly parents. We need to prepare our children well before they're caught in destructive life patterns. I'm really burdened about this because the fact is, I'm seeing it all around us. I feel the personal weight of these things. I love our young people. I want them to live vibrant and productive lives. I want them to love the Lord. I don't want them to end up being the casualty that so many in our society are. I want us to be able to reach out and rescue people from the garbage that's out there. But we've got to be in a healthy place ourselves if we're going to do that. It's got to prepare our children well to keep them from these destructive life patterns. We need to teach them to establish boundaries and we need to test the development of, we could say, their character in these areas before we give them freedom. Before Are you comfortable with your child handling a firearm? Are you comfortable with your child driving? But you're comfortable giving them a phone that gives them access to the internet? You might want to reconsider Don't grant them access to things that they're not ready to handle. On the other side, we need to prepare them so that they can be ready to handle what's out there because they're going to interact with it. We need to be careful not to allow peer pressure even from other parents to force us to compromise in these areas. Don't allow a parent that's being permissive And perhaps unwise, or maybe they've been working more with their children than you have, or maybe than you realize. Don't allow them to pressure you to take steps that you're not ready for. It's important for us to do this. Run your own race. Raise your children with a clear conscience. Don't let the culture push you. Oh, they're 12. They need this or they need that. No, they don't. Let's prepare them with the tools and help them develop the disciplines needed to use these tools rather than become slaves to their passions. I mean really what this ultimately comes down to is can you make wise decisions or are you just going to follow your gut? Are you going to follow your belly? Let's guide them by our actions. Let's guide them by our words. Let's spend real quality time with them. Let's utilize the context that are available to us to their fullest, and let's uplift our children and one another in prayer. This is a very heavy topic. I hope that you'll take some serious time to think this through. And of course, if you want to reach out, don't hesitate. I'd love to engage you on a conversation about that. If need be. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you so much for this topic. I know it's hard to know where to draw the lines. I know it's hard to know how to prepare children. I know it's easy to just give in to what's going on in our society. But Father, I pray that we would recognize as Christians, our submission to your Lordship is number one. And we need to train our children to walk in wisdom. We need to be godly examples before them. Father, help us to be wise. Help us to be principled. Help us to make decisions wisely here. We ask it all in Christ's name, Amen