We are going to be looking at the 37th Psalm. And this passage is going to be really a focus that is kind of helping us think about the new year a little bit. And then from that we're going to focus our attention on the Lord's table. But this passage is filled with practical wisdom. And out of all the Psalms, this is one that I have gone to many, many times over the years. and just found so much rich practical encouragement. So let's read it together. Psalm 37, we'll begin reading in verse number one. Fret not thyself because of evildoers. Neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. For they shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Trust in the Lord. Do good So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Commit thy way unto the Lord, trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, thy judgment as the noonday. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. Cease from anger and forsake wrath, fret not thyself in any wise to do evil. For evildoers shall be cut off, but those that wait upon the Lord, they shall inherit the earth For yet a little while and the wicked shall not be, yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, it shall not be. But the meek shall inherit the earth, and shall delight themselves in the abundance Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we dig into this passage tonight, I pray that you would really guide our thoughts. Help me to present this in a way that's very simple, easy to follow, exactly what we need to think about as we enter into this new year. And then as we think about these truths and ponder them, and then we reflect on the great sacrifice of Christ, I pray that we would have a time of sweet remembrance as we as we focus in on the heart of what gives us hope, and that is the work of Christ. And so bless this time and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a very interesting one, and it's filled with so much wisdom. In fact, in some ways, I think it reads almost a little bit like the Proverbs. And so I want to just go in piece by piece, and the first thing I want us to start looking at is the fact that we need to make sure that we do not allow evil people to drag us down in this new year. Now there are a lot of parallels between what we see in these verses and what we looked at this morning. A little bit different in the sense that there's a very specific situation that David is thinking about, and as he writes about that, it's obviously weighing very heavy on his heart. But this gives us kind of a general appreciation for how we should respond to evil people that we will encounter. Here's what he says, verse 1. Fret not thyself because of evildoers. Neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity. Why They shall soon be cut down like the grass and wither as the green herb. Now there are several facts that he is articulating here under this little truth. Do not allow evil people to drag you down. There are a lot of different ways that our response to evil people can drag us down. The first fact is that we're going to encounter evil people. We live in a fallen world. We're going to have people that we are going to observe. We have people that may target us in this new year. And when they do that, they are doing evil. In fact, sometimes evil people look out for those that are gentle, those that are vulnerable, those that are uh not quick to combat them. They're looking for someone who they think is an easy target. And maybe as a Christian who's just trying to live a faithful life and godliness and you're not trying to be contentious with people, someone might focus in on you We have to be prepared for this. And these people sometimes become very successful. And the reason for that is that they don't play by the same rules as everybody else. They're not doing what's right because they fear God. They're willing to connive and they're willing to manipulate and they're willing to use force. And so when we see these kinds of things, we need to be prepared for them. Second thing is that we need to determine how we're going to relate to them before we meet them. And this is a really important principle in life. Before you get into a situation, be prepared. Okay? That's something that's so important. If you're on a sports team, what do you do? You drill and you drill and you drill and you drill. And the reason that you drill and drill and drill is because when you get into the competition, you don't have time to think through the issue. You just have to respond muscle memory. Or I think about people in the uh military And they they train and they train and they train. I think about my brother, the guy's always training. Why is that? Because when they're put in a very difficult situation they have to respond immediately without thinking because they have prepared beforehand Well, in life, we need to prepare before we're in the trouble. Now you don't always get to do that, but that's what we need to do. And so what does this passage tell us to do? It tells us to not allow evil people to consume us. Notice what he says. He says, fret not. In fact, he says it three times in the verses that we read tonight. Verse 1, he says, fret not thyself because of evildoers. Verse 7, Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way. Verse eight fret not thyself in any wise to do evil And when I hear the word fret, the word that comes to mind is the word anxious, worry, right? We know it's really interesting. The Hebrew term that's used there actually doesn't have the sense of anxious or worry the way that we would think of. It actually has more of an idea of there's something boiling under the surface That's consuming a person. And by the way, worry is like that. So is anger. Anger is like that. But the idea of don't fret, as he's using it here, is when you see evil Don't allow that to consume you and dominate your thinking and basically control you. I'll give you a great example. Let's say that you have a person that's wronged you, and you just can't seem to resolve that issue. And every time that person comes to mind that begins to consume your thinking. You know what I'm talking about? That's the idea. He says don't allow evil people to cause you to boil under the surface, to fret, to be consumed. You're going to deal with things like that. You can't allow it to happen. But then he goes on the other side. Also don't allow their prosperity to frustrate you and cause you to be discontent with what you have. Notice what he says later on in this passage. He says, neither be envious against the workers of iniquity. Do you see the difference between those two things? One is it's consuming my attention. I'm boiling under the surface. The other is it's not fair that they're getting ahead. I want what they have. And so it consumes us in a different way. So the second fact is don't Be determined to relate properly to those situations before you meet them. Number three, take comfort in the providential working of God. Now when I use the word providence, what I mean is simply this. God is the ruler over everything. God allows people to make real choices. And he holds them accountable for those choices. But when we say that God works providentially, what we're saying is this. He steps into this realm and he works and he moves and he guides and he directs in our lives. Even though God permits people to make choices. He moves and he works through those choices despite those choices. That's the way that he works. It's speaking of how personal God is. We don't serve a God who just wound up this world and walked away and left it to do its thing. He's personally involved in what's going on. He literally upholds it by the word of his power. And so we see in verse number two, don't forget, they're soon going to be cut down like the grass, and they're going to wither as the green herb. It's a temporary thing. The wicked flourishes but for a little while. So don't allow that to consume you and to burden you and to anger you and to cause you to become jealous. Take comfort in the fact that God works in life. I think of Psalm 73. It's the story of Asa. And he talks about how he looks at the prosperity of the wicked and he is so upset. But this is what he says. When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me until I went into the sanctuary of God. And then I understood their what? Their end. I realized that as people move in this world, that's not the end of the story. And that's where he took comfort. Or 1 John 2, verse 16, it talks about how the world is passing away. Or in Daniel chapter 4, it says That among the inhabitants of the earth no one can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? What's the point? God's working, trust him. Second truth I want you to notice from this text. Is that we need to run to God when life gets hard. Verses 3 to 6 say the following. Trust in the Lord and do good. So shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. Delight thyself also in the Lord, he shall give thee the desires Commit thy way into the Lord. Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. He shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light And thy judgment as the noonday. Now, when he talks about running to God, he gives several different responses, aspects of ways that we run to God. Obviously, the most specific and the most obvious is what he states in verse number 3 and verse number 6. He says, trust in the Lord. Trust also in him. When life gets hard and things are getting difficult around you, you know what you need to do? You need to run to God And you need to turn and trust in him. You need to depend on his strength. You need to depend on his supply of grace. You need to depend on his provision and his protection. And his ability to right what is wrong. You need to depend on him in all those things. Run to Christ. The first that comes to mind in the New Testament is Philippians 4, 6. It says, be careful for nothing, or be anxious, be consumed with care over nothing. But rather, in everything, by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving, let your request be known unto God. And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts. And minds through Christ Jesus. Don't be full of worry. Let the peace of God keep your heart. Trust in Him. Second response. Do what he tells you to do. Now, this is such a very simple thing. Verse number six, do good. Lots of times people, especially when they're younger. Teenagers, college age, young adults, they say, I want to know what God's will for my life is. You ever heard that? You ever ask that question? What's God's will for my life? And I think that when we ask this question, this is what we're thinking. Okay, I'm fifteen right now, I'm nineteen right now, I'm twenty-two, who am I gonna marry What am I going to do for a career? Where am I going to live? How many kids am I going to have? And you have all these things in your head. The will of God is marry this person, do this career, move to this place, have these kids. And that's what you're thinking in your mind, right? Isn't that what people think? But you know what the will of God is? It's to get up and do your daily duties. That's what it is. I tell my kids this when we have uh our Bible study in the morning. I say, you know what your job is today? It's to make your bed , to brush your teeth, take a shower. To go load the dishwasher, to unload the dishwasher, to sit down, to do your schoolwork, to not give your mom grief so that when I come home I don't have to have a bad report and then have to deal with whatever's going on It's to make sure you get along with your brother and get along with your sister and learn how to work through your conflicts and be a faithful, godly little boy or little girl. Someone who loves Jesus, someone who's trying to do what's right, someone who's trying to grow, you say, well, that's too simple. That's how life works. That's what the will of God is. And you know what's really interesting? When somebody who's 12 or 14 or 16 just does their daily duty, they work hard in school? They learn how to get along with their siblings. They read their Bible. They spend time in the Word of God. They grow. They pray. They develop good relationships. What's very interesting is they don't see it while it's happening, but they're taking all these steps. that are moving down a path that's going to take them through all of those things that they're so worried about. And God's just going to pop, pop one at a time. Those little pieces are going to fall into place. Why is that? Because they're just doing what's right in their daily duties. But you know how many people don't do that? People want to know what's going to happen in 20 years, and what they need to be worried about is what they're supposed to do today. And if they'd worry about today and doing what's right today, 20 years is going to take care of itself when you get there. And so he puts it in very simple terms: do good, do what's right. Do your basic duty. Psalm 19, verse 12. This is what David says. Cleanse me from secret faults. Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins. Let them not have dominion over me. Then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent of the great transgression. Let the words of my mouth, the meditation of my heart be acceptable in thy sight, O Lord, my strength and my redeemer. If that's where we live, it's amazing how God will put all those little pieces in place. And as we look back, we'll see how his hand was at work in all of those situations. Second response, do what's right. Third response, enjoy God. God calls us to a relationship with him. He didn't just save us so we escape eternal destruction. He did that. But he saved us to bring us to himself, to reconcile us to himself, so that we could enjoy a fellowship and a communion, a relationship with him. I I think about that story of Peter that we looked at just a couple of weeks ago. And before Jesus says, do you love me, feed my sheep? He says, come and sit down and have a meal with me. Now I know it just seems like a really small thing. Or we think about the story of Mary and Martha. And here's Martha, she's working and she's working and she's working and she's so upset at her sister and Jesus says, well she's she's she she's picked the best thing. She's sitting at my feet and she's enjoying my presence. You're so worried about everything being perfect And she's enjoying me. And that's a great picture of how we should live the Christian life. We should be consumed with communion and fellowship with Him. doing flows out of a right, healthy, vibrant relationship with him. And there are a lot of Christians that you know it, they look at the Christian life like it's a bunch of rules. rather than a relationship that involves our life being shaped by that relationship with God. Psalm 16 verse 8. I've set the Lord always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. Therefore my heart is glad and my glory rejoiceth. He later on says, Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. You know, ask yourself the question, why does a living person need the path of life? You ever thought about that? Or why does the Bible describe some people who are alive as dead? It's because he's talking about life in the sense as something that we enjoy in communion with God. It's all about enjoying him. And this new year, do right, but walk with God and enjoy him. Fourth response, be willing to entrust your plans to him. Verse number five, commit. Thy way unto the Lord. Now this passage is not teaching us to ignore planning. Planning is important. I mean the book of Proverbs is all about wisdom, okay? So i if if the way that we were to live our lives was I just ask God to give me this feeling this morning, and then I follow the feeling, and I get what I'm supposed to do. If that's what we were supposed to do, the book of Proverbs would be irrelevant. Because it would simply say, just pray and God will give you direction through this mystical feeling that you have in your heart. That's not what Proverbs is. It's real wisdom. Do this. Don't do this. Walk down this path. Stay off of this path. Avoid these people. Embrace these people. Handle these situations this way. Don't handle these situations that way. It's all about wisdom. But as we plan and as we prepare and as we make those choices in godly wisdom, there's something that should always be in the back of our minds. I don't know everything, and there's a lot of stuff I can't do even if I want to. And so I need to take those plans that I have. that I have thought through wisely, and that's the right thing to do. And I lay them before the Lord and I say, God, if you want this to come to pass, you have to do it. And guess what? Sometimes he lays those things in order just like we were desiring. Sometimes The path's a little different than we anticipated. But then we look back and we're like, well, you know, I was so convinced I needed to do this at this time. And God stopped that. He didn't allow that to happen. But because that didn't happen there, it opened the door for this over here to take place. And because this took place here at this time, then it opened this door and that door. And God knew all those things. And I did it. You ever experienced that? Those little frustrations, it's not God's way of just being difficult with us. It's God's way of moving us and guiding us and teaching us to rely on Him. And so when he says, commit your way to the Lord, he's not saying don't walk in wisdom. We are to walk in wisdom, but he's saying hold your plans a little bit loosely. And realize that those plans will only come to pass as God permits them. And in the way that He orders those steps. Be willing to entrust your plans to him. I think about Matthew 11. He says, Come to me, all ye that labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. You know, one of the reasons a lot of people labor and are heavy laden is because they are taking all the burden of making things happen on their own shoulders, and they act as if God is not even a part of the equation. They really do. He says, Take my yoke on you, learn of me In this analogy, you have two animals that are pulling a yoke, and guess what? Both animals work. But they're working together as a unit. And so in the picture, it's not as if you and I become passive. We continue to labor, we continue to work, we continue to move. But the question is, in that analogy, who's stronger? Is it you or God? It's Him. And who is teaching whom? He is teaching me. He says, Learn of me, I am meek, I am lowly in heart. You'll find rest for your soul My yoke is easy, my burden is light. This passage reminds us that we are taking up a labor, but that labor is right beside the Lord. And he's the one that's carrying that great burden. And we're learning from him in the process. And our soul is resting while our bodies are moving and working. And you know, you can be in labor and doing work yet at peace in your soul. And you can be trying to sleep physically and not at peace in your soul. It's true. And so what's the key? Be willing to entrust your plans to Him. Truth number three, and I like this one. Anticipate God's rich blessing. God enjoys blessing his children. He really does. You know, this evening I got to see my boys playing trombone and trumpet. They've come a long way. It's a good thing they have a different teacher than dad right now. One of the reasons they've come a long way is because they have a different teacher than dad. It's not it's true, alright? They're they're they're learning and it's good. And you know when I see my kids doing stuff like that, uh that brings me joy. And, you know, as a parent, it's the same thing for you guys. When you see your kids that are they're learning something, they're excelling in something, they're growing in something, they're getting uh Better at that, they're able to use those gifts and those abilities in some way for the Lord and to bless other people. That brings you delight. Guess what? God delights in his children. Kind of surprising, isn't it? Sometimes they go, why, look at us, right? But God delights in his children. He enjoys Blessing is children. And what I love about the text in front of us is that it reminds us of some blessings that are promised for us from God for us. Notice what he says in verse 3. He says that he will provide nourishment for you. He says, so shall you dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed. There's a There's an analogy that is often used in the Old Testament that describes what it means to be at peace. And it's the phrase, every man will have his vine and his fig. Have you guys ever read that in the Old Testament? That's why I have I have grapevines and a fig tree in my yard. Because I got my vine and figs, alright? But actually, the whole point of that analogy is that when you're in a time of prosperity and blessing, You have a vineyard and it's prosperous. You have these trees and they are flourishing. But when you're at war, guess what? You can't go out and you can't get the harvest. And it takes years for these plants to establish themselves, and you have to care for them, and you have to nurture those plants, and if you do that, then you get a vibrant harvest. The idea is that God nourishes his children and he blesses them where he plants them and he allows them to experience the fruitfulness of that land. Safety in the midst of chaos, nourishment in the midst of hunger, these are the things that come to our minds. Blessing number two, he will shape your desire as you delight in him. Now, this is an interesting verse. Verse number four. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. Now I remember when I was a teenager, I used to think about this. All right, I got something that I really, really want badly. And I know that if I'm going to get this, then God's got to be the one who gives it to me. And but you know where I'm going with this? So I go to this verse and I go, well, if I want that thing. Then I got a delight in the Lord so that he'll give it to me. That's not what he's saying here, folks When he says, delight yourself from the Lord, and he'll give you the desires of the heart, literally what he's saying is this: when God becomes your delight, that relationship shapes what you love. It shapes what you want. It shapes what you ask for. A great analogy is what happens when people get married. Think about how many of you guys. We'll just we'll we'll we'll speak to the guys here. All right? Young men are all barbarians. Isn't that the truth? And then they get married and then they have to learn how to be civilized, right? Well they have to be civilized so they can get married and then once they're married, then they have to become civilized, right? But but the idea is this, when a person gets married All of a sudden, things that they love to do all the time, now they have to consider, oh, it's me and it's my spouse. And then when you have children, it's it's me and it's my spouse and it's my children. I can't I can't just go out and you know and hunt every single day for the next week and leave my wife alone in this cabin in the woods and she's not gonna be too happy with me when I come back, right? Okay? But when I was a single guy, I could go do stuff like that. And nobody would give me grief except maybe mom, okay But here's the point. That relationship completely changes the orientation of your life. All of a sudden, the pursuits that you are focused in on are different. And by the way, that's a good thing. The maturing that happens when people get married, the maturing that happens when people have children, that's really good for them, and it's good for society as well. And so what's the point of this passage is to say this. When you delight in the Lord, that relationship is central to your life. And it's going to shape and orient everything in your life toward the Lord. And what He would want you to have, those are the things that start becoming your desires. Blessing number three. He will direct your steps. Verse 5. Commit thy way unto the Lord. Trust also in him. He shall bring it to pass. I love Proverbs 16 because it addresses this issue of how God works in our lives so many times. Proverbs 16, one, the preparations of the heart and man. And the answer of the tongue it's from the Lord. Proverbs 16. 7. When a man's heart pleaseth the Lord, he makes even his enemies to be at peace with him. Proverbs 16. 9, a man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. Proverbs 1633, the lot is cast into the lap, the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. Blessing four, he will vindicate you at the right time. He says, he will bring forth your righteousness as the light and thy judgment as the noonday. There are many times in life that people misunderstand choices that we make. Probably the best example of this is parenting. Okay. Now, nobody's a perfect parent. But if you love your children and you're striving to be a faithful parent, there are going to be times that you don't let your kids do things that they want. You tell them no. Good parents tell their kids no. Just remember that. Now they have a reason for it, a good reason, okay, but they don't just give them anything they want. They restrain them. They tell them no. They they direct them. But sometimes as kids who are grown up they don't understand that. They don't appreciate that. Until they look back as a matured adult and they go, you know what? Dad, thanks for telling me no there. Mom, thanks for pushing me in that area. Dad, thanks for pushing me in that area. Thanks for not letting me run in this crowd or go down this road. Thanks for moving me. I know I was resistant to you at that season. But it was for my good that you said no and did those things. And the fact is that when that happens, a parent probably feels a little bit vindicated, like Yeah, I did do the right thing there, and you finally see it. Thank you. Well, there are other times in life that that happens too. And what does God do? In his own way, he brings to light what is true. He sets in order those things so that people can see the truth. I want to pull this into a final thought. And the final thought is how to apply the text in front of us. The Christian life is a race. And the passage that comes into my mind as I think about the race analogy is Hebrews 11 and Hebrews 12. Every single one of us is running a race that has different aspects to it. Everybody in this room is involved in different occupations. Different kinds of endeavors, different challenges. We have different personalities, we have different backgrounds, different ages, different numbers of children, different family dynamics. But there are some things that though there are so many different differences in our races, there are a lot of things that we have in common. And at the core, at the root of that, are the principles that life has to be built on. And in Hebrews 11 and in Hebrews 12, the writer of Hebrews says the key to living a successful Christian life Is walking by faith in the good and the bad. And listen to what he says. In Hebrews 11, 32, when the hand of God is strong in a person's life, He says, What shall I say more? For the time would fail me of Gideon, Barak, Samson, Jephthah, David, Samuel, and of the prophets, who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness. Righteousness, obtained promises, stop the mouths of lions, quenched the violence of fire, escape the edge of the sword. Out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens Women receive their dead, raised to life again. All of those things are pretty awesome, right? Daniel, Gideon. I mean, you think about all the different stories that he mentions. God's hand was demonstrated to be strong in those situations. You say, well, because God is like that, I can walk by faith. But then in verse 36, he changes it a little bit. He says, and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance that they might obtain a better resurrection. Others had trials of cruel mockings and scourgings and bonds and imprisonments were stoned, sawn asunder, tempted, slain, wandered in sheepskins and goatskins. destitute, afflicted, tormented. And you go, I think I'd rather be in the first group than in the second. But here's what's interesting. One group saw the hand of God strong in their lives in a very visible way. The others, when their hands were weak, God lifted them up. And here's the truth. In life, we experience both. And both seasons and both types of circumstances give us opportunities to learn about God. And our response in all those circumstances needs to be the same. We walk by faith. What is the common link? Because all these people were flawed, all of them were tested, despite their weakness, suffering. Their failures, they were faithful. What was the common link? Verse 40 of Hebrews 11. These all obtained a good report through faith. And so in Hebrews 12, he comes to this final application, and this is what I want to leave you with tonight. Hebrews 12:1, wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight, the sin which so easily besets us and run with patience the race that is set before us. We go back to Psalm 37 and we think about all those principles and all those commands. You know what it really boils down to? It's called walking by faith. That's what resting in the Lord is. That's what not fretting is. That's what delighting in the Lord is. That's what committing our ways to the Lord is. That's what fleeing to the Lord is. That's what doing what's right on a day-by-day basis is. It's walking by faith. We have all these examples from the past. But those examples don't make us do what's right. They simply drive us to the fact that we need to do it. But you and I have choices to make in the new year. Let's walk by faith and take the wisdom of this text and apply it to our lives. And you say, what's at the heart of all this? What's at the heart of this is that we're redeemed people. And because we're a redeemed people, we should. And we can can. And so let's take a few moments at the end of the service to remember what it costs for us to be a redeemed people. Let's bow together for a prayer. Our Father, I thank you for the Word of God. I thank you for the wisdom of Psalm 37. I thank you for the witnesses of Hebrews 11. And I thank you for the challenge of Hebrews 12. Lord, help us to lay aside those weights. And the sin which besets us. And help us to endure and help us to run with patience the race that you have laid before us. Help us to look to Christ, the author and the finisher of our faith, who endured great affliction. Help us to remember this evening with great affection and warmth. And joy and humility, the body of Christ given for us , the blood of Christ shed for the remission of our sin. As we partake of these elements, help us to do it with joy. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.