Good evening. Want to welcome you to our midweek on Tuesday instead of midweek on Wednesday. And uh if you guys, if any of you are traveling for the Thanksgiving holidays, uh we will be praying for your travel mercies. And also don't forget we have leaf raking on Saturday and last year we we traveled to Florida for Thanksgiving and we were not back in time for the leaf raking and my kids were really, really unhappy about that. So we plan to be here and it's always a great event for the kids. So we all work and then the kids play in what we worked we worked on, but it's always a good time. Alright, well let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our time, and then we're going to look at Psalm 111. 111. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we are so grateful that we can come together and we can fellowship as a body of believers. And I pray that as many folks will be traveling this next couple of days for the Thanksgiving holiday, You'll give traveling mercies. I pray that as we have opportunity to spend time with family and friends, that we would uh we would find those times to be encouraging. uh family members who are not walking with you, I pray that uh we would be very loving towards them and uh that through our uh our demeanor and our spirit that you'll use that to Point them back to yourself and those who maybe are unsaved that we've been praying for for years. I pray that we would have opportunities to share the gospel with them again. And I pray that as we fellowship, our fellowship would be very encouraging. And I'll be with those who Thanksgiving this year will be very lonely because of the loss of a dear family member or a friend. I pray that you would uh bring encouragement and comfort to those who may may be in a position like that. And I pray that you'll bless our study this this evening as we look at the the 111th Psalm. I pray that the things that we look at in your word would be helpful to each of us. us as we think about how we should relate to you, especially in this Thanksgiving season. We ask all of this in Christ's name, Amen. Psalm 111 is where we are this evening. And I told the guys back there that when I was putting together my PowerPoint, I put Psalm 1111. I was like, no, no, no, I think I got a little carry away on the ones there. Psalm 111, verse 1, all the way to verse 10. I mean, there's a lot of ones in there, so it's really easy to miss uh mix it up. But what we're looking at is praising God in the Thanksgiving season. And The truth is we should always be a thankful people. We should always be a people who are praising the Lord. But especially during this season is a time that we set aside to think about how good God is. And I think about the world around us and I ask the question, if someone doesn't believe in God, who are they thankful to? Because the ultimate giver of every good and perfect gift is God. And so even the things that we enjoy from one another, they're ultimately weirdest channels through which God is is demonstrating his kindness and his love toward others. And so it's important for us to remember any any form of gratitude ultimately is going back to God. Even the gratitude that we express toward one another. Because he's the one who ultimately is giving us those good things. So Psalm 111, verse number one says this. Praise ye the Lord. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart in the assembly of the upright and in the congregation. The works of the Lord are great. sought out of all them that have pleasure therein. His work is honorable and glorious, and his righteousness endureth forever. He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion. He hath given meat unto them that fear him. He didn't say vegetables, he said meat. But he's talking about sustenance. Okay, sorry about that. Got a little off off track there. Now I don't even know where I am. He hath given meat unto them that fear him. He will ever be mindful of his covenant. He hath showed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen. The works of his hands are verity and judgment. All his commandments are sure. They stand fast forever and ever, and are done in truth and a brightness. He sent redemption unto his people. He hath commanded his covenant forever. In the beginning, he hath commanded this covenant forever holy and reverend is his name. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding have all they that do his commandments. His praise endureth forever. Now, Psalm 111 compels us to worship God as a body with all of our heart. Not a portion of our heart, but all of our heart. And that emphasis of the corporate body is very important. I'm going to mention a little bit about that later on as we dig into this. But notice that this is all about worship. It's all about praise. God wants us, as we grow in our knowledge of Him, to have a worship that is shaped by that knowledge of Him. And I would say that as the as a believer matures, their understanding of what really matters should change. Their understanding of how they approach God should change. And so as we grow in our knowledge of the Lord, our worship should become a lot sweeter. It should become a lot a lot more reverent. It should become a lot more passionate. It should have a lot more substance to it. Our worship is something that we Grow in. Not that God isn't pleased with our worship when we're just a young believer and we don't really know Him very much. We simply know we're safe from our sins and we're thankful for that. But as we mature So should our worship. So, how do these truths motivate us in our praise of God? The first thing we'll notice is found in verse number one at the beginning of it, and that is that God commands us to praise him. It says, praise ye the Lord. Now it is true that the psalmist is the one who is saying Praise the Lord, but we recognize that the psalmist is writing under the inspiration of Scripture. So it's not just that the psalmist is saying, hey, everybody out here, you need to praise the Lord. He's saying, God commands us to praise the Lord. But you could also say that as a corporate body praises the Lord There is an individual that is supposed to be the one who leads the congregation in their worship of the Lord. And that is what the psalmist is doing. In the same way that when we gather together and we sing and the person who is leading the music says, here's where we're going to turn in our hymn books, or when somebody stands up and they read the scriptures and they comment on the scriptures. They are leading the congregation in worship. We're not just a bunch of individuals that are doing our own thing. We are doing it together. And that is what God wants. He wants us to be gathered as a body who is worshiping him as a body. And so nearly 30 times in the Psalms we see the command to praise the Lord. I didn't actually do the research, but I would be curious to know how many of those contexts are not to the individual, but to the body. And I would guess That probably the vast majority of them would be in that context. Because the truth is that the psalms were written mostly for the corporate context. A lot of these psalms would have been sung during festive occasions. where the congregation gathers together in their communities or around the temple and they worship God as a body. There's nothing more logical than being overwhelmed with praise to God as He is. Nothing more logical. Nothing that would make greater sense. than that we should praise the Lord. I think about Romans chapter twelve. It says that we are to present our bodies as a living sacrifice, and he says, holy, acceptable unto God, which is our reasonable service and that statement reasonable service has the idea of it makes sense if you were to sit down and you were to calculate the pros and the cons you'd say It makes sense to praise the Lord. That's the sense of it. So in Romans 1. 21, here's what the text says. When people knew God, they glorified him not as God. Neither were what? Thankful. The most fundamental sin that we see in humanity is that our basic knowledge of God, we suppress it and we're ungrateful to Him. That's what it says. And so he goes on to say this in Psalm 150, verse 6. He says, Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord, praise you the Lord. If you have breath, there are at least two things that are true. Number one, you're alive. And number two, there's breath, or there's air for you to breathe to sustain your life. And the question is, where did your life come from? God. And who sustains your life God. In Colossians it says that Jesus is before all things and by him all things consist. And it has the idea of he actually manages, he governs, he holds it all together. If God just walked away from the earth and just let it do its own thing, it would self-implode. He has to personally be involved in the governance of the universe. It's important. We're not just being governed by the laws he made, but he's personally involved in those things. And so Psalm 150, verse 6 reminds us of that. Psalm 147, verse 1. He says, Praise the Lord. It is good to sing praise to our God, for it is pleasant and praise is comely. The Lord doth build up Jerusalem, He gathers together the outcast of Israel, He healeth the brokenhearted, He bindeth up their wounds, He telleth the number of the stars, He calleth them all by their name. Great is our Lord and of great power. His understanding is infinite. Just pause and think about that statement for a minute. So, does anybody today know how many stars are in the universe? The answer is no. Nobody knows how many stars are in the universe. You know why that is? We don't even have the technology to be able to see the far extents. of the universe. We don't have that ability. There are stars in galaxies we've never seen with the technology that's available today. Yet God has numbered and He has named all the stars. Think about that. That's stunning. And at the same time, set that knowledge next to the fact that. That God heals the brokenhearted and God binds up the wounds of those people I mean, think about that. Here is this God who knows the name of every star in all the universe, and we can't even see all the galaxies that contain these stars. And then he looks at your personal life, and he knows what's going on in your personal life right now, and in the light of eternity, you and I are such small things. And we have value to God. He loves us. But the simple fact is, this God, who knows all that, he cares about us. He cares about the little things going on in our life. And so he says, great is our God. He is of great power. His understanding is infinite. He lifts up the meek. He casts the wicked down to the ground. Sing unto the Lord with thanksgiving. who covers the heavens with clouds, who prepareth the rain for the earth. He certainly did that today here. Who maketh the grass to grow upon the mountains? He giveth to the beast his food, to the young ravens which cry. He delighteth not in the strength of the horse, he taketh not pleasure in the legs of a man. The Lord taketh pleasure in them that fear him, and those that hope in his mercy. Those are some amazing statements about our God. We were created to worship God. Now, I know if we look at it in a certain way, it'd be like, well, that seems kind of conceited. God wants people to worship him, so he made them, so they do what he wants them to do. What a cynical attitude. God created us with the capacity to know him. And the most reasonable and logical thing that somebody who knows this great God would do is worship him That's the sense of it. And so, in Psalm 33:80 he says, Let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. So the first truth we find in this text. Is we're commanded to worship God. Second truth. True worship is with all the heart. Worship isn't just about our words. Our words matter when we worship, but it's not just about us saying the right thing. It's about our heart being engaged. So when he talks about true worship is in spirit and in truth, that means that true worship is something that is shaped by a body of facts. And those facts stir and compel the heart so that we want to express how we feel toward God, which is appropriate based on what we know about God. Worship is not just an emotional experience. Worship is an experience that starts with thinking. It starts with our minds. It starts with us knowing the truth. And if we know the truth and we meditate on the truth, and the truth roots in our hearts, then the expression of that truth understood is a passionate display of worship. And so that's where true worship starts. It starts in the heart, and it's with all the heart. Now notice the way he puts it. Verse number one. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart, not just saying the right thing, not just doing the right thing. It is an engaged heart. And then he doesn't just say it's with the heart, but it's with the whole heart. Matthew 22, 37. Jesus said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. With all thy soul, with all thy mind. Matthew 5. 8. Blessed are the pure in heart. That word pure there has the idea, it's not divided. It's not duplicitous. It's not like there's a part that that is passionate about God and there's a part that actually isn't passionate about God. And so I have this mixture. It's that all of my heart is given to the Lord. That's the idea. Psalm 24, verse 3. Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord or stand in his holy place? He that hath clean hands. and a pure heart. So he emphasizes the fact that worship is a heart matter. It's an entirety of the heart matter. And then the third thing is that it is a corporate matter. Verse number one. Again, he says, in the assembly of the upright and in the congregation. Now, what he's basically saying is he is calling people in a corporate context To be united in heart, so that their whole heart is given entirely to the worship of God. That's what he's saying Now, obviously, when we talk about the Old Testament context, we're not talking about the local church like we have here today. The fact is that in those days The congregational assemblies were not just Sabbath assemblies, kind of like on Sunday we have a corporate worship, the Lord's Day, but these were also festifications. And on the Jewish calendar, there were many different festive occasions. And each of those festive occasions, if you look at them carefully, they teach us something about the gospel. They teach us something about what God is doing. So we have the Passover. And you know what the Passover is? It represents that an animal died in the place of the firstborn. Its blood was shed, applied to the door, and because there's been death and the shedding of blood, the firstborn is not going to be killed. Or we look at the Day of Atonement. This is the highest and holiest day in all the nation. And the reality is that if the nation chose to reject God and ignored the Day of Atonement, God's wrath would break out on the people. I mean the whole point of the sacrificial system Is that God says if a holy God is going to dwell in the midst of a sinful people, then there has to be continual sacrifice so that those people will not be consumed. That is really the whole sense. of the sacrificial system. And so he says there's a priest who goes between God and man. There's blood animal sacrifices. There's a sprinkling of blood. on the mercy seat so that God can meet with his people. And all of these pictures are to point to the Lord Jesus Christ and what he's doing. And so worship in the nation of Israel wasn't just a, it's a mean God thing. Most certainly it was a personal matter, but it was a corporate matter. It was a matter of the whole congregation coming together. It was a family matter. It was a national matter. It was a local community matter, not just a me and God thing. And we know that we're supposed to privately worship God, but that's not the only way we worship Him. Hebrews 10, verse 24. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together As the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as ye see the day approaching. The fact is that we as God's people desperately need more than just to open our Bible every day. We need to open our Bible every day, and we need to commune with God every day, but we need to be in the corporate setting. every single week. Because in that context, God uses us to provoke others to love and good works, and He uses them to provoke us to love and to good works. And we are under the authority of the preaching and teaching of God's Word, and we are united together as a body so that we grow together in the unity of the faith. That's the idea. Truth number three. If we know God, we will praise God. Verse number two. The works of the Lord are great, sought out of all that have pleasure therein. His work is honorable and glorious. His righteousness endureth forever. He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered. His works are worthy of praise because they're great. They're honorable. They're glorious. They're enduring, some of the words that he uses to describe his work. They're memorable. They're things that we remember from one generation to the next generation to the next generation. Not only are God's works honorable and memorable and commendable and glorious and great, but his character is worthy of all praise. And the fact is, what God does is connected directly to who he is, because who we are ultimately is going to translate in what we do. That is the core the core nature of it. And so we see that in verses 4 to 9. It says that the Lord is gracious. He is full of compassion. He hath given meat unto them that fear him. He will ever be mindful of his covenant. He hath showed his people the power of his works. The work of his hands are verity and judgment. All his commandments are sure. They stand fast forever. He sent redemption unto his people. He hath commanded his covenant forever. Holy and reverend is his name. Now, there's a lot for us to digest in those verses. But think about a couple of these. First of all, it says that the Lord is gracious. Now, the fact that God relates to people who are sinners is an indication that he's gracious. Okay? The fact that he relates to any of us is an indication that he's gracious. Because he could not, as a holy God, relate to you and to me unless he was gracious And I would add, and there is a basis through which he can extend that grace without compromising his justice. In fact, one of the great, I think, misunderstandings of the gospel in many places is that people think God just He just forgives people because He forgives people. Well, if that was the case, then there'd be no need for the cross. The cross actually accomplished something. The sacrificial system actually represented something When God extends his mercy and God extends his grace, that grace and that mercy is extended at a point where a sacrifice has been made. There's a reason that on the Day of Atonement, when the high priest had the one opportunity to go into the Holy of Holies, he sprinkled blood on the mercy seat. It was saying God extends mercy because a sacrifice has been given. And the sacrifice is in accordance with God's dictates as a holy and righteous God. So grace and mercy do not come without sacrifice. And so it says he's gracious. He's full of compassion. You know how many people, when they think of God, they do not think of someone who is compassionate Someone who is kind, someone who is patient, someone who bears long with people. But the fact is that is exactly how God is. He's way more patient than any person in this room. He's way more gracious than any person in this room. He is far more merciful than any person in this room. If you are a gracious person, if you are a merciful person. If you are a patient person, you are that way only because God has worked it in you. Not because that's your natural disposition, but because he is perfecting, maturing, developing you into Christ's likeness. He talks about him being care caring. He's given meat unto them that fear him. He's sovereign. He showed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen. What's that saying? Well, that's saying that when God is working in the world, his ways are marvelous. They're far beyond our comprehension. I will tell you that as I've looked back over the course of my life, and I'm just I'm going over my own personal experience. There are times in my life that I will look at decisions that either I made or someone else made that affected me. And the decision that I made was wrong. Or the decision that they made was wrong. But when I look back over it, I realize something. that God used that wrong decision to accomplish something that could not have been accomplished in another way. You say, well, then does that mean that your decision wasn't wrong? No, no, no, it doesn't mean that at all. I mean, if I realize I was wrong, I need to go make it right with somebody There are people that probably should come to me and they should make things right with me that they've they've handled wrong. It's true. But the simple fact is had something played out differently in that moment, it would have completely changed this outcome over here. And you say, Sir, how is it that God can permit people to do wrong and then accomplish something good? Something that only God can do. How does he know which things are okay to permit and which ones? are. How does he know how to guide those things? How does he know how to work in those circumstances? He's infinitely wise. He knows the potentials in every single scenario. You know, you and I when we're making a plan, we sit down, we we we calculate, okay If this happens, look, I'm going to have this conversation with somebody. And here's the five possible ways that this could go. It could go this way. And if if they say this, and I'm going to say to say this this. and they could answer one of two or three ways here and then if we go down this road then that's what I'm gonna say and all of a sudden you start going oh my head's about to explode I can't think of this. And then you have the conversation and it was the sixth one you never thought of. And you're like, whoa, where did that come from? This is the way that people plan. This is the way that people play. God never gets caught off guard. He doesn't go, oh, I didn't think about that one. Man, now this completely blows my entire my entire purposes. God doesn't do that. He just continues to work. And what's amazing is when you're in the midst of it, you don't even realize What's going on? In the Proverbs it says that man's ways are of the Lord. Who understandeth his own ways? One of the most amazing proverbs. The idea is when you're in the midst of life, you don't even fully comprehend what's going on. And you look back and you're like, wow. God's done some pretty neat things here, in spite of my failures and the failures of others. Well, he's worthy of praise, isn't he? He's sovereign He is true. The work of his hand is verity and judgment. God never does something that is wrong. I didn't say God never permits things that are wrong. He never does things that are wrong. There's a difference. And God never permits something that's wrong if He's not ultimately going to do something that is right. God's ways are truth. He's reliable. All his commandments are sure. He's the Redeemer. He sent redemption unto his people. What an amazing statement. He is the protector. He hath commanded his covenant forever. Holy and reverend is his name. You know what's interesting? He mentions twice this issue of the covenant. He says he hath He hath given meat unto them that fear him. He will ever be mindful of his covenant. At the end it says he sent redemption unto his people. He hath commanded his covenant forever. You know what a covenant is? It is this binding agreement between two individuals. And when it comes to the human realm, the most well-known of all these is the marriage covenant. Okay? A man and a woman covenant together before God and before witnesses Who are to really hold them accountable to their commitment, okay? That is really why people are supposed to come to a wedding. Not just to celebrate it, but when things get rough, they look at that guy and they say, You made a covenant relationship with that woman. You go to that that woman, you say, You made a covenant relationship with this man. You need to work through these issues. But the idea is you have covenanted it together and you say, Till death separates us, we're going to do do this. But you know what's interesting about God's covenant? God's covenant was different, especially with Abraham. Because when it came to the covenant he made with Abraham , The conditions of the covenant all were carried on the shoulders of God Himself. In other words, he said, Abraham, you're going to fail me, but I'll never fail you. You're gonna fail me, but I'll never fail you. And that word covenant means there's relationship. It's not just a legally binding issue. There's a relational connection There's a sense in which we're responsible to care for the person that we are in covenant with. We're to protect them. We're to provide for them. There are relational responsibilities that are a part of covenantal agreements. And so when God talks about his covenant with his people, He's saying, you're my people. You're in relationship with me. I am good to you. I am kind to you. I protect you. I provide for you. And I will be faithful to my covenant no matter what. Romans chapter 8. There's nothing that can separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Doesn't that make you want to praise God? Makes me want to praise him. Makes me thankful. So a couple of questions here. What aspects of God's character are you most thankful for? A lot of times we just think in terms of, I know I'm supposed to thank God. I'm supposed to praise him. I'm supposed to be thankful. You know, at Thanksgiving, let's all go around the room and tell tell us what you're thankful for. And somebody just sits there and they're like, ah, well Can you come back to me? What? You got nothing to thank God for? Nothing? Oh, that's that that's that's scary. What what parts of God's character are you most thankful for? When's the last time you privately or publicly praise God? What are some things that God has done for you in your life or through your life that you want? To praise him for. When was the last time that you publicly or privately expressed praise to God for the things that you're thinking about in those areas? The truth is that we have so much to be thankful for. We can start out with just being thankful for who God is. And then we start being thankful for what he's done. And I mean, if you're married, if you have kids. If you have a job, if you live in America, if you're able-bodied, if you have the ability to read and write. If you're saved, I mean, you know, just keep on going down the list. There's a lot of if this is true, and there are a lot of this is true about almost all of them are true about us And the fact is that those things are all gifts from God. We aren't entitled to any of them. Nobody in this room is entitled to having good health. No one's entitled to staying of a sound mind. No one's entitled to to getting married and having children who are healthy and strong. Nobody's entitled to being able to have a good, sound job. Nobody's entitled to living to live in this country. I mean, what an amazing country. So much freedom, so much opportunity. The fact is, we have a lot to be thankful for. Fourth thing. People who know God know how to navigate life with wisdom Verse number 10 says that the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, a good understanding have all they that do his commandment. His praise endureth forever. There are few people in life that should have a better position to navigate this world with wisdom than the Christian. The fact is, we know that there's a creator. We know what he's like. We know what we are as people, biblically speaking We know what he has done for us so that we can be accepted by him. We know what our purpose in the world is. We know that there's an eternity. We know that even the difficulties of life, the temptations of life, the sufferings of life, we know that all of those things serve redemptive purposes in our lives. We understand the value of people. The list goes on. Nobody in the world should be better positioned to navigate life than the Christian. It is an absolute shame when Christians do not have good sense in this world. When we live inconsistent with what's available to us in the Word, every Christian ought to have a good, solid, working knowledge of the book of Proverbs. We should regularly be in this book. And as we read this book, it should be shaping how we work. It should be shaping how we relate to people. It should be shaping how we think about ourselves. It could it should be shaping how we think about God. It should be shaping how we think about money, how we think about friendships. Every aspect of our life should be shaped by the book of Proverbs and Godly Wisdom. And this is what he says. People who fear God are wise and they understand in life. And they praise God continually. That's what he's saying. Proverbs eight nineteen and eighteen four, eighteen and nineteen that the path of the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more under the perfect day. The way of the wicked is as darkness, they know not at what they see. stumble. In our work environments, when the world around us is stumbling and can't make sense of life, we should be the rock in that place. We should be the example of how to navigate life in that place because we have the truth. We have access to it. And so right thinking about God gives wisdom. It's the beginning of wisdom. Right thinking about God brings a healthy perspective. He says it's a good understanding that they have. Right thinking about God It's an eternal quest. His praise endureth forever. And so I want to encourage you, when we get together to pray, first of all, do not pray alone. Do not pray alone. Pray with someone. Pray with someone. You say, I don't want to oppress anybody. Well Just sit with somebody. They can pray, but be next to them. Don't go out on your own. Don't sit there by yourself. Find somebody to pray with. Pray for your spouse, pray for one of your kids, one of the guys pray with another guy, one of the ladies pray with another lady. Pray in a group. We need to pray together. And let's take a few minutes to pray and start with praise to God. Before we go into all these prayer requests, and these prayer requests, some of them are very heavy. And we should be moved in our hearts as we pray about these things. But let's start out with praise to God. Praise him for who he is. Praise him for what he's done. Praise him for how he has personally worked in your life. Praise him for the lessons that you've learned. Praise him for his kindness. Let's thank the Lord. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Our Father, thank you for the time we've spent thinking about these things. And I pray that you'll help us to be a grateful people. Father, help us to recognize the great value of as a body gathering together. And lifting up our hearts in prayer to you. Father, help us to be a thankful, happy, healthy people. A people whose hearts are given To the things of the Lord. And as we go into this Thanksgiving season, I pray that we would go into any context that you direct us into. That we would go into those contacts as light, that we would bring joy and we would be a blessing in those contacts. Whether it's family members, friends, whether it's people we don't even know that well, may our lives be a tremendous blessing in those contexts. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen