I'll turn to the book of Ephesians this morning, Ephesians chapter one, and we are looking at verses three to ten together this morning. I know that for our scripture reading we actually shortened it down a little bit, but just for the sake of kind of getting the full understanding of what is here, let's look all the way back at verse number three. Here's what God's word says. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame, before him in love, having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. according to the good pleasure of his will, to the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved. In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace, wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom. and prudence, having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he hath purposed in himself , that in the dispensation of the fullness of time he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth, even Please let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really speak to our hearts as we open up this very important text of Scripture. Our Father, we thank you for the Word of God. We thank you for this glorious tax that celebrates the work of the Father and per and sending his Son, the work of the Son, and going to the cross and dying for our sins, the work of the Spirit. And drawing us to yourself and ultimately opening our eyes to our lost condition that we might repent, that we might believe, that we might be reconciled to you by grace alone, through faith alone, in the redemptive work of Christ alone. And so I pray that this morning, as the Word of God is open, that you would give us a very clear, a very simple understanding of the precious truths of the gospel. And then as we transition from that focus to remembering together as a body, the body of Christ that was delivered for us. The blood of Christ that was shed for us. I pray that this would be a wonderful, Christ-centered, encouraging time of worship, all centered on you and your work. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen. If I was to ask you a very basic question, what is the gospel, how would you answer that? If you cannot answer that question, then my follow-up question is: why do you believe you're a Christian? If you cannot answer the most basic question about what it means to be a Christian, how can you truly, in good conscience, say that you are a Christian? What I love about the text in front of us is that this text drives home to the heart and the soul of what the gospel is. And so if I was to ask you what is the gospel, I hope that this is where you would go. Now maybe in your own words, you would say these things, but I hope that these are the elements that would come out and what you would communicate about the gospel. The first thing that we would need to do is we would need to communicate why we need a gospel. God made us in his image. We are not animals. We are not machines. We're not just bodies God created us in his own image to reflect who he is and to enjoy him forever in relationship. He made us for his glory and he loves us dearly Though he loves us, we all have a problem. And that problem is a fatal problem, and that problem puts a separation between us and the God who made us. The Creatus gave us dignity and the God who loves us. There is a wall separating us, and that wall is our sin We are sinners who can do nothing to remove that identity and that guilt. And by the way, both aspects are there We are sinners by nature. We were born into this world being separated from God. In fact, when David talks about who he was from the birth, he says, In sin, my mother conceived me. In Adam, all die. We were born into this world separated from God. The reason that we sin is because it's in our very nature. And God who is holy will not compromise his justice or ignore our guilt just because he loves us. And so what that means is there is a great predicament. And that predicament is if God just left us alone, there's nothing we could do to be reconciled to Him. We could try to follow the Ten Commandments, we have already failed. We could try giving to the church, we could try doing all kinds of good deeds, but all of our efforts would fall short because it is not through the law. that we make ourselves righteous before God. It's not through the law that we somehow earn our way to God or we establish credentials so that He'll accept us. The law can do nothing to bring us to God in such a way. And so the gospel is the good news that God in his wisdom and love provided in himself the only perfect resolution to this problem. When the Bible says that Jesus is the way, he's the truth, and he's the life, and that no one can come to the Father except through him. That is because only one person is qualified to address this issue of removing our guilt and our sin. It is only Christ. And so the passage in front of us highlights the heart of how God resolved this problem. And so I want to invite you this morning to look at this wonderful passage. that emphasizes how God purposed in himself to redeem us to himself through Christ's willing sacrifice. That's what these verses are all about. God's plan and him accomplishing that plan so that you and so that I can be drawn to him and we can have perfect fellowship and communion, and we can be accepted by God all entirely in the work of Christ. So I hope that after we work through this passage, you'll understand the gospel. And you'll glory in it. And you cannot glory in a message you've never embraced. You can't glory in a message that you don't believe. You can't glory in a message that you're not trusting in. You glory in a message that you have accepted. You have trusted in, you are relying on it, you're depending on it, and you've experienced what it has accomplished on your behalf. That's how you glory in this message. So let's dig into the Word of God this morning. First thing I'd like you to notice from the Word of God is the object of our salvation. And when I say the object of our salvation, I'm saying This text is talking about you, and it's talking about me when it says that he has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. That means that salvation is for you. And it's for me. And you say, well, I'm not a Christian. I've never placed my faith in the finished work of Christ. Well, then today you can turn to God, you can place your faith in what Christ has done for you, and you can go to this passage of Scripture and not just say this is for them It's for us. When Paul writes he's blessed us with all blessings in spiritual places, he means that every single believer is the object of what God has accomplished. God has done this for us. Not because we earned it, not because we're worthy of it, not because we are some great prize. It's because He is an amazing God. And I want you to notice the contrast. If you go to chapter 2, verse 1, he says what we were, and here's the way it describes it: dead in trespasses and sins. Children of disobedience, children of wrath, this is who we were But in these verses, he describes who we are now and forever. He says in verse 3 that we are holy before him. We are without blame before him. We've received the adoption of sons through Christ. We are accepted in the beloved. Do you see this massive change of position? And it's all about what Christ has done for us. So the question we should move from is not just what is the object of salvation. It's you and me being redeemed to God, but the question is, how did he do it? What is the basis of salvation? Or another way to put it is what's the gospel? Verse number seven says it this way: In whom, being Christ, we have redemption through his blood. That is the answer to the basis of our salvation. If you want to know how a sinner is brought into the presence of a holy God, going from dead in trespasses and sins, a child of disobedience, a child of wrath to being holy, without blame, adopted, accepted in the beloved It is all based on what Jesus did for us. It's not what we do for God. It's what He did for us. That's why it's called a gift. That's why it's by grace. That is why it is not of ourselves. It's the gift of God. It's not of works. The Father purpose to redeem us to himself. And we see this in verses eight and nine. It's very interesting how it's stated. It says that he hath abounded toward us, and notice the next word. In all wisdom And prudence, having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure, which he purposed in himself. Now here is what is amazing about the gospel. When a person who does not understand who Christ is, does not understand what Christ has done, does not understand the great chasm between us And a holy God does not understand God's righteousness, God's justice, all of those things, when a person does not understand those things, the cross makes no sense. If the cross doesn't make sense to you, you should conclude you don't understand God's justice You don't understand his righteousness because this is the way that he describes it. It's the wisdom and the prudence of God. There is a wisdom in how God accomplished redemption for us. It is the mystery of his will that he purposed in himself. There is a logic in redemption. When Jesus goes to the cross and Jesus dies for our sins, and all of these things are accomplished. God says, my wisdom and my prudence and my will that I purpose in myself has been demonstrated for all to see. To put it in very simple terms, Christ paid for our redemption. You and I can be saved because of what Jesus did for us. We've been released from an insurmountable debt through the payment of an unrepeatable price. In other words, we don't have the cross over and over and over again. It happened once in history, once and for all, it's finished. All of those pictures in the Old Testament pointed up to it and it was done. All of us who have placed our faith in Christ, we look back at what he did. It is finished. We rest in it We were estranged from God, indebted to him under the lost curse, and he alone justly sets the terms to resolve this indebtedness. We don't go to God and say, hey God, here's what I think my soul is worth to you, and so I'm going to go ahead and pay it. It doesn't work that way. He's the holy one. He's the just one. He's the righteous one. We're not. And what does Christ do? He pays our debt in full forever to resolve this issue. Listen to these verses. Revelation 5. 9. As Jesus is celebrated in this text, it says, thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by your blood. Galatians 3. 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. Romans 5. 10, when we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. 2 Corinthians 5. 18, all things are of God who has reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ. And so we see in these verses that we have been reconciled to God. We have been redeemed to him through the death and the shedding of Christ's blood. Third thing I want you to notice from this text is the cost of the salvation. that we are described, that is being described in these verses. And that's found in verse 7. It is through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace. Now here's what's very interesting about grace. The recipient of grace is not the one who pays for it. The recipient of grace is the one who acknowledges the great price that goes into the giving. It's sort of like at Christmas. So this week we went up to visit our in-laws and instead of uh we kind of sandwiched Thanksgiving and Christmas into one, right? And so when we were there, my in-laws give gifts to the kids, and there were several gifts exchanged. And the truth is that when someone gives a gift, they don't say, oh, by the way, here's the receipt. I'm waiting for you to pay me back In fact, hopefully when you give a gift you take this the price tag off. Okay, maybe you weren't taught to do that, but I I was had to do that because I I didn't do that many times. So here I here I am, you know, I I pay for something and I I wrap it up and it looks terrible, you know. That's the way little boys wrap their gifts and older boys wrap their gifts as well. And so you know you package it and they open it up and there's a sticker right there. That's not what we're supposed to do. Why do we take that off? Because we don't want people to think in terms of the cost like, oh I can't believe you spent so little on me. I can't believe you spent so much on me. Well that was that was a little bit too much. We want them to just enjoy the love that is expressed through the offering of that gift. And the person who gives it pays for it entirely. And our salvation is like that. God does it all. God pays for it all. And so the cost of our salvation is what Christ, God in flesh, did for us. And in order for Christ to shed his blood, there are a couple of things that have to be a part of that equation. And the first is this, he has to come and take on human flesh. Now we're kind of caught between Thanksgiving, Christmas, and then we have the Lord's table this morning. And this is actually a really great place for us to be when we think about this. Because when we talk about the gospel, it starts with Emmanuel God with us. Christ takes on flesh so that he can go to the cross. Here's how it is expressed. Galatians 4, 4. When the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son made of a woman. Humanity. John 1 14, the word was made flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld his glory. What's interesting about the verses leading up to this is he talks about how the word is eternal. In the beginning was the word. And you go, well hold on a second. He was and he became flesh and he dwelt among us. How does that work? It's called the incarnation. The eternal son takes on humanity at a point in time. And so now we have Emmanuel God with us. Fully God, fully man to come. To die for our sins. Philippians 2, 7. He made himself of no reputation, took upon himself the form of a servant, was made in the likeness of man. The gospel starts with the incarnation. We don't have a cross. We don't have the shedding of Christ's blood. We don't have the gospel without Christ coming and taking on humanity. Second part is he actually shed his blood. The focus of the Lord's table, as we come and we participate, we eat these elements, we eat the bread that that reminds us of his body that's given for us, as we drink the juice that reminds us his blood was shed for us. As we eat that food, we think about the significance of what he did. His blood was shed for the remission of our sins. Romans 9, or excuse me, Hebrews 9. 22. Without shedding of blood is no remission of sin. It was therefore necessary that the pattern of things in the heavens should be purified with these. Hebrews 10:4. It is not possible that the blood of bulls and goats should take away sins. Hebrews ten, we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Hebrews 9:26, now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. So Christ. was once offered to bear the sins of many. That's what he did for us. And then he died in our place. He was our substitute. You know, it's interesting when we talk about this concept of substitution. This is an absolutely essential element of the gospel. Christ didn't just die so that we would realize, well, God's really nice and he loves us. His death actually accomplished something. He was doing something on our behalf and in our place. In fact, it's interesting, there are different prepositions that are used in Greek to describe this concept. One of them is the preposition who pair, which has the idea of to die on behalf of. And so we see this in 1 Corinthians 15, 3. Christ died for our sins. It was on our behalf. It was for our sins, not his sins, because he didn't sin. Romans 5. 8, God commended his love toward us while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. Same concept. 2 Corinthians 5. 21, he hath made him to be sin for us. who knew no sin that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. And so he goes to the cross on our behalf. But there's another Greek proposition that's used, and that's the word anti, and that has the idea of instead of or in our place Matthew 20, 28, it says, the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister and to give his wife a ransom for many. 1 Timothy 2, 6, that Christ gave himself a ransom for all to be testified in due time. And so when Christ goes to the cross, he dies as our substitute. The fourth thing I want you to notice here is the end or the end of our salvation. When we talk about what we receive because of what Christ did, the fact is there are several different directions we could go with that. And if we were to only examine one aspect of those various strands, we miss the totality of what has been accomplished on our behalf. I'm only going to focus on two this morning, but the fact is there are a lot more things that I could state here because the Bible goes to lots and lots of different areas in describing what the end of Christ's work for us is. But notice what he says in verse 10. He says, in the dispensation of the fullness of times He did this so that he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven and which are on earth, even in him. Now that little phrase, in Christ, is very important. At the end of the section, that little statement that says, even in him, is very important. You say, why? Because the only way that these things are true is if you and I have been united to Christ. We have to be united with Him in order for these truths that I'm going to lay out before you to be true about you. In other words, if you're not in Christ, if you've never placed your faith in him, all this is available to you, but it has not been experienced by you. It can be yours if you'll repent and believe it is not yours until you have turned to Christ and place your faith alone in his finished work. The first end is that we've been redeemed. This word redemption is a very rich, a very relational concept Now, the term that is used tends to be a term used when you're going into a marketplace. And when you buy a product, you don't think in terms of personal, do you? You think very transactionally. And it is true that there is a transactional element to this issue of redemption, but when we talk about the gospel, it goes far deeper than the transactional aspect of what was accomplished on the cross. Because there's a very personal element, there's a very rich, there is a love orientation of God toward people when we talk about this issue of redemption. I just want to give you a sense of this by noting a couple of Old Testament examples where the term redeemed is used. One example would be the example of the story of Ruth and Boaz. When the Bible talks about Ruth, it talks about Ruth as this Moabitus woman whose husband dies and she has no children. And when she goes to the land of Judah with her mother-in-law, who is now also a widow, has no boys. has no husband, she's coming as a very broken and a very hurting person, a very vulnerable person. And in Ruth chapter 2, verse 12, the very first interaction that we see between Boaz and Ruth, this is what Boaz says to Ruth. He says, the Lord recompense thy work and a full reward be given unto thee of the Lord God of Israel. And listen to the next statement. It's very interesting. Under whose wings thou art come to trust. Under whose wings thou art come to trust. You say, what is that? The very first thing that we see in these verses is that Ruth comes to be a part of God's people as a foreigner She is a gentile. She was not by birth born into this family. She has come as an outsider, and she's going and she's gleaning in fields to take care of her mother-in-law. And she's following the practices of those who are part of these people. And Boaz recognizes that you've come to live among us because you understand our gods. And you've come to rest under his wings. By the end of the story, she comes to rest under Boaz 's wings as well. Because he takes her to be his wife, and he loves her, and he raises a son. In the stead of her first husband who had died, and her son through Boaz is the one who's going to inherit that land who's a part of the lineage of Christ. Now when we use the word redeem here, it's not just a transaction. It's very personal. It's actually very sweet. It's very comforting. It's God looking out for an extremely vulnerable individual. Another example is Isaiah 43, verses 1 to 5. It says, thus saith the Lord that created thee, O Jacob, informed thee, O Israel, fear not. For I have redeemed thee. I've called thee by name, thou art mine. When thou passest through the waters, I'll be with thee. Through the rivers they shall not overflow thee. When thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned, neither shall the flame kindle upon thee. For I am the Lord thy God. Thou wast precious in my sight. I have loved thee. Fear not, I am with thee. Wow. Doesn't sound like a cold-hearted transaction, does it? It's words like, I've redeemed you, I love you, I am with you, you are precious in my sight. Pretty awesome way to describe God's relationship. So this word redemption here is a very, very personal word. Or Isaiah 44. 1, it says, Hero Jacob, my servant. By the way, whenever you see the word Jacob used In reference to Israel in the Old Testament, remember that Jacob means trickster. It's true. And you know what's really interesting? When God used that term to describe these people. He's saying, I have brought you to myself by grace, so you are not worthy. And that's what he does with us too. He says, Hear, O Jacob, my servant in Israel, whom I have chosen, I will pour water on him that is thirsty and floods on the dry ground. I will pour my spirit upon thy seed and my blessing upon thine offspring. Thus saith the Lord, the King of Israel. His Redeemer, the Lord of hosts, I am with, I am the first, I am the last. Beside me, there is no God. See how personal that is. But then when God speaks in these terms about you and about me, this is the way he describes this relationship. Colossians 1. 20, he has made peace through the blood of the cross by him to reconcile all things unto himself. You who sometimes were alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, he has now reconciled in the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his sight. That word redeemed is really something here. Or Romans 5. 8, God commendeth. He takes his love. He says, take a look at this. This is really awesome. God commends his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. When we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. The first end that this passage really emphasizes is that in Christ, those who were estranged have been redeemed and reconciled to God. We are his children and he loves us. That's why he uses the word accepted in the beloved. When God thinks of us as his children, he doesn't have this callous disposition toward us. He looks at us with deep love. And again, despite who we are without him. The second end is that we've been justified before God What's interesting about this word justification is there's both a negative and a positive side to this. I think a lot of times we don't emphasize both. Either we emphasize one and we read we we forget about the other, we we focus on the one and we forget the other. But the negative side is that the cross removes our guilt so that God can justify us. Isaiah 53, 11, that it says He will see the travail of his soul, be satisfied. My righteous servant shall justify many. Why? Because He will bear their iniquities. He's emphasizing the fact that through the cross our sin is removed, and now God can declare us righteous. Or Romans 3. 24, we are justified freely by his grace through the redemption that's in Christ Jesus. Romans 5. 9, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him. So the cross removes our guilt so that God can declare us righteous. But that's only half the story. Because there's a positive side as well. We are justified in the perfect righteousness of Christ. And so the cross removes our guilt. And when we are united to Christ, his righteousness is credited to us, and God deals with us as not guilty as righteous in Him. Amazing concept. Let me read to you some of these verses so that you can understand this. Romans 3. 20. By the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. There's our word. Why? Because by the law is the knowledge of sin So you sit down and you go, well, my whole life I thought you got saved by doing good and keeping the law and following his commandments and going to church. The answer is no, that's not true at all. The Bible never teaches that. It says by the deeds of the law no one's justified in his sight. You don't earn your way to God through doing good and being good and looking good and all those things. No. You say, well, then how does it work? But now The righteousness of God without the law is manifested. So what in the world? Righteousness of God without law? It says, even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all, upon all them that believe. Let me put it in very simple terms. The way that God can justify a sinner is by Christ's righteousness being imputed to them. God declares them righteous, not on the basis of their own righteousness that they have worked up before Him, but by the righteousness that is credited to them. In the courtrooms of heaven. Romans 4:26 states this even more explicitly. It says, Abraham believed God, it was counted. That's a very important word, counted unto him for righteousness. Another way to put that is he was justified. Now to him that worketh is a reward not reckoned of grace, but of debts. But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly. What an amazing statement. God can call you righteous though you're not. Why? Because of Christ. He justifies the ungodly, his faith. is counted for righteousness. Even as David described the blessedness of the man unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works. That's salvation, folks. The reason that you can stand before God with a clean heart is because of what Jesus did. The reason that you can be accepted in the beloved is because of Christ's righteousness, not yours. The reason that God can forgive your sin is because they've been washed away at the cross. Romans 5:19, by one man's disobedience, many were made sinners. By the obedience of one. Shall many be made righteous? One. If salvation came through your obedience, it would say, through your obedience, many are made righteous. But that's not what it says. Why is that? Because if that was the term, we'd all be lost. And by the way, God would have every right to leave us where we are. That's not unjust. For him to deal with us as those who have broken his law, as those who have broken his law, that's not unjust. That's justice. But God's grace is I provide redemption through Christ. But to get it even more explicit, as if those are not, Philippians 3. 9, Paul writes that I might be found in him not having my own righteousness. Which is by the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness of God by faith. How does a sinner stand before a holy God? God removes their guilt God declares them righteous and he accepts them in Christ. Here's my question. Can you say that that has been your personal experience You say, well, I don't know. How do I know? The way that you know is if you've embraced the gospel. It's not something you hope is going to happen. It's not something you work toward. It's something you receive by faith. alone, as many as received him, to them he gave the power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name. This is the record. God has given to us eternal life. This life is in his son. He that has the Son has life. He that has not the Son of God does not have life. life. Very, very simple. Very simple terms. Why? Because God wants to make it as simple as possible so you can embrace it So how do you apply these verses? The first thing I would mention is this. We desperately need clarity on the gospel. Christians need to affirm, they need to understand, and they need to articulate the basics of the gospel faithfully. Now let me say something about this. There are going to be many people in heaven that if you'd asked them to give the gospel in this life, they would have done a pretty shoddy job. Some of us in this room, we might say that would be some of us. We've given the gospel to our children in a way that's probably not super clear. And our desire. I remember when I was a little kid, when I first trusted Christ as my savior, I was so excited, I wanted to tell my next door neighbor how he could be saved. And so I got my Bible, and I remember seeing my dad would like highlight things in his Bible, so I highlighted random things in my Bible too Okay, you know, just just following, that's right. That's the the biggest form of flattery right there, is it not? And I remember jumping over the fence, or climbing and then falling over it, whatever, and sitting down with my neighbor and telling me how I could be saved. I tell my mom, the neighbor got saved. I have no idea if he got saved. I don't know that I gave him a great explanation of the gospel as a little kid. But there are many, many people that truly have placed their faith in Christ. They are born again. And the truth is they should not be content to stay in a sloppy position on this issue. We need to understand who Christ is. We need to understand what he did, and we need to articulate the basic truths of the gospel faithfully and to the very best of our ability with every person we interact with. The second thing I'll mention is this genuine faith. Genuine faith in Christ must rest on an accurate understanding of the gospel. Can a child get saved without understanding all of these terms? Of course they can. But here's what happens to a child who's been saved. As they read the Bible as a 10-year-old, as a 12-year-old As a 14-year-old, as a 20-year-old, as a 50-year-old, as they read the Bible, those truths that they did not fully understand as a little child. But to the best of their ability, to the best of their knowledge, they place their faith in what Christ did for them. As they come in contact with these truths and the scriptures, you know what they do? They embrace them. They delight in them. They grow in their understanding of them. They love them. They find comfort in them. And genuine faith in Christ is rooted in a correct understanding of what Christ has done for us. Thirdly, worship. God's wisdom, purpose, and love revealed in the gospel should stir up passionate worship. What's wonderful about the Lord's table is that when we take these elements and we eat them and we drink them, we proclaim his death until he comes. And when we proclaim his death until he comes, we're reminded what I'm remembering, he did that for me. He's accepted me because of what he did for me. He loves me. He delights in me. I'm forgiven. I'm cleansed. And all of these truths that are true about us, as we reflect on them, as we dwell on them, as we do it as a body of Christians here this morning, guess what? It lifts us up and it encourages us. We should walk out of here this morning going, God, thank you. I'm so thankful. I praise you. Worship. And the last word is comfort. Understanding the basics of the gospel should bring rest and comfort to restless souls and troubled consciences There are many Christians who are genuinely born again and they're going to be in heaven. But as they go through life, they really struggle with doubts. They they they struggle with doubts because their conscience is not properly informed by Scripture. They struggle with doubts because sometimes people will say things to them that are not true, that are not scriptural, but It'll undermine their understanding or their confidence. Some of them will struggle with doubts because it's just kind of their nature. For lack of a better way to put it, have you ever sat down in your car and wondered if you locked the door? Not the door of your car, but the door to your house. You ever driven down the road and be like, I gotta go back and check? If you go on vacation, you've probably done that before, right? Don't want to admit it. Why is that? Well, we're we're prone to doubts. We doubt silly little things, little little thoughts pop into our heads sometimes, and they distract us from a firm footing on the gospel itself. And the truth is That's what we need to do is be reminded regularly and freshly of who Christ is, what he did for us, why it matters, and we reflect on that and we allow that to give us great comfort and rest. Many of you know the story of John Bunyan, not Paul, John. Different guys. Okay. John Bunyan was a man who was prone to massive doubts. If you were to read his book, Grace Abings to the Chief of Sinners, and you're an introspective person, you'll go, I know what it feels like to be in his shoes. He was in great turmoil of soul. He was in great misery of soul. And he had all these questions and all these doubts and all these things flooding into his mind. And there's a very distinct moment in that book where basically what John Bunyan does is he says, I looked to Christ. I looked at the sufficiency of his work. I looked at the sufficiency of his sacrifice. I looked at the sufficiency of his righteousness. And I said, all that I have is in him, and that's it. You know what that did? That brought stability and comfort to a troubled conscience. And by the way, there's a reason that this man wrote so well. It's because he understood what goes on in mind so well. And what does he do? He goes back to the finished work of Christ. Today, there might be people that need to go back to the finished work of Christ. I don't mean you need to get saved today. I don't mean you need to get saved again. You're saved. You need to go back to it and rest in it and rejoice in it and delight in it and thank God for it. Let's bow together for prayer as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table together. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we close in prayer, have a very simple question. Is there somebody here this morning that would say, Pastor? I don't know for certain that I'm saved. I really struggle with this issue. And I need to speak with someone. I'm not gonna I'm not gonna ask you to come up here. I'm not going to ask you to make a statement. I'm simply going to acknowledge in my own mind that you'd like to speak with me. And I'll make sure that I do that. Is there anyone here this morning that would say that's me, Pastor? I don't know for certain I'm saved. I'm very troubled about this issue, and I really need to talk to you. Anybody like that at all? Just put your hand up very quickly, very quietly. I'll see it, and I'll make sure I speak with you. Anybody like that at all? You might say, I didn't raise my hand. I kind of need to. Well, that's okay. Come and talk to me after the service. Or send me an email, and I'd be glad to set up a time to go through the scriptures with you and really help you work through the scriptures. So you understand what Christ has done. And if you've never placed your faith in Christ, you can do that. Let's bow together for prayer and let's ask the Lord to really prepare our hearts to remember what Christ has done for us. for us. Our Father, thank you for the word. Thank you for these truths. Give us great comfort and strength and stability as we remember What Christ has done for us. Help us to delight in his sacrifice, to delight in your wisdom and your purpose. And what you have done for us. If anyone is struggling in their heart, I pray that today would be the day that they get these troubles of conscience and heart resolved to the sufficiency of your word. We ask this all in Christ's name, Amen