All right, Ephesians chapter one, and we will begin in verse fifteen. Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus, and love unto all the saints. Cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of Glory May give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that ye may know what is the hope of his calling. What are the riches of the glory of his inheritance and the saints? What is the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead? and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places, far above all principality and power, and might and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come. And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all and in all. This morning we are going to look at Paul's prayer for people that were very dear to him. And Lord willing, we will not just look at it this morning, but we also plan to look at this text, Lord willing, next week as well. Because there's so much for us to unpackage in these verses. But let's bow together for prayer. Really ask the Lord to speak to our hearts this morning. Lord, I thank you for this precious, precious series of truths that we will look at this morning. As we think about prayer and how we should pray for people that are in our lives, how parents should pray for their kids. How teachers should pray for their students. How I, as the pastor of this church, should pray for this congregation. How this congregation should pray for me. How each of us should pray for the people that you have given us to care for, to point to you. To model spiritual maturity before, I pray that we would be gripped by the way that Paul prayed for these people and that our prayer lives would reflect in some way this kind And so I pray that you would work in our midst in a very special way this morning. Help me as I communicate your word and do it effectively. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Passage in front of us is an important passage because it gives us insight into the way that the Apostle Paul prayed. And on Wednesday night we gather in here, we do a Bible study, the kids are in the back, and then we pass out a prayer sheet. And a lot of times when we think about prayer requests, when we come together on a Wednesday night, a lot of our prayer requests are the kind of things that we deal with on a daily basis. aches, pains, surgeries, sickness, the situations that really do often weigh on our minds on a regular basis. And it's okay and it's good for us to pray for those things. to bring those things before the Lord. We should pray for safety as we're traveling. We should pray. We got in the car, I said, Lord, help me to be alert. That's always a big prayer. Help us to stay safe on the roads, help us to go as smoothly as is possible considering the circumstances, all those kinds of things. And there's nothing wrong with praying that way. But something that should be a big part of our prayer life is what we see in these verses. How we pray for the spiritual well-being of the people in our lives. And what I love about these verses is Paul is not a pastor, but Paul has a pastoral heart. He has a shepherding heart. A heart that is burdened for the spiritual growth of the people that he has had the opportunity to minister to over his life. And so I would I would summarize these verses in the following way. Paul is expressing his deep love for the church. By praying fervently for them to be gripped by the rich implications of the gospel and their position in Christ. To put it very simply, Paul wants these people to understand who they are in Christ, and he wants them to be overwhelmed by it. That's what he wants. He wants them to understand this is who I am as a Christian, and that just is the most important thing in all of my life. Leads me to a question. Is who you are in Christ the most important thing about you? Is that the thing that motivates you and drives you and consumes your passions? And motivates you in all that you do more than anything else. If it's not, that's what it should be And then the question is, the people that we love the most in life, are we most burdened about them having that kind of a heartbeat? That's what these verses are all about. And so as we look at them, we're going to see that God's desire for us is a very simple one. We need to pray with this kind of a love for the people that God has placed in our lives. And so let's work our way through the contents of these verses. A little bit at a time this morning. The first thing I want you to notice from this text is the shepherd's heart that we see in the heart of the Apostle Paul. And it really comes out in these verses. Look at verses 15 and 16. He says. After I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and the love unto all the saints. I ceased not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers. Let me read it again. After I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love unto all the saints. I ceased not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers. What those two verses are communicating is that the Apostle Paul had a shepherding love for these people that were at the church at Ephesus. And I think it'd be important for us to kind of go back in our minds And just think about the history between Paul and the church at Ephesus. We know from the beginning of our series on the book of Ephesians that the Apostle Paul initially wanted to go down into Asia Minor, and more than likely the city that he had his eyes set on was the city of Ephesus. But God had other plans for that season of Paul's ministry. And so rather than Paul being able to go to Ephesus and have a ministry there, He was he was told twice by the Lord not to go into Asia Minor, and then a third time positively he was to go over into Macedonia And so Paul goes into Macedonia and in every single one of those cities that he goes and he preaches the gospel in, all of those places they're very short since there because the people basically drove him out of the city. But also in each of those cities, churches were started. And so Paul's relationship with those people was not a deep one. It wasn't a long one. But in fact, he had some kind of a part in those ministries that were started between that call to Macedonia and him eventually getting into Ephesus. But then when Paul actually goes to Ephesus, he's just there for a very short time. Because Paul is going back to Jerusalem and he's going to have a feast down there in Jerusalem, and he leaves Aquila and Priscilla with him. And this happened probably about 15 to 20 years before the Apostle Paul dies. Now, Paul's there in Jerusalem. Aquila and Priscilla are ministering at Ephesus. A small church is beginning to start there in Ephesus. A group of people are meeting, and then Paul comes back, and we know the story of God mightily moving at Ephesus And as he mightily moves at Ephesus, many, many people are converted. And the Apostle Paul spends about three years there at Ephesus. During that time, he's teaching the Word of God and giving the gospel. He's establishing a church. He's teaching in the school of Tyrannis. And more than likely what he's doing is he's basically investing in the next generation of who would become the pastors or the elders of the church at Ephesus. We know that later on Paul goes back to Ephesus. He meets with all of the leadership of the church at Ephesus and he warns them and he encourages them and he says. You've got to hold fast to the truths that I have taught you. What's all this to say? Paul really loved the people at Ephesus. He had a heart for them. He had a burden for their spiritual development. In fact, seven to nine years after the church was started Paul writes two epistles. He writes 1 Timothy, because he has sent Timothy to Ephesus to set in order things that were not good. And then at the end of his life, before he dies He pens 2 Timothy, and there he basically gives Timothy his last thoughts. He says, I'm going to die. I want you to be faithful. So this leads me to a question. Why does he say, I'm thankful because I heard of your faith when it seems like he led a lot of people to Christ there? You ever thought about that? Maybe you have, maybe you haven't. But here's what's very interesting about it. As Paul writes this letter, he's writing to a group of people, some who he knew very, very well. Some who he had led to Christ, some who he had poured three years of pastoral type of ministry in. He had worked to help them develop as ministers of the gospel. But he was also meeting with people that he had ne or he was also writing to people that he had never met. And you know who those people were? They were the fruit of his investment of ministry and those initial people that were saved In other words, these are not the children of Paul's ministry. These are the grandchildren, and in some cases, maybe even the great-grandchildren of Paul's ministry. And what's kind of interesting for me going back to the place where I grew up is there are a lot of people that I recognize and that I know from the years that I was growing up. There's a lot of people I don't know. There's a lot of people I've never met them. There are people that my my wife's like, well I remember when that teacher was uh in the nursery and I was taking care of them. Okay, it's kind of weird, you know, to have a situation like that. But that's the case. And so when you go back to a place that you haven't been for a long time, or you write a letter to some people that you haven't spoken to in a long time, you're not just rejoicing in them as individuals. But you're investing in how, or you're you're rejoicing in how they took what you gave them and they're actually using it. I'll give you the example. How about being a grandparent? I'm not a grandparent, but I got to watch grandparents work with my kids. And my mom and dad are different grandparents than they were parents. Let's just be totally honest about it. Okay? They're different. They really are. It's just a different dynamic altogether. But you know what's really interesting? What's really interesting for somebody who's a grandparent who sees their grandchildren having the same kind of values. That they gave to their children. There's got to be something really sweet about that. Because what it's saying is this. It's not just that I gave But they took. And it's not just that they took, but they processed it. And they made it their own, and now they're giving it just like I did. And in some cases, worse. In some cases, better. The truth is that a a a person who grows up in a Christian home who really had his mom and dad invest deeply in them, that person has a lot of tools to invest in their children. They should theoretically on paper do even better than their parents did because they're standing on their shoulders. And so when the Apostle Paul writes these verses , He's not just rejoicing in his children in the gospel. He's rejoicing in their children. He's rejoicing in the fact that as I've invested in you, you took what I gave you, you made it your own, you've given it to them, and so I am overwhelmed. By thankfulness to God, that there's not just one generation, but there are multiple generations where I started working. Same thing is true for missionaries. You know, when a missionary invests, their goal is to basically work themselves out of a job. And the the reason that they do that is because the people that they invest in, they're supposed to do the work in their place, and they'll do an ex exceptional job. And so that's what Paul has here. He's communicating his love for his children, grandchildren, and great-grandchildren in the face. A shepherding heart. And notice these three little things. He says, I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus. You know what that tells me? He kept in contact with them. He kept in contact with them. Paul didn't just invest and then leave, and that was the end of it. Paul continued to be concerned about their well-being. He communicated with them. They wrote him letters. He wrote them letters back. Paul sends Timothy. He wants to hear about what's going on. And so part of that shepherding heart is. He stayed in communication with this church. The second thing we see is the statement, ceased not to give thanks for you. He was emotionally engaged in their well-being. He felt the weight of the things that he read. When he hears about people that aren't doing well, it grieves his heart. When he hears about people that are doing well, it gives him encouragement and he's excited. When he hears about struggles. He wants to be able to influence that in some way for the good of the people. Paul is engaged emotionally. And thirdly, he is regularly praying for them. I hope you realize that prayer is actually a participation in the ministry of others. We have all these missionaries that we are in communication with. When you pray for these missionaries, I don't mean just God bless all the missionaries and help them to have a good day today, but I mean you really know what's going on in their lives. You read those letters. One of our missionaries almost died recently, had a heart attack. Did you know that? It's true. And so when we read these letters and we find out what's going on in their lives, we actually take the time to lift up these requests before the Lord. We know what's going on. This is the shepherding heart. This is what what you do with your grandkids. This is what you do with your children. This is what you do with the dearest friends in your life. Even though you are separated by distance, you love them. You want to stay in communication with them. And so this comes out in his letter. And so I leave you with this very simple thought here. This pattern that Paul had should be in our lives as well. Now, you know what's really interesting? We talk about the concept of a pastor or a shepherd. This is a concept that actually goes into lots and lots of different avenues of life. If you are raising children right now, you are not a pastor like Pastor Jaul, but you are a shepherd to the souls of those kids. You're caring for them. You're teaching them. You're leading them. You're restraining them. You're giving them opportunities. You're challenging them. You're encouraging them. You're lifting them up when they're down. You're doing all those things. One of the clearest examples of places where the shepherding heart needs to come out is in our homes. And I think as you get older and you start realizing the things that don't matter as much in life and the things that really do matter in life, it kind of changes how you even work with your own children. Were were any of you a little bit harsher with your first child than your your your next one? Why is that? Because I was worn out. That could be it. Could be that you learned something too, though. It could be that you realize I need to make some adjustments in the way that I handle my children. Shepherding heart. Oh, we think about the friendships that are developed within the church context. We think about where we work, where you go to school, whatever the different setting. The truth is that this idea of shepherding people is a really big deal. One of the things that was really fun for me going back to Florida was I got to go to the cabinet shop where I worked when I was a college student. Not the whole time I was in college, but part of it, I'll put it that way. And the guy that's running the shop now is someone who's younger than me. I remember him running around with my brother, and my brother's five years younger than me. But one of the things that really impressed me about this guy Is that he really loved the young men that were working there in the shop with him. He took time to talk to them. I saw him uh So he took them out to the uh sports complex where they're where they were uh having games and stuff like that. I was talking to uh one of the fathers of one of the young men that works there, and he said, you know, that boss takes a real interest in all the guys that work there in the shop. He's not just teaching them how to work. He's not just expecting them to work so they get a paycheck, but he's investing in their lives. There's coaches like that There's teachers like that. There's Sunday school teachers like that. Yes, there's even some bosses like that. And the truth is that this concept of being a shepherd is something that should be a part of all of our lives. Here's my question. Are you just going through the motions of being a dad? Just going through the motions of being a mom Just going through the motions and doing your job. Or are you looking for opportunities to invest and to shape and to mold in a godly way? Are you invested emotionally in the lives of the people? people that God has brought into your life. Second thing, we see the shepherd's foundation, verses 17 and 18. He says that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation and the knowledge of Him The eyes of your understanding being enlightened, that ye may know what is. And I'm going to pause there because we're going to come back to what he's talking about. Now, what is the foundation for the way that the Apostle Paul prays for the church? Where did he get the idea to pray the way that he did? Well, Paul's prayer was not in a vacuum. There was something there in front of him, and there were certain things around him that were shaping the way that he prayed. And what was shaping the way that Paul prayed was the truth of Scripture, specifically the gospel. The gospel, its implications, and how it personally touched his life and the lives of these people, that was shaping the way that he prayed in at least two ways. His teaching shaped the way that he prayed for the church. Notice his prayer started with praise to God. If we go back earlier in these verses, verse number three, he says. Blessed be God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places. That word blessed has the idea of let God be praised. So he's praising God before he asks requests. The second thing, though, is that we see that his prayer is built on the rehearsal of lots and lots of gospel truths. He is the God who has what? blessed us with all spiritual blessings in Christ Jesus. He's chosen us before the foundation of the world to be holy and without blame before him. He's predestined us unto adoption as ch of children by Jesus Christ. He has done this to the praise of his glorious grace. We have redemption through his blood. What's he doing there? He is not just praising God, but he is rehearsing all kinds of things. that God has done and that are true about these people's lives. And you know what's interesting about all of them? They all go back to the gospel. The gospel is the center of all of it. And so this is what is motivating Paul. He's praising God because of the gospel. He's rehearsing these truths to himself. And then he's assuming that all of these things are true about them. And we know that because he says you, verse 7, have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. He's abounded to us in all wisdom. and all prudence. So he's saying this isn't just true about me, it's true about us together. What is shaping his prayer? What he's taught. Secondly, his teaching is laying the foundation for the content of what he's going to pray. This is interesting to me. Because what Paul is really praying is this: that the people would understand what he just taught them. I'll give you a simple parallel. When we open up our Bible and we read it, and I say, let's bow for prayer, and I say, God, open our eyes. to the significance of the truths we've just read. Very simple, right? God, take the truth that I've just read Take the truth that's going to be preached and going to be taught and going to be illustrated and take that truth and sink it into our hearts so that it really moves us. That it warms our affection, that it strengthens us in the inner man, that it shapes us, that it changes us, that it causes us to want to praise the Lord. That causes us to want to submit to him and obey him. In other words, Paul's instruction didn't just shape like how he prayed for the church, it was the content of what he was focused on. God, take these truths and make them sink into the hearts of these people. It's like you're sitting there and you're thinking about your kids and you're like, I love my son and I love my daughter, and I'm thankful about a lot of the things I see going on the right, but I'm really concerned about this issue right here. I feel like I've brought it up to them over and over and over again. I've tried this way, I've tried that way. I'm at a loss for what to say. I'm at a loss for what to do. God, you gotta do it. I can't. I need you to take the truth And I need you to grip their soul in the way that I don't have the ability to do it, and open their eyes. That's what Paul's Doing. And guess what? We're all going to find times where we need to do this. And I love the way that he puts it: that God would give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation and a knowledge of Him. That's not in a vacuum. He's not saying let them sit there one day and all of a sudden all these things just pop into their head and they're like, I know God now. That's not what he's saying. He's saying, all this investment, all this that I have given to them, let that take root in their heart, so that that becomes a part of who they are. That's what he's saying. That's what a spirit of wisdom and revelation and knowledge of him is. It's taking the word of God and it becoming personal, gripping our souls in a real, living, and vibrant way. And then I love what he says in the next little part. He says, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened that you might know. These are actually referring to two different things. When he says the eyes of your understanding being enlightened, he's not praying that it will. He's saying it has happened. They say, what do you mean? It's kind of like this. When you go to the next chapter, chapter 2, and we're going to deal with this passage. He says, You have to be quickened who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. And he lays out all of who they were. He says, But God, who is rich in mercy for his great love with he loved us when we were dead, he has quickened us together with Christ by grace you're safe. Basically what he's saying is this God interrupted your life and he turned the light on and you saw the truth. And he's saying, because that's true, I'm praying that God will open your eyes further. He's brought you face to face with your sin and the gospel and the way of salvation, and you've turned the Lord in repentance and faith, and you've been born again, and he's given you a new heart, and now I'm praying that he He's going to open your understanding more. And that you'll know God in a way you've never known him before. And that knowledge will grow deeper. and fuller and richer and it'll grip your heart more and more and it'll warm your affections and it'll completely transform who you are as a person That's what he's praying. That's a pretty awesome prayer, isn't it? That's not just God help the missionaries. It's deeper than that. And God basically Paul was praying that God would cause the church to be gripped by truth and gospel implications. Think of some of the things that he said. You've been blessed with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. He's like, I just told you that. I want you to get it. You've been chosen to be holy without blame before him. I've told you that. Now I want you to get it Your salvation is going to be completed. I've told you. I want you to get it. You're accepted in the beloved. You're redeemed. You're forgiven through the sacrifice of Christ. I've told you. Why don't you get it? You've been sealed by the Spirit of promise until the day of redemption. I've told you. I want you to get it. You get it. All the blessings that you have are result of God's love, God's good pleasure, his desire to reveal the greatness of his grace. I've told you I want you to get it. You know how many Christians can parrot off that information, but it doesn't sink in. And that's really the difference between a spirit-filled Christian and a very a very complacent Christian, a mature and a wise Christian and someone who's just bumping along. Is that the truth that is true of them grips them personally? Third thing I want you to see here is how we actually praise. And this is in verses 18 through 23. Notice what he says. He says, the eyes of your understanding being enlightened that you might know what is the hope of his calling. Important statement. What are the riches of the glory of the inheritance in the saints? Second thing. What are the exceeding greatness of his power to usward who believe according to the working of his mighty power? Which is wrought in Christ Jesus, whom he has raised from the dead. And let's break it down so we can see these individual components that Paul is praying, that they're gonna get The first thing is he prays that they would be gripped by the security of their position. Verse 18, that you may know what is the hope of his calling. Well, what was the hope of his calling? Well, if we go back to chapter one at the beginning, he talks about the fact that you are holy and without blame before him. He's predestined you to adoption. You've been sealed with the spirit of promise until the day of redemption. He wants you to get it What you have, what is your future hope, what you've not tasted fully yet, what you are waiting for, I'm praying that you will be gripped by that. This isn't I prayed a sinner's prayer, I got my fire insurance, I don't think about God again. That isn't what it is at all. This is the most important thing to me in all the world. I'm secured in Christ. And so he's looking forward to what I'm going to experience in the future. Second thing, he prayed that they would be gripped by the wealth of their eternal inheritance. Verse 19. What are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints? And by the way, if we were to sit down and we're to just take a list, I know it's not a Sunday school class, but if this is a Sunday school class, we could take the board behind us and be like, all right, let's just talk about this inheritance. What's all there? Oh, we're going to go to heaven and walk on streets of gold Okay, let's go a little deeper than that, folks. Hey, we're forgiven. Okay, let's go a little deeper than that. We're justified. Let's go a little deeper. We're accepted in the beloved. Okay, let's go a little deeper. I'm gonna enjoy God for all of eternity. And we just start walking through all the different things that we have as a direct result of what Christ has done for us. And he's saying, I want you to know them deeper and deeper and deeper, and I want them to grip you more and more and more. What's the result of this? Worship. Third, he prayed that they would be gripped by the depths of God's power displayed in their salvation. By the way, God displays his power in our salvation on so many different levels. I mean, we could just talk about the fact that God made a promise. And that through all of the ups and downs of the Old Testament narratives, you look at all of those stories, all those times where God's plan was on the line and God worked. All of those examples are testimonies to the sovereign power of God to bring the Lord Jesus into the world and then to die for our sins. Or we think about the miracle of the incarnation, or we think about the nature of the cross, or we think about the power of the resurrection, and then we could go beyond the actual implications of the gospel message itself and say, what about your personal life? you who are dead in trespasses, but God who is rich in mercy, he interrupted your life, he brought you to a point of repentance and faith. He transformed you through the preaching of the word of the gospel His power was displayed in your conversion. And he says that same power That brought this all to past, that made it personal in your life, that raised Jesus from the dead, that power is what enables you to live this Christian life today He actually makes that point quite a few times. The exceeding greatness of his power to us who believe, according to the working of his mighty power, which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead. You know what's very interesting? This prayer is basically saying, God help these people to be gripped by the implications of the gospel in the past, in the present, in the future, so their whole life is centered back on this message. That's what it's all about. But then there's a fourth. And this is what we're going to really break down, Lord willing, next week. He prayed that they would be gripped with the supremacy of Christ over all things. Verse 20 Which he wrought in Christ when he raised him from the dead and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places far above all principalities and powers and might and dominion and every name that is innamed, not only in this world, but also which is to come. He hath put all things under his feet And gave him to be the head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in and all. You say, well, what's that talking about? He's basically saying, help them realize how great Jesus is. How awesome he is. His power, his authority, his greatness. Folks, the church is about Christ. He's the head of the church He 's the savior of the body. He's the author in these , he's the finisher of our faith. He's our perfect example. He's the one that we are to look to in all things. And so in these verses, we're going to really break this down, Lord willing, next week, but he talks about how he's sovereign over all of his creation. And think about this. The one who owns it all stepped into it. The one who made it all, he steps in and he takes on the humiliation of humanity. And he did that so we could be saved. He is the sovereign over every realm, the human and the spiritual. Think of some of the very powerful people in human history who thought they could stick their nose in the eyes of God and say, I can do whatever I want, and he said, wrong. Nebuchadnezzar, you're gonna eat grass for a while until you realize that you're just a mere mortal and I'm gonna even put you back into power. That one is what really gets me. Like like like why weren't his advisors going like, didn't you watch him you know eat grass and crawl around like an animal? Why are we making him the king again? I mean really that that's what really blows my mind. Well that's what he did. Or you look at the Pharaoh. He says, I don't know your God. And he says, well you'll know him by the end of these plagues. And God has shown himself to be the sovereign over all over and over and over again. But he's not just the sovereign over humans. Satan trembles in his presence too. He can't go any further than God permits. This is the Lord over all. Every single knee is going to bow before his presence. His sovereignty isn't just for now, it's forever. He is the one who is going to rule forever. And he makes it very personal. He is a sovereign uniquely related to the church. Which is his body, the fullness of him that filleth all in all. This is his bride. This is his church When Jesus says, I'm going to build my church and the gates of hell will not prevail against it, like he's not saying I'm going to build your church, he's going to say, I'm going to build my church. Because it's his. We're a part of it. We don't own it. And so Paul's prayer is that these people will have lives that are firmly rooted on the gospel. You know how much would get cleaned up in our lives if this became our focus and it really gripped us the way that it should? So what's the significance from a shepherd's perspective here? He wants the church to find its security in Christ alone. He wants the church to find its satisfaction in the wealth of an eternal inheritance that comes from Christ alone. He wants the church to live with a vibrant realization of the greatness of God's power demonstrated through the work of Christ. He wanted the church to be overwhelmed by the supremacy of Christ over all things. And guess what? If we have a shepherding heart, this will translate into how we pray for the people around us. The problem is we don't think like Paul. That's the problem. But here's the good news: you still can. Even if that's not been your pattern, that can change today. You can go back to this passage of scripture and you can read through it and you can say, God, you know, as a Christian, I do love my kids, I do love my spouse, I do love the people that I work with, I do love other people. I love the kids in my Sunday school class. I really do, but I don't love them like this text shows me to love them. God, change that. Get on your knees, read through the text and say, God, help me to have this in my heart. And help me to lay these requests before you on a regular basis over the lives of these people. That's how we should pray for our missionaries. May God help us to have such a heartbeat. Say, well, well, Pastor, how do you apply this? Let me give you some very simple thoughts that I hope can help you apply what we've read what we looked at this morning. First is this: this shepherding heart should characterize all of us. Not just pastors and not just deacons. All Christians. All Christians. You say, well, I'm not a very mature Christian. Hopefully you are a maturing Christian. None of us are mature duh Christians. We're all going through this process of growth. That's not talking about our position. That's not talking about whether or not God accepts us, but it is talking about how much we look like Jesus. On a daily basis. We should all have this heart. Number two, this heart should shape, should be shaped by a rich understanding of the gospel. This week I was talking to some young some young people after after chapel and they were struggling with this issue of assurance of salvation. I asked them a lot of questions. and from everything I could tell, they had truly placed their faith in Christ. They understood the gospel, but they still had doubts in their mind. And this is what I said to them. When you have doubts, go to this passage of scripture right here. And you read through it and you say, God, thank you for doing that for me. God, I thank you that this is true about me because of what you did for me And rehearse that in your mind. And by the way, maybe there's some times that you're not struggling with doubts. You don't have to wait until you struggle with doubts to do that. Just go and Pick up your Bible and go to these passages and on a regular basis go through them and read them and reflect on them and thank God for those things. Guess what? When our hearts are being shaped by the gospel and that really takes root in our hearts, It's amazing how it changes us. It's like a person who decides it's a new year and I'm going to start exercising every day. First day they go into the gym, they hurt a lot. Actually, it's the second or third day that you hurt a lot. But they stay at it. They keep going Incrementally, they establish this pattern and they start adjusting how they eat, they start adjusting the exercise level, and they do it for one month, and then they do it for two months, and they do it for three months, and they do it for four months. And pretty soon they've gone through half the year and all of a sudden their weight's different, their physique's different, their energy level's different, their body feels different. Why is that? Well said incremental change. Just happens at a little a little bit at a time. And what is Paul doing? He's saying, God, make that change incrementally happen in the hearts of all these people. Not physical, spiritual. Shepherding cares. Shepherding care always points people to the gospel and the supremacy of Christ A shepherd isn't trying to get people to follow them. A shepherd is pointing people to Jesus. I saw something really, really funny this week. Cheryl sent me my a meme. It was a very interesting meme. See, I'm gonna use this as an illustration. So, it's only outstanding if you see it. So there there was this gully that was just, I think there's water just like flying through this gully. And all these sheep behind that gully, and there's this narrow little passage. And you know what? That shepherd couldn't get the sheep to cross that little passage. So you know what he did? He grabbed one of those sheep and he pulled them up across and as soon as they saw that one go they just lined up and they started going. Here's what's really sad about life. A lot of people try to get the people to follow them. But what we need to do is point them to Jesus. It's a really interesting illustration because the truth is that's how most people live their lives. They follow the person right in front of them. And when those people are doing the right thing, it works pretty well, but the motive's not good. But it looks good on the outside. When the people around them aren't, guess what? It doesn't look very good. What people need to do is Do is need to follow Christ. And our job as shepherds, under -shepherds, on whatever level, is to point them to Jesus and say, Don't follow the crowd, follow Savior. Don't follow me. Don't follow the people that follow me. Follow Jesus. Let's all follow him together. At different levels of maturity, different ages, different backgrounds. Let's follow Jesus. Shepherding points people to the gospel and the supremacy of Christ. And lastly, I want to challenge you very simply. Let's pray like this. Let's pray like this. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to help us to really think about these things this morning. Our Father in heaven, I thank you for your word. It is so rich, it is so powerful, it is so full of truth. And as Paul communicated his prayer for these people , What was being revealed was the way that godly people pray. What values really shape those prayers? And so as we think about our kids, and as some in this room think about their grandkids and maybe even great-grandkids, we think about the people that we work with or the people that are in our classes. The people that we have opportunity to have somewhat of a mentoring relationship with, I pray that we would pray for them like this. Our hearts would be gripped by the gospel that we would love Jesus above all else, and that we would constantly be pointing people to Him. We ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.