Okay, well good evening. I want to welcome everybody. Hope you're having a good week. And I know it was really hot to start the week out. Today was a little better. It's going to be hot tomorrow, and then it's going to be cool this weekend So uh looking forward to uh a little bit of a relief from an early heat wave here. Uh let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we'll open up our Bibles again to Matthew chapter six. And we will work our way through this text together. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we're so grateful for this opportunity to open our Bibles tonight. to dig into the Word of God and I pray that as we spend time together in your word you'd speak to our hearts. Help me as I work through this passage and the the truths that are connected with it to be able to present this clearly and in a way that's helpful to each person here tonight. And I pray that as we have time together in prayer, that you would just bless our fellowship together, help us to bear one another's burdens, and uplift those who have great needs. And I pray for your just continued work in our church faith. family. Bless the children in the back and the classes that are going on. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Matthew chapter six is where we are tonight, so let's go ahead and take our Bibles there. And we'll look at this passage, I think, on the screen. We're looking at verses 9 and 10, but we're going to start in verse 5 just to read the section, kind of remind ourselves where we've been. And then we're going to dig into the next portion of the Lord's Prayer. So, Matthew chapter 6, verse number 5. And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are, for they love to pray standing in the synagogue and in the corners of the street, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father which is in secret, and thy father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. But when you pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen do, for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking. Be ye not therefore like unto them, for your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him. After this manner, therefore, pray ye. Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name, thy kingdom come, thy will be done. Now, as I like to do each night when we're digging through these passages, I'd like to start with a summary statement, and what we're focusing in on is that little section Thy kingdom come, and thy will be done in earth as it is in heaven. Not only should prayer be shaped by recognition of our relationship to God as our Father, and his character, his good character, but it should also be shaped by a longing for him to set in order all things as he has designed them. And when he says that we are to pray that his kingdom comes and that his will is done, what what he's ultimately saying is we should have this longing that God's rule is established the way that it should be. and that people are obeying his wills. That really is the sense of what Jesus is saying we should pray. So there's two key phrases here. The first is Thy kingdom come, and the second is thy will be done. So that's really what we're looking at, those two statements tonight. So the first truth I want you to notice in your Bibles tonight is that those who know God Desire him to set all things right. Now, on our Sunday morning messages as we're working our way through the book of Luke, we spend a lot of time talking about the second coming of Christ. And when we talk about Christ's coming, we know that there's going to be the rapture of the church. This is something that is imminent. That means that it can happen at any moment. So tonight. We anticipate we are living as if the Lord will take us to be with him right here at this moment. That doesn't mean he is, but we should be living as if he is because he said there's nothing that that causes me to tarry You do not know the day and you do not know the hour, and there's no signs of the rapture. You need to be ready for the rapture. And then we know that after the rapture of the church, that there's this period of time that's going to be again called the day of the Lord. And the day of the Lord is a period that encapsulates the tribulation and then ultimately leading to the second coming of Christ. What is the purpose of the second coming of Christ? Well it is for him to punish evil in the world and to establish this foretaste kingdom. It's a thousand-year reign where we're going to see just a foretaste of what eternity will be like. But then at the end of that thousand-year reign, there's going to be one last rebellion. Satan will be loose for a season, and there'll be a massive rebellion against God. And then he is going to wipe out evil. The great white throne judgment is going to be what ultimately determines the weight of a person's eternal destruction in hell and then the eternal state, the new heaven and the new earth. So when we talk about his kingdom coming, we see kind of these foretastes of the kingdom of God coming. Ultimately, it's referring to his eternal state for us, his people. But what this does is this reminds us that we need to have a basic understanding of what the Bible has to say about God's kingdom And so when I say basic, this is going to be really basic, okay? But a basic theology of the kingdom. This is God's world, and we are invited to participate in his administration of that rule. Now there are a couple of things that we need to be reminded of when we talk about this issue of God's kingdom. The first is we need to consider God's design. What was God's plan in the beginning? Well in Genesis chapter 1 verse 26 it says, God said, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. He's talking about the dignity of people. We are not animals and we're not machines. We are image bearers. We are made in the likeness of God. But the next little statement is very important. He says, and let them, mankind. have dominion. That word dominion has the idea that we're supposed to rule, we're supposed to manage God's creation. We also see this in Psalm 8 verse 5. He says thou hast crowned him with glory and honor, and has made him to have dominion over the works of thy hands, and has put all things under his feet. There's a reason that when Adam sinned, all of creation was affected by his sin It was not Satan's sin that caused the world to fall into this chaos. It was not Eve's sin that caused the world to fall into this chaos. It was Adam's sin. And you say why? It's because God designed to rule his creation through mankind. Adam was supposed to exercise dominion. And so when the fall happened, there was destruction and chaos and corruption that came as a result of this. And we can follow this in a lot of different areas, but I want to notice two ways that the fall affected mankind. There's two kinds of people in the world. There are men, there are women. Men have a certain function because God created them with that function, and ladies have a very distinct function as well. And so in Genesis 3. 16, it talks about how the fall affected Eve's function or role in this creation. It says I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception, and sorrow shalt thou bring forth children, and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee. Now, he's talking about three ways that Eve was affected by the fall. Number one, she's affected because in the bearing of children, she's going to have pain and sorrow and trouble. Okay? God created male and female so that we could produce after our kind. Okay? We could produce other image bears in the context of the covenant of marriage. And now the woman who is to bear children is going to suffer and experience pain and heartache and struggle and sorrow as she brings children into the world. The second is it says your desire will be to your husband. And I think what he's saying by this is not that, well, you're going to have to serve your husband. The order of creation was established before the fall. When he says your desire will be to your husband, what he's basically saying is you're going to want to take the role that your husband has and you want to turn upside down the order of the family. And then when it says that your husband will rule over you, he's talking about the fact, not that he's going to have the position of the one who is responsible in the home as the head of the household. But that he is going to be domineering and harsh because he is now a sinner and you're a sinner and there's going to be friction in the home. So you see how the fall affected the family. the bearing of children, the order in the home, the wife's desire toward her husband's responsibility, and the husband's abuse of his authority. That's what happens in a fallen world. And then he talks about the role of the man, Genesis 3. 19. He says, In the sweat of thy face thou shalt eat bread, till thou return into the ground. Out of it thou wast taken. and from dust thou art, and unto dust thou shalt return. What is the man's responsibility? Well it's to provide for his family. It's to protect his family And in the caring for his family, he is going to wear himself out because of the heartache of now farming in a fallen world. He's going to sweat and he's going to work the dirt and one day he's going to die and he's going to go back to the dirt physically speaking. Now he's still an eternal. He's going to go to be with the Lord if he is saved, but his body is going to die. And so we see how the fall affected everything. Relationships, our work, the bearing of children, all of this is affected. But then we see in Genesis the promise of God. Genesis 3. 15 he says, I'll put enmity between thee and the woman, between thy seed and her seed. Thou shalt bruise thy head. and thou shalt bruise his heel. And right on the heels of saying, here are the consequences of now being in a fallen world. Right in that same context he gives hope. And the hope is that the seed of the woman is going to crush the head of the serpent. This is really the first mention of how God is going to deal a death blow to what Satan has been able to accomplish in this moment. He has been able to entice Adam and Eve to disobey God. But God's going to win in the end. That is the sense of it. God gives this promise of redeemer. And we see the culmination of this in 1 Corinthians 15, 21. Here's what it says. Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. For as in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive. Every man after his own order, Christ the first fruits, afterward they that are Christ that is coming. Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom of God, even the Father. When he shall have put down all rule and authority and power, he must reign till he hath put all enemies under his feet, and the last enemy that shall be destroyed is death. Now, what is he saying? In 1 Corinthians 15, he is emphasizing the fact that the cross and the resurrection is what enables God to complete the promise given in Genesis chapter 3. So Genesis 3 is putting to 1 Corinthians 15. In other words, he's saying God is going to establish his rule. He's going to set everything straight. He's going to destroy evil. He's going to punish the wicked, and he's going to redeem his people, and he's going to bring them to be with them forever. They're going to be glorified. That is the sense. But there's one little piece that I have to mention. There's an interim period, and that's what we're living in right now You say, well, how long is the interim period? We have no idea. He doesn't tell us how long it is. But the interim period is from the fall to the completion of everything. That's where we are today. And the question is, what happens here? Romans chapter 8 states it so very well, verse 23. We ourselves groan Grown within ourselves, waiting for the adoption to wit the redemption of our bodies. And by the way, when he talks about the adoption He's talking not about our redemption when we're saved and justified. He's actually talking about that future experience where we get all the benefits in our glorified state. So when he talks about adoption, he's not talking about, okay, I got saved, so now I'm adopted. It's I'm going to receive the adoption In the future. That's the sense of what he's talking about. But until that day, we wait and we groan in ourselves. What's he saying? People struggle because we're living in a fallen world. He says if we the redemption of our bodies, if we hope for that we see not, then we with patience wait for it. So what's Paul saying? In the interim period, we deal with struggles. And hardships and suffering and evil. In fact, Malachi 2 states this very well. He says, Did not he make one? And yet had he the residue of the spirit, and wherefore what? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore take heed to your spirit, lest none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. And Malachi Chapter 2, it's a fascinating passage. There was a situation where you had Jewish men who were married and they were divorcing their wives because they didn't want to have them anymore, and they wanted to marry younger wives, and they wanted to start new families, and they were dealing treacherously, that's the word that it uses, with the wives of their youth. And the point that he makes is he says, you need to remember why God created marriage. Why did he take two and make them one? To seek a what? Godly. See it. You know what's amazing? This verse in Malachi chapter 2, it takes you back to the creation where you see the original design. And it shows you what happens in the interim where you have this struggle because we are fallen creatures and we're tempted to not be faithful in our marriages and we're tempted to not be the kind of husband or wife that parent that we should be. That's the interim period. Now it is because of these truths that Jesus is going to state what he states, pray, thy kingdom come. We should be living in such a way that we desire the kingdom of God to be established. And part of the kingdom of God being established is, well, it's leading people to Christ today because those are the people who are going to be the inhabitants of this future kingdom. And it's also encouraging believers to live in a faithful way today because that's going to affect the judgment seat of Christ and their future experience in that eternal state. So how does this understanding shape our prayer life? Well, let me give you these thoughts. First, his kingdom should be our driving passion. We shouldn't be living for this world, folks. Now we shouldn't hate the physical world we live in, okay? We shouldn't treat these bodies as if they have no value. We shouldn't Treat our human relationships as if they have no value. We shouldn't view money as evil and sinful. But we should not be living for the here and the now. Luke 12 he says it this way, seek not what you shall eat or drink, for all these things the nations of the world seek after, and your father knoweth that you need these things. But rather seek ye the kingdom of God, and all these things shall be added unto you. That's the way that the believer is supposed to live. Secondly, we should not allow ourselves to be gripped by materialism. 1 Timothy 6, 6, godliness with contentment is great gain. We brought nothing into this world. It is certain we can carry nothing out. Having food and raiment, let us therewith be content. And later on he says, fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses. And so what Paul is telling Timothy is he's saying, rather than being consumed with greed and of material possessions Be a godly person. Be content with what God gives you. Live for what matters. Lay hold on eternal life. You're a Christian. But you need to live like eternity is actually more important than the here and the now. That's what he's saying. And thirdly, we should see everything that he gives us as a stewardship to be invested in wisely. 1 Timothy 6. 17, charge them that are rich in this world not to be high-minded or to trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy. That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate, laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come that they may lay hold on eternal life. You know what I love about the Bible? The Bible presents the right balance. Okay? The Bible doesn't say if if you are materially prospering that that's evil or that you should feel guilty. The fact is if you're doing hard work And you're a faithful and honest person, and you live according to God's principles and standards, you have a good work ethic, and you learn how to manage your money well, I would assume that you would become financially prosperous to some degree because there are blessings that are associated with living according to God's principles. And so a person shouldn't feel guilty if God blesses them and prospers them. But there's a hook potentially there. Because we have the potential to start becoming proud. Look what I've gained through my wisdom Look what I've gained through my strength. Look what I've gained through the good choices that I've made. And there is an extent, some level where some of that is true. But who gave you that wisdom? Where'd you get the steps? Where'd you get the strength? All those things. Well, it's all of God's hand. So he says, don't become proud and don't trust in those things. The fact that you have something doesn't mean that you have it forever. I mean, we're all gonna we're all gonna die one day, and everything that we've had is gonna be left to someone else. If we planned well, we'll get to decide who it goes to, and if we haven't, then the state decides. That's how it goes. But he says, let those people be generous. Let them invest those riches wisely. That's what he says. So the first thing that he that he mentions when it comes to our prayer life is those who know God desire him to set all things right. They live for the kingdom. They're not living for material possessions. When we pray, we shouldn't be praying out of greed and out of a lust for things. We should be praying with a desire to see the kingdom of God advance. Second thing we see here is those who know God will long for people. and circumstances to conform to his design. When God says to do something, there's a reason for that. Oh, it's because he's mean and he likes seeing people suffer. No, it's not. He made the world the way that it is. And he designed it to be a certain way. It's sort of like is there anybody here that's an an owner's manual reading kind of a person? Okay, are there any people that are not owner's manual reading kind of people? You get the thing and you open it up and you try, I see that handbag there. That's the way that I am. I usually like to figure it out myself. And then after I mess it up, gotta go back and read the owner's manual. That's how it goes Well, the whole purpose of an owner's manual is that when you get something that that you can use, and it's been designed, you read through that And the people that made it tell you how it works. And there's all kinds of stuff that you would know if you read to the owner's management that you never know by just looking at the things sitting in your kitchen or sitting on your dining room table or sitting in your garage or whatever it is. So by going and reading through it and seeing what it was designed to do, you will be able to experience the best benefit from that particular thing. Why? Because you got the instructions from the people who made it. I mean that's really what the Word of God is. God's telling us how to live life. Why? Well, because He made it to go this way I mean when we talk about God's definition of marriage and how a family is supposed to be structured and how we're supposed to relate to to material possessions and work and relationships and all those things. I mean that's God saying this is how I design life to be. Do it my way, and it's a lot better than doing it your way. And so if we believe God's good , We believe people should obey him. It's that simple. We really do. And so when he says, Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven, it's basically saying, God, I want people to obey your will. I want them to do what you tell them to do. I want to do it myself. I want my spouse to do this. I want my children to do this. I want the members of this church to do this. I want my neighbors to do this. I want people to live their life. according to God's instructions. And so this leads us to a second basic little thing I want to stop to talk about is what about God's providence? This is a very complicated topic. So I want to wean into it a little bit because I think that this is something that we need to understand when we come to this issue of praying. Thy will be done on earth as it is in heaven. In other words, does God just like wind up the clock and leave people to themselves and let them do whatever they're going to do? Well the answer is no. He didn't do it that way. Um does God play chess with people? Where he all right, it's my move. I mean you think it's your move, but it's actually my move, and you think it's your move and this is actually my move. Is that the way that God orders the universe? The answer is no. So how does God do this? And the answer is mystery to this. God works directly in his creation to preserve what is good and limit what is evil to accomplish his ultimate purposes. And so let's look at a couple of principles here. First is this. How God actively works in his world is a mystery that God has only partially revealed and should cause us to trust him with what is beyond us. If you believe that you have figured out God's providence, you're wrong. Okay? It's very simple. There's nobody that has gotten this figured out. And the reason I say that is because God tells us that this is the mystery that is beyond our ability to fully comprehend. Isaiah 55 verse 8 says, My thoughts are not your thoughts. Neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. As far as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. Basically, God's saying this, you can see the evidence of how I work, but you won't figure it all out. So simple. You certainly can't figure it out looking forward. You can look back and you can see how God's worked in your life. But even looking back, you can't necessarily figure it all out too. Job 42 verse 1, he says, I know that thou canst do everything and that no thought can be withholding from thee. Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? Therefore have I uttered that I understand not things too wonderful for me which I knew not. You know what the whole point of the book of Job is? The whole point of the book of Job is to tell people who think that they've got life figured out and that everything runs according to the way that they believe it's supposed to be, and God does it the way that they believe he's supposed to do it, that they're wrong. That's the whole point of the book of Job. Because all the people that came to Council Job, they said, Well, the reason that you're having this issue is because you must have done this. And if you'd have done this, this is the outcome you would have had. And God says, That's not the way that I work. 'm I'm not bound to your timetables. I'm not bound to your ways of doing things. The fact is that Job is not suffering because he did something horrible. He's suffering because he's being tested. And he is being purified. And he doesn't even know this is happening. He has no idea what's going on behind the scenes. I haven't revealed this to him. And you believe you've got it all figured out. And I'm telling you, you're wrong. And you know what God does? He rebukes those people at that point. And so Job says, I have spoken things that I don't understand. I said, I got it all figured out. And they've said that they've got it all figured out. And guess what? We were wrong. That's what he's saying. Ecclesiastes 3. 11, he says, He hath made everything beautiful in his time. Also he hath set the world in their hearts, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end. I think it's important for us to start with a dose of humility when we think about this issue. Because the fact is we don't have it figured out and we're not going to have it all figured out. Second thing I want you to notice is this. There are certain things God has promised to do, and nothing will stop these promises from being fulfilled. The greatest example, and there's a lot of examples that we could go to. But to me the clearest of all of them is the incarnation, the cross, the resurrection, and the fact that God keeps his children and gives them a full inheritance. And so I want you to notice this from a couple of texts. Galatians chapter 4, verses 4 to 5, it says this. When the fullness of the time was come. Now, when you see that phrase fullness of time, what that's telling you is God promised something. He has a period of time that he's working, and now it's come to the point where he's going to make this happen. Okay, that's what fullness of time means. God sent forth his son made of a woman made under the law to redeem them that were under the law that we might receive the adoption of sons. God made promises. And God fulfilled those promises, and he did it on his own timetable. Acts chapter 2, verses 22 to 25, the death and resurrection of Christ. Peter's preaching at Pentecost, and this is what he says. Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles. And wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as you yourselves know, him being delivered, that word delivered means God gave them over to your hands. By the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, God said, I'm going to do this long before it took place. He says, you have taken and by wicked hands have crucified and slain whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death. They made choices to do with what God allowed them to do. So what you see is you see a promise and you see a fulfillment And you see God giving people the ability to do what they desire to do, and they act on that, and then God accomplishes this thing that He promised in the beginning. I mean, like, have you figured that out? I mean, like I mean I I can tell you what he did, but I mean like how that all fits together, I I can't I can't fully grasp that God makes a promise. He fulfills the promise. By giving them over to what they want. They do what they want. What they want is evil, but God uses it to accomplish good. And it was what he promised in the beginning. That's the providence of God. That's how it works. The believer's security and full inheritance, Ephesians chapter 1, verses 4 to 5. He hath chosen us in him. before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love, having predestinated us unto adoption of children by Jesus Christ to Himself according to the good pleasure of His will. Now there's a lot of things that people say this is saying, but let me tell you what it's basically saying. If you're a Christian, God promises that you're going to receive all the blessings. All the blessings that are a part of being a Christian. Those would be the blessings you don't have right now. I mean, when he talks about having predestined us to adoption, adoption isn't what I have now, it's what I'm gonna have. Okay? And when he talks about us being holy and without blame, there's a positional side to this, but there's going to be a practical realization of this And so what Paul is hoping in this epistle, Ephesians chapter 1, saying is, if you're a Christian, God promises, and there's nothing that can stop this, that you will get everything that is a part of your salvation. That's really the sense of it. And so what is what is this all saying? Well, God accomplishes his purposes and nothing's gonna stop that. You're gonna have good days and you're gonna have bad days, you're gonna have days that you feel very much like a Christian, and there'll be days and you go, If if I'm a Christian, how can I do that? This. How can I feel this way? And if we're weighing our position based on our feelings, we would say, I'm not saved. Now you are saved, but you don't feel like you're saved. And you know what these verses say? How you feel. And the final analysis is irrelevant. I'm not saying it doesn't matter. It matters to you right now. But in the final analysis it it's irrelevant. Why? Because God has purposed that those who are saved are going to experience all of the benefits of salvation. It's a complete package. Even though I'm not experiencing it yet, I'm going to. That's what he's saying. Thirdly, he permits people freedom to exercise their wills, even when he chooses even when they choose to sin against him. This is amazing. God lets people sin. I didn't say he wants them to sin. I don't see he doesn't tempt them to sin. He doesn't make them sin. He allows them to sin. And that's exactly what we see in this text in front of us. Acts chapter 2 verses 20 verse 23. It says, him being delivered by the determinant counsel and foreknowledge of God you took and by wicked hands crucified and slew him. Now, did the people kill Jesus because he made them do it? The answer is no. They killed Jesus because they hated him. Why did they hate him? Because of their own hearts. But why were they able to kill Jesus? Because God let them. And why did God let them? Because that's how redemption takes place. Do you see that? God didn't make them do this, He allowed them to do this It was of their own will that they chose to do what they did. And from their position, they were doing this out of hatred and animosity towards Jesus. And why does God allow them to do it? Because this is how redemption is accomplished. That's a pretty amazing thing. In other words, God can allow people to sin and it won't stop them from doing what he's going to do. That's pretty amazing. He doesn't want them to sin. He's not tempting them to sin. He's not the author of sin. But he gives them the freedom to choose what they want to do, even when he knows what they're going to do. He even raised up Pharaoh, this very hardened man, to make his glories known. God didn't force Pharaoh to harden his own heart and become a nasty person. That was in Pharaoh. He simply gave him the opportunity to do what he wanted to do. And the more he resisted God, the tougher he got. And eventually, God made an example of him. Fourthly, their sinful choices cannot stop his purpose for good, but they can produce great misery on the way to that end. Proverbs 20 verse 24. This is a fascinating verse. It says, man's goings are of the Lord. How could a man understand his own way? Now, that verse is not saying God is responsible for people's choices. What it's saying is what God allows people to do and the direction their life takes and all the ebbs and the flows of how this goes. They don't fully grasp it. Just pause for a moment and think about this. Where you are today, right now, sitting in this room at this time. Take yourself back 20 years and ask yourself the question, could you ever have ever envisioned you would be here at this moment under these circumstances? I couldn't. I didn't know about this church twenty years ago. I didn't even know my wife's name twenty years ago. I had no clue how many children I was gonna have. I didn't know anything about Anchor Baptist Church and I mean you you just led all these different things. But how did we get to this moment? God just worked in some pretty amazing ways. And as he was doing it, we didn't even really understand what he was doing. And now we look back and we can say, well, you know, God did this here, and he did this here, and he did this here. But a lot of these choices that we made along the way We didn't really understand the ramifications of them at the time. And at the time they didn't seem like a very big deal. But they're a part of how we got here today. Mankind does not understand his own way. It's just that simple. It's bigger than we can comprehend. And so in these verses, Acts chapter 2, verse 24 These people sinned miserably, and we're going to see this in just a second. But what does God do? He raises up Jesus from the dead. It was impossible that he should be holden by death. In Acts chapter 2, verse 36, when they're hearing this preached, they say, what are we supposed to do? It says Let all the house of Israel know assuredly that God hath made the same Jesus whom you crucified, Lord in Christ, now. When they heard this, they were pricked in their hearts. And said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do? Did they make a mess of it? Yes. Did they feel guilty? Yes. Did they have innocent blood on their hands? Yes. Did those people in that crowd say his blood be on us and our children? They really did. I mean that's stunning to think about. And they say, what do we do? And he says, repent, believe, turn to Christ, trust him as your Savior. God will pour out his grace on you. That's what he did. You know what that shows you? God lets people make the choices they want to make. They make misery of their choice, of their of their lives through the choices that they make. And he still extends his hand of grace to them. That's what he did here. I mean, this is one of the greatest examples in all of the Bible. Another thing I want to mention is this sometimes he interrupts people's plans. God doesn't always allow people to do what they want to do. That's a good thing, by the way. It's a good thing that God eventually stopped Adolf Hitler, isn't it? It's a good thing that God takes some people out of this world prematurely. Because if he did it, they would just continue to wreak havoc and there would be more and more evil. It was a good thing when God judged Sodom and Gomorrah. It was a good thing when he sent the flood on the world. You say, why is that? Because he was wiping out evil and he was refining humanity again. It was his grace. It was a good thing when the Tower of Babel caused the languages to be confounded so people spread out. Why? Because if people had the ability to stay in that one place, the kind of rebellion against God would have been unthinkable. God interrupts people's plans all the time, and he does it for the good of them. Proverbs 16, 9 says that a man's heart deviseth his way, but the Lord directeth his steps. There are people who plot and scheme and they've decided what they're going to do in life, and you know what God says? Checkmate. Can't do that. One illness, one decision, one thing that you did not think was going to happen, and it happens. One thing that was completely outside your control. He says, not going to happen. He has the right to do that. He's God. Think about David in 1 Chronicles 28. He wanted to build the temple. That was a good desire. And Nathan the prophet said, All that's in your heart, go and do it. The next day, he had to go back and say, I'm sorry, can't do this. In 1 Chronicles 28, David says I had in my heart to build in house, but God said, Thou shalt not build a house for my name. Sometimes God says no. He has the right. And sometimes intervention is tied directly to prayer. And that takes us back to the Lord's Prayer. You say, wow, that was a long diversion. It was a long diversion. I agree it was a long diversion. However, It's important for us to understand that this is why Jesus says, pray your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Because the bottom line is that God allows people to make choices. The bottom line is that God can stop people. And God intervenes as a direct result of people's prayer. 2 Chronicles chapter 7, verse 14, If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves and pray and seek my face and turn from their wicked ways, then will I hear from heaven, will forgive their sin, and will hear their land. The question we should ask is, well, what if they don't pray? Well he's not going to do that. Does that make sense? He says, if they do it, then I'll respond. That means the prayer matters. It's an important part of how God accomplishes this purpose. The people who don't pray are going to see an answer because they haven't prayed. And those who do will see an example of God's answer. James 5, 6P, this is fascinating. He says, confess your faults one to another and pray for one another that you may be healed. The effectual, fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much. Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain, and it rained not on the earth for the space of three years and six months. He prayed again, and the heavens gave rain, and the earth brought forth fruit. Brethren, if any do err from the truth, and one convert him, let him know he which converteth a sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death and hide a multitude of sin. Now that passage has some interpret challenges, okay? And I preached through this passage. But to put it very simply is this When Elijah saw the wickedness of that nation, he said, God, please withhold rain and get their attention. And you know what God did? Three and a half years, he withheld rain. And then when it was time, he said, God, please send the rain and show them that you care about them. You know what? He did it. Now, what would happen if he didn't pray? I mean, it would appear that God would not have done those things. So, in other words, prayer matters. We need to pray. So how does understanding this, how should this shape our paralyzed? Well, we need to recognize that God reigns, uses all things for his good purposes, but this does not marginalize the weight of people's decisions. Sin is destructive and causes tremendous misery. Many of God's ways are a mystery to us, but he has revealed the need for his people to pray. We need To pray. Third truth. Final truth. Praying after this pattern is a form of practical submission to God. Notice what he did not say My kingdom come and my will be done. He didn't say when you pray, tell God you want your kingdom to be built and you want people to follow your will. But you know what? That's actually how a lot of people pray. God give me this and God give me this and God give me this. And you know, if we could really step back and analyze what we were saying honestly, we'd say, you're telling God, give me what I want right now in the way that I want it, so that I can puff myself up And Jesus is saying, that's not how you pray. You don't start by saying, build my kingdom and give me what I want. He said, Thy kingdom come. And thy will be done. What is that? It's me bending my will to God and saying, What I want is you to rule. And I want your will to be accomplished. not mine. The point is that prayer is about submitting our purposes and our desires to his purposes and his desires. So we need to learn to distrust our natural impulse when it is not shaped by God's word. Proverbs 28:26, he that trusteth in his own heart is a fool. That's God's word, not mine. Whoso walketh wisely shall be delivered. Now you say, well, does that mean that I should never desire, I should always distrust whatever I desire to do? And the answer is, well, it kind of depends on what's causing you to desire that. Because the next statement is this: our decision should be shaped entirely by God's character and ways. The fact that a person has a desire is not necessarily good or bad, it's what's causing it. In Proverbs 3:5 and 6 he says, Trust in the Lord with all thine heart, not part of it, all of it. Lean not on thine own understanding, rather, in all your ways acknowledge him, and he'll direct thy paths Be not wise in thine own eyes, fear the Lord and depart from evil. So basically what Solomon is saying to his son is he's saying, you can lean on your understanding or you can lean on God's understanding. You can lean on his ways or you can lean on your own ways Lean on his ways. Or maybe another way to put it is make your ways conform to his ways so that what you want and what you're pursuing is conform to what he says you should do. And that's exactly what we see in Proverbs or Psalm 37. He says, To delight thyself also in the Lord, he shall give thee the desires of thine heart. People who walk with God. And people who love what God loves, you know what the source of their desires? It's not their selfish heart. It's the word of God putting in their heart godly desires. The things they want to pursue, the things that they plan to do, the things that they want to do. There are things that are aligned to the scriptures because they're walking with God and that relationship with Him is shaping that. Our desires, plans, and the unfolding of those plans must be submitted entirely to his will. And so he says: commit thy way to the Lord. Trust also in him, and he shall bring it to pass. Rest in the Lord and wait patiently for him. Fret not thyself because of him who prospereth, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass. So when we talk about this issue of prayer, we're thinking about number one, I desire the kingdom of God to be established and to come. Number two, I want people to walk in obedience to his will and his ways. And number three, I'm submitting my will. That's what this passage is all about. So what are the practical applications? Three words. First word is priority. We need to prioritize by longing for him to set all things right in his future team. That's what should be most important to me. Second word is humility. We need to long for people and circumstances to conform to his design, not ours. And the third word is trust. We need to be willing to trust him to do what is right according to his timetable So last week we reminded ourselves when we pray, pray our Father, who is good. And we want his name to be uplifted and magnified We start with adoration. Today, we focused on the fact that when we pray and we start asking God for things, the very first things we should ask Him for is number one, His kingdom come. His will be done. Let's pray like that. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for the text in front of us. Thank you for these truths we've been able to work through. They're heavy topics, and I acknowledge that. And so I pray that as we process what we've heard, we would chew on these things and that they would become a part of us. Help us to be a godly people. Who recognize we have the opportunity to walk into the presence of our Father through the work of Christ, that we should reverence and hallow your name and adore you. That we should desire your kingdom and your will above all else. So I pray that our prayer would be shaped by that. Bless our time together as we pray and uplift one another, and we ask it in Christ's name, amen.