Okay, good evening. Good to have each of you tonight, and we're going to do uh something a little bit different tonight. Um this week we were able to have Actually, yesterday, uh myself and a couple of our church members were able to have a uh a video call with one of our missionaries and uh I want to allow you guys to have an opportunity to watch not the entire call but uh a portion of that and I think that it will give you great insight into um how we can pray for this missionary. And so let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer. Um I'm gonna talk a little bit about uh how We should be praying and I want to encourage you to be praying. And then after that we'll cut the live stream and we'll watch uh this video and then after that we're gonna spend some time together in prayer uh specifically for the situation going on in Ukraine. So let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity tonight to gather together, and I pray that as we uh listen to these scriptures, as we watch this video , of a missionary that we have supported for many, many years, a very dear individual. And as we see uh what's going on in other parts of the world right now, I pray that you would grip our hearts. Help us to recognize the weight, the gravity of this situation. Help us to realize how blessed we are at this moment in this land, to have the freedoms we enjoy, to have peace. and the ability to assemble without fear. I pray that tonight you would just minister to our hearts and pray that you would be at work in the situation over there. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen Okay, if you could turn with me to Ecclesiastes chapter 5, and the scriptures that we're going to look at are a little bit of a start into a topic that I want us to address tonight. And the question we're going to ask is, how should we pray for families, our Christian family in Ukraine? And obviously it's been about a week. and uh there is a siege, a a vicious siege going on in the land of Ukraine and um many of the people right now that are in that bullseye, that target area, are people that believe it or not, are uh are believers because of in some part the ministry of this church. Um there are there are pastors that have uh been trained in part by missionaries that we have supported. Our church has been involved immensely in the ministry there in Ukraine. And right now many of the brothers and sisters who have gotten saved, been discipled, or have been trained on some level by people that we have supported right now. They're either fleeing the country or they're literally fighting. for uh preserving themselves as a people. And they're fighting against uh the tyranny that's going on in the land. And so the question is, how do we pray for these people? I want you to look at this passage, Ecclesiastes 5 And I want this to be a good starting place. It says the following, keep thy foot when thou goest into the house of God, be more ready to hear than to give the sacrifice of fools. For they consider not that they do evil. Be not rash with thy mouth. Let not thine heart be hasty to utter anything before God. For God is in heaven and thou upon earth, therefore let thy words be few. You know, whenever we're dealing with a crisis situation, a personal crisis situation, And we feel the weight, and we feel our inadequacy and our lack of wisdom, and we see how vulnerable we are. In those moments, many times we will say and do rash things. In fact, sometimes when it comes to this issue of prayer, the things that we say to God, uh, they aren't really very wise. They're not the kinds of things that you'd expect somebody to be praying for in a situation like that. And so one of the things I want to do tonight is ask the question, how should we pray for these people? How should we respond when it comes to coming on our knees? Horrific tragedies force us to ask very difficult questions. And one of them is how do we approach a holy God who knows everything? How do we petition him in these moments? Well, let me give you some thoughts. First of all, we need to confess how limited we are. I'm going to give you a couple of ways that we need to do this, and I think that tonight when we go to prayer. And we pray specifically for brothers and sisters in Christ in Ukraine, some people that we know them by name, some people that we've even been involved in supporting them or the ministry that they're involved in. that we begin with this confession of our limitations. First of all, confessing our confusion and our pain. When you watch this video, I believe it's going to grip your heart. In fact, we were sitting in the office and we were watching this video and listening to uh these individuals talk about what they're experiencing. There were a lot of tearshed in that room because People saw with their eyes and heard with their ears. Brothers and sisters in Christ suffering and suffering immensely. And I want you to realize that there is nothing wrong with going into the presence of God and expressing your confusion and your pain as you see a situation that's unfolding that in fact It doesn't make a lot of sense, and it's difficult to make sense of. For instance, in Psalm 22, we're going to talk about this on Sunday. We're going to dig a lot into this passage, but it says in verses 1 and 2, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? Why art thou so far from helping me and from the words of my roaring, O my God, I cry in the daytime, but thou hearest not. in the night season and am not silent. What's so interesting about these words is David is both living through a series of circumstances that are causing him to say these things And he's also prophesying what the Lord Jesus Christ would say on the cross. In other words, it wasn't just that God moved David and said, hey, write these things. Jesus is going to experience this on the cross. But he's literally allowing David to live through tremendous pain, tremendous fear, tremendous confusion. And part of the prophecy is that David is living through a moment that's going to help him understand in some small way what the Lord Jesus Christ experienced at the cross. Sometimes God allows us to witness or live through hardship because it gives us a much greater appreciation for what Christ accomplished for us. The the pain, the suffering. And sometimes in those moments we're confused, and God says, Cry out to me In fact, scripture is full of examples of that. A second, I think we should confess the lack of wisdom that we have. In James chapter 1, it says that we are to count it all joy when we fall into diverse temptations. Knowing that the trying of our faith worketh patience. He says, let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire wanting nothing. Then he makes the following statement. If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, who giveth to all men liberally and abbreideth not. What's the context telling us when we are going through difficult trials? It's those trials that God uses to bring us to our knees where we recognize, you know what I don't have the wisdom that I need in this moment. , Sometimes when we pray for people that are in very, very great hardship, we really do not know specifically the best way to pray for them in those situations. Sometimes when we're going through something ourselves, we don't know the best way to pray in those circumstances. And that's why in Romans 8 it says that in those moments the Spirit intercedes for us with groanings which cannot be uttered, according to the will of God. Literally sometimes we go, God, I don't know what to say. I don't even know what to ask for. I just know I need you To move into work in this situation according to your perfect wisdom, I lack wisdom. I think in moments like this we sometimes have to confess such things. Thirdly, we confess our complete inadequacy and how vulnerable we are. Excuse me, in Psalm 22, verse 14, later on in that Psalm we're going to look at on Sunday. He says, I am poured out like water. All my bones are out of joint. My heart is like wax. It is melted in the midst of my bowels. My strength is dried up. like a pot's herd, and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws, thou hast brought me into the dust of death, dogs have compassed me, the assembly of the wicked have enclosed me. Now the Lord Jesus Christ experienced that on the cross. But when David writes these words, He is living through it too. Not the cross, but the agony of recognizing his inadequacy and his vulnerability, and that God is the only one that can intercede on his behalf and work on his behalf. I think in moments like this, we need to confess we are vulnerable and inadequate. I think about 1 Kings 18. Where Hezekiah has a vicious army that is coming against him in Jerusalem. And this man, Sennacherib, has basically decimated city after city after city. I am really thankful that a man like Senakrib didn't have access to the kind of weapons that are available today. If they did, I guess we probably wouldn't be here because humanity would have been wiped out. Because of how vicious these ancient wars were. And when Hezekiah is holding a letter in his hands from Sennacherib, who basically says, y'all are going to get destroyed. He goes into the temple and he pours it out before God. He puts it in front of him and he says, God, this is what this man has said. This is what these people intend against us. We are powerless. We are vulnerable. We are inadequate. And we are crying out to you to work. That's how we respond in these situations. And then I will even add this. Sometimes we have to confess the fact that we actually struggle trusting God. We're willing, yet we struggle. I think of Mark chapter 9, where there was a father whose son was being thrown about by demons. And Jesus asked him if he believed, and the man said, I believe, but help mine unbelief. It's like I'm willing to trust you, but I tell you I got a lot of questions at the moment. I'm going to make that commitment But I wonder. Folks, when you watch this video, I think you will get a sense that this is the kind of moment that people are in. A second thought. We need to remind ourselves Of God's unchanging character. Psalm 103, verses 8 to 14, it says that the Lord is merciful and gracious. He is slow to anger and plenteous of mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dealt with us after our sin, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities As far as the heavens are high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. I love the next verse. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are dust. As we in these kinds of moments confess our inadequacies and our weaknesses and our vulnerabilities and how much we don't understand, we need to go back to reminding ourselves of the unchanging character of God. God is just, He is righteous, He is good, His wisdom is infinite, He knows what's best. God takes the most complicated of situations and he knows the best way to manage those situations We're reminded that God values more than our own personal well-being in a moment, our physical well-being. He values where we are spiritually and how we're growing and what he's ultimately accomplishing in his kingdom work. And so we recognize that he values more not our immediate comfort, but what is he doing in our lives? Yet at the same time, what does God do? He's compassionate to us. He's not callous. He's not cold and hard and towards us. He looks at us with compassion. As God's doing this work in us, what does he do? He comes alongside, he strengthens us. And so the second thought that I had this evening is that we need to remind ourselves of God's unchanging character. I'm going to encourage you when we come to our prayer time that we'll confess to God, God, we don't know the best way to resolve this matter. We don't, but what we do know is that you are good and you are righteous and you are holy and you are just and we are crying out to you and we're saying God do your work that is best in this situation and we're gonna trust you. We're reminded of who he is. Third thought, this is the last one I want to hit. We need to pray very specifically for righteous causes. I'm going to read some scriptures that I know that a lot of times when a pastor gets to a passage like this uh in a context like our own, he'll say, well, you're not David, so you should never pray a prayer like this. But I actually believe that there are moments Where impregatory prayers are the way we should pray. I really mean that. I'm not saying that that's how you should pray about somebody that's offended you or somebody that, you know, kind of looked at you the wrong way. But when we have a tyrant who is vicious and evil and attacking innocent people , And as nothing but hubris motivating him in this moment of fury, that man, that man, needs to be judged by God. That kind of an individual needs to be crushed by the justice of God. In the same way that God has brought down many tyrants throughout human history, this individual needs that as well. And once you listen carefully to what it says, Psalm 68, let God arise, let his enemies be scattered. Let them also that hate him flee before him. As smoke is driven away, so drive them away. As wax melteth before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God. Let the righteous be glad. Let them rejoice before God. Yea, let them exceedingly rejoice. Sing unto God. Sing praise to his name. Extol him that writeth upon the heavens by his name, Ja. Rejoice before him. He is a father to the fatherless, a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation. God setteth the solitary in families. He bringeth out those which are bound with chains. and the rebellious dwell in a dry land. What's so amazing about those verses is that we see God's God's fury against evil. And we see his compassion on those who are being oppressed and afflicted and being mistreated by those who are evil. In other words, it's appropriate at times to say, God, vindicate and protect your people and punish those who attack them. In other words, protect them, preserve them. We see vicious tyrants of human history. Guess what? Those are people that God brought down. And it's amazing the ways that he does it. I think about 1 Timothy 2 verse 4. It says, I exhort you that you pray, intercede, and give thanks. For all men, for kings and all who are in authority, that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who will have all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. Why do we pray for people that have authority? So that God will work in circumstances to provide people's ability to live a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. In other words, one of the things that we should be praying for when we think about people in Ukraine who are who are God's people, the church of God, is that God would restore peace and order to that society so that the church of God can proclaim the gospel. So that God's kingdom work can go out. And you say, well how does that happen? It may happen that a tyrant has to be brought down. It may mean that God is going to intervene in a way that's far beyond what you and I can imagine. We do not know how God chooses to work in circumstances, but what we do know is this we should be praying that God will restore order. and peace so that his people can live out the Christian life and proclaim the gospel to the people around them. One of the things that's uh going to come out in this video as you watch it is you're gonna see that one of the questions people ask is like, what is my role and what is my ministry at this moment? Like, what am I supposed to do? You're to endure faithfully and pray that God gives you opportunity to use that faithful endurance to proclaim the hope that lies within you with meekness and fear. That's the gospel. And so we really need to pray that God will sustain our brothers and sisters in Christ who are in very, very difficult places. Let me give you some very simple things that I want to put before you when we go to our prayer time later. We need to pray that tyranny and injustice are crushed. We need to pray that peace and order are restored for the good of God's people to be able to proclaim the gospel. We should pray for a strength and resolve amongst God's people, that they will faithfully endure this very difficult season. We should pray for the church in Ukraine and around the world to be strengthened, to proclaim the reason for the hope that we have in Christ. There's a reason that we can endure difficulty. It's because we know that there's an eternity that's secured in Christ. We need to pray for God to prosper those who are working to assist in rescuing civilians that are in harm's way. I know missionaries in Europe right now. They're not in Ukraine, but they're in Ukraine. I'll just put it that way. They're involved in getting civilians out of that country, helping them get to safe places. Helping them actually get food and water and the money that they'll need so that they can actually survive. We are looking at an impending civilian crisis. People are going to be in very desperate places, and we need to pray that those who are putting their lives in jeopardy, they're endangering themselves to get people out of that country to get in a safe place. That God will bless those individuals to prosper them what they're doing. We need to pray for God's hand of protection on those who cannot flee but must stand and fight. Not everyone can flee. Not everyone should flee. There are many people that are standing and saying, we're not leaving. We're going to stand firm and defend this land. We're going to defend our families and those things. There are people that have to stand in that place. There are missionaries that have decided to stay in the country. Why? Because these are the people that they have ministered to for many, many years. They're the pastors. They're the mentors, and they want to stand with their people. And God has put in their heart to stand, even if it's going to cost them their lives. And so we should pray for those who cannot run but have to stay. We need to pray that God will advance his kingdom despite and even through the pains that come through this crisis. God can use this to teach me and you so many things. God can use this to reach from the lives of people, and we need to pray that He'll do that. And lastly, we need to pray that we'll learn the lessons that God has for us to learn through this crisis. Now we're gonna we're gonna end our live stream here