Good morning. Alright, I hope you guys were able to grab one of our updated uh bulletins. Now you'll notice that um there is a little less information there for So please listen as we go through these. We have a business meeting after the P. M. service tonight. Um so if you will be in your place tonight we'll be able to to do that. As well as we got our ladies' Bible study at seven PM this this Thursday, there is a sign up available on the bulletin board in the back. So ladies if you You are planning on being at the Bible study February 3rd this Thursday, be sure to sign up in the back. For our sportsmen's banquet, the sign-up for that is closed, but we will be meeting This coming Saturday, February 5th, at 3 uh 3. 30 and leaving at 3. 30 from the church to go down to the sportsman's bank. And again, that's this Saturday for those of you that have signed up to join. And on February 13th, we have our teen synspiration after the the PM service. We still do not have any volunteers to host that. So I just wanted to clarify that is for our church family. It's not just for our team families. For our church family to be able to provide a meal for our teens, to sing with them here at the church, and get to know them and be a blessing and encouragement. to them. There are still some other activities there in your bulletin, so if you have not grabbed one, please do so and take a look at it. Okay, I also wanted to mention that on February the 12th we have a memorial service for Bill Seacrist. That's at 11 a. m. And just a reminder that if you're planning to attend that and come to the meal time, we will have a meal afterwards. Please sign up and the reason for that is so that we can uh plan on how much food we need. Also I was going to mention because it's going to be a lot of our seniors coming, we're going to have a special seating arrangement in here so that some of our seniors will be a little bit more comfortable meeting out to that. So if you're coming to the memorial service, please take note that if you're going to stay for the meal, you need to sign up. And then all Also, we will have a special seating arrangement. We won't assign you a seat. We're gonna have it spaced out a little bit so that our seniors will be more comfortable with that. But that is on February the 12th. Also wanted to mention that we'll be starting back up choir and the way that we're going to do it is kind of the goal is we'll be uh we'll be be singing about once a month, maybe more often depending on how quickly we pick up our arrangements. But we're to start doing that this coming Friday, or not coming Friday, this coming Sunday, February the 6th at 5 p. m. So if you're interested in being in the choir, please do come to that. And just really looking forward to a great time of just working together on that. And presenting those pieces to just point us to the Lord Jesus in worship. If you could, let's take our Bibles and let's look at our opening scripture. And that's Revelation chapter 5. Again, that's Revelation chapter 5, and we're looking at verses 9 through 13 together this morning. Revelation chapter 5. Verses nine through thirteen. It says the following And they sung a new song saying, Thou art worthy to take the book and to open the seal For thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God by the blood of by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And has made us unto our God kings and priests. We shall reign on the earth. And I beheld and heard the voice of many angels round about the throne, and the beasts and the elders, and the number of them was ten thousand times ten ten times. thousand and thousands of thousands saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain, to receive power and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honor, and glory, and blessing. Blessing. And every creature which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them heard I saying, Blessing and honor and glory and power. This morning as we come together to worship as one body, we're going to be focusing in on the importance of submitting to God's authority by the Holy Spirit Spirit's power. And so I want to ask you this morning as we bow together in prayer to ask the Lord to help you to really take that heart into our time of corporate worship together as we sing and As we listen to the preaching of God's word. So let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to gather as an assembly of believers. We are so thankful for the local church. We're thankful for the opportunity to focus on you to be encouraged and strengthened under the ministry of the Word. Father, I pray that every aspect of this service would point on Honor and glory to the Lord Jesus Christ, that our hearts would be humbled in your presence, that we would submit ourselves to the authority of Christ, that we would obey you and walk in your ways, and that we would appropriately And with heartfelt worship, express this worship with our lips. I pray that you would be with those in our congregation who are carrying burdens. You know those burdens, some are very heavy. I think of people in our congregation who have experienced tremendous uh sickness in the last few months and uh are still in recovery mode, I pray that you would strengthen their bodies And encourage their spirits. I pray for those who have lost loved ones in the past year. I pray that you would be a comfort and an encouragement to them. Father, we pray for those who are uh starting new chapters in life. And I pray that you would strengthen them as they uh are taking new jobs, as they're moving to new places, as they're establishing themselves. In a new season of life. I pray that they would find your strengthening hand in those seasons. I pray that you would bless them and encourage them during those times. Father, be with those who are downcast. You know the heart, and I pray that you would uplift them and strengthen them, encourage them today as they're gathered uh as a body with your people. Father, we pray for your richest blessing on this time, and we'll thank you. Thank you for what you will do both in us and through us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Good morning. Thank you so much for joining us here at Anchor Baptist Church. Let's prepare to sing. and worship before the Lord, stand and open our hymn books to hymn number one, rejoice, the Lord is king. We'll sing verses one, two, and four. Please stand and sing out to the Lord this morning. Enjoy the Lord and king, the Lord I kick on. Rejoice in bangs and sink and try upon Lip Lift up your voice, rejoice again, I saved Jesus the Savior reigns, the God of truth and love. When he had first our state, he took his thing, lift up, lift up Your voice, rejoice by you 're on the journey. And take his servant up to the voice, lift up your voice, please. Great singing. Let's turn over to hymn number twelve. All hail the power of Jesus' name. We'll sing all four verses Of hymn number twelve, great singing this morning. Oh vela baby banana Banaboyada Bring my boy on the boy. So I just But every hand every time for this So that 's when John the Sag we as in the call will join the last things of the We'll join the Amen. Great singing. Please be seated as we turn just one page over to hymn number 14. Worthy of praise. Number 14 will sing both verses. My heart overflows with praise to the Lord. I will lift up my voice in my king. Oh my friends, you are working for My lips take his praise, my heart feels his love is worth it to my word. Me I pray for our and forth of his worthy of one. My friend, you are worthy of all my friend I'm a less of my person Great singing, our Scripture reading for this morning will be found in the Gospel of Luke. own. We'll be in the Gospel of Luke, chapter 3, and we'll read verses 10 through 18. Luke Chapter 3, verses 10 through 18. The scriptures say, And the people asked him, saying What shall we do then? He answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath None. And he that hath meat, let him do likewise. Then came also the publicans to be baptized, and said unto him, Master, what shall we do? And he said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you. And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do? And he said unto them, Do violence to no man Neither accuse any falsely, and be content with your wages. And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in their hearts of John, whether he were the Christ or not, John answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water, but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose, he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost. And with fire, whose fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his garner, but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable. Many other things in his exhortation Preached he unto the people. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word as we continue our singing. We'll turn over to hymn number 65. In our hymn books, hymn number 65. Oh, worship the king. We'll sing verses one, two. And four. And great for This name is wonderful I still antifender the expensive day of the standard Oh tell I met my Only I 'm a friend Who's robe His face, his chariots of bright the deep thunder, and darkness has on the wings of a storm. Well, children of us and people are neither we trust nor by me to fail by mercy. Our standard, our personal, our maker dependent with Great singing. Please stand once more before the sermon. We'll be singing out of our blue book. Number twenty-four in our blue book, You Are Always Good. We'll sing all three verses. Of number twenty four in the blue book. Looking back, I can see your fingerprints upon my life always seeking my past There were times when your way would make us less glow. But now you said you have never love. You are always good. You are only good. You are always good to me. My eyes can speak, of my heart believes, you are always only good. I can see my frailty, my sin and free, and my strength is so small. Still you say You hold my hand and you hear my law. You are always done to our only God. You are always done to me. Oh my God, and meartly, you are only good For you , I can see yourself me right now, but I know but I 'm so raw life and grace for that coverage. You are always done to a holy God. You're always done to me. Great singing, please be seated. Peace wrong is the Lord and be a concern , my need is always the same. Well done with things as a king of a setting every story when you fall on his name. He saw in the Lord Let me of good purpose for me in my guide. He saw , he starts, he stopped. Oh give us for now and we is gonna be So for all the Lord has provided and praise your passion is unfairly air Cross hillary will even battle. I need your path to avoid every square. He strong, be strong. Let me up to rest for me. He strong, he strong, he strong. The Lord, that we voice for the world Be strong in the Lord, and he of your man who will be with love for Wherever you go. He strong, he strong, be strong. And we are kind of night. He strong, he strong, be strong , in the war. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord And be of good courage, for he is your guide. Be strong, be strong, be strong in the Lord And rejoice for the victory is yours. Be dismissed to the back. And the rest of you, as they're heading that way, I'd like to ask you to take out your Bibles and let's turn together to Luke chapter 3. Again, we're in Luke chapter 3 and we're reading verses 10 through 18 together this morning, and the focus of our service has been on submitting to the authority of Christ. And this morning's message is really going to be right along those paths. We're going to be looking at the importance of preaching and how it's the preaching of God's word that calls us to appropriate responses. So let's look down together. at Luke chapter three, and we'll begin in verse ten. It says, And the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then? He answered and said unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him Him that hath none. He that hath meat, let him do likewise. Then came also publicans to be baptized, and he said unto them, Master, what shall we do? He said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you. The soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, What shall we do? He said unto them, Do violence to no man And as the people were in expectation, and all men muse in their hearts of John whether he was the Christ or not, John answered, saying unto them, All, I indeed baptize you with water, but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose. He shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire, whose fan is in his hand, he will thoroughly purge his floor and will gather the wheat into his garner, but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the people. Now, when we read these verses, I want to kind of take our minds back to the setting of what's going on. John was not preaching in a synagogue. John was not preaching in the temple. He was preaching in the wilderness. And John was one of those very rugged individuals that as he goes out into that area, people from all over the countryside begin to gather. and listened to him preach. And we see in these these small snippets of the kind of preaching that John gave that John was a thundering preacher. In fact he was a prophet And the same kind of a heart of somebody like an Elijah of old. In his preaching. And as John is preaching there on those days, there are many, many people that came to be baptized in the Jordan River because of the preaching ministry of John the Baptist. Now, we talked about a few weeks ago that the kind of baptism that was being talked about here was different than our New Testament baptism, but it really demonstrated that these are people who recognize that within the Jewish people there was a people, a remnant of people, who were anticipating that the Messiah is coming. And they were recognizing that they were needing to be a part of those people. And as a part of those people, they were a people that needed to be forgiven and cleansed. And the only way that that could happen is if the Messiah came. And he died for their sins. And so when John is preaching, there was one day when he was there by the Jordan River baptizing, he says, That's him. Behold, the Lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the world. Wonderful statement. A lamb was what they offered for sacrifice in the Temple Mount. And that lamb represented a sacrifice, the ultimate sacrifice, who would be the Lord Jesus Christ. So when John made that statement, the people recognizing we're sinners, we're a broken people, we need the Messiah, and the Messiah is going to come, and like those animals are offered as a sacrifice in our place. He is going to die in our place. That was the essence of the baptism of John. They were identifying themselves with a message that was preparing for the Messiah, anticipating the Messiah, and it had a lot to do with their sin and their need to be saved from their sin. So with that in mind, we continue in these passages, these verses that are dealing with the baptism of John and his preaching. And so let me give you kind of a summary statement for the verses before us, and then I want us to talk for a few moments this morning about the importance of what we call preaching. And how preaching is distinct and different from, say, having a conversation about the Bible or meditating on scripture or reading the scriptures ourselves. There's something very unique, very profound, very important about preaching. And I want you to see that this morning. So, first of all, a summary statement. John 's message compelled the people to respond to the Messiah with a heart that desired radical change. And was willing to humbly trust and was willing to do it in a timely manner. So John's message was one that called people to change And the change was going to be something that flowed out of a heart that was born again, regenerated, and it was going to be a heart that was fixed on the Messiah. Faith alone in the Messiah. That's what he's calling them to. A humble trust that's going to produce a radical change and it needed to be done in a timely manner. The Messiah's coming and we need to meet him now. That was the point of the preaching of John the Baptist. God wants us in the same way that John was calling those people to respond with a humble trust. God's really doing the same thing to us. Every single time the Word of God is open and preached, assuming it's being rightly divided, it's being accurately preached, God's calling us through the preaching of this word to do the exact same thing. To respond in humble trust, to be willing to see that trust transfer into radical change. And ultimately we do it when he calls us to do it. That's the sense of preaching. So with that in mind, I want us to talk for a few moments in introduction about what preaching is and why preaching matters There's a difference between sitting down and having a Bible study where everybody kind of shares their ideas. Everybody shares their own thoughts, or me opening up my Bible, me reading my Bible, and me meditating on the scriptures that I read in the morning. Now, I'm not saying those things are not important. I believe in them. This morning, I got up very early and I read my Bible and I sat down and I thought about the truths that were in those passages and I tried to apply them to my life. But there's something very different between me sitting alone with my Bible, opened up, focusing my attention, and somebody getting up who has studied the Word of God and said, this is what God says you need to do. It. God is commanding you to do what it says in His Word. There's an authoritative difference. Now it's the same Bible, that's the heart and soul of the authority, but the way that it's communicated is very different. Or if I'm sitting in a Sunday school class and we ask the question, you know, what what is this what does this say? Somebody gives their their their input and another person shares something that they're thinking about, it kind of lacks That forcefulness, that sense of authority, that I need to do something in light of the scriptures, what sets apart preaching from those other means through which God communicates truth to us? Well, preaching is authoritative. Preaching is persuasive by its nature. It's intended to call people to submit to God's authority in a very specific way to And so the way that I would define preaching is this way. It's authoritative, it's persuasive instruction intended to call people to submit to God's authority in a very specific way. This is not about me calling you to submit to my authority or a Sunday school teacher calling you to submit to his authority or a Bible teacher to submit to their authority. It's about a person who's handling the Word of God saying, This is what God said, you and I need to submit to him today, right now. That is what preaching is. It's persuasive. In other words, it's not just about giving you facts, but it's about persuading you through the instruction that this is in fact what God has said If you're sitting here in a service and a man gets up to preach and he tells you you need to do this and this and this and this, and you look at your Bibles and that's not what it's saying, guess what? Blow him off. If it's me, blow me off. Don't listen to what I have to say. If I'm telling you to do something and is not connected to the authority of Scripture, don't do it. It's unnecessary. I don't have that kind of authority But I want you to see from many, many scriptures that there is a huge weight on the preaching of God's word in the Bible. For instance, in 2 Timothy 4, verse 2, it says the following. Preach the word. This is Paul instructing Timothy. He says, preach the word, be instant, in season, out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with all long-suffering and doctrine. These verses tell us that Paul expected Timothy to be a herald of the truth of God's word. And what you can see is that there were different aspects of of how you would herald. Reproving and rebuking are actually different matters. Exhortation that is long-suffering is patience. Or the instruction of doctrine. These are different matters. There's a connection between these things, but they're not all the same. There are some Sunday mornings where you come into this place and the greatest need you have is to be encouraged. You don't need somebody to scream in your face. You don't need somebody to point out all the areas where you're wrong. You need somebody to come alongside of you and say, God is with you. God is strengthening you. You need that encouragement. And so many, many scriptures are having that kind of a sense about them. Or there are some times that what we need is we need God to be magnified in our eyes. Where we just humble ourselves and we say, This is the God that we serve. He created the universe. He sent his son to the cross and died for my sins to rise from the dead. And I need to behold him with this sense of awe and worship. We need a huge sense of the God that we serve. There are other times we need to be confronted and convicted over our sin. There are times that we need to be reminded that we have been confronted and we have been convicted and we have confessed and he's heard And he's restored. And we need to feel the sense of that restoration because it's based on the promise of God Sometimes we need our thinking to be reoriented towards the truth. And so we need the doctrinal thinking of our hearts to be shaped by the Bible. Those are different matters. And this is why the scriptures have so many different topics and conversations that we look at. But the point is this: Paul told Timothy to preach the word at all times. In Matthew chapter 3, verse 1, it tells us that John was one who preached in the wilderness of Judea. In Matthew 4, verse 17, it tells us that Christ Christ preachus says, from that time Jesus preached and said, Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand We see in Acts chapter 8, verse 5 that Philip preached in Samaria. It says Philip went down to the city of Samaria and preached Christ unto them. And then in Acts 28, verse 31, it tells us that Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house and received all that came in unto him, preaching the kingdom of God, teaching those things Which were concerning the Lord Jesus Christ with all confidence, no man forbidding him. These are just a few passages that talk about the nature of how the ministry of the apostles, the ministry of Christ, the ministry of the prophets, the ministry of those who were pastors and teachers after the time of the apostles, these were preaching ministries. And so let me talk to you for a moment about preaching and what makes it so unique. First of all, preaching begins with God's authority. When we talk about preaching, we call it expositional preaching because what we're doing is we're taking a text of scripture and we're trying to understand Understand what the intent of the text was from the person who wrote it, being guided by the Holy Spirit, to the person who received it, and how God wanted them to understand Understand the scripture and respond to the scripture. We begin by explaining the intent of text. That's expounding. That's where the authority of preaching lies. If we don't expound the text, then the authority is not there. It's just your opinion or my opinion. It begins with the Bible being expounded. Secondly, preaching is meant to persuade There's an instruction side, a convincing side. We use the word conviction. We tend to think of it as I feel guilty in my heart. But conviction is not just I feel guilty. I'm persuaded. Okay? Like if somebody's explaining to me that Jesus is the Messiah and they're walking through all these little Old Testament texts and they they're showing me this. The con Conviction that Jesus is the Messiah is not a I am feeling guilty inside. It's a I feel firmly convinced in my heart this is true. In other words, preaching begins with God's authority, and it's supposed to persuade you by explaining what he says so that you see in your heart, this is what God tells me to do. That's why I need to do it. Thirdly, preaching is focused on something that's specific. It's not a shotgun. Like you've been driving down the interstate on on a hundred There's uh there's a sign that looks like somebody took a shotgun and they just blasted it. There's like little pedal uh little pellets all over the place. You know what I'm talking about? It's something you see down south. You're not supposed to see that in Maryland, right? I'm a southerner, all right. I grew up down south, so I guess I could say that. You know, a stop sign with these little little pellet holes all over it. Well, preaching is focused. There's something very specific in the text. Not saying that there aren't other truths that kind of undergird that. And you may walk out of a sermon and there may be secondary matters that God really worked in your heart about that actually were More impactful to you on that particular day than the primary intent of the passage. I understand that. But preaching is focused on something. There's something God wants you to know and understand, and He wants you to do. Lastly, preaching calls for a response. We need to be willing to take action. Now, understand something. When I say take action, I don't mean that I expect you to stand up and say, here's what God taught me today in the scripture. Or that you come here and you're weeping in front of this altar down here. That's not necessarily response. Response is you heard it, you were convinced of it, you submitted your heart to it, and you said, God, by your grace, I'm going to change And you start living different. So whether you bend a knee here or proclaim something in this place, that's irrelevant in my mind because it's all about what you do after the facts. God wants to change us through the preaching of his word. The vast majority of cases that we're looking at that I mentioned earlier are gospel encounters. The gospel is proclaimed, the gospel is priest. And so the intent was repent and believe in the gospel. But the fact is There's more than just repent, believe in the gospel. There's you repented, you've believed, and now walk in the power of the gospel. Walk in the light of the gospel. That's what preaching is. Preaching matters. Titus chapter 1, verse 2. Very interesting text. It says the following. God that cannot lie Hath in due time manifested his word through preaching, which is committed to me according to the commandments of God our Savior. I love Dr. Martin Lloyd Jones. He died before I was born, but I love his writing and his preaching. And one of the reasons that I loved Dr. Martin Lloyd-Jones is because every time he got into the pulpit to preach, he saw the expounding of Scripture as part of the worship. Very interesting about Dr. Martin Lloyd Jones. He refused to go on the radio in the days that he was preaching because in his mind he believed there was something very unique. Very sacred, very special, about what takes place when people are gathered together as a body of believers and the word of God is expounded in person. Now it's not to say you couldn't learn from listening to the preaching online or on the radio or something like that. He wasn't saying that. But he said there's something you miss when you're not in the place that it's happening at the moment. There's something very sacred, very unique. And what's very interesting is that the text I just read you gives you that sense. God who cannot lie hath in due time manifested his word. He has made it bare. He's revealed it. There's something about the scriptures that are laid bare in this context that are different than any other context. You do not get that on a live stream. You don't get that listening to a podcast. You don't get that on an MP3. You get that in this place because we are gathered together, and the Holy Spirit, who indwells you and me, is active and at work in this place. Very, very special. Preaching matters. And I hope that you see that this morning. So I ask, how do we respond to the word of God when it's preached? Well, this text is going to tell us how we should respond to the Word of God when it's preached. So let's look together at these verses, at how we are to respond to the Word of God. when it's preached. And by the way, I've added a little something here. Hopefully I can stay with it. But when we do our bulletins, you're going to have a little insert. So you see what's in the morning message. And you see what's in the evening message too. This is kind of like a teaser. I hope you come back tonight. We're going to talk about Job And it's going to be a really practical passage of scripture we're going to look at. But that's kind of to help you understand where we're going and help you to take notes and think about what's going on. But the first thing I'd like us to see from the scriptures is that preaching calls us to a radical change. Look down at verse number ten and let's think for a moment about what the text says. He says, and the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then? Why do they ask the question? It's because as John preached, in their heart, they knew something needed to change. And the reason they knew that is because the preaching was persuasive and the preaching was connected to God's authority. And they knew it said something about them wasn't right, it needed to change. What's very interesting is they didn't know what they needed to do. And so John gives the answer. In fact we talk about something like counseling, you know what counseling is? Counseling is when we realize we need help because we have a problem. A lot of people don't get counseling. You know why? They don't believe they need a problem. Or that they don't they don't believe they have a problem. And so preaching actually brings us to the point where we say, I need help. I need to be saved. I've got this issue. I'm struggling deeply. I need help. What do I do? And then the instruction of God's word comes along. This is the sense of what's going on. These people say, What are we supposed to do? He then goes on. He answered and said unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none. He that hath meat, let him do likewise. Then came also publicans to be baptized and said unto him, Master, what should we do? He said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed to you. This next one's very interesting. The soldiers also, these are Roman soldiers. Who are listening to John the Baptist preach, okay? Oh, this is incredible. Publicans were people that worked for the Roman government, they were tax collectors. They cheated the people. They were wealthy people because they cheated the people. These are some of the people coming. Soldiers. These are people that worked for the Roman government. Some of them were Jews who decided to work for the Roman government. What do we do? The soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, What shall we do? He said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely, be content with your wages. Interestingly, he didn't tell them to quit their jobs. He said, be content. Don't treat people wrongly. Be honest. Interesting. So let's look for a moment at some of the ways that John's preaching practically called them to radically change. The first thing we see is that his preaching called them to be compassionate. They said, What shall we do? He answered and said unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none. He that hath meat, let him do likewise. In other words, he's saying, look out for the person that has nothing. You see that person right there? They are starving. You have abundance. Help them out. You see that person, they're not properly clothed. They're cold. You have abundance, help them out. That's mercy. Doesn't seem like a huge thing, but it is a huge thing, especially if you're hungry and you're not properly clothed. The second thing that he mentions is that his preaching called them to treat people justly. Then came also the publicans to be baptized and said unto him, Master, what shall we do? He said unto them, Exact no more that which is appointed, no more than that which is appointed to you. Interesting. We know the story of Zacchaeus. He went and he gave an abundance to all these people that he cheated Jesus never told him to do that. In fact, there is a sense in which the publican probably couldn't go back and restore all of those people that they had wronged. But what they did know is that from that moment forward something needed to change. The way that they dealt with people needed to be just And needed to be honest. They needed to be straightforward. And for these people to treat people justly when they had received so much gain by cheating people would have been an unbelievable statement of change. Thirdly, his preaching called them to stop abusing their authority. The soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, What shall we do? He said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely. It's kind of interesting. We read about the history of the colonies before the United States became what it is today, the United States. One of the issues Was that the colonists believed that the British government was taxing them not just unjustly, but unlawfully? In other words, they did not have the legal right to tax them as they did. And so even if it was a penny of unlawful taxation, they rejected it. Well, another matter that was a big matter for the colonists was that a soldier could just come to your house, kick you out, and sleep in your bed and eat your food because, well, they were a British soldier. And so this was one of the areas that was a huge matter of frustration and anger to those living in the colonies. Well, that wasn't a new practice. The Romans weren't exactly uh coming from a Christian worldview. They were a powerful group of people. If you were in the military, you had force behind you. And you might feel as if you could do whatever you wanted as someone who was occupying that territory as a Roman soldier. And you know what he said? Treat people right. Don't abuse your authority. And it stands for all of us. Lastly, he mentions That his preaching called them to live a contented life. He says, you need to be content with your wages. Now, to you and to me, this may not seem like a very big deal. Treat people justly, be compassionate, don't abuse your authority, be content with what God has given you. Yet these are huge things. The fact is, these people live the antithesis of all of these things. And for them to live according to this instruction would have been a demonstration of the fact that the repentance in their heart was real. It was genuine. They really did see their sin. They really did see a need for the Savior. They really were trusting in the Messiah to come. And so I want you to think about a couple of things here. First of all, the preaching confronted. It confronted wrong thinking It compelled them to change the way that they were thinking about the way they were living their lives. If they were soldiers that were abusing their authority, they felt justified in doing that. If there were a person who was extorting people by taking more than what the taxes actually did, they felt justified in that. The reason they did those actions is because in their minds it didn't matter. They needed thinking changes, repentance. And that leading of that repentance would lead to the question, what do we do? How do we make it right? How do we walk from this point forward? That's what preaching does. But preaching that brings repentance leads to real change. I love this scripture in Philippians chapter 1, verse 9, because it talks about in a nutshell how we change. We don't change by simply deciding one day, I'm going to be a different person. I'm just going to build myself up and I'm going to like pick myself up by my own bootstraps, kind of a thing. That's not how we change. That's not how we mature. It's not how we grow. We mature and we grow because of a change that's rooting in the gospel. Listen to what it says in Philippians chapter 1. He says, This I pray, verse 9, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment, that ye may approve things that are excellent, that ye may be sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. Being filled with the fruits of righteousness. I'll pause because the next statement is very important. This is change. Love abounding more and more in knowledge and judgment, approving things that are excellent, being sincere and without offense till the day of Christ. That's what preaching produces. But the question is how? And here's the answer. Which are by Jesus Christ unto the praise and glory of God The way that you change, and the way that I change, is that the Holy Spirit, through the power of the gospel, new creatures in Christ, the Holy Spirit indwells us. And he begins to mature us in sanctification, we grow by the power of the Spirit of God. It's not by our own strengths Not that we aren't responsible, we have responsibilities. We've got to respond to the truth. But God changes us by his power. And that's what preaching does. It calls us to change, and the change is connected to the gospel. Secondly. Preaching calls us to humble trust. In verse 15, it says the following. And as the people were in great word here, expectation. Why was that word there, expectation? It's because the message said somebody's coming and they said, Well, where is he? That's expectation They believed the message. It says, and as the people were in expectation, all men muse in their hearts of John whether he were the Christ or not. So you see that they understand we need to change, we need to be saved, we understand that the Messiah is at the heart of our ability to change and be changed. And so we ask, where is he? They're looking for him. They want to trust in him. They want this change to be rooted in him. That's what it shows you. And then it says, John answered, saying unto them, I indeed baptize you with water, but one mightier than I cometh in the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose. He shall baptize you With the Holy Spirit, Holy Ghost, and with fire. Now, there are a couple of things I want you to notice about what John is saying and the way that the people are responding to John's preaching. The first thing is that there was a trust-oriented response to John's preaching. Now, the trust is not ultimately in John as a person But in the person that John's talking about. So if John's the Messiah, he's going to be the object of their trust. If John's not the Messiah and he's pointing them to the Messiah, they're going to turn away from John and they're going to be trusting in that person. Do you see what he's saying? And their minds are like, are you the Messiah or is it somebody else? They want to trust in the Messiah. That is a trust-oriented response. That word expectation means that they were convinced of the facts and they want to trust in these facts. Secondly, this expectation was directly connected to a correct understanding of what John's message actually was. So when they ask the question, are you the Christ or not? Or when they're thinking in their heart, is he the Christ or not? It means they understood correctly the message that was being presented. Now, if somebody is preaching the Word of God, falsely so called, maybe they're not actually preaching the Word of God. They're just preaching and they're reading the Bible and there's really no connect there. And you're convicted by what's being said. You're not only being convicted by the scripture, are you? You're being convicted or convinced by their persuasive ability John 's convincing was connected to the authority of the Old Testament. In other words, they understood correctly. They rightly, he rightly divided the truths that were laid before him. And so this trust response is connected to the authority of Scripture. And that's what preaching rightly understood should be. Thirdly, John's preaching pointed glory to God, not to himself. Is a very important detail that I don't want us to miss. The word humble is very important. The word trust is very important. John didn't want them to be his disciples. He wanted them to be Christ's disciples. John wasn't trying to gain an audience to himself. John was trying to gather an audience that he would point to Christ. And one of the great problems within the whole evangelical world today in our culture is that many people don't preach to point people to Jesus. It's to themselves. It wasn't the way that John preached It says that John answered, saying unto them, I indeed baptize you with water, but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoe I'm not worthy to unloose. He shall baptize you with the Holy Spirit, Holy Ghost, and with fire. He says, the person that I'm telling you about It's so much greater than me that I don't even have the right to take his shoe off and wash his feet. I don't even have the right to do that. That's what he's saying. He is far mightier than I. I'm baptizing you in water as a preparation to look to him. He's gonna come and he's gonna baptize with fire and with the Holy Ghost. You say, Well what does that mean? Well we'll get to that in just a second. But that is what stressed the earnestness of Christ's ministry. But the point is this: this response was about trust because they understood the truth, and it was pointed to Christ. Not to John. Preaching should never call us to a self-oriented response. It should always point us to the cross. The miracle of new life in Christ and the enabling of the Holy Spirit to sufficiently work in us to mature us into Christ's likeness. Preaching should never say, you've got it in yourself, you do it by your power. Preaching always says you can't do it, but he will do it through you. That's what preaching is. Preaching isn't work harder and then God will accept you. Preaching is he did it all. Trust in Him, and you will stand righteous in Him. There's a huge difference. When you leave this place, you should be basking in the glory of the gospel. Not in, I feel a lot stronger. I can do this in my own strength. There's a big difference. John pointed the people to humble trust in Messiah. There's a third fact, truth that we want to see this morning. And that is that preaching calls us to a timely response. What I mean timely is there's a time sensitivity here. And we learn this in life, that there are some things that if we don't take the step in the right time, we miss the opportunity. You know what I'm talking about? Like if you like to go fishing, but you don't get up at four in the morning, you might not catch a lot of fish because eleven o'clock it's starting to get hot. Eleven thirty, twelve o'clock. You gotta get out there at the right time. You miss the tide, you miss the fish. Lots of things are like that. You plant too late in the season, guess what happens? Your watermelons are getting put out and it's starting to frost. There's a time-sensitive element to so many things in life. If we don't take the step when the time is given, we miss the opportunity. And this is the sense of the earnestness of what is being preached in these verses. He preached that there's a call to a timely response. Notice the verses, verses 16 to 18. He, Jesus, shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire, whose fan is in his hand. He will thoroughly purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his garner, but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable, and many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the people. I want you to notice the earnestness of the message. His fan is in his hand, and he will thoroughly purge his floor. Now this morning when I got up it was nine degrees at my house. I don't know what it was at yours It was nine degrees. It dropped from ten to nine for like ten minutes and then it went back to ten and then started going up. But I was there, I saw it. And it went down there. It was kind of kind of a little cold down downstairs. And when I opened up You know, my firebox, I saw that the last piece of wood that I put in before I went to bed still had coals in it. I was like, this is great. I love it when it when it there's still coals in there. And so I went, I gathered all these little pieces of wood and I kind of stacked them in there and just got it set just right. And then I went and got that little fan and I started blowing some air on it. And it it didn't take long. As soon as those those coals got just hot enough, there it was. And it was just a couple minutes. It's a nice nice warm fire. It took a while to warm the room, but you know what I'm talking about. This is the picture. So if I pick up the billows and I'm gonna fan the flame, I mean business. I'm not just watching it. There's a time-sensitive side to this. I'm gonna go and I'm gonna take care of this. He's saying that's what Jesus is coming to do. We talked about baptizing with fire. He's talking about a judgment. In fact, you'll notice the way that he puts it in these verses. He says his garner is in his hand. The chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable. That's judgment. That's a warning. And then he says later on, he says, he's going to separate the wheats into his garners. What he's telling us about Jesus' ministry is when Jesus comes He's going to separate wheat into the barn, chaff in to be burned. He's going to take his people to be with him He's going to secure salvation for those who embrace the Messiah's ministry and those who reject, they're going to be judged. They're going to be outside of the kingdom. That is the sense of the weight of the authority of this person, the Lord Jesus Christ. There is both a positive application and a negative application. And this is almost true every time there's preaching. When there's preaching and it's heavy, there's the negative side until we see the positive, the response. Conviction, comfort. Repentance, faith, comfort, change. That's what we see when there's preaching. And so you see the positive side, you see the negative side. Being placed into the body of Christ is what he's talking about when he talks about he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. Every single person who's placed their faith in Christ in this room. Every single one of us. We have been placed into the body of Christ. Who did that? The Holy Spirit. He gave us life, regeneration. He placed us into the body of Christ. We've been identified as his own. We have been marked with a down payment. We belong to God. He says, I'm coming to claim my people. That's what he's doing. Baptism of the Spirit. He's going to gather the wheat into garners. He's talking about the positive aspect of those who embrace the gospel. Positive. The negative he will baptize with fire. The chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. Question What's the difference between what's burned and what's placed into the body? Response to truth. That's the difference. The person who embraces the gospel, he becomes God's child. The one who rejects, he's judged. But you know the same thing actually is true after our salvation. When we trust Christ as our Savior, our position is secured in Christ. But when we respond properly to truth, we grow. We mature. Our thinking is shaped. We become more and more like Christ. When we resist what happens, we become dull. We become complacent. We become calloused. We become hardened. You see the positive, you see the negative. The same scripture that softens our heart. If we respond the wrong way, we'll harden our hearts. It's like the same sun that can heat up a candle and can cause it to melt is the same sun that when you put a pot of clay out there becomes hard. And it's not soft anymore. What's the difference? It's the response of the instrument there. And so I asked the question: do we respond to the truth where it softens the heart? And we submit to the truth and we let God change us. Or do we harden ourselves? The difference is in the response. And so John , or yes, John is warning them that when he comes, there's a positive or a negative potential. And so there's an earnestness to respond to the word. The message was full of intense exhortation. Many other things he did exhorting the people through the preaching. Every time we are confronted with truth, we are going to be changed by it. It's true. We're going to be changed by it. Our hearts may become more convicted, and when it's then it can become warmed by the truth. Our hearts can become more overwhelmed and we can erupt into worship and praise. My hope is that every time we come to this place, we hear the preaching of God's word. We walk out of this place uplifted and strengthened and directed to the gospel. And we walk out of here having worshiped in spirit and in truth. That's what I want. We may not walk out that way. We may walk out with a very cold disposition. It's about how we respond. Our hearts may become strengthened and encouraged by the truth. Our hearts may become desensitized, detached from the convicting work of the Spirit of God. Just like an animal is branded, and when that brand, that hot iron hits the the side of that that that cow, that steer, that animal, and it br it's branded, and they no longer have Have feeling in that place. When God's word hits our hearts and we respond in a callous way, we become desensitized. It's the grace of God that stirs up the fallow ground and Softens our hearts again. We're changed by the word in one way or the other. It's all about how we respond to the truth that's been given. And so I asked this question this morning. We know that God wants us to humbly respond to His word. Are we willing to do that? Are we actively doing that His word constantly confronts wrong thinking, wrong life patterns, calls us to change. Are we allowing him to do that? We need to listen. We need to humbly respond because there is a compelling, time-sensitive nature to how God is personally working in our lives at this moment. How are we responding to the preaching of God's word? Has it warmed our souls? Has it stirred up those affections in our heart so that we love God and we want to submit to Him? We want to walk in obedience to His ways Is it pressing us into worship? That's the question. My encouragement to you this morning is this: let's respond to the truth as God wants us to. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, we confess to you that even as redeemed people We still battle with our flesh. We get tired under the preaching of God's word. We get distracted. Sometimes we don't want to hear it. Sometimes we argue with what you're showing us in the scriptures. Sometimes we become masters of pointing the attention to others' wrongs when we have the same problem. And I pray that you would convict us of these sinful responses to the word. Father, I pray that this morning we would recognize, first of all, that preaching is so important. And that we would give careful attention to the preaching of your word. That we would have hearts that are open and humbled and ready to submit to you. Father, we we pray that you would change us. By the power of your spirit to become more and more conformed to the image of Christ. Please root out of us sinful passions Please root out of us broken and sinful patterns. Father, please break the power Of the chains that hold us down in areas where we have continually submitted to our flesh rather than to the spirit sanctifying work. I pray that you would cause us to worship as you intend us to worship, as the Word of God does its work in us. Father, I pray that we would be very attentive to being in this place so that you can minister to us. And I pray that every time we come, we would walk out having been stirred up, having been encouraged, and having been changed to be more like you. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen The hymn that I'd like us to sing in our closing is hymn number two hundred and fifty-one. It's near the cross. We generally sing this and we have uh the Lord's table. It's not the only time we could sing it, but this is this is a song that I love singing after the Lord's table And I I think I think it's a really appropriate song for us to sing and think about as we reflect on this message. So let's stand together, please. We're going to sing hymn 251, near the cross. We'll sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses of this excellent little hymn. Let's sing it together. She does not have to be able to do it. Read to all who are new straight To be my children. On the third year of It's childhood in the cross, in the cross He might only tell my matters all my as we are. On the last, I like us to sing without the instrument. Please on this one. Here we go. Near the cross I watch and wait. Hoping, trusting ever till I reach the golden stand. Just beyond the river in the cross And the cross be my glory till my raptured soul Soul shall find rest beyond the river Amen. May that be our heart's desire, heart's prayer. Um I'd like to ask if Mr. Jenny, could you come and close us in prayer, please? And uh it's good to see each of you out, and I hope that you'll be able to make it back tonight. Don't forget next Sunday night um we're gonna start our choir rehearsal. So if you're planning to be a part of the choir, uh please do come. uh to that first uh rehearsal. That's at five o'clock. If you want to come a little before, that's okay too. But that's when we're going to start at five o'clock. And uh just so you have a preview, our message tonight will be uh what's in our notes here on uh the life of Job. So we'll continue in our series through the Old Testament. Mr. Jenny. Heavenly Father, we uh come to you this morning in the name of your Son, our Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Thank you for sending your son to take our place there on Calvary's Cross that we might have life eternal. Thank you, Lord, for the preaching first of all of John the Baptist there that we've studied this morning. Thank you also for the preaching of Pastor Joel this morning, Lord. We're so thankful to have a pastor that is preaching the entire contents of the Bible, Lord, with authority. We pray, Lord, for each one that has gathered here this morning that you would be with each one as we return to our homes. Give us safety, Lord. Be with those that have been watching on live stream. Lord, that their hearts have been encouraged this morning also. Pray for those that are still suffering with the effects of COVID, Lord. raise them up. We have several several of my friends in uh in the hospital at this time with COVID, Lord. I pray that you'd be with them, encourage their hearts at this time. Pray, Lord, as we leave here today that we would go forth determined that we want to be a better testimony and witness for you, that we might have the joy of seeing men and women, boys and girls come to a saving knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. Bring us back again this evening, Lord, for the preachment and our business meeting, Lord, and go with us now as we go to our homes and bring us back safely. We'll give it praise for that in Jesus' name. Amen.