Well good evening. Hope you had a good afternoon. Hope some of you dads got a nap. I sure did, and I sure needed one. Probably need one tomorrow too. But anyway, looking forward to our service tonight and uh just excited about the week, especially with our teens getting ready to go to camp. And just praying that the Lord will really work in their hearts. So let's open up our service tonight with a word of prayer, and then we'll get started. Father, thank you for this day an opportunity to rest, to refocus, to be under the ministry of the Scriptures I pray that tonight as we fellowship together you would encourage us as we spend time in just just in conversation, as we think about the passage in front of us, as we We think about the testimonies that will be shared. I pray that all these things would uplift your people and just strengthen us to face the challenges of the week. And so we ask for your blessing on this time and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's get started in our hymn book, hymn number four hundred seventeen. Please stand with me. Hymn number four hundred seventeen Faith of our fathers. Please be seated as we turn one page back to 416. My faith has found a resting place. We'll sing all four verses. I will make all the man for me and rather, for me and my Great singing. Let's go back to page 397. 397 Higher Ground. Again we'll sing all four verses. I don't know what we 're doing, I 'm not even around. Why do we want to lie? I be my way. Amen. Great singing. All right, four seventy-five. Rejoice in the Lord. All right, let's jump over to the blue book one fifty one. I run to Christ Oh, you'll come on with you. So we said about it with that one. All right, let's go back to page one in the blue book. Servant's heart. All right, let's go back to the Red Book 483. Singing verse three. Verse three every joy or trial So hola good morning everyone , good morning , you have a bad number. What's that? We don't have time. I'm sorry. Never mind. Sorry. Behold how every wound of Christ Distills operations cuaring Marks have paid for price to make his inner pure lambers only wounds. Of mercy for life free. His eye shines up from you That ever pleads for me. That ever pleads for me. His hammered hands his thorny crowd. His woundness here 's its preach for grace that trickles down None but Christ Christoph 's holy wounds Of mercyful and dream his body shines a crimson hue. That ever please for me. That never pleases for me. Grim in choice left me displayed. For me he was a wounds healed, scars I thin had made When love and suffering The wonders of redeeming love bring triumph not seat I'll worship at his face of latina. And there 's holy wounds of mercyful and free. His body shines a crimson hill. There's never pleas for me that ever pleased All right. Good evening. If you guys would, open with me to 1 Samuel 16. 1 Samuel 16. Finally made it through 1 Samuel 15. A lot's going on there, but as we look at 1 Samuel 15, we're going to see a major change start to take place here. But as we look at 1 Samuel 16, I think there's definitely a line to focus on here that many of us have probably heard the quote before, don't judge a book by its cover. Many of you probably can think of a story where maybe you did judge a book by its cover. I think for me personally it was and a literal book was in middle school, high school. I wouldn't read, which I wasn't much of a reader anyways. I wouldn't read unless the title was what I thought would be cool. I would read. pull book out the cover didn't have decent artwork or something. If it didn't look cool, I was kind of like, I 'll put I'll shelve it and I would just go through like that. Not that I can think of any book was bad, but I definitely no book stands out really to memory. It's like I kind of just got middle of the pack books. And even today a lot of times as I think about judging maybe people is that I I constantly will find out is like you look at adults, not this is not a reflection of any of you, but you find out when they were younger, like Wow, you used to play sports, would have never guessed. Or it's things like that. They sometimes you talk to someone as you you see them much older. You just you just don't think about things. Or and you already find out they like sports and Judging a book sometimes can put you in an odd situation. But when we look the story here, Sierra kind of falls in that same little trap. He looks and he gets says he makes a mistakes. He starts judging on the outside. He makes this simple deduction. When we look through the story here, a lot of times what we're going to see is Samuel , he's instructed to go find a new king. When he goes and he's finding to go find this new king , he has to make a choice to follow God. He has to make this choice to Changed the direction of the nation. It's an exciting change, but you can almost see that he's hesitant Maybe because of what he's dealt with in the past. Maybe what he's dealt with, what it's everything that's happened with Saul. We look back over the last really the eight chapters since Saul was first, or sorry, the nation first came to Samuel saying, I want a new king. There's been a lot of turmoil in the nation. So if we look here, let us read the first, I'm just going to stop start the first seven verses of 1 Samuel 16 And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul? Have I rejected seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill thine horn with oil, and go. I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite, for I have provided me a king among his sons. And Samuel said, How can I go? If Saul hear it, he will kill me. And the Lord said, Take a heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice the Lord. And call Jesse to sacrifice, and I will show thee what thou shalt do. And thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee. And Samuel did that which the Lord spake, and came to Bethlehem, and the elders of the town trembled at his company, saying, Comest thou peaceably? And he said, Peaceably, I am come to sacrifice in the Lord. Sanctify yourselves and come with me to sack to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons and called them to the sacrifice. And it came to pass when they were come, he looked to Eliab and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. But the Lord said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature. Because I have refused him. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for he looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart When we look at the story here, I want a simple line to be standing through here is that God wants us to focus on Him. When we look through the story, I want us to have this simple idea that God wants us to focus on Him. Before we get started, let's go ahead and open with a word of prayer Father, thank you for the story here that you've given us an opportunity to just focus on you and see how you are working. A simple, uh, I guess a challenging situation for Samuel, but an opportunity to change the direction of a nation that you're working in a normal situation. Father, I just pray that as we look in our lives, that in normal situations come up, that we just stay focused on you at all times. Praise the Son's precious holy name. Amen. First thing I want us to do as we look at this is Samuel really be following the Lord's leading. The first thing I want us to look at is following the Lord's leading. And by doing so, I want us to think about how really what's going on this first little bit is kind of I want to think about the Lord getting the nation Out of a r I'm gonna put quotes around that a rut. They're in a challenging place. They've had r a king that's been anything but good. He he was directing the nation away. And there's a very strong distinction, a change of pace here in the first verse. And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing how I have rejected him from reigning over Israel Fill thy horn with oil, and go. I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite. Notice this next phrase, for I have provided me a king. I have provided me a king. The distinct change we're going to see here is that before Saul, he was Israel's choice. Israel's choice was to turn, was very man-centered. Everything was focused on what they saw and how it affected them. It was man-centered. Some of the passages to look at as we look back what we've already came so far is we have Chapter 8, verse 1920. Nevertheless, the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel and said, Nay, but we will have a king over us. That we may be like all the nations, that our king may judge us, go before us and fight our battles. It was what they could benefit from, not how it looked to the Lord. Chapter 9, verse 16. Tomorrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamins, the Lord speaking to Samuel, and thou shalt anoint him to be captain over my people, Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of Philistines. If I have looked upon my people because their cry has come to me. He's just simply saying, you know what? They wanted somebody. I'm going to send someone that they want underneath their direction. Chapter 12, 1. And Samuel said, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice. And all these said unto me, We have made a king over you. Later in that same chapter, when you saw Nahash the king of Amon come against you, ye said unto me, But a king shall reign. He's repeating what was said earlier. And he's just everything that Samuel keeps going. And God is referring to as You wanted a king, you wanted a king, you wanted a king, so I gave you what you wanted. How has that gone so far? So Samuel's feeling the effects of that. Samuel, how long wilt thou mourn? That's a a painful thing to really kind of reflect and realize that Samuel is realizing the pain of man's choices, and God says, you see it. I hope the nation sees it. But God is now making a choice. And it's going to be God's choice. And I want to think about it as being God-centered. What we're going to see going on here is in chapter 1, it says, For I have provided me a king amongst his sons. The Lord says, you know, I know it's not been great before. We're going to be able to contrast, and if you really look over the next, the rest of this book, the difference. In the next book, the difference one king can make, the difference between man's choice and God's choice. Something to look at as well is Samuel's discouragement. When we look at this passage, I don't want us to forget that Samuel's a man. He's a human man just like you and I are. More so, what we see going on is that He was discouraged. I mean, really, listen to what was said. And if you actually go back a verse into 1535, it says Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death. Nevertheless, Samuel mourned for Saul. It doesn't say how long he mourned, but it begins in chapter 16. The Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, saying, I have rejected him? Samuel's not had a very successful ministry. I don't know if I can put quotes around that, and I don't want to judge success and we say that word and it usually carries different connotations. But if you read through the story of Samuel, he doesn't have a lot of like anything good you can look for. That by man's perspective. Outside of David, I'm gonna say David was a good success. Outside of David, though, there's really not anything to show for it. The nation rejects him. His sons weren't successful. So Samuel is probably very discouraged going, this is the fruit of my labor. And when we look at Samuel, how I can one of the things I look at is Samuel really cared for people. That's ultimately the result of seeing through this ministry here is that he was discouraged because he cared. And if I'm going to be honest, he probably cared too much. He lost his sons to the world. He probably cared for people, maybe a little too much. He watched the nation reject him over and over. Saw, rejected him. If anything, he may have I don't want to throw the word out there depression, but I don't think it'd been too far of a discouragement to say he was in that kind of location. He couldn't see. And one of the things you can really see how he had changed, and that he really was discouraged is his changed perspective. Look at verse 2. And Samuel said, how can I go? If Saul hear it, he will kill me. If you look at everything previously, Samuel was constantly focused on God, focused on God, focused on God. Seeing what God can do and having to point things out. And what we see here is that he was turned his eyes off of God and now he's focused on man. He was stuck in a situation. He says, How how am I going to work? God, what are you doing? And he's just in this place of a I'm going to use the word a rut. The Lord says, Samuel, it's time to move. We need to get you out of this unhealthy location you're at. I want you to focus on me. As I read through the story and I think about this, one of the things that stands out to me is that's very similar to Elijah in 1 Kings 19, 1 through 5, as he's running away from Jezebel. He runs away and eventually what do we hear him say? He goes, just kill me. Lord, take me home. He's underneath. He goes, take my life, for I am not better than my father's. He just wants to go, but the Lord says, arise and eat. And he feeds and takes care of him. And the same thing here is the Lord comes along and says, all right, you mourned long enough. Get your act together. I have a job for you. And God just gives him a simple command. It doesn't require him to do anything major. He doesn't have to go slay a bunch of prophets. He doesn't have to go do he just has a simple task to go deal with. Fill a horn of oil, and you're going to need a sacrifice. Take those things with you and go. The Lord gives him and he gives this excuse and he says whatever. The Lord knew what was going to happen. He's just like, fine, if that's what you're focused on, take this, say that, and go. You don't need to worry though. And when we see here is he does. He just gets up and go. As you look through here, Samuel's kind of demeanor doesn't really mention it again, but I almost wonder if it's changed as he's on his way there because when he gets over here to 1 Samuel 4, by the way, or sorry, not 4, but verse 4. I kind of chuckle as I read this verse a little bit as you read through it. He goes, Samuel did which the Lord spake. He obeyed. He went and he did what was necessary. And the elders of the town trembled at his coming and said, Comest thou peaceably? I I laugh because you think about Samuel, he's kind of an older gentleman. You don't see anything really negative about him, but the nation trembled, the people trembled there in Bethlehem And the reason I laugh is if you actually think about the last thing that Samuel did in chapter 15 was he slaughtered a king and he got rid of, he said, Saul, you're rejected. It's the nation there's like saw everywhere Samuel went was a negative Kind of wait to him so that people are trembling, are you coming peaceably? I I kind of chuckle as I read this verse. And the reason why I say you might see a change in Samuel's perspective is the way his response is just peaceably. I am come to sacrifice him to Lord. Sanctify yourselves and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse. There's no longer the same perspective about, shh, don't tell us all. He just says, we've come to take care of business. I want you to go get clean. We're going to prepare this house. We're going to prepare things as necessary. Do what needs to be done. He kind of focused. One of the things I think about as I look at this verse is the power that Samuel had as a previous teacher for anyone who's worked at education, maybe if you were to ever think about you as a student when an administrator would walk in, whether it be a principal, vice principal, or someone would walk in, all the students kind of They're sitting up a little bit. They they tremble in their seats. They're scared about what is he going to do? Why is he here? Who's he taking? And that's kind of what you see going on. The nation trembled because a man of power and who he represented he's dealing with. So we come to this part here about Samuel's direction, and he says, you know, it's time to follow God's direction. Samuel looked back at Saul and he looked at that situation saying, God, what were you doing? Why did you let Saul be king? And God's in his planning and his providence, he goes, he's just kind of like, wait, something better's coming. Follow. So Samuel follows. He gets to Jesse's house. And oftentimes, whenever we start following the Lord, distractions start to pop up. And there's dangers in having to follow distractions. The first thing we see is that in verse 6 it says, when it came to pass, when he came, this is that he's at Jesse 's house, following verse 5, it says, he looked at Elive and said, Surely the Lord's anointed is before him. He made the same mistake the people made. He looked on the outward appearance And we look at that the very first thing he just looks at him and he goes, ah, the Lord's anointed is before him. Or before me, kind of is thinking going, yes, this is done. I can get out of here, we can eat, we can go. But he rushed. He didn't wait for the Lord's direction. He was making the same mistakes Saul was making earlier. And the nation made is that they wanted outward. And we see this one of the most famous verses, probably the Old Testament, if not all of Scripture, about God looks on the heart, man look on the outside. Verse 7. Let's just read it. But the Lord said to Samuel, look not on his counselants, or the height of his stature, because I have refused him. Pause That word for refuse is the exact same word used earlier in chapter 15 where it says that God rejected Saul. There's a it's the same word. So he's saying, I've refused this guy. He's in the exact same category I would have put Saul in. Don't look at him the same as me. Let's continue where we left off, though. I have refused him. For the Lord seeth not as man seeth, for the lord man looketh on the outward appearance, but the Lord looketh on the heart. When we look at situations, when we look at distractions, when we look at God's direction, We said, Lord, you send me here. You want me anointed king. I'm doing that. Oh, this man looks perfect. It's one of those we have to pause and reflect and just wait for God's direction It's one of those we look at this going, it was too good to be true. And then that though there's a saying with that, if it's too good to be true, it probably is. This would be one of those categories I'd put that in is that he comes over here and he goes, oh, that was quick. That was almost too good to be true. But God says, I know it looks good, but it's not what I have chosen for you. It's not what I have chosen for the nation. Distraction comes along. And if we look at verses, I want us to pause and just find some encouragement as we just read through a handful of verses about how God sees things differently than our the way we see it. Isaiah 55, 8 and 9. For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are my ways, neither are your ways my ways, saith the Lord. For as the heavens are higher than the earth. So are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts. He comes here, he's dealing with everything with Saul I don't wouldn't be a shocker if maybe the nation as well as Samuel is asking, Lord, what are you doing? And he's just going, my ways are higher than your ways. Wait and watch. Find encouragement of who I am. Focus on me. Doesn't matter the hardships. Focus on me. We will look at some of the verses in the Old Testament, in the New Testament, about God looking on the heart. Psalm 7-8. Oh, let the wicked of the wickedness of the wicked Come to an end. But establish the just, for the righteous God trieth the hearts in the rain. Jeremiah 17, 9, a very popular verse. I love that verse, but don't forget when we quote that, please look at the next verses. It's so important. The heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. Who can know it? I, the Lord, search the heart. I try the reins, even give every man according to his ways and according to the fruit of his doings. Proverbs 31. 30. Favor is deceitful and beauty is vain, but a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. God looking at the heart. The New Testament, Luke 16, 14, and 15. The Pharisees who were covetous heard all these things, and they derided him. And he said to them, Ye which are justified yourselves before men, but God knoweth your hearts. For that which is highly esteemed among is abomination the sight of above among men is abomination in the sight of God. Matthew seven 15 and through 17. Beware of false prophets, which come in your sheep's clothing, but innerly they are ravening wolves. You shall know them by their fruits. And then 1 Corinthians 1, 26 through 31. And this is a verse that's going to just beautifully transition as we look at David. So I want to listen especially careful those verses. We look at the next transition to David. For ye see your calling, brethren. How many, not many wise after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to confound those things which are mighty. The base things of the world, the things which are despised, hath God chosen. Yea, things which Are not to bring not things that are, that no flesh glory in his presence, but of him are ye in Christ Jesus Who of God is made unto us wisdom and righteousness, sanctification and redemption, that according as it is written, he that glorifies, let him glory in the Lord. He just works his whole process of saying what man sees is not as God sees. We'll look at the situation here. Uh as one preacher has done it and he does it, I don't know I'm not gonna try and repeat it, but he comes along and he thinks about Sam , he comes before he looked comes before alive and he goes, ah, the Lord's anointing before him. He goes Oh, no, not him. And he goes to the next guy and he goes, ah, oh no, not him. He continues this over and over and over. And it's almost like he didn't quite learn the first time about just saying, wait Lord, where which one is it? He just kind of kept moving down the line, going, this has to be it. This has to be it. And eventually he just realized, all right, he looks at Jesse. I almost want to say, maybe he's probably a little frustrated, saying, is this all your sons? Look at me at verse Verse 12. Sorry. Verse 11. Samuel said to Jesse, are here all thy children? She felt a little frustrated going, what's going on? God, you sent me here. Jesse, I'm putting this one on you. Where is this all your children? And Jesse says, Well, there's one where there remaineth the youngest, and behold he's keepeth the sheep, almost like an afterthought. And Samuel said unto Jesse, send and fetch him, for we will not sit down till ye come hither. One thing I want us to definitely make mention and note of is the urgency in this spot here is that the send to fetch him. Carries actually this kind of idea of, sorry, not sin and fetch, but the sitting down, carries this idea of sitting around a table to eat. If you actually look back at when Saul was anointed, before he was anointed, they actually sat down and have a feast. And there's this language here that maybe that's the same thing going on, that he wanted to sit down around the table with everyone and have a feast. To kind of think about where Samuel's at in this, I want you to think about where he's at. Lord's called him to go do something. He's there and he's doing it. He's had a long trip, he has a job to do, and he's probably hungry. He 's just looking going, what is taking you so long to get this together? Just something simple to think about is that again, he's very much like you and I in that he was hungry. He wanted to get moving along and he wanted them Remember how I said though we looked at last verse. The simple things of God or the earth are what God uses. David enters the scene. So Samuel now needs to start resting in God's resolution of what's going on. Verse 12, He sent and brought him in. Now he was ruddy and with all the beautiful countenance, goodly to look at, goodly to look to. And the Lord said, Arise, anoint him, for this is he. His appearance. His appearance is very different than what you actually saw earlier. That's mentioned here in verse 12 when he enters in as his appearance. That's not without purpose. Everything that has been done up to now has been all about looks, looks, looks. David enters the scene and he goes, look at him. I mean, nothing bare looks sounds bad. It just I don't want to say it. It doesn't overly sound very manly. He was with all of a beautiful countenance and goodly to look to. Doesn't carry that manliness, the keen stature you were expecting to find. He's ruddy, he's reddish. I'm I'm not nowhere did I read or do I think it, but it almost kind of g ruddy gives that idea of reddish. interpretation there. Maybe he was a redhead. Redheads aren't what people really think of. They're a little if you think about any butt of it many jokes for guys, a lot of times it's a redhead or something like that. So it's this guy was someone you not really thought about and he was like, he's a little different than everyone else. You wouldn't follow him very much. He's maybe a pretty boy. He doesn't look manly as you would expect. Not to say that he isn't. He doesn't look the part that they were expecting. God just comes along and by the way, if you notice something immediately, Samuel doesn't say, ah, surely the Lord's anointed is before him. He kind of, I don't know what he was thinking. Either the Lord didn't give him a chance to respond, or Samuel was kind of one of those raising his eyebrows going, is this the guy? I don't know what's going on here, but God doesn't give him a chance. And he says, arise, anoint him, for this is he. Finally, he's here. And this anointing is not the anointing, I'm going to say, for kingship that would have been the same for Saul, because there was a king. And you don't see the dethroning of Saul until he has passed away, but it's the anointing for blessing saying, He's my anointed one. I'm giving my blessing on him Going forward, there's going to be a different relationship. Not that their relationship, God and David's, was bad before, but there's going to be a different one going forward. And Samuel, focusing on him, look at the very last verse. Samuel took the horn of oil, anointed in the midst of his brethren, and the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. Notice this last sentence. So Samuel rose up and went to Ramah. When we look through this whole chapter here, these first 13 verses, Samuel's been dealing with a lot. We had discouraged him at the beginning. He had to follow God's direction. He gets to Jesse 's house. He gets distracted. But when he finally arrives, or rather, David arrives, He has to start resting on God's resolution, what God's doing and his direction there. And the same can be said for us. When we look at this, we look at the story here, and we go, all right, how does this apply to us? What is going on? It ends with a very important verse, and verse 13 it says, The Spirit of the Lord came upon David. If you notice verse 14, the spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. The blessing, the change, everything's going to start changing from here. God's working. So we look at the application, I see three things. Focus on him and our situations and circumstances. Samuel was discouraged. I don't see anything else here, the way his whole perspective changed from what you've seen of him previously. Hardship has been there and hardship is going to rise in our life. And we're going to find ourselves asking God, why? What are you doing? And God here comes along and says, focus on me. I have a job for you, and it's ministering to people. Focus. Keep your eyes on me. Second thing as we look through here is find encouragement in God seeing the full picture when we do not. Samuel shows up to Jesse's house and goes, Ah, he is before me. And God says, Nope, try again. In our lives, we're going to see things that are, you know, God, this has to be your perfect will because it looks so good. And God says, no, keep Wait, I have something better planned. And Samuel at this point had no idea. He had to figure it out to be one of the seven other six other guys in the line. But what God had planned wasn't even in the room. He didn't even see him. And he goes, he had to trust God in his direction and saying, God, I'm encouraged that you are in control. Your ways are higher than my ways. And then we end the story here. The spirit descending upon David, we can find that the spirit in our lives, recognizing that, changes our relationship with God. That we have a special relationship with him through that. And when we are able to rest, knowing that our everything's in change, that we can look to God saying we can rest in who you are and what you've done. Even when these things come along in our lives, we just have to pause and focus on God. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the opportunity to come and worship you. As we have the opportunity here to just to have looked at Samuel, and how he's he's human. Thank you for the encouragement that we can see in Scripture that we can relate to and draw close to you. Because you've been just as we are, Father. You've been tempted tempted and always like us that we can draw close to you, come boldly to your throne. Father, and hardships and challenges that we we don't get distracted, that we just remember you are in control. Father, I also pray though that whatever be going on in our lives, that we focus on you. We don't judge a situation off of how it looks. But we seek to you for guidance. Pray this in your son's precious and holy name. Amen. Sometimes it's good to remind ourselves that every great man was once a little boy, and every great woman was once a little girl. And the truth is that uh What is invested in those little boys and girls has a lot to do with them becoming great men and women someday. And uh God knew what David would be and he knew how he was going to work in his life and I mean we're talking about a person who's not just a king, but he is one of the most significant people in the entire plan of redemption. And we talk about the book of Matthew. He is the son of David, the king. And so it is so important for us to uh to recognize that what God sees is so much bigger than than what we see. And uh what's in front of us, invest in it. And uh invest in the people that are in front of us and you never know what God will do. And it's exciting to think about how God can work in people's lives. So thank you for that challenge as we think about Samuel looking at the outward appearance and how easy it is to do and overlooking. what uh God was going to do to this young man based on what was in front of him at that time. Alright, well let's go ahead and pull out our hymn books for our closing hymn. And the song that we will sing is I am resolved, 391 There's the red book. Here we go. 391. I'm resolved. Can't sit that s uh sit down when we sing that, right? So let's stand up. Uh three hundred and ninety-one and sing this song out. I am not in the back of the kingdom being had not today. All right, well let's remember that uh this week our young people are traveling to camp. And uh pray for the linders, pray for the snows. I'm excited that you guys get to go and take the kids and you guys are gonna have a good time too, not just the teams. And uh well, apart from all the drama and the van who's got the boys fan? That's what I don't know. You uh alright. You keep in line, all right. I'll talk with my boys before they go. And uh actually you guys are gonna have a great time. The uh sponsors that go with the teams, I think they usually have a pretty good time. So uh keep them in prayer as they'll be traveling up to New England. I just pray that the Lord give them safety on the roads and that uh the Lord really speak to our young people that they have tender hearts. And when they come back, they'll be able to just share testimonies of how God has been working in their life. So remember them throughout the week as it comes to mind. Justin Betts, can you come and close in prayer, please? And then we'll be dismissed. Good to see everybody tonight. Heavenly Father, we thank you for this day and for bringing us all here and letting us uh sit under the ministry of the word. Um we thank you, Lord, for um Uh for your omniscience and and knowing everything that's in our hearts. Uh we pray that you'll help us to focus on you through all the trials that we have in our lives and through all the things that we may be um going through and evaluating. We pray that you'll be with us as we go this week. We pray for safety and traveling merchants for the teens and uh the snows and the winders. We pray that they'll have a very good experience and that they'll be able to uh come back here safely. And we pray the OBF us to rest this week as well. In Jesus' name we pray, Amen