If you could take your Bibles and turn to Revelation chapter fifteen. Revelation chapter fifteen. And we will be looking at a couple of verses initially in chapter fifteen, but really We're going to also be dealing with some scriptures in verse chapter 16 as well. If you were to write down what this section is all about, this section really is a prelude to the second coming of Christ. When I say a prelude, these are the events that are immediately coming up right before Christ is going to return. So with that in mind, let's look at chapter 15, verses 1 to 4. Here's what the scriptures say. And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels having the seven last plagues. For in them is filled up the wrath of God, and I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire And them that had gotten the victory over the beast and over his image and over his mark and over the number of his name stand on the sea of glass. having the harps of God. And they sing the song of Moses, the servant of God, the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are thy works, Lord God Almighty. Just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints. Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou alone art holy, for all nations shall come and worship before thee, for thy judgments are made manifest. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer as we think about the text that's before us. Father, I pray that you'd help us this evening to be sobered by the reality of the text that we are about to look into. Father, help us to realize that on this day, on those days leading up to the coming of Christ, there will be some terrible judgments and plagues that will be poured out on this earth. And Father, these are things that are meant to humble mankind so that they recognize the power and the authority of Christ, whom they've rejected. Yet, Father, we will be sober to see that in this awesome display of your incredible power, mankind will reject And I pray that you'll help us this evening to be humbled by that, to recognize how important it is that we proclaim the gospel while people's hearts are tender. And soft and ready to receive the word. Father, I pray that you'd help us to be very grateful that in your great wisdom and your great love and in your great grace you brought the gospel to us. And you brought that work of conviction of sin and righteousness and judgment. Whether it was in a Sunday school class or with a parent, Whether it was a little later in life, the gospel came to us and you worked in our hearts, and we humbly trusted in Christ. Father, we're so thankful for that wonderful work that you've done in us And we're reminded of how sobering it is when people reject you. Father, help us to get the sense of this text and may we respond appropriately to it. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. We look at the text in front of us. Really, the purpose of these verses and really the whole section, chapters 15 and 16, are to reveal the final events leading up to the second coming of Christ. in order to cause us to humbly worship Christ the Lord as both the king and the judge. And that's really what this is all about. In fact, it's interesting, as we get into this text, we're going to see that there are a lot of parallels to what's going to take place there in the book of Revelation and something that God has done at other points in time in human history. What we will see is that when God judges many times, He brings warnings, He brings a prelude of sorts, and that is meant to humble people, and that's meant to make people wake up and see the importance of responding correctly to God. But many times throughout history, when God has done that kind of a thing, people have not responded well. We're going to talk a little bit about that tonight. But really this whole section is to help us to understand those events leading up to the second coming. And then to respond appropriately to them in worship and humility. God wants us as his people to worship him as king and as judge. That's what God wants. And that's what this text is really going to drive us to do. So in order to do that, let's look at a couple of truths that we find in this text and some truths that really we find in other passages of Scripture that really have bearing on the text that's in front of us. The first section that we'll look at are some introductory thoughts about the second coming of Christ. Let me give you a couple of simple truths that we find throughout the Bible. The first truth is this, the second coming of Christ is an event predicted repeatedly in Scripture. You know, it's interesting as I was thinking about this passage of scripture, I started going and I started going to passages that referred to the second coming of Christ. And a lot of times what I will do when I'm preaching, or when I'm preparing to preach, we'll put it that way is I'll just do this incredible search of passages and I'll just load them into one document and when I get done I go, I'm gonna have to start pulling some out here because I have an overload of information. When we get into this concept of the second coming of Christ, you could have dozens of pages of scriptures that refer to the second coming of Christ. In fact I had a whole list of passages and I started weeding them down to one or two that I thought were appropriate enough to just give them here But the second coming is something that we are constantly warned about, constantly exhorted to be ready for, to be watching for It's something that really kind of has two aspects of it. And the second truth we'll see is this. It is presented in two ways. One as a relief for God's people. And two, it's a terrible judgment on those who reject the gospel and persecute God's people. I want you to realize that the second coming of Christ is really going to have two aspects to it. If you're a Christian living in the tribulation time period, and let me just remind you, when I say a Christian living in the tribulation, I don't mean that the church will be in the tribulation. The church will be raptured up and those events will take place. But during the time of the tribulation, many people are going to hear the gospel and they're going to humble themselves and repent and trust in the finished work of Christ. In fact, the nation of Israel, as a nation, there's going to be an unbelievable working of God in those people. And many, many Jewish people are going to place their faith in Christ. We talked about how 144,000 Jewish men are going to preach the gospel all throughout the world. But one of the things we're reminded of is that even though there'll be many people who trust Christ as their Savior during the tribulation time period, Many of those people, large percentage of those people, are going to be martyred for the faith. In fact, that's really what is being stated here in verses 1 and 2. He says, I saw this sign in heaven, great and marvelous, seven angels. And then he moves down and he says, I saw, as it were, a sea of glass mingled with fire. And them that had gotten the victory over the beast and over his image and over his mark and over the number of his name stand on the sea of glass having the harps of God. Those individuals that are going to sing the song of Moses and the Song of the Lamb are really a picture of those tribulation saints who got victory over the beast and his his number. But they were martyred for the faith. When he talks about the fact that these are people who got the victory, he's emphasizing the fact that they were faithful to the very day that they were martyred. They were faithful in that they held fast to their faith. They would not waver. And when the pressure came, they were even willing to lay down their lives for the cause of Christ. The fact is that during the tribulation, lots of people who have survived who are Christians are going to be suffering immense persecution. And they are anticipating that coming of the Lord Jesus Christ. They are looking at those signs of his coming and they're saying, I can endure just a little bit longer because I know the Savior is coming. If I can just stay faithful until I see him again, then I can enter his kingdom, and that will be a wonderful blessing. That is the emphasis. In other words, when Christ returns and he establishes that millennial kingdom, those believers will enter in to a restful time when they have experienced persecution. In other words, the second coming is relief for God's people. But on the other side, those who reject the Lord Jesus Christ Those who have oppressed his people, those who have persecuted the saints, and they have done it viciously, they're going to be crushed. And they're going to be crushed in a moment. And so we see that the second coming has that dual aspect to it. The blessing of relief and the seriousness of the crush of display. In fact, we see this in 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verses 3 and following. I want to take you to that passage because I want you to see what Paul writes to the church at Thessalonica. This is a church that was experiencing persecution at the time that he's writing these words. In fact, the persecution they were experiencing was intense enough. That there were people in the church that were telling them, we are living in the tribulation. Now they were not living in the tribulation, okay? But what they were experiencing was very intense. And it was very hard, it was very difficult And so basically Paul writes to them and he says, You aren't living in the tribulation, okay? There's going to be a time when the church is raptured. There is going to be a second coming of Christ. You're not in that time, but I want to tell you what it'll be like in that time Because what it's going to be like in that time is very similar to the way you feel right now. There'll be people who can identify with exactly what you're dealing with at this moment. This is what he writes. We are bound to give thanks, God, always for you, brethren, as it is meet, because that your faith groweth exceedingly. And the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth. So that we ourselves glory in you and the churches of God for your patience. And faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure. In other words, Paul is saying that I am going to all these other churches, and I'm telling them about your faithfulness. I'm telling them about how you're being persecuted, how you're experiencing tribulation, not the tribulation, but tribulation like what will take place in that time. And he says, you have been faithful. You are enduring. You are abounding. You are growing. Your love for one another is a wonderful thing to see. You're an incredible testimony. We are watching you and we are amazed at your faithfulness. It's strengthening us. It's encouraging us. And by the way, I'll just mention this. When Christians suffer and they're faithful, they don't know others are watching them, but they are. And the fact is that your endurance under that crushing load is something that really helps other people. And that's really what this text is about. He says this, this tribulation that ye endure, which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God. Listen to what he's about to say. that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffer. Seeing is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you, and to you who are troubled, rest with us. When the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels and flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power, when he shall come to be glorified in his saints and to be admired in all them that believe. Now, when you look at that text, what do you see? You see that when Christ comes, he is going to be glorified by his saints. He's going to be admired by his saints. His people will enter into rest from their labors. But those who trouble them, they're going to experience God's vengeance. They're going to experience God's wrath. Not just his temporal wrath, but his eternal wrath. And really what this is, what this text is It's a reminder of exactly what we're going to look at here in Revelation 15 and 16. Another text that talks about the second coming of Christ is in Matthew 24, and I'll read to you what it says in verse 27. He says, So shall also the coming of the Son of Man be. Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened. The moon shall not give her light, the stars shall fall from heaven, the powers of the heavens shall be shaken, and then shall appear the sign of the Son of Man in heaven Then shall all the tribes of earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of Man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory, and he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet. They shall gather together his elect from the four winds, for one end of heaven to the other. Now this is really interesting. When the Bible talks about the revelation, When it talks about the rapture, it never talks about signs that precede the rapture. That's because the rapture is going to happen at a moment. There is nothing that you can look at today that says, oh, that's a sign that we're going to have the rapture today. Now, I know a lot of times you'll hear that kind of a thing. There are signs of his coming, but when the Bible talks about signs of the Lord's coming, it's not referring to the rapture. It's actually referring to the second coming. So while there are no signs that precede the rapture, in other words, Christ could come tonight, he could come tomorrow, he could come at any time. His return is eminent in that sense. When we come to the second coming, there are lots of signs that indicate that he's about to come. In fact, when we look at this text, Revelation chapter 16 , We're going to see that there are going to be six judgments poured out on the earth right after one another, right in succession. And after each of those things, if you're living on the earth at that time, you should go, okay, Christ is about to come. There's the first one. There's a second one. There's the third one. Fourth. Fifth. Sixth. He's about to come. You should see that When we talk about the abomination of desolation that's going to happen at the midpoint of the tribulation, that is a clear-cut indication that Christ is going to come within the next three and a half years. In other words, these are signs of his coming. The rapture is signless, the second coming of Christ is preceded by many signs. Why the distinction? It's because of the adjudgment that's associated with the second coming of Christ. So we come to a third truth, and that third truth is this. This section is presented really as a parallel of events to what we read in Exodus chapter 6, verses 1 to 7. I want to ask you to turn to Exodus chapter 6. I'm going to look at a couple of the details because what I want you to see is that what takes place when God is going to deliver his people out of Egypt. is very similar to what is going to take place when Christ is about to return at the end of the tribulation. In fact, what's really interesting is we see that God's way of dealing with people during the flood, Sodom and Gomorrah, all these different times where God really judges harshly, we see this pattern established. God's patience, his warnings, his long-suffering care, this prelude of events that are meant to warn people, and then the judgment comes. We see it repeatedly over and over and over again. And I want you to see the connection between Exodus and really what we see here in Revelation. In Exodus chapter 6, verse 1, it says this. Then the Lord said unto Moses , Now shalt thou see what I will do to the Pharaoh. With a strong hand shall he let them go, and with a strong hand shall he drive them out of this land. Skip down, he says, and I have also heard the groanings of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage. I have remembered my covenant. We skip down, he says, I will ridge you out of their bondage. I will redeem you with a stretched-out arm and with great judgments. I will take you from or for to me for a people I will be to you a God, and ye shall know that I am the Lord your God, which bringeth you up from the burdens of the Egyptians. Let me tell you a couple of the things that we see when we look at Exodus chapter six and those chapters following it. We see that there's a very godless adversary, the Pharaoh. He's a ruthless person. He's very evil. He's very powerful. He is trying to crush God's people. We see that he's viciously persecuting them. In fact, when we read about how the Pharaoh was dealing with the nation of Israel. He was actually having people throw their babies into the river so that they could not continue to populate and basically be power in the land of Egypt. He was putting them under harsh burdens. We look at the uh the incredible structures built in Egypt. How do you think they were built? It wasn't union work, folks. It was slave labor. And a lot of that slave labor was Jewish slaves. Under the Pharaoh's power. It was a crushing load that these people were under. We see that God delivered his people out of their oppressors' hands giving a decisive blow to their enemies and sealing in their minds his power, justice, goodness, and love for them. The truth is that the plagues were not just for Pharaoh's sake. They were not just for the sake of those people that were in Egypt so they would realize that there is one true God. He's the God of the Jewish people. The one who says, Let my people go, he really did make heaven and earth, and he really is the one true God. And everything that we're worshiping is an idol. It wasn't just for them, it was for the Jewish people. It was for them to have sealed in their minds, this is our God. He loves us. He's redeemed us. He has rescued us. We've seen his power and his might. He has chosen us as his people. We're in a covenant with him. This is what it was meant to do. And there was a final thing. Each plague was a specific attack directed towards their adversary, demonstrating God's power over their enemy and revealing the hardness of his heart against God and his people. There were ten plagues that God brings upon Pharaoh and the nation of Israel. A nation of Egypt. And you know what's interesting? If you were to study their history. And understand their religious system and how they thought, each of those plagues was a direct attack on a deity in Egypt. And you know who was the top deity in Egypt in the minds of the people? At least in the minds of one of the people, it was the Pharaoh. In other words, they started with the river and they moved through the frogs and the flies and all those various things. And what does it end up doing? He touches the very house of the Pharaoh. Where the Pharaoh's own son is killed. In other words, each of these plagues is a direct attack to demonstrate God's power over those deities of sorts. And really what we're looking at here in Revelation 15 and 16 has the same sense. Instead of it being the Pharaoh, it's the Antichrist. The Antichrist is the one who has set himself up as if he thinks he's God. He's demanding the worship of people, and all of these things are direct attacks on that individual. And as Pharaoh hardened his heart, so will the Antichrist. We come to a second section, and that's really the layout of the passage Let me give you some details here. These events will take place in rapid succession during the final days or weeks of the tribulation leading up to the second coming of Christ. Now, what we talk about here, I don't think, is something that's a year or two years long. We're talking about weeks, perhaps a month or two. But this is going to happen during a very short period of time leading up to the second coming of Christ. They're a final warning that Christ is about to establish his kingdom and that their rebellion will ultimately lead to their eternal demise. Like Pharaoh and the Egyptians in the days leading up to the Exodus, the Antichrist and his armies will harden themselves against God and will suddenly be wiped away. Let me tell you what those six judgments are. And we read in the text it talks about them being vile judgments. The uh the idea of a vial is it's like a bowl that has something in it that's going to be poured out. And when we see this text and we read it, what we see is these angels take this vial, this bowl, And it's symbolic of God's wrath. And as they pour out that bowl, symbolizing the wrath of God, something is going to take place, something very terrible, something that's directed against the Antichrist and those who are following him. Here are those six bold judgments. The first bold judgment is found in verse 2. It talks about terrible sores that people will experience. Verse 2 says this. The first went and poured out his vial upon the earth, and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men that had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image. Now I don't know if you've ever had a boil. When I talk about a boil, I'm talking about where your skin is really like really rotting badly. You know I'm talking about I remember when I was in college, I wrestled, and my last season, I got a terrible staph infection on my left knee. Now, that that infection was so I won't go into too much detail about this, alright, but I'll give you enough detail to help you realize it was bad. It was so bad, my leg was so swollen, that I actually could not take a normal pair of khaki pants and put them on because of how big my knee had gotten. It was full of pus. It was unbelievably painful. And yes, they had to Lance it, and I had to get IV antibiotics for, I believe it was a week, several hours a day. It was a really bad deal. That's what a boil is, okay? So when he says that people are going to have boils, he's saying that people are going to be an unbelievable pain. You know what's interesting? Go go through history. Just do a little Google search on some of the plagues that we've had in human history. The bubonic plague, Black Death. Okay? Talking about coronavirus right now in Asia. The fact is that these kinds of plagues have happened all throughout human history. And we talk about people dying, we're talking in the tens of millions of people. The Black Death killed hundreds of millions of people in Europe Huge portions of people in the world going through these things. And at this point, these people are going to have these terrible sores. Now, is it because God just likes to make people miserable? No, he's trying to make a point. You're following the Antichrist as if he's God. And he's not. You need to repent. And prepare for the coming of the King. There's a second bull that's poured out. Verse number three in its The destruction of all the sea life. It says the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea, and it became as the blood of a dead man. Every living soul died in the sea. You know what it's like to walk down the beach and smell dead fish? Okay, I I grew up in Florida, alright, and I remember that during certain times of the year we get this thing called red tide. Has anybody ever heard of red tide? You don't want to go to Florida, pay vacation when they got red tide. You just don't want to do it. And they would warn you, they'd say, don't go by the beach, because if you do, you're going to breathe it in and it's kind of toxic And it's going to make you wheeze and cough and all this kind of stuff. Well, I remember my senior year, they had red tide, and we had our, you know, our our big trip out to the Place by the uh Gulf of Mexico. So we went. And I remember seeing dead fish all over the place. You know what that smells like? Imagine if all the fish in the sea died. And they're just washing up on the shores, rotting. This is going on here. God's trying to get people's attention. That's only the second, the third. The can contamination of all fresh water. Verses 4 to 7 says, The third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of the waters, and they became blood. And I heard the angel of the water say, Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art and wast and shall be, because thou hast judged thus. They have shed blood of the saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink, for they are worthy Now, obviously, if this is the case of what it's going to be like on the world, this isn't going to go on for a year, folks. If you don't have water to drink, you're in trouble. But it's not just that he's turning the water to blood, just like he did to the Nile during the time of the Exodus, but it's to make a point. You've shed the blood of millions upon millions of Christians. You've mocked them, you've persecuted them. And now I'm turning my wrath on you. That's what he's saying. We come to the fourth. Verses 8 and 9. The fourth bowl is climatic change in the intensity of the sun. It's interesting. People talk a lot about global warming. Whatever you think about it, it's going to happen actually, all right? It really is. People talk about what's going to happen if those polar ice caps begin to melt and how it's going to flood cities. You realize New York City, if the sea level just rose, you know, four or five feet, New York City would be flooded. City of New Orleans would be flooded. You know, a lot of major cities are built on the ocean because that they were built there because of commerce. Well, the reality is at this point in the tribulation, God is going to cause the sun to become far more intense than it has been, and it's actually going to affect the climate. Here on the planet. He says in verse 8, the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the soul sun, and men were scorched with great heat. And blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over these plagues. And they repented not to give him glory Number five, the bowl of darkness. As if it wasn't enough to have the sun 's sun's heat so intense, God causes the sun to be darkened. Chapter 16, verses 10 and 11 says, The fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seed of the beast. His kingdom was full of darkness. They gnawed their tongues for pain and blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and repented not at their death deeds. That's the second time he made that statement. Why do you think I did that? Because the point that he's making is That though these people recognize God's power and God's authority, and that God is about to judge the nations and God is about to judge the Antichrist. They don't care. There's rebellion. There's rejection of God's authority. And then we come to the sixth bowl. And that's the drying up of the Euphrates River to prepare the way for the armies of the Antichrist to meet Christ at his second coming. Verse 12 says this: The sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates, and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared. I want to ask this question. Prepared for what? What are they getting ready for? Where are they going? Why are they going there? You ever thought about that? You know what's amazing? During this time period, the people will know what is going on. They will know. There's a reason that armies are assembling and they're going through the Euphrates River and they're going somewhere. You know where they're going? They're going to be the Lord Jesus Christ at his second coming. You say, well, where do they how do they know to go there? Well the Bible tells us where he's going to come back. He's going to come right back to the Mount of Olives In fact, as Jesus was ascending up into heaven, the angels said, just like he went up right here, he's coming right back. And they knew it. Why are they assembling armies? Because they want to stop him when he comes back. The idea is that when all these things are going on , The people who live on this planet are going to be fully aware that these are the events preceding the second coming of Christ. They know where he's going to return. They know he's about to return. And they want to meet him with force because they believe somehow they can turn the table on what God says is going to take place. That's really what's going on here, folks. This is not an exaggeration. This is not a guess. This is they understand what's going on. But then I want to come to a third section. And that's really the text that I read to you this evening. That's the song of Moses and the Song of the Lamb. Verses 3 and 4 it says, They sing, they, meaning these tribulation saints who had been persecuted, who had been martyred, and now are in heaven, who have triumphed over the Antichrist. who have remained faithful and endured through all those terrible things. They sang the song of Moses. Why does he mention Moses? Because of the parallel to what took place during the Exodus. When did they sing the song of Moses? They sang the song of Moses after they had gone through the Red Sea and Pharaoh's armies pursued them through the Red Sea. You know what happened? Just like that, they're gone. Those walls of water came down, and the people gathered beside the sea and see all these bodies floating in the water, and they realize God delivered us this day. We need to praise him. When it says they sang the song of Moses, they are doing exactly what this people did those thousands of years before by the Red Sea. And it says the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvelous are thy works, Lord God Almighty. Just and true are thy ways. Thou King of Saints, who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? For thou only art holy, for all nations shall come and worship before thee. For thy judgments are made manifest. Notice the details here. One, what God does surpasses our human comprehension. That's what they say. Great, marvelous are they works. The second thing they're saying is that God's power and authority are unlimited. They refer to him as the Lord God Almighty. These are people who have seen the rage of Antichrists and those who followed him. And you know what they say? There's one mightier than the Antichrist. It's the Lord Jesus Christ. They say God's ways are righteous and consistent with reality. He says that your ways are just and your ways are true. They said God rules his people. He calls them the King of the Saints, recognizing that Christ is about to establish His millennial rule. And those people who have survived the tribulation and have placed their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, they will enter into that kingdom and enjoy that thousand-year kingdom of rest. God rules his people. They recognize the uniqueness and the greatness of God which these people are refusing to worship, and they're saying that's irrational. It's unthinkable. Notice the next phrase that says, who shall not fear thee and glorify the name? That's a question. In other words, they're saying, how in the world, seeing everything that we've seen, knowing everything that's about to take place, how can you not fear God? How can you not say he is worthy? It's unthinkable, it's irrational to refuse to worship him as who he is. We see that the reason for it being unthinkable is that he alone is holy. He states it, thou alone art holy. This massive display of rebellion cannot stop the ultimate appropriate end that the nations will face. It says, all nations shall come and worship before thee. I think of that passage in Philippians chapter 2. Where he says, God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name, that at the name of Jesus every knee shall bow, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. To the glory of God the Father. Even these people who are rejecting him in this text, when they stand before him on that great white throne day, they will bow in his presence. It's going to be too late. But they'll acknowledge he's the Lord. And lastly, we see this awesome display of God's appropriate justice. is the timely reminder of the ultimate destiny of the nations. He says, for thy judgments are made manifest. In other words, God is revealing to us, and God will reveal on that day, how true and righteous, and holy, and just He is. I want to conclude with this final thought. As we reflect on this scripture, I think there's really one appropriate response. It's to humbly worship him as the King. It's to humbly worship him as the judge. And it's to look forward to his return. It's hard to imagine, but it's true. On that day, there will be soldiers who line up and march through that dried-up river. Saying we're going to meet Christ and we're going to defeat him. Just like so many thousands of years ago, there were soldiers Who were in chariots and they plowed into the Red Sea and they said, We're going to take out God's people. And God will stop them. Folks, He is just and He is righteous. He is king. He is judge. Let's remember that. And let's worship Him as He is. Let's bow together in prayer, please. Father, we have been reminded today that no matter what takes place on this side of eternity, In the end, you will bring all things to their appropriate end. You will judge the nations. You will demonstrate your righteousness and your justice and your holiness. and your power. Father, you will vindicate your people. I pray that you'll help us to be strengthened by what we've read and what we've considered this evening. Father, I know that there can be very troubling days. We may face things that really shake us in our core. We may face onslaughts from people who are very antagonistic to truth. And we're reminded of texts like this. Father, help us to recognize how unthinkable it is to do anything but worship and praise you and to be humbled in your presence. Father, we ask that you would bless our week. Father, help us to be passionate about the gospel. Help us to be passionate about telling people how they can be saved from the terrible wrath to come. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.