Oh all right, well let's go ahead and turn our Bibles to Luke chapter 1. And the verses we're looking at today are verses 5 through 17 This is a really wonderful passage of Scripture. I think that the more that I think about what is being communicated in this text, the more I realize how much depth there is when we think about what God is doing. So Luke chapter 1 verse 5 says the following. There was in the days of Herod the king King of Judea, a certain priest named Zecharias of the course of Abbiah, and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron. Her name was Elizabeth. ordinances of the Lord blameless. And they had no children, a net no child. Because that Elizabeth was barren, they both were now well stricken in year. And it came to pass that while he executed the priest's office before God in the order of his course, according to the custom of the priesthood's office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the And the whole multitude of the people were praying together at the time of incense, and they appeared unto him as an an there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense And when Zecharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him. But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zecharias For thy prayer is heard. Thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son. Thou shalt call his name John. Thou shalt have great joy. Thou shalt have great joy and gladness. Many shall rejoice at his birth. For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. He shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb And many of the children of Israel shall be turned to the Lord their God. He shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedience to the wisdom of the just. To make ready a people prepared for the Lord. When we read this passage of Scripture, we need to understand that he's unfolding a story that really began all the way back in the book of Genesis. In Genesis chapter 3, after the fall, God promised Adam and his wife that he was going to send redemption. He said that the seed of the woman would crush the serpent's head. Now from that promise that was given in Genesis chapter 3, right after the fall, all throughout the Old Testament, we see this unfolding story of God working in the midst of his people. When we read the story of the nation of Israel, it's not just about great men and women who trusted God and saw mighty triumphs, but the fact is it's It's the story of a people that were going to be a vehicle, a tool through which God would prom would having had promised, would bring redemption to the world. Well, in the midst of this storyline, we see many, many situations Where if you want to put it in this way, it seemed like God's plan was on the ropes. There were times that people that were very important in this story seemed like they had a very significant problem. For instance Think about the nation of Israel being slaves in Egypt. How is this group of people going to one day be the tool God uses to give redemption to the world as they labor as slaves in a foreign land? Or think about Abraham, who's married to Sarah, and they're up in years, and God says, I'm going to make of you, Abraham, a great nation. And as he thinks about this, he goes, How in the world is this possible? Because I'm an old man, my wife is an old woman, and up to all this time we've never been able to have a child, an offspring. What we see throughout the Old Testament is that God's plan is put to the test, and at that moment, when it seemed like it was against all the odds, God steps into the story. And he demonstrates his faithfulness to his word. I want you to realize that this is one of those its instances. This is one of those examples where God 's storyline seems to be on the ropes and he steps in and he's faithful to his word. And I think there's so much that we can learn on the front side of God's faithfulness to his promise of redemption. But the fact is that when it comes to our personal lives and how God works in our lives as an individual, we We see that God many times does the exact same kind of thing in our lives. So with that in mind, let me give you first of all a summary statement of the text in front of us and then dig into these very important truths. The details that have been recorded for us in this passage were meant to connect Christ's birth and the events that led up to it to God's faithfulness to fulfill his Old Testament promises. the prophecies that were given concerning the Messiah. As we read what is stated to John in this particular passage, We're going to see that the angel is going to connect the events that are about to unfold in Zechariah's life to promises that had been made 400 years prior. When the prophet Malachi writes the final words of the Old Testament. In fact, as this angel is standing before Zecharias, who is getting to burn incense in this very sacred location He takes him back to those final words. It's very significant. It's very important. It's about helping us to see See that God doesn't forget. God doesn't go back on his word. God doesn't say, oops, I don't know what to do now. God fulfills his promises even when it's against all the odds. When we look at this text, we're going to see that God wants us to see this connection and then to have confidence that God is faithful. And when we think about this principle that God is faithful and that we can have confidence in God's faithfulness, the fact is that that principle filters into every single area of our lives. So with that in mind, let's ask the question, how can we see the connection? I want to begin with this first fact, that we need to understand the background of the events that we're reading in these verses And verses five and six he says the following. There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judea A certain priest named Zecharias of the course of Abiah, his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elizabeth, and they were both righteous before God, walking in the commandments and the ordinances of the Lord, blameless. This story has a historical side to it. As Luke is being moved by the Holy Spirit to write these words, he records these happened in the days of Herod. Now you and I can only know about Herod from really two sources. One is the Bible and the other is history. But when these people read these words, they were thinking about a man who had lived not many years prior to their own lives. In fact, some of the people People that would have read these words would have known what it was like to live when Herod was ruling. Now, what we knew about Herod could be summarized in three words. Ambitious, pragmatic, ruthless. Three words. Ambitious, pragmatic, and ruthless. In fact, when we study the life of Herod, if you were interested in that, you would find that the reason that he got his position was because his father was a military hero in Rome. In fact, he had been personally involved in defending Julius Caesar, the great Julius Caesar that we know from history. When he was given this area of Judea to rule, he was a pragmatic man. And because he understood he needed to have the people that lived in that region on his side. And so he was involved in building a temple, or we could say an expansion of the temple. temple. He was involved in asserting himself as a very strong and powerful ruler. But we also see that this man was a vicious, ruthless, evil man. In fact, by the time that this event is taking place, he had been in power for about 30 years, and he was near the end of his life and his time as a king in this region. We know that when the wise men came from the Far East, and they came and said, We have come to worship the king of the Jews, this man here had plotted how he could capture this. child and have this child killed. And when he was duped by the wise men, you know what he did? He said, I'm killing everyone single child that is a male in that region from two years on and down. I don't care who the child is, I'm not going to take the chance, the risk, of these men actually meeting the future King of Israel. This is a man that had his own wife murdered. He had several of his his own close relatives murdered because he was defending what he believed belonged to him, his power. You say, why does that matter? These words are written in a historical context. People lived through those events. And the events that they lived through shaped how they thought. It shaped their culture. It shaped the events that were going on. This man, Zecharias and his wife, when the Bible says that they were righteous people, they were living in a tumultuous time in a nation that was under the domination of Rome, and they were being disrupted, yet they were faithful people in the midst of all of that. There's also a very personal side to this story. It tells us that this man was a priest It tells us that his wife was also from the lineage of Aaron. And there's a lot that we can find out about this because we have to remember the Jews. Jews had been exiled and they came back and they had to establish a priesthood again. This man was a part of that priesthood. But what's most interesting to me about this is what it says about his character. The way that he lived his life. Let me give you a couple of important personal details that the text tells us. The first thing is that they were Levites He was a priest. It says they were priests after the order of Abaijah. They were also Old Testament saints. It says they were both righteous before the Lord. Now, when the Bible talks about these two individuals being righteous before God, we need to understand how they became righteous before God They became righteous before God in the same way that somebody like Abraham or Isaac or Moses or any other Old Testament believer would have become righteous before God. They were declared righteous on the basis of the fact that they were anticipating that God would be faithful to fulfill those promises, those prophecies that he'd made in the Old Testament. So when these Old Testament believers would read books like the book of Isaiah or they would hear When they were sitting in the synagogue, they were understanding that God is going to send the Messiah, and the Messiah is going to redeem his people. We believe that God is going to That's what it means when it says they were righteous before God. It's talking about their position. It's talking about how God viewed them as Old Testament saints anticipating the Savior. The third statement's very interesting Not only were they Old Testament saints, but they were faithful in all their duties. It says that they were walking in all the commandments and the ordinances of the Lord blameless. Now that's significant. I think it's important for us to understand that that statement talking about the fact that positionally they were righteous before God and practically they were faithful, living out the position that they had as believers anticipating the Messiah. That statement was made in a very tumultuous time period. That was made in a time when Herod, the ruthless, pragmatic, ambitious ruler, was leading in Jerusalem. That was at a time when the Romans had conquered that entire region. And they forced the people to pay tribute to them. They had to see their soldiers marching in the streets. They had to follow the Roman laws. It was also a time when the priesthood became a Extremely pragmatic, extremely ambitious, and Zecharias was a faithful priest when the fur when the priesthood was really in league with the Roman governors. And so when we look at the time of Christ and we see the fact that Jesus is condemned and he's crucified because the Satan is Sanhedrin crucifix hated him and wanted to kill him. We need to realize that these are the kinds of events that are going on with a group of people that are extremely pragmatic, extremely unjust. Zecharias finds himself as a faithful believer. Leaving man in the midst of such a context. You say, why does that matter, Pastor? It matters. Because even people living through harsh authoritarian regimes. People are living at a time when those who are claiming to be believers are very unfaithful and very unscrupulous and very unjust, even in such contexts. There are people who have faith and who walk in obedience to God. This man and his wife were examples of such people. But perhaps what in my opinion is the most significant of all these details is the next one. They had endured the stigma of being childless. It says they had no child because that Elizabeth was barren, and they both were now well-stricken in years. Now for you and I to read this, it probably does not hit us even close to the way that it would have hit a person reading this in the first century. Folks, when a woman was childless in an agrarian society where your position in society was attached to to the piece of land that your family, which had been in the family for generations, when that is what is your lot in life, and you're a couple that cannot have children. That is very difficult. But I want to take it even a step beyond that. Not only was it difficult for those reasons But it was also difficult because when you think about the old covenant that was made between God and his people, God talked about how he would bless the nation. And he literally states the kinds of blessings that he would give to the people. And he literally states the kinds of curses he would put upon the people if they were not faithful to obey the covenant that God had made with them. I will tell you that a major portion of that covenant promise was connected to children. It was connected to offspring. In other words, in those days when a person saw a couple that had no children, in their minds, it wasn't just a stigmatization. But it was also a sense that God has withheld his blessing on that couple, and that is why they do not have children. And you have to realize this man is a priest. This man does his work in the temple of God. This is a man who taught the law of God. And so for him to be a childless man at this stage in his life Would have been a tremendous burden that he would have carried, and his wife would have carried it even beyond what he did as well. Yet what does the scripture say? He was a righteous man before God. And he walked in all the ways and commandments of the Lord blameless. You know, many people walk away from God in bitterness because they face hardships in life that they cannot make sense of. Many, many people do that. This man and his wife did not do that. They continued To be a man and woman who trusted, who walked in obedience, and were men and women of prayer. He was fulfilling a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity to minister in the holy place to offer incense. It says his lot was to burn incense when he went A lot of us don't think about this, but the fact is there were thousands upon thousands and thousands of priests, Levites, who were a part of the temple worship. Not all of those men were able to go into that sacred location and burn incense before God as a representative of the people, representing the prayers of God's people to himself. This is a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity, and this text is talking about the moment that he gets his one opportunity. This is a very significant event. I think about the first time I ever preached a sermon. I think I went to the bathroom at least ten times. I'm like, I you know, I'm drinking water and walk out and come back. I'm sitting there drinking water and walk out, come back. And this over and over and over again. Why? Because I was nervous. And I remember when I opened up my text and I began to speak. I had memorized the opening of that sermon. And you know what? I completely went blank. And not only did I completely go blank, I couldn't even remember Remember. I couldn't even remember where I was supposed to go in the Bible to find the text. And so I'm like scrambling through my notes, going, oh, I'm a little bit nervous. Let's go to that passage. You say, well why am I telling you that? Because when this is like the first time you've done something that is so weighty and serious to you, guess what? You're nervous And in that moment, this I have no idea how old this man was, but he was old enough to not be a father anymore, to not father a child. His wife is old enough she cannot have a A child, at least not humanly speaking, and here's his moment that he gets to offer incense in that sacred place. And guess what happens? An angel of Appears to him and says, God has heard your prayers. What does he mean by that? What does he mean when he says, Thy prayer is heard? Thy wife Elizabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt shall call his name John. What do you think the angel meant when he said that? I think the first place our mind goes is that this man and his wife Had prayed for decades that they would have a child. Now please understand, in those days, people didn't get married when they were 30 or 35. They got married when they were 14, okay? And so from the time they were teenagers until the time that they could no longer have children, that's a long period of time, folks. They prayed. No children. But God heard it. But there's another place my mind goes when I read this statement Because I want to ask the question, what was this man Zecharias doing in that sacred place? He was offering incense to God that was to be representative of the prayers of a nation. And you know what's really interesting when this angel says God has heard your prayers, he really could very well be talking about two things at the same time. One is that God was going to give that couple a child. But what's more significant than the fact that he's going to give this couple a child is the role the child will play in God's redemptive purposes. Do you realize that this child, John, is going to be the front runner of the Messiah? And is this child Is born and has his ministry. He is going to be one of the most significant prophets in all of the history of Israel. He is the one who's coming in the power of Elijah, preparing the way for the Lord's. It's an incredible thought. The third part of this is the theological side, or even we could say the prophetic side He talks about this child, John. He says, He shall be great in the sight of the Lord. He shall drink neither wine nor strong drink. He shall be filled with the Holy Ghost. This is a really interesting statement. Even from his mother's womb. Many of the children of Israel shall turn to the Lord their God. Let me give you a couple of interesting distinctions here. One was that he was going to fulfill a very sacred function when he says he is going to be great in the sight of the Lord. Jesus, when he talked about John the Baptist, said, Among those who are born of women, there is none as great as John. Amazing statement. But the greatness of this man would be in the function that he played in God's purposes. He would be set apart as a Nazirite even from his from birth. You know, there were people that took what what they called a Nazarite vow at some point in life where they said, you know what, I'm going to be set apart unto God. I will not drink the fruit of the vine. I won't touch anything that's dead. I'm going to Live a distinct and separate life because my life is dedicated to God. This child had zero choice in the matter. God set him apart from his womb. It's amazing. He would function as an Old Testament prophet even before he could physically speak. This to me is very interesting He will be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb. Now, we're not to this text yet. We're going to get there at some point, not too long from now. And what we're going to see is that when Mary comes and speaks to Elizabeth and is going to communicate to her that she has a child that she is carrying. And this child is the Messiah. And this is a miracle. This is the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. It says that the babe within the womb of Elizabeth leaps. Interesting. Did not call it a fetus. Called it a baby that was communicating nonetheless. In other words, before he could speak, God spoke through him. What an interesting thought God was going to use this child even before they held the child in their own hands. Do you realize that the baby communicated when Zecharias the father was mute and could not speak? It's amazing to think about. But the most significant thing about this child is what it says about him. Many of the children of Israel shall turn to the Lord their God. His preaching would point people to the Messiah. It would be effective. People would embrace it, people would be repentant before God. They would literally trust in the Messiah, God in flesh, because this man preached repentance and preparation for the Messiah. It's a very interesting statement. The second truth I want us to see is that we need to investigate what the angel is saying about this child from the Old Testament. Notice what he says in verses 16 and 17. He says, Many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God. He will go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just. To make ready a people prepared for the Lord. First of all, he's going to come at a time when Israel is in spiritual apathy. 400 years of silence. 400 years, if you want to put it this way, where the nation is in the wilderness, God is not speaking through prophets. The people is apathetic. They are apathetic. The people are in a state where they are a conquered ruled people. And this man is going to step onto the scene, and many will turn to the Lord through his preaching. He would be pointing them to The Messiah, God in flesh. I love this statement. He shall t they shall turn. Shall he turn to the Lord their God? He shall go before him. He will make ready a people prepared for the Lord. By the way, when you read that in the Old Testament where he is referencing, you're going to see that when he says that they're going to be a people prepared for the Lord, it's in all caps. You know why that's significant? Because God in flesh is coming to be amongst his people. Literally, he's preparing the way that God and flesh will come. And we'll fulfill the promises of the Old Testament. He's referencing quite a few different Old Testament texts. For instance, in Isaiah 9, verse 6, it says, That the Lord Unto us a child is born, a son is given, the government shall be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor. The mighty God, the everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. Upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom to order it and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will perform it. When we read this statement in Isaiah chapter 9, that is ultimately being referenced here in Luke chapter 1, he emphasizes the fact that the Messiah is God in flesh. A child is born. A son is given. He's going to rule on the throne of his father David. He emphasizes the full humanity of this individual, the Messiah. Yet in the same passage he emphasizes the deity of Christ. His name shall be called wonderful counselor, the mighty God Upon his kingdom to order and to establish it with judgment and justice from henceforth, even forever. Of the increase of his government and peace, there shall be no end. These are all statements referring to the eternal nature of this person's kingdom. The fact that this is not just a man, but this is God man. The Messiah is fully God and fully man. This is a very important statement that he's referring to. The second is Isaiah chapter 40. Where he talks about the might of the prophet. I'm reading in the book of Isaiah right now, my own personal reading. And what's very interesting is you read the book of Isaiah and you get to chapter 5. 39, when you're reading that chapter, you're reading about the historical information about Hezekiah, and Hezekiah dies And when you read that final statement about Hezekiah, you're reminded that God's going to judge his people. And it's like, so what's next? And this is what it says in verse 40, chapter 40, verse 1: Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, cry unto her that her warfare is accomplished, her iniquity is pardoned, she has received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins. The voice of him that cries in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our gods. In other words, he talks about the destruction of Israel because of their disobedience, and Hezekiah, this faithful king, ends poorly. And then he says, Let me comfort you with some words of encouragement. God is going to send the Messiah, and the Messiah is going to come, and he's going to set it all straight. And from chapter 40 to the end of the book, what do you have? The words of encouragement all focused on the Messiah. But where does it start? The voice of him crying in the wilderness: Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. That's not a misstatement, folks. That is exactly what the scriptures were communicating with such clarity. John was preparing the way for God to come and dwell amongst his people. He would be an instrument through whom God would demonstrate the power of conversion. We go to Malachi chapter 4. This is the primary reference that the angel is talking about, but he says this in verse number 4. He says, Remember the law of Moses, my servant, which I commanded unto him and Horeb for all Israel. With the statutes and judgment I will send unto you Elijah the prophet before the coming. Of the great and dreadful day of the Lord. He shall turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the hearts of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse He's already kind of referenced this, but what he tells us is that John's ministry would be one of preparing the people to meet. Meet God. What did John preach? Repent. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. What did John tell the people to do? He told them to get baptized. And by the way, when he talks about baptism, he's not talking about New Testament water baptism like we practice in a church. This is before This is not a local church ordinance. This was symbolic of a people that said, We as a people, the nation of Israel, are a stubborn and rebellious and sinful. People. We deserve God's judgment. And we are identifying with this message being preached by John, a message of repentance and preparation for For the coming of the Messiah. And we are demonstrating by this action that we believe we are a sinful people who need redemption from Messiah. That was his message. It would be the first step in God picking up this work that paused, as it seemed like all hope was against the ropes. And God steps in and he says, now I'm going to fulfill what I've said I would fulfill. I'm not going to dig into this passage, but I'm going to reference it and encourage you to look at it. That's Daniel chapter 9. But in Daniel chapter 9, it talks about the fact that there are 70 weeks that are set aside to talk about God's redemptive purposes for the nation of Israel. of Israel. It's a fascinating passage. And in the midst of that, he talks about what is really the heart and soul of how God will redeem his people. and how he will establish everlasting righteousness. And he says that he's going to finish transgression. He's going to make an end for sin. He's going to make reconciliation for iniquity. He's going to bring in everlasting righteousness, and he's going to do it because Messiah will be cut off. This is undergirding the statement that is being referred to in Maui. John 's preaching would be effective. People would repent. People would be converted. There would be genuine reconciliation. So I asked this final question. How are we to respond to such a passage of Scripture? What can we learn? I hope you've learned a few things from what we've talked about, because it's a very rich passage. I hope that you've thought about some of the personal connection that we see in this passage. But here is what I want us to remember. Three simple responses I want to encourage you to have. The first is this you need to have faith in the person of Christ. You need to have faith in the person of Christ. Jesus Christ is God in flesh. That has been demonstrated so thoroughly in this passage That is demonstrated so thoroughly in the prophecies that we're predicting his coming. And when the angel says, This child John is going to be born and he's going to be the forerunner of the Messiah and all those things. He's going all the way back to those things. We need to trust in that person that John was pointing people to. When John was preaching at at John uh when he was preaching at uh on the uh the Jordan River, and he was baptizing people, he saw Jesus coming one day and he said, Behold, the Lamb of God which taketh away the sins of the The world. And you know what the Bible says? Many of his disciples followed Jesus. That was why he came into the world. God gave him the gift of life, and by the way, he didn't live very long because he was cut off Killed by a terrible Roman ruler. But this man, John, lived and served to point people to And I ask you, have you trusted in the Lord Jesus? Have you embraced the gospel? The second question I want to ask, though, is this Do you have confidence in God's power and ways? When we read a passage like this one, let's not forget the kinds of things that would have gone through the heart and mind of a Zecharias. The kinds of things that would have gone through the heart of an Elizabeth. The kind of pressures they felt. The kind of doubts that may have crept into their minds. The fact that all hope seemed gone, you might find yourself there right now. You may very well find yourself right now in a series of events that are outside of your control. And that frankly speaking, you wonder if God can, if God will work in these circumstances. I don't know everybody's situation. In fact, I probably know very few situations But God does know these things. Do you believe that God, the same God that promised in Genesis 3, Who redeemed his people out of Egypt, the same God who gave a child to Abraham and his wife Sarah in their old age. The same one that gave this barren woman Elizabeth a child, the same one that allowed his people to suffer judgment at the hands of the Babylonians and the Persians, but then brought them back and established them as his people. The same people that lived under the horrible rule of some of these Roman vicious tyrants, that this God can still work in your situation too. They can. Do you wonder if our nation is beyond hope? Do you wonder if it's going to be a really hard thing to be a Christian and live in this world? I wonder those things. Do you trust in the power of God's ways? This passage shows us God is trustworthy. The third thing I want us to emphasize is this This passage is all about God's power. It's all about his providence. It's all about his unfailing love. When that angel said, Your prayer has been heard. Whether he meant primarily, I'm giving you, God is giving you the child that you and your wife have prayed for decades for, and you stop. Or I am going to answer that prayer. And the prayer of those believing Jews anticipating the Messiah. I'm fulfilling both of those promises. Whatever was meant by that statement. God is worthy of our reverence and our awe. This passage should press us into an eruption of worship and praise to Him We come to church, probably the greatest way that our heart is fed is if we walk out of those doors and we talk about God's grace. And our hearts are filled with praise that we want to express. That's what this text points us to. Trust God for your salvation. Trust God for your protection and his continued work in your life. And worship him because he is worshiping Worthy of all praise. Let's bear our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to help us to do exactly that. Before we close in prayer, I want to ask this one question. With your eyes closed, heads bowed, please. Is there anybody in our midst today that would say, Pastor, I really don't know for certain that I'm saved? I don't know the backstory. Maybe you've never heard the gospel, maybe you've heard it many times and you've been a doubter of it. It doesn't matter. I asked the question Do you know for certain when you die you're going to heaven? Have you trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ? If you don't know that, please don't leave here today without getting that answered. Is there anybody that would quietly raise your hand and say, Pastor, I'm not sure that I'm saved, and I'd like to be able to speak with you you about that. Anybody at all want to give you just a moment? Raise your hand quietly and quickly. I won't call you out or say, oh, I see that hand over on this side or that. I just want to see that so I can take a note of that. and try to connect with you. Anybody at all? Say, Pastor, I don't know for sure that I'm saved. If you're not certain that you're saved, please reach out to me. Call, text, email, speak with me after the service. Don't leave without that answer settled. My second question is: is there a person here to say, Pastor, the second part of that, trusting God Worship, I needed to hear that today, and I just want to express that to you. Please pray for me when you close. Anybody like that that raise your hand and say, Pastor, that's me. I needed to hear that. I need to hear I need to trust God in circumstance. I see that. Let's bow together for prayer and commit this text to our hearts and ask God to work. Our Father, thank you for the opportunity to study the Bible today. There's so much that we can glean from these texts of Scripture. I pray that you'd help us to be a people who embrace the truth with all of our hearts. If there's anybody here that has never trusted Christ as their Savior, I pray that they'd reach out. If there's anyone that's struggling and needs encouragement, I pray that you'd encourage them. Them. I pray that all of us would walk out of this place having hearts that have been lifted up, desiring to worship and praise you with all of our being. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.