Tradition of our anchored in the Word, morning reflection, and today we are in Ecclesiastes chapter 11. We are really getting close, excuse me, to the end of the book of Ecclesiastes. I didn't record yesterday because I stayed up uh late watching the election results. That was a waste of time, I guess. And uh as we see we still don't have any clear outcomes Uh but anyway I decided to go ahead and forego recording yesterday and uh deal with this topic today. Well this is a very interesting topic. Especially when you think about uh what we're experiencing in our own nation. And the topic we're dealing with is preparing for what's unpredictable. And the reason we're dealing with this topic is not because I chose it today but because this is the next section of our study in Ecclesiastes. But if you could, let's look at verses 1 through 3 of chapter 11, and we'll see what Solomon has to say about preparing for the unpredictable. He says, Cast thy bread upon the waters, for thou shalt find it after many days. Give a portion to seven and also to eight, for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth If the cloud is full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. If the tree falls towards the south or towards the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be. Now when we look at this passage, we're going to see that this passage is really dealing with making business decisions in light of the fact that a person cannot fully predict the future. In other words, because there are certain outcomes that we can't foresee or we won't be able to predict, we need to make decisions when we are engaged in business that prepares for that unpredictable element. And so he's going to give four simple encouragements that are extremely practical, and I think that they really get into a lot of areas of life. The first encouragement that Solomon gives is that we are to engage in productive enterprises. In verse eleven verse one he says, Cast thy bread upon the waters, thou shalt find it after many days Now someone might say, what in the world is Solomon talking about? Am I supposed to stand out beside a river and throw little chunks of bread into the water and eventually it's going to come back to me? Well that's not what he's saying. It's really kind of like an idiomatic expression. And the idea is that if someone was a farmer and they were getting grain that was going to be used to make bread then some of that grain they should use, some of that they should sell locally, but some of that they should actually send out to other areas. And so when he talks about putting bread on the waters He's saying engage in business that sends enterprises to other places. Now the reason that he's suggesting that you do that is because he's saying, look, be involved in productive enterprises. In other words, don't just provide enough to feed yourself, then engage in a business that allows you to actually have people that you employ, that actually expands and grows. In other words, be a productive person. Engage in productive enterprises. That's really what he's saying in those verses. The second thing that's interesting is he says we need to diversify our investments. In verse 2, he puts it like this. Give a portion to seven, and also to eight, for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth Now when he's talking about giving a portion to seven and eight, he's saying he's basically saying if you're if you have assets that you are giving out and you want people to actually use those things, invest in those things Or you could say a person is going to be a steward of an investment that you have. Don't give it all to one person. He says diversify. Give it to seven or eight people. He's basically saying, you know, amongst those seven or eight people, maybe a couple of them don't pan out. A couple of them, the investments that they take, the way that they manage your money, the kind of uh enterprises that they engage in, don't prove to be very good. They actually lose money or they don't make as much money. You may have some that make a lot more than others, but by diversifying what you're doing is predict preparing for the unpredictable. The fact that some won't do as well as others, it actually protects you in the end. So again, Solomon's talking about this concept of being a business-minded individual, someone who's involved in productive enterprise. The third thing he's going to say. Make decisions based upon favorable probability. Now when he talks about favorable probability, he's not saying that you can 100% guarantee what's going to happen in a situation. But he gives a really interesting example. He says, If the clouds be full of rain, thou know uh excuse me, if the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth. Basically what Solomon is saying is that when I look up into the sky and I see rain clouds, I can predict that it's going to rain. Now I can't predict that it's going to rain here. I can't predict that it's going to rain right now. I can't predict how long it's going to rain or how much it's going to ra But I can predict that it's going to rain somewhere because those are rain clouds What's the point that he's making? The point that he's making is that we should make decisions based upon favorable Favorable probability. When he looks into the sky, he can see that it's very likely that it's going to rain. On the other side I wouldn't walk out into the into in out outside and look up into the sky and see there are no clouds in the sky and say, I think it's very likely it's going to rain today. He wouldn't do that. Why? Because it's not a favorable probability So when he's talking about this issue of engaging in enterprises, he's saying be a person who's actually going to try things. things that actually are productive. But when you do it, make sure that you diversify. That you don't put all of your eggs in one basket. that you don't get so proud and confident in what you think is going to happen that you do it. But on the other side, make sure that you actually do make decisions that involve thinking through and you say this is a very favorable, probable outcome. The last thing he's going to mention is this. Realize that some outcomes cannot be predicted, but they will happen, and they are going to be final. In other words, I don't know sometimes what's going to happen in life. It's interesting how he puts it. The end of verse 3 says, If the tree fall towards the south or towards the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be Now when he's looking at this tree, he doesn't know which way it's going to fall. He basically is saying it's going to go one way or the other. I don't know, but when it happens, that's what happens. And so it's another way of saying that there are some things in life you just don't know how to predict the outcomes. Now you might say, well, why does Solomon bring all this up? Why does he point this out to us? Well he wants us to realize that when we live in this world, even though there are certain things we can't predict, we shouldn't like bunker down and not do anything. We need to engage in productive enterprises. We need to recognize that there are times that we have to take risks. But when we take those risks, we need to take those risks Having thought carefully through the decision and making sure that we are well diversified when we make those kinds of decisions. So here are some practical implications that we can think about. The first is this. Since life is full of unpredictable outcomes, be humble in what you attempt, but don't be unwilling to take measured risks. There's a balance that's that's in that statement. In other words, before I make a decision, I need to consider the risk. But just because there's some measure of risk, does it mean that I shouldn't make the decision? In other words, in the first part of the verse, he's saying you need to invest. But if you're going to invest invest amongst many different managers. The second thing he's going to say is this: don't be overconfident in your decisions and take on greater risks than are appropriate. In other words, just because you are ready to take the risk doesn't mean that you should take the risk. Is it too much of a risk? If it's a 50-50 chance, if it's Flipping a coin, is it really smart for you to do that? The answer is of course not. In other words, we should try to limit the risk in the decisions that we make as much as possible And we need to be cautious that we don't become so overconfident in our decision that we fail to consider the protective side of that decision. In other words, we don't put all of our investments in one place. We diversify. Third, do your research and think thoroughly through your decisions before you make them. In other words, do your due diligence. Before you make a decision, make sure that you know the factors that are involved. Make sure that you know the risks that are involved Make sure that you've decided that you're comfortable making that major of that that amount of risk, that you're willing to take on that amount of risk in the decisions that you are going to make. And so Solomon's encouraging us to think it through. Just like a person looks up into the sky and says, this are rain clouds, it's going to rain, they're making a decision based upon what? Favorable probability. In the same sense, we need to do our research so we know what we're doing. We need to be informed in the decisions that we make. The last thing I'm going to mention is this. Realize That the things that happen, the decisions that you make, though carefully thought out, they they sometimes cannot be predicted. And so there are times in life that we look at a situation and we just don't know how it's going to play out. And you say, well, what do you do in those kinds of situations? You just leave it in God's hands. When you don't know how it's going to actually unfold, don't be so overconfident that you've predicted it. Don't be so Fearful that you don't make decisions, maybe that you need to. Just trust God with what you cannot control. We look at this passage of scripture. I think that there's a lot of really practical insight here. And so when we think about the fact that we live in an unpredictable world, we need to prepare to make decisions in that kind of an environment because that's the world we live in. I don't think that would be an encouragement to you today. Maybe you're in a situation where you need to make a tough decision. I want to encourage you, please think it through carefully before you make the decision. Make sure that you're ready to take on the amount of risk that it takes to actually make that decision. But on the other side, don't become so fearful that you don't make decisions because there is some risk. Because I want you to realize in life there's always going to be some measure of risk associated with something that involves a decent amount of productivity. I hope this has been a challenge to you this morning. I hope that you have a good day. And let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless those little thoughts that we've had. Father, help us this morning to Uh, to be a people who live wisely in an unpredictable world. Help us to be careful, to do our due diligence, to think through decisions before we make them. Help us not to be a people who are uh who are arrogant, proud, who believe that they figured it it out before it happens. Father, help us to realize that there are some outcomes that we cannot predict. And so we leave those things into your hands. We ask that you'd guide us today, strengthen us today. We do pray for our nation. We know there's a lot of unpredictability. in our own nation right now. And so we recognize that ultimately you're sovereign and these things are in your hands. So we rest in your care and we pray that as your people we would do what's right. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to talk to you this morning. I hope that you have a great rest of your day. And Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our study. Bye now.