Okay, well good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our service and uh thankful for the opportunity tonight to get into the Word of God and share testimonies of God's work. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we will get started with our service. Let's pray Father, thank you for this great week and the opportunities that we've had to work with young people. We thank you for the strength that you gave us, and I thank you for the blessings we've enjoyed. I pray that you'll help us tonight as we focus in on your word to have clear minds, as we have fellowship together. I pray that that would be very sweet and encouraging. As we have opportunity to share testimonies, I pray that the things that are shared would encourage your people. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening, everyone. Good to see you all out. And I'm really thankful that the air conditioner is working. This is good. It's warm out there, so think cool thoughts. Stand to your feet. Let's turn to page 295 and sing wonderful words of life. All three verses Sing them over again to me. When I beautiful, why not? Amen. Page 411. Page 411. Right after page four ten. And before 412. The solid rock. I am my own life because we're gonna be the same. But we're going to turn back to page 400. Take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord, to thee. Welcome back to the children with me. Amen. This time we'll have our missions moment. Known better. He had he had this mischievous look in his face. Well I looked over there and he had to think of the number. We haven't sang it in a while, so. Dwelling in Beulaland. Okay, kids. I thought they might have been worn out from VBS, but I guess not. They got they recovered from it. Okay. These youngins, I wish I had their energy. Or I wish I had their bounce back. I'll tell you. The love of God, page 130. Page 130. Page two hundred and nineteen, page two nineteen Christmas in July. Tori did this last week, didn't he? So uh okay, silent night Let's take a couple more. Amanda? Five fifty eight And young man. Five eighty seven. Let me see. Five fifty-eight Which one? I believe we have a special tonight, don't we? Okay. Let's see. So before the special, 558 is when I can read Ooh, and then 587. Let's go to f let 's see real quick. Oh, okay. Wow, when I can read my title clear, 558. Amanda, you may have to come up here and help me on this one. Page 558. And I can't read my title , character Patches in the skies, I'll bid farewell to every fear and by my bathing eyes And by my weeping eyes , we 're weeping eyes. I'll pray farewell to everything and I remember this. Wow, it's been a while. Good song. Now page five hundred and eighty-seven Page 587 before the preaching in the special. Please stand with me. Can't remain seated on this one. This is one of those songs. You just can't stay seeing Victory in Jesus. First and last. Now sing out. Hold nothing back. I heard an old old story, how a Savior came from glory, how he gave his life on Calvary. To slavery like me, I heard about his groaning, of his precious blood atoning Then I repented of my sin and won the victory Oh victory in Jesus, my Savior forever. He sought me and bought me with his redeeming blood. He loved me ere I knew him And all my love is through him. He plunged me to victory beneath the cleansing blood on the last. I heard about a mansion he has built for me in Glory, and I heard about the streets of gold. Be on the crystal sea about the angel singing and the old redemption story And some sweet day I'll sing up there the song of victory. Oh, victory in Jesus, my savior forever. He sought me and fought me with his redeeming blood. He loved me ere I knew him And all my love is to him. He plunged me to victory. We need the cleaning blood freeb Alright, if you guys would open with me to 1 Samuel 16. 1 Samuel 16 It's been a while since we've uh been back in 1 Samuel. We've gone through a few weeks. We had uh the graduation, we had uh 4th of July. So it's been a while since we've been back in 1 Samuel, but we're gonna pick up here uh tonight again. If you would think with me for many of you that have had the opportunities If you've had the opportunity to go to a church camp, maybe while you are growing up, and , you while you're there, you decide you're going to make some sort of commitment or a change. That you just see the Lord is working, whether you want to be there or not, but as time goes on, I always think about Thursday nights were always the biggest nights at camp because You've had already about three days of evenings of lots of preaching going on. And Thursdays seem to be when they would see the changes happen in the teens Pastor Josh may have different opinions on what night may be the most effective you see at nights and you see different things. But church camp is something that if you had the opportunity to go, that probably stands out as some certain milestone that if you made a commitment to it, different things would go on. Maybe you made a commitment to do certain things, you were going to change certain habits. Maybe you were going to you know stand up against certain sins. But you get home from church camp. A month goes by. Maybe if you're lucky two months. And you seem to find yourself in the exact same place that you were before you went to church camp. You look back in the memories and you're just like, oh, just must be the place. It's it's holier ground, is sometimes you might like to think about it. You know, the same thing happens sometimes at Revival, VBS camp, teen rally. Different things go on in our lives, and we make commitments, and things will slowly start to change. Life gets in the way, and we start drifting a little bit away from God. Not that that's what happens in the story, but we'll see the picture of two men laid side by side and how the presence of the Lord, his spirit specifically, there's a drastic difference between them. And we're just going to read two verses, 1 Samuel 16, 13, and 14. But Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him. This is David, in the midst of his brethren, and the spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up and went to Ramah. But the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul, and the evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. Kind of catching ourselves back up where we've been at so far in 1 Samuel, we've seen Saul m make continual regressions away from God. He's been constantly chastised and eventually he's been removed. He's been told he's no longer going to be king. The kingdom's been ripped away from him. And Samuel steps up and has to walk away. The Lord says, hey Samuel, I finally found the king. I want you to go to Bethlehem. Find this household of Jesse and find this child. And through circumstance he finally finds David. The Lord gives and he says, This is their man. And when we look at this though, David is such a different character. Than Saul. When we look at this though, the story we're going to be looking at is how God's presence in our lives changes us. Just a simple thought of God's presence in our lives changes us. When you look at the life of David, you see a clear presence. The first thing I want us to look at is the presence of God's Spirit. When we first look at this, it says, Then Samuel took the horn of oil and anointed him in the midst of his brethren, and the spirit of the Lord came upon David from the day forward. From that day forward. Oil consistently through the Old Testament is a picture of the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit's constantly when we look at this here. Now, one thing I do want to make clear that some people when they look at this is that this is not David's anointing. for kingship, that would be coming later. That happens for Judah, 2 Samuel 2. 4, and over Israel, 2 Samuel 5. 3 This is also not a filling of David like we would see at Pentecost in Acts 2. This is something different entirely. This would be something closer to what we'd see of the God, just this is a blessing of God on David. The presence of God constantly in the life of David. One thing we also have to look at is in the story is that the Holy Spirit in the Old Testament is just different than we find it today. The Holy Spirit, as we look at it, oftentimes it's been said that the Holy Spirit dwells or temporary presence in Old Testament saints, but it fills permanence in the New Testament believer. So we look at the story of David and we say, how did things go on? What is the Spirit of the Lord came upon David from that day forward? It just seems different. David is constantly, he has different, not to say he didn't have different challenges. He worked around, he had different things going on in his life, he was discouraged But it seems like the Spirit never left him, like you may see with the life of Saul. In 2 Samuel 23, 2. It's a David said, The Spirit of the Lord spoke through me, and his word was on my tongue. He gives this idea that it was with him all the time. Especially in Psalm 51, 11. Do not cast me away from your presence and do not take your Holy Spirit from me. David gives this idea that He was always wanted to be near the Lord. He was always working with him. And for that reason, he didn't change. He he was just different. It was the blessing was with the Lord, and he was always with his presence. David had challenges. So we asked the question, why is the narrative of the spirit of David's life different from Saul's life? I think the simple question, the simple, it's a simple answer of his relationship with God was different. We think about Saul. We think about David. Their relationship with God was very, very different. David , man after God's own heart. We see through many psalms that his heart was constantly wanting to cleave to the Lord. Psalm? Look at chapter 13, chapter 15. He rejected God continually. He made points to avoid. His relationship was different. And that's even shown in the way that it said, for the spirit came upon David, it rushed upon him from that day forward. The relationship he saw and he chose to work with him, it wasn't, I don't want to use the word, as sporadic as you may have seen with Saul. In 1 Samuel chapter 10 and also 11 where Saul is working here, it just kind of gives this little phrase of on that day. That he starts working and the spirit was on Saul. Doesn't seem like it left him per se. Kind of follow my train of thought here The spirit, the way it almost words is that it was just temporary. He would come when he needed it. The spirit would come and he'd be allowed. But then we look at verse 14. We look at 14, and it's the Spirit of the Lord departs from Saul. And we begin to see the second thing we're once look at is the absence of God's Spirit. God's blessing through his spirit has been removed once and ultimately for all. We've already kind of seen what's been going on. We've already seen How God's Spirit has been working through Saul. He wanted to work through Saul. He did a few things. He prophesied. He did the things he was necessary. But then when he was risen to the task, the Lord tested Saul. He rejected. He said something simple as, wait for Samuel. No. Hey, I want you to do this. No, I'm not going to slay everybody. Saul made choices that he was slowly moving away from the Lord. And this climax of the chapter is met. equally with the climactic decline of Saul. If you think about it, everything's been working up. In chapter 16, everything's been working at this point. God says, hey, I found a king. Go. David, Samuel kind of gives a quick challenge. He says, go anyways. He goes, he goes through all of Jesse's children. He says, none of these are them. Where is David? Where is this other son? Oh, he's out in the field. Alright, bring him here. And we finally see David the first time he's mentioned. There's this dramatic, climactic climb, and the spirit comes upon him. But on the very next verse, we start to see this climactic decline. We've already seen How Saul has slowly been rejecting God, rejecting God, rejecting God. And then here we are. 1 Samuel 16, verse 14. And if you follow the rest of the story, he is drastically just going down faster and faster, just a snowball effect. of him just ultimately rejecting God and rejecting God's choice and acting out of fear. When we look at this passage though, there is a part of this that many people will struggle with. And I want to talk a little bit about how this is. And it says the Spirit of the Lord departed from Saul. And then there's this phrase, and an evil spirit from the Lord troubled him. I want to talk just momentarily. about what is going on with that little phrase. Because people are looking at going, evil spirit from the word. Doesn't that contradict James 1? Verses 13 and 14, which says Let no man say that when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. Verse 13. Verse 14, but every man is tempted when he's drawn away by his own lust and enticed. When we look at it here, we kind of start seeing that God can't tempt man, so evil can't be of God. So there's this problem people start looking at and they go, okay, what's going on here? And I would want to look at it as it's a challenge of translation. No. Let me pause for a moment. Let me clarify. This is a good translation. Evil spirit from the Lord. Clear, good, very literal. If I say it's raining cats and dogs outside, is it raining cats and dogs? But if I said that word for word, if you were to translate in another language, that might be a weird phrase. This phrase here is almost more of an it carries some Hebrew metaphor that's would be more of a something that they would understand the Hebrew Hebrew versus what we do in our English. It's more of a spirit of evilness, a spirit of disaster. If you want to think about it, it's a spirit of the Lord saying, you really want this? I'm going to give you over to your desire. I'm going to give you over to your spirit of destruction. You've been enticed by your own losses as James 1 says it. And this we start seeing that there's a change here. The Lord's going to allow Saul saying, all right, you've rejected me, you've rejected me, you've rejected me. Fine, I'll give you over to your lusts, your desires. Similar to what is seen in Romans 1. Wherefore also gave them of the uncleanness, the lust of their own hearts, to dishonor their own bodies through themselves. When we begin to reject God over and over and over, he gives us over to our desires, unfortunately. And one of the things I want us to notice when we look at this here, if you actually turn look at the next few verses, it was noticeable to the others around him. Verse 15, Saul's servant said unto him, Behold, now an evil spirit from God troubles thee. They immediately recognize that Something is different here. I don't know what it is, or rather they do know what it is. There's this disaster sphere. You're going to destroy yourself. We need to do something about it. And to be honest, it even continues on in verse 23 is that this was something that Saul struggled with for the rest of his life. And it came to pass when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul that David took a harp and played with his his hand, and Saul was refreshed, and it was well, and the evil spirit departed from him. And there's this constant reminder That when we reject God, we're on a downhill slope that we're going to constantly be working to destroy ourselves. So we come back after this week. the summer of camp and different things and we start looking at how the spirit is different in our lives. And actually before I get into the we look at the application, One of the things I want us to start looking actually at is the life of David and Saul, just kind of side by side. If we were to take a glimpse, a quick glimpse of everything. I have everything on the bo on the screen behind me. I just have everything here. I just want us to kind of look at it. David, he was God's king. You compare that to Saul, who was man 's king. He did not desire to be with God David was kind of benevolent. Saul was cruel. David was forgiving. Saul was unforgiving. David was penitent. Saul, when confronted, he lied. David was courageous. Saul was fearful. Notice the very last one. David was at peace with God. The Saul separated from God. The simple presence of the Lord gives peace. Gives us wisdom to deal with situations. You look at the life there of David and you go, that looks awfully familiar, like you might say, many of the fruit of the spirits. He was growing. He was with the Lord, and there was a clear distinction of how the Lord's presence in his life changed versus much of what Saul would describe, sorry, not Saul, but Paul would describe as of the world. So as believers, we look at this passage and we go, okay, so the Spirit of the Lord, how does that, what is the difference? What made David so different? And today we we are not David. We are a little bit different. We are not just New Testament believers and we're in a different side of the covenant, but we are His heirs were his children, but we're able to look at it and say, all right, Paul wrote to churches constantly telling them to just simply walk worthy. If we're to see the Lord's presence in our life, we are to walk worthy. And he says several passages, and there's going to be a I'm going to read a lot of scripture together, and the passages are on will be on the screen as I read them. But I want you guys to just kind of listen As we read through these. Ephesians 1, 4. Sorry. Ephesians 4, 1 through 6. I, therefore, president, prisoner of the Lord, beseech ye that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called. With all lowliness and meekness, with long suffering, forbearing one another in love, endeavoring to keep the unity of the Spirit and the bond of peace, there is one body and one spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling. One Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God, and Father of all, who is above all, through all, and in you all. Ephesians 4, we start looking at if we're called, if we are to walk worthy, He gives simple characteristics. If we were to be walking with God with lowliness and meekness, long-suffering , for bearing one another in love, I think if we look at this morning's message, how that pairs well with what Pastor was saying at the very end about looking at 1 John and how we're able to use this and able to line them up together and we're able to say Walking worthy. It continues on Colossians 1. That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, increasing in the knowledge of God. strengthened with all might according to his glorious power, and to all patience and long-suffering and joyfulness, giving thanks unto the Father, which he hath made us to meet as partakers in inheritance and the saints in light. First Thessalonians 2, 12 and 13. That you would walk worthy of God. He called you into this kingdom of glory for the cause Also the saying God without ceasing. Because when ye receive the word of God, which ye have heard of us, ye receive it not as men sorry, not as the word of men, but as is in truth, the word of God, which effectually worketh in all that ye that believe. So Paul is constantly encouraging them to walk worthy, walk worthy, walk worthy. But he also wrote to many churches dealing with What would be the opposite of walking worthy? What would be to walk as an unbeliever? And rather than having to read through all of those, because those are outnumber, or those are in great number. I'm just going to read one passage, and that's from 1 Corinthians 6, 9 and 10. Know ye not that the unrighteousness shall not inherit the kingdom of God. Be not deceived, neither fornicators, nor idolaters, or adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves of mankind, nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor violers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God. He writes out this list of what is expected you're going to find of an unbeliever, someone who's rejecting God and walking away. But he pauses. In that passage there in that verse, Paul's writing to him, and he just stops. And he says, but by God's grace, by being changed in his image in his son, he says verse eleven, and such were some of you. He simply just pauses and says You should no longer be described as anything I just listed. You should not be described as a fornicator, idolater, adulterer, or effeminate, abuser of themselves, mankind, northeast. And the list continues. You should not be described as that. Because ye are washed, ye are sanctified, ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ by the Spirit of our God. Paul simply just writes them saying, if you're walking with God, it's going to be different. It'll be noticeable. You're going to have defining characteristics that are going to be clearly different than the world When you compare Saul and David, we look at it and we see these drastic changes. We see that Saul, while he rejected God Really is drastically different from the life of David and what he goes through. Not saying David was a perfect person, but the way he dealt with certain sins and the way he looked to God and he always was drawing closer to him. As James simply put it, it's about having to draw close to him, enjoying his presence, enjoying, building a relationship with him, submitting to him, and through his submission. The devil flees. As a believer, the best thing we can do to be filled his presence is to enjoy our time with God. Draw close to him. Resist the devil. So as we as I have this very simple short thought for you guys, as we look at these two verses. I challenge you that we simply would walk worthy of the calling, recognize that we are a child of the King and heir to the kingdom. Love him, love his family, love his presence. Let's pray. Father, thank you. Thank you for this picture of this comparison of Saul and David, a man who loved you. And a man who rejected you and resisted your work. Father, after a long week. Help us to draw close to you this upcoming week. Find time to rest that we can love you. Thank you for those that came out every day. Thank you for those that are here today and this evening. Father, I just pray though that help us to love you, love your son, and love your word. Thank you for all you do and what you are doing here. Praise Son's precious holy name. Amen. You know, the story of Saul and David is a fascinating story. And I could you imagine if you'd have lived through that? You know, watching Saul basically just implode as your king And uh looking at David and how many people who were in that court, they looked at Saul and they said, this man is unhinged. His life is falling apart. He is a nasty Abusive leader. And here's David, this young man who's going out to war and he's a he's a hero and then he becomes the son in law to the king and uh he's a good son in law and Saul wants to kill him and he's willing to take all of his military resources To hunt him down while their enemies are all around them, basically sacking their cities. I mean, this is the storyline. And the thing that really stands out, what Braxton is is drawing out here, is that God 's presence was the difference between those two people. You know, one man is a man who walked with God, and all of the different pressures that he felt, and they broke him down and they affected him as a man. But the fact is that because of God's presence, he grew. And when he stumbled, he got back up. That's what he did. And Saul became just a hardened nasty person and by the end of his life uh it just completely imploded. And that's really what it was. And the simple fact is that every single one of us encounters hardship in life. And what you do with that hardship A lot of it really comes down to do you walk with God through that or not? And what you become on the other side of those things, a lot of it Do you walk with God or not? It's really what it comes down to. And so just want to encourage you, as Braxton has, that we have to be committed to walking with the Lord. And it is dangerous for our souls. for us to try to live our lives apart from God and to live our lives in our fleshly strength. You can't do it, and it is It is something that will ultimately lead to a very destructive end. So great challenge to us. Well, let's go ahead and let's turn in our hymn books to 293. And the song we're going to sing is one we haven't sung in a while, but it's Break Thou the Bread of Life. 293. We're going to sing the first, third, and the fourth verses together. Break down the bread of wife. Please let's stand together as we sing this song. My spirit has told me whom Thou art the bread of my home. Égybak fel Senhá. He done still live in thy word and in thy birth female. Well just want to remind you of a couple things. One is our teams have uh things duration after the service, so I think that you guys are meeting in the back room, uh the Sunday school classroom where the fourth, fifth, and sixth graders are. And uh if you're not a teen you can't go back there guys. Sorry, sorry. I've already had a couple of my kids, can we can we go to the teen spiration because it's at the church? And I said, No, you are not a teenager, so you'll get to play volleyball. in the back. How's that? So anyway. So teens, uh your sing inspiration is in the back and uh want to remind you of that. Also we we do have um quite a bit going on this week. We have our senior luncheon And the seniors now have a new name. Cornerstones. Cornerstones? Right, Mr. Jenny? Cornerstones? All right, good. All right. Just want to make sure I'm right on that. And uh also um we have our college and career study at our house on Friday night. And so um if you're uh out of high school, um Sorry Scott, not you. You are out of high school, but this is our college and career. Um hope that you guys can come to that. And uh also we have our men's breakfast this Saturday as well, guys. So We did not have enough time this morning to like cram and everything. We wanted to be able to show the video of Vacation Bible School, but we do have our men's breakfast uh this morning uh this Saturday morning as well. So um this is our week that we have all those things going on. So don't forget that. Uh sign up if you're gonna go to those things so we can plan for those things. And uh it's always a really good time at those activities. All right. Casey, can you please close us in prayer and then we will be dismissed. Heavenly Father, thank you for this day. Thank you for the word we got tonight from uh Brother Braxton Lord. Please let us take this challenge with us and really just value your presence and not take it for granted. Lord, we love you. Please help us in our week and please keep us safe on our way home. Amen.