All right, well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our study tonight and hope that your week's going as well as possible. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we will open up the Word of God again tonight, dig into this text of Scripture, and hopefully be a real encouragement tonight. Our Father, we thank you so much for the fellowship that we enjoy as believers with one another. We recognize that Christian community is a gift from you. It's designed to help us grow up into Christ's likeness as a body. And so I pray that tonight as we look at this text of Scripture and as we finish out the principles we've been looking at for the last couple weeks. That the things that we're digging into would be principles that we apply on a regular basis. Help us to recognize that Christian love It has many facets, and I pray that we would be faithful as we seek to honor you by the way that we conduct ourselves We pray for our church family. We recognize a lot of folks in our congregation are dealing with great burdens, and I pray that you would uplift those who um are weary and discouraged, those who are dealing with sickness, those who are dealing with loss, those who have received very difficult news this week in various capacities. I pray that You would uphold them and strengthen them, and that your grace would be very evident at work in their lives. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, let's turn in our Bibles again to Matthew chapter 5. And we've been working our way through the Sermon on the Mount. And the text that we're dealing with is a very important text of Scripture, so practical, so personal, and something that we have to regularly take heed to. So Matthew chapter 5, verses 43 through 48 are the text are the verses that we're reading. I'll read them again. And then kind of remind you where we've been in this discussion on this topic. And then we'll finish it out, hopefully, not too late tonight. Alright? So Matthew 5. 43 says this, ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbor and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you. That's pretty tough, isn't it? I know. Tough passage. No, we're not done. We'll keep going That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven. And by the way, not saying this is how you get saved. He's saying that this is how people can recognize that you are truly a disciple of Christ. When you love like this, there's something going on internally that's a that's really demonstrating the evidence of the new birth and the work of the Spirit That you may be the children of your father which is in heaven, for he maketh his son to rise on the evil and on the good. And send its reign on the just and on the unjust. Now wouldn't it be kind of interesting if he didn't send his rain on the unjust? We gotta look around who's got dry yards tonight. Might be a lot more than uh than than than got rain. But anyway, we'll keep going. He maketh his sunrise on the evil, the good, he sendeth his rain on the just and the unjust. For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? Do not even the publicans the same, and if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? Do not even the publicans so? Be therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect. What amazing statements from God's Word. So we summarized it this way. We are to love our neighbor not just the good, but also the difficult. Because we are to love like our Heavenly Father loves his enemies. And I think you remember the story where Jesus is talking to a man and he and he he says, What good thing can I do to inherit the kingdom of heaven? And basically Jesus says, Well you know the commandments, what are they? And he he summarizes it. And then Jesus says, Well, you skated it very well and he says Well, who's my neighbor? And Jesus said, well, I'll tell you a story. And in the story, you know what he did? The hero of the story was a person the man hated. the Samaritan. And he was able to justify his hatred for this man because, well, you know, the Jews and the Samaritans, we have no dealings with one another. Their religious beliefs are slightly different than ours, and there was an ethnic tension between those, and there was the historical tension between them, and he felt completely justified to say, I can hate my neighbor if he's a Samaritan. And Jesus says, be like the Samaritan. Oh yeah, that's one of your neighbors too. Well, Jesus is teaching us that love is a tough thing. In fact, we could even use it this way. Love is a Christian grace. When a person places their faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and they become a new creature in Christ and old things pass away and all things become new and now they are someone who is growing in grace and in the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. One of the greatest evidences that this person is growing as a Christian is that they're able to love people, not that are kind and good and gentle, but all their neighbors, even the really nasty ones. And so we saw that the way that we could look at the text is he says we're to love them, describing our disposition toward them. not to harbor personal animosity toward them. We're to bless them. This describes how we're to speak about them. In other words, don't go around trying to undermine them with your words. And by the way, uh blessing them doesn't mean lie about them in a good way, okay? But what it means is that as much as you can speak well of them, you do it. And where you can't, you just I guess I don't need to say anything. I'll allow their reputation to follow them. But I'm not going to be the one to destroy them. He says, do good to them. This describes the actions that we're to actively take toward them. We're to do according to God's standard of righteousness, remembering it's not our place to do evil to others, even those who are evil and have done evil toward us. And then the last thing that we mentioned is that we are to pray for them. And someone says, well, I'll find my favorite impregatory psalm. And then I'll find my second favorite in precatory psalm, and I will pray the Bible toward my enemy. And that's not what Jesus is saying there. He's saying, take the situation to God, put it on his shoulders, and ask him to intervene for good. And by the way, someone might say, well, I would hate to pray for God to do good to someone when they really deserve to do evil, and then he answers my prayer by doing good to them. God knows what people need. He's going to deal with them in the exact best way possible. And so we should have an attitude that is benevolent and kind toward people, even those Who are extremely difficult. So don't seek to take personal vengeance. Seek what is best for them and go to the only one who can facilitate that. That is God Himself. And then we broke down two passages that are key passages, 1 Corinthians 13, 4-7, and we took several of the statements. out of that text of scripture and we just laid out basic principles and I'm going to remind you of them in just a minute. But here's what the text says. Charity, that's Christian love. Suffereth long and is kind. Charity envieth not. Charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up. Does not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil, rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. And then in Romans 12, 14 he says, Bless them which persecute you, bless and curse not. He says condescend to men of low estate and you go, yeah, they really are. When he says condescend, he doesn't say be condescending to people that you believe are of low estate. The idea of condescend means you meet them where they are. That's what he's saying. In other words, you're the one who's thinking clearly, not them. You're the one who's thinking rationally, not them. You're the one who is more matured in this particular scenario. But you're going to step down to the level where they are, you're going to meet them where they are, and you're going to be patient with them. That's the sense of what he's saying. Be not wise in thine own eyes. Recompense to no man evil for evil. We use the word vengeance. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men. Obviously, there's some people that, you know, you do your part, but they have to reciprocate on their side. Dearly, beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. If thine enemy be hungry, feed him, if he be thirsty, give him drink, and so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with Good. Now, that's a lot of really tough stuff for us to do. And we could look at it this way, okay, I'm going to take each of these pieces and I'm going to strive to do this to the best of my ability. I think that's the wrong approach. The right approach is that as I grow in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ, my attitude towards people is going to press into these various areas. And as I begin to think more and more biblically, the scriptures are going to shape the responses that I believe are right and appropriate in situations And this is the way we're going to respond. Not this is my list of rules. Okay, I've got to check off one, check off two, check off three. That's not the idea. The idea is this is shaping my perspective. And so, out of all of this, what I wanted to do was I wanted to deal with some basic principles that should shape how we love people in difficult situations. Because that's really where love is demonstrated. Not in the easy cases. Okay? When you're holding your child for the first time in the hospital. And uh you haven't had to change their diaper yet and they haven't screamed all through the night yet. And uh you haven't had to to deal with them being defiant against you yet. You haven't had any of those things. You just hold them, you'll They're so perfect. And you just feel this warmth and this affection. Well, that's not the real test of the love that you'll have for that child. The real test will be the rest of your life. Or when you're standing there at the altar and you're saying I do to your spouse. And everybody's dressed nice and it's a happy occasion and everybody that's been feuding about how everything has to be has finally, you know, laid down their weapons and we've had the wedding and everything's good and everybody's happy. That's not the real test. of your love for your spouse. It's the rest of your life. And so here are some principles. The first thing we talked about was this: love is patient with difficult people. 1 Corinthians 13, 4. Charity suffereth long and is kind. Principle 2. Love is kind. To difficult people, charity suffereth long and is kind. I kind of said that already. Principle three, love does not assume the worst where the facts are not yet established. He says, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil. And the idea is not that you aren't going to sometimes come to the conclusion that a person's actions were wrong or evil or vindictive, but you don't rush to that judgment. You let the facts Establish that that is in fact the case. And even if you know that's the case, how you respond to it needs to be in a loving manner. But the idea is you don't immediately think the worst of people By the way, that right there does help resolve a lot of conflicts between people. Doesn't resolve all of them, but it resolves a lot of them. If people would just not assume the worst of people's actions and motives in every single situation, they might find out that people are not always trying to destroy them. However, sometimes the facts do demonstrate that that is what they're trying to do. Principle four. Love desires God to bring resolution for the good of all parties. Verse 7, beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things. It's not the attitude of I'm going to win, and I just can't wait until God finally reverses the situation. And I win. Like the greatest vengeance is that I won the story here. That's not what love is. Love says I want God to work so that it's good for all of us. I want it to work out the right way for me, and I want it to work out the right way for them and everybody else that's involved. That's the idea. And that is the desire that people take into situations where there are conflicts. Principle five, love speaks the truth even when the truth is uncomfortable but necessary. Rejoiceth not in iniquity, rejoiceth in the truth. So, it means I'm not obligated to just tell people what they want because it's going to make them happy and they're not going to get upset with me and I'm just going to keep peace by lying to people all the time. That's obviously not love. Principle six, love does good, even when what is good may not be completely understood. Principle seven, and here's what we're gonna dig into this evening. You say wow that's the whole sermon right there. No no it was a reminder of where we've been Principle 7. Love does not celebrate evil even when people demand for their evil to be celebrated. Whoo, did you catch that? Love does not celebrate evil even when people demand for their evil to be celebrated. Now, there are a couple of passages of scripture that come to my mind, and I want to give you a couple illustrations too while I'm thinking about this. But the first one that I want you to notice is Romans chapter 1, verse 32. And we know Romans 1. Romans 1 tells us about this descent from people knowing God and they take the truth and they suppress it. in unrighteousness, they push it away, they ignore the truth, and they're unthankful. And from that ingratitude comes this series of We could say a downward spiral of responses toward God and more and more destructive patterns of behavior. But at the very end of that passage, this is what it states in verse 32. He says, who knowing the judgment of God That they which commit such things are worthy of death, and by the way, he's not saying that we're supposed to have capital punishment for all the things that are mentioned. That's not his point. His point is the wages of sin is death, okay? You sin, I sin, we deserve death. That's why there's the gospel. That's why Christ went to the cross and died. He says people know that sin brings consequence. Then he says this. Not only do they the same, but have pleasure in them that do them. Now that little statement, have pleasure in them that do them, literally has this sense. They give their approval. They affirm and they celebrate what is evil. Wow. Sounds like June, Pride Month. Is that not exactly what that's talking about? That's exactly what that's talking about. And we've got in our minds this thinking today, in our culture, that if I really love a person, then I affirm whatever they choose to do. Whatever decisions they make, I just say, all right, my stamp of approval is on them. I applaud you, I affirm you, I celebrate that decision. And I asked the question, is that love? In fact, sometimes we as Christians we get kind of backed into a corner and people say, hey, you know, I know Christians are very condescending. And by the way, some Christians really are condescending. Okay. Well they're very proud and very self-righteous. Some Christians are proud and self-righteous. There's absolutely no question about it. But if what they mean by that is that someone says Well, God said that he created male and female, so I just simply accept that that's the way that it is. How's that hate? That's just speaking the truth Or, you know, God created male and female and He He ordained this thing called marriage. One man, one woman for life. I'm not trying to destroy anybody's life. I'm not trying to attack anybody. I'm not trying to Hunt somebody down? No, I'm simply stating what is true. And the fact is what God has created is for our good. It's for the good of the individual. It's for the good of society. It's for the good of, we could say, the continuation of humanity. And so when people celebrate what God says is evil, that's not love. It's not love at all. Now, I want to give you an example that I think we could all kind of understand that is in a different context that the principle is the exact same. Now let's think about someone who is a medical doctor. You know, medical doctors, there's some they do their good health checkups and they see everybody and oh, you know, your your kids growing, they're doing great. That's probably what a happy doctor gets to do, but not every doctor has that kind of a role. There are some doctors that they treat cancer. There's some doctors that they treat like terrible illnesses that are debilitating and ultimately will take someone's life And let's just say for a moment that you have a person that from their perspective is completely healthy and strong and vibrant. And they go into the doctor's office and when they sit down and the doctor does all their normal tests they they bring up a couple of things that they think are just a little bit strange. Like, you know, I I I I feel this at certain times and I've had this experience at certain times. And I'm sure it's nothing, but I just thought I'd mention it, and the doctor's like, hmm. That's a little bit concerning I'd like us to run some tests on you, okay? Oh no, no, I'm good. I'm healthy, I'm strong, I go to the gym, I exercise, I eat right, I do everything right. I'm sure you do. We need to run some tests on you. And so they go and they run the tests. And the tests come back. A doctor looks over those tests, and what they discover when they look at those tests is that their patient who looks strong and healthy and vibrant feels good about themselves Has something that's going to kill them. But it's tradable. It's 100% tradable If they are willing to hear the simple fact you have this illness, and here are your options And if you're willing to follow these options, you can get past this and you can survive it and you can actually live a very healthy and productive life for many, many decades beyond this. Would that doctor be doing the right thing to look that patient in the eye and say, You're great. they oh but Joel they that person would feel very uncomfortable if they knew that they had that illness. It's true But what would be better? To lie to them and let them die? From something that is completely treatable, curable, could be dealt with? Or to tell them the hard truth in love so that they could actually be freed from the terrible illness that they have. I mean everybody in this room knows that the obvious answer is, of course, you're the doctor. Your job is to tell them they have this problem and then to tell them how it can get resolved. And so it's kind of like it's negative and it's positive. Like I didn't want to hear the news of what's going on in me, but I also am thankful that there's a way out. And I'm glad that we caught this when we did and all those things. So we know in our minds that the right thing to do, the good thing to do, the loving thing, the responsible thing to do is to speak the truth to people sometimes when they don't want to hear it. They don't want that news. But that's exactly what they need to hear. And you know what? The greatest example of this is, it's the giving of the gospel. When you open up your Bible and it says the ways of the sin is death, a lost person wanna hear that? What do you mean the ways of the sin is death? What do you mean I've got to stand before a holy and righteous God? How do you even know there's such a thing as a God? And you say he's holy and he's righteous. Oh, I don't believe that. You can believe in the Tooth Fairy, you can believe in Santa Claus all you want, and you can believe in God all you want, but it's not for me. That's what ancient peoples thought. No, you open up the Bible and you say, well, this is what the scriptures say. And you don't do that because you want them to feel terrible and nasty because you just want to like, yeah, I gotcha. No, that's not why we give the gospel. We love people. We want them to be saved. We want them to turn to Christ and place their faith in the finished work of Christ. But in order for that to happen, you have to confront the problem. And so there are times that people will say Celebrate with me and let me hear that I'm doing the right thing. And you have to go, I can't do that. I'm sorry. I don't take delight and joy in that, but I have an allegiance to truth. I have allegiance to God. I have an allegiance to truth and to God for your good. And that's why I'm going to say what is true. And by the way, sometimes people get back to this corner for really one of two reasons. Sometimes they get back to the corner because it's easier to just go with the flow. than it is to stand against it. Spurgeon used this illustration. He said, if you look out in the river, all the dead fish are fluting downstream. And all the living ones are swimming up the stream. Because the only way you swim up the stream is if you got life in your in your body. And that's the truth. Think about the story of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Daniel chapter 4. Nebuchadnezzar makes this proclamation and he says, when you hear this music, Everybody needs to bow down to my image. And they said, uh, nope, we can't do that. And then there are people that came to Nebuchadnezzar and I said, you won't believe this, Nebuchadnezzar, but there are these Jewish boys over here, young men, and uh they're not doing what everybody else is doing. He's like, oh, I'll have a board with them. I know I'm kind of softening this just a little bit, but he stands before they stand before him and he says, Is it true that you didn't bow to the image? They said, Yeah. He said, I'll give you another chance. They said, well, give us another chance. It didn't change in anything. We're not going to do it. You know what's amazing? They could have bowed to the peer pressure. They could have literally bowed to the peer pressure and said, in our hearts we are not bowing to Nebuchadnezzar, just with our bodies. But our hearts are rebelling against it, which is probably what a lot of people did. A lot of people didn't want to bow to Nebuchadnezzar. They didn't love Nebuchadnezzar. They were just doing it because that's what everybody else was doing. And in their hearts they hated Nebuchadnezzar. But these young men said, no, we're not going to do that. But you know what's amazing? By the end of the story. By the end of the story, what does Nebuchadnezzar do? He has to affirm that their God saved them. Isn't that an amazing thing to think about? In other words, they recognized that they they very well could have died, and if God had not intervened, I mean they assumed they were going to die. They knew that God could intervene and he chose to intervene. But there was no promise that he would intervene. There was no uh you know it wasn't like they had this confirmation from God, oh we'll stand here and we'll just take it, we'll walk through the fire. God never told them that was going to happen. He intervened for them. But the result of their backbone was that there was a witness. The same thing can be true in our lives as well. And so we need to recognize that there are times that people want to push and they'll want you to affirm and you just say, I can't do it. And that is why Christians have been persecuted throughout most of history. That simple fact. Not that they were staying in the public street saying, we defy the emperor. No, that's not what they were doing. The emperor said, you do this or else, and I said, well, we can't do that because it's either you or God, and we have to serve him. Principle number eight. And I think this is also a really, really important one. Love does not incentivize or enable destructive behavior. Do you hear that? Love does not incentivize or enable destructive behavior. Now, there is a mindset amongst some Christians. That when somebody asks you for something, you have to give it to them. If somebody demands it, you have to give it to them. You know how I know that? I watch how they raise their children. It's true. You know how many children, their mom and dad, never say no? Never. And if they dare to say no, they will face the wrath of their four-year-olds. Who will scream and shout and demand? How do you know that? Well, because I've gone to the grocery store a couple of times. And I've seen it. I've seen it. And let me tell you That's one of the most devastating things you can do to your children. To never restrain your children, to never tell them no. To never establish boundaries. To just give in and give in and give in. You know what you're doing? You are incentivizing and enabling some serious behavior that they're going to have as adults. Sometimes, with the grace of God's intervention, those young people, even though they were not raised in the best way possible by God's grace, they get saved. They walk with the Lord and God changes their lives. But the simple fact is a lot of people incentivize and enable destructive behavior. And a lot of times the reason that we stop is because we're angry. Okay? I'm tired of giving you money. And so now I'm so angry I'm just going to say no. And I'm going to say it hard, and I'm going to say it long, and I'm going to say it nasty, and I'm going to draw the line so that you know I'm not budging. Not, hey, let's talk about why you have this problem and let's talk about how to resolve it in a long-term way that's best for you That's a total different situation. And you know what's interesting? We see this principle laid out in lots and lots of different contexts in the Bible. Let me give you a couple that are just Old Testament examples. Think about something like gleaning. We know from the story of Ruth. That Ruth comes and basically the way that she meets Boaz, as amazing as this is. Is that she's going into a field and there in that field as they're harvesting all of the grain and all of the wheat They're dropping some sheaves along the way. Some of it's accidental. They're not trying to they're working hard, they're doing their work. They're tired. They dropped some and their their responsibility under the law of God was to leave it there, not to go and pick up everything. single little piece and put it in that bundle so that they didn't lose anything. They were supposed to leave it there. And there are even portions of the field where they were not supposed to harvest it, but they were supposed to leave it there. You say, well why did God do that? Here's why he did that. God created this amazing way that people who were poor did not have the ability to own land, did not have the means to farm and take care of themselves for whatever reason. That they could survive without just being given a free handout every single day. Isn't that an amazing thing? You know why God did that? Because He doesn't want people to starve. And he also doesn't want people to be lazy. He doesn't want people to be entitled. He wants people to work with what they're given. And so people that were widows, very, very vulnerable people, people who were strangers from other parts around who came to Israel because they believed in Israel's God. They could come to the land of Israel and they could glean in those fields and they could provide for themselves and their families because God established this principle of gleaning. And he did it so that he would not enable destructive behavior. Give me a free handout. He would say, here's a way that you can work nobly. And you can meet the needs of your family. And by the way, it's also kind of going against the greed of the people who own lots and lots of land and were able to bring in a massive harvest. Another interesting example is the releasing of debts or the fact that they were not allowed to charge interest to a brother who was receiving a loan. You know why they did that? Because God was not, God wanted to make sure he was not incentivizing greed. in the hearts of the people that had means and were abusing those who were under them. Just some very simple things. In fact there's lots and lots of different examples beyond those that we could give. But I just wanted to mention those Old Testament examples. But it's not just an Old Testament principle. It's a New Testament principle as well. And there are two scriptures I want you to notice tonight. The first one is 2 Thessalonians chapter 3. So turn there for just a minute, and I want you to listen carefully to what the scriptures say in 2 Thessalonians 3 verses 10 to 15. He says, This we command you. This we commanded, sorry, commanded you. That if any would not work, neither should he eat. You say, that is so cruel. That is so harsh. Is a person able-bodied? Then let them work so that they can take care of themselves We hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly, working not at all. This is interesting. And our busybodies You know what he's saying? You're gonna work no matter what. Either your work's gonna be productive or your work should be destructive. Okay, that's basically what he's saying. So when a person becomes lazy and they're entitled and you just give them the handouts and they're not working, what they're going to do is they're going to go around and create all kinds of problems for people. Because instead of being industrious with something that's good, they'd be industrious in a destructive manner. Now why did Paul write this to the Church of Thessalonica? Well, it's because it was a problem There were people in the church that were actually incentivizing destructive behavior, being busybodies and people being entitled. He says, now them that are such, we command and exhort by our Lord Jesus Christ that with quietness they work and eat their own bread. But ye brethren, be not weary in well-doing. If any man obey not our epistle, or our word by this epistle, note that man. Have no company with him, that he may be ashamed, yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother. Isn't that an amazing text of scripture? He said, if people ignore what I'm saying, do not fellowship with them Allow them to be on their own. But don't hate them. Love them. Desire that you can have a reconciliation. He's actually talking about the concept of church discipline here. And you see in this passage that church discipline isn't about harming a person or trying to, you know, tell them we don't love you, we don't want you around. That's not the point of church discipline. The point of church discipline is to establish some parameters that certain kinds of behavior that are extremely destructive need to be dealt with. But once they're resolved, Then fellowship is restored. That's the idea. But you notice here that there's this principle that you need to work so that you feed yourself. And built in that is don't be a person that enables people to get free handouts. There's another example that I think is really fascinating. And that is how to deal with widows. Now, by the way, when we talk about widows in the ancient world versus widows today, There are some pretty significant differences between them. Widows in our culture can be very destitute, but widows in our culture could be very well taken care of as well. If someone has an insurance policy, if someone uh has has lived um and and retired and all those different kinds of things. A person whose spouse dies, it's a very difficult situation for them, but that doesn't necessarily mean that they're going to be destitute and they can't eat. But those kinds of safety nets were not available to people in the ancient world. If a person lost their spouse, a woman, especially who was older, she was in huge trouble. And within the church context there were people that were like this. They were totally destitute. And the question is, what's the church supposed to do? Well, are they supposed to just turn a blind eye and say, well, you know, it's really unfortunate that you've fallen on hard times? The answer is No. They're supposed to take care of them. But the question is, should there be any measure of When I use this word discrimination, I mean they make a judgment about whether or not some should be cared for and others not. Or the nature of the care for one versus another. And the answer is yes. There are some principles that are established in the scriptures that help guide us in this issue. And so here's what he says Honor widows that are widows indeed. And you go, well, like, how could you not be a widow indeed? Like either you're a widow or you're a widow. Like Well, he's saying, well, there are some widows that are totally destitute, and there are others that their life is difficult. You should love them and care for them, but not to the same level as he's going to lay out here. Listen carefully. If any widow have children or nephews, let them first show piety at home and not requite and to requite their parents. That is good and acceptable before God. If any provide not for his own, and especially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith and is worse than an infidel. Now you know what he's saying? If your mother, if your father has passed away, don't expect the church to take care of your mother for you. Okay? That's what he's saying. If you're unwilling to lift up your hand and minister to your own mother or your own grandmother or your own uh aunt in this situation, he says, you're not even lacking like a Christian at all. Not saying you aren't a Christian. But you're not thinking like one. You're not acting like one. You're not living consistent with the way that a Christian should be thinking. But then he says this. Let not a widow be taken into the number under three score years old, having been the wife of one man well reported of for good works, if she have brought up children, if she hath lodged strangers, if she hath washed the saints of feet. If she has relieved the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every good work, but the younger widows refuse. What does this tell you? There are some widows in the church that are supposed to be taken care of. They literally live off of the gifts of the church. But there are very particular criteria. There are some very particular expectations for a person in such a situation. They have to be beyond 60 years of age. They have to have been a person that was not irresponsible. They have to be a person who does not have other family members who can take care of them in such a situation. You say, well, we don't ever deal with situations like that. That's not necessarily true. We most certainly could deal with situations. Now someone might say, well Well, Joel, is it possible that there might be a situation where we wouldn't necessarily be obligated to take care of someone, but maybe we should take care of them? I say, yeah, actually there could be some situations like that. Are there some situations where we may be inclined to take care of someone and we shouldn't? And the answer is yeah. There's situations like that as well. And so what's the point? Well the point is this. When it comes to this issue of love, love doesn't enable sinful and destructive behavior. And you know what that that starts in our homes with our kids. But that even goes into the church context. And I would even say it should even go into society, okay? If if if our if our government functioned in a a biblical thinking way, which obviously they don't. Today, for sure, then the way that we looked at those who were poor and needy and destitute, we would provide ways That did not enable behavior that was destructive and ultimately leading to that person's demise. The point is this. Love isn't just being sentimental, folks. Love has a very rugged side to it. Love has a rugged and firm side to it. And so I leave you with these final thoughts. It's not simply sentimentality. The worm and fuzzies that I feel when I hold my child. Or when I'm there at a wedding and I say, oh, this is so beautiful, so sweet. Love is more than just sentimentality. It's not weak and passive. Love does not simply give in to another's wishes. Love does not compromise principle to the detriment of other people. It is principled, it is strong, it is decisive, it does what's right even when it's not easy. It's guided by truth and righteousness. And the simple fact is you and I cannot love people if we don't know God. Simple truth. Because the expressing of love really begins with understanding what is true and right. And we've got to know him in order to do that. And by the way, it says in 1 John, it says, the one who loves God is born of God, that means he's spiritually alive, and he knows God. That means that he's not just spiritually alive, but he's walking with the Lord. He's growing into uh in the knowledge of the Lord. And that relationship with him, that communion that he enjoys with God. is something that is shaping his disposition so that he becomes a channel through which God demonstrates his love to other people. And so we need to ask the Lord to help us to be channels of his love. That we would get in his word, spend time with him, and that the things that we've talked about here, they really will come out in the way that we relate to other people. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer. And then we'll have our prayer time. Our Father, thank you for the word. Please use it in our lives. Minister to our hearts. Give us wisdom and guidance in tough situations that we're encountering. Help us to walk according to grace that you give us. And help us to be channels of your love for people. Father, help us to raise our children right. Help us to relate properly to needy people. Help us to relate properly to brothers and sisters in Christ and the church. Help us to relate properly to people that treat us wrong and irritate us and are vindictive and hurtful. Father, help us to be a people who truly do walk in accordance with this principle that's been established in your word. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.