Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our service today and uh hope you have a great week. We had a great time here on Friday afternoon, an evening with uh fathers and sons for a camping trip. And so if you see a dad who went there and he looks tired, it's because he didn't sleep on Friday night. And uh if his son looks tired, they didn't sleep either. So we had a really good time though, thankful for All the dads who brought their boys out. And uh just just a great time for us to uh just make make good memories, have fellowship and Be challenged in God's Word. If you're visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we want to want to warmly welcome you. Hope you received a welcome packet. And if you'd like us to reach out to you. answer any questions that uh you may have about the church, uh just just find out how we can be an encouragement to you. Take a moment to fill out the little card and put it in the little box in the back there and we'll take that and we'll reach out to you this week. A couple more announcements and then we'll open our service. Good morning. Hope you guys have the opportunity to be outside this upcoming week. It's going to be beautiful. I think tomorrow I think I saw the high was like 78, low of 51 So take advantage of it if you can. Tonight there is a teen synxpiration following the evening service. Tuesday, we have our monthly opportunity to go to the Baltimore Rescue Mission. For those who are unaware, we have the opportunity to go up the second Tuesday of every month to the Baltimore Rescue Mission, and we're able to minister to the men and to the ladies. We go to ladies first. Um we'll sing some songs, give a challenge from the word, and then we'll do the same thing on the men's side. Uh just an opportunity there. Uh Sunday or Thursday, we also have the senior luncheon. There's a sign-up if you have not had a chance yet. There's a sign-up on the bulletin board There's also men's breakfast and door-to-door visitation as well this upcoming Saturday. So both those also have a sign up if you'd like to see look there. Thursday, there has been a slight change to the college and career. I think we originally had this upcoming Thursday, or Friday, excuse me, but it'll be the following Friday, college and career at Pastor's House. A couple weeks, and it's a ways away, we have our VBS meeting. There's a lot going on there. Planning and we're excited for VBS, the second week in July. But that evening in a couple of weeks, we also have an opportunity for the senior graduation fellowship to just encourage and congratulate all the seniors that are going to be able to fellowship. I think it's just gonna be a little bit snacks and stuff in the back, but there is a sign up on the Bolton board just gonna help give us a head count for numbers. But just exciting opportunity and courage. Pastor? Our opening scripture reading this morning is in Psalm 145, and we will start with verse 1. I will extol thee, my God, O King. I will bless thy name forever and ever Every day will I bless thee, and I will praise thy name for ever and ever. Great is the Lord, and greatly to be praised, and his greatness is unsearchable. One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts. I will speak of the glorious honor of thy majesty and of thy wondrous works. And men shall speak of the mighty and thy terrible acts, and I will declare thy greatness They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion, slow to anger, and of great mercy. The Lord is good to all, and his tender mercies are over all his works. All thy works shall praise thee. O Lord, thy saints shall bless thee. They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom and talk of thy power, to make known to the sons of men his mighty acts and the glorious majesty of his kingdom. Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations. Our focus of worship today was for us to consider the exclusive nature of God's kingdom. Please let's all bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service also to be with those who can't be with us today, whether they've traveled or they're dealing with situations of sickness. So let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so grateful for the opportunity to gather us a body of believers. As the Word of God has been read to us this morning, I pray that we would just glory in the King over all things yourself. Help us to remind ourselves of how great a king you are, of your kindness and mercy, of your grace. of your wisdom, of your power, of your majestic ways. As we open up the Word of God and we look at this passage in Luke later on this morning, I pray that you would speak to our hearts Help us to understand the intent of the scriptures in front of us and help us to be deeply moved and blessed by it. Pray for those who are visiting with us today. I pray that that today they would feel very warmly welcomed. They have the word of God would minister to their hearts. Be with those in our congregation who are dealing with sickness. I pray that you would uplift them and strengthen them, those who are traveling. I pray that you give them traveling mercies. And we think especially of all the things going on this summer, I pray that your hand of blessing would be upon those things. And we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Good morning, Acabaptist Church and esteemed guests. Thank you for joining with us this morning, both in person and on live stream. We are going to start off our song singing praises to our Lord and Savior. Pastor Josh read that psalm. We couldn't dovetail these songs any better. So please stand with me. We're going to turn to page one in our red butt, page one, and sing rejoice. The Lord is King. Amen. We didn't have a seat this time. Go ahead. Page eight. Glorious is thy name. All for birthday for a bring the kingdom bring your doorway. Right for me and all the Rise Glory , brightly , common on the well, come on , glory , go to the world. Amen. You're sounding well and guys. I can't make out whether or not you've relaxing sleep or not, but you're sounding good. So all you guys that uh stayed up on uh Friday night, you're doing all right. And I don't see any yawning going on. So I guess we're doing well. Okay, turn to page 26. And now I'm going to ask you to stand. Did I get it right? Yeah. Okay, I'm getting ahead of myself. Page twenty-six, praise to the Lord the Almighty. Praise Don't have shame. Be seated for the second reading of the scripture. Comes from Luke Chapter 12, chapter 13. If you've been following along with us, we've ended chapter 13. We're going to start in verse 22 and read to verse 30. Chapter 13, verse 22. And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying toward Jerusalem. Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them, Strive to enter in at the straight gate, for many I say it will say, For many I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able. When once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the door, and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us, and he shall answer and say unto you, I know you not whence you are. Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are. Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity. There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth when ye shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out. And they shall come from the east, and from the west, and from the north, and from the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God. And behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. All right, for our next song, we ask you to turn to page 20 or follow along on the screen. Got to stand up with me on this one because after the second verse, we're going to do our greeting. So make sure you say hi to our visitors Make sure you introduce yourself to somebody you might not know. So page 20, praise him. Praise him. After the second verse, do the greeting. Praise him. Praise him. Remember how we bring one another. Okay, start making your way back. Okay, here comes for us. That 's worse, everybody. Here we go. Everyone came on the three more. We are people praying, praise them , the other , praying, praying, and bring for the All right, we're gonna go to the blue book. Page one hundred and nine, right in the middle, or follow along with it. If you don't need the blue book to sing some harmony, that's okay. If you do, break it out. Love to hear you guys. Especially on the last verse when we're going to sing it a cappella without the instruments. Our triun. My Lord God went on, say your God. To go to us, we praise you for your generity That God will I can 't believe that I'm being before God where they can die for me. If I went to holy God by Lord God freed. All our war is darkness , love will be my life, the none will go where we I will serve any stay on my life. I will make him no other day. In the glory of thy name, I will live for the glory of the Lord. No, I haven't been wonder. And leads me to live in water where I may rest. I will go when he leave me, I will celebrate each day of my heart, I will pray with the ball. I think I will honor him with every choice I think I will live for the glory of the God. No more I will arise no more. I will be careful. I will break him with every bread like I will water in with every joint like The glory of the Lord Yes I will live for the glory of the Lord Yes I will live For the book. Okay, well our children who are junior church aides, that's ages four to seven, may be dismissed to the back for your class with parents' help. And the rest of you, I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Luke. And we are in chapter 13 this morning, as we've been working our way through the book of Luke, we come to this text in front of us. And the focus of our sermon this morning is going to be proclaiming the gospel like Christ. Proclaiming the gospel like Christ. Let's go ahead. And read the text again. I know we've already read it once this morning, but just to again familiarize ourselves with the scripture we'll be looking at today, let's read it again. It says, and he went through the cities and villages teaching, journeying toward Jerusalem. And said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? He said unto them, strive to enter in at the straight gate, for many I say unto you will seek to enter in and shall not be able. When once the master of the house is risen up and hath shut the door, and ye begin to stand without and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us, and he shall answer and say unto you. I know you not whence ye are. Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. And he shall say, I tell you, I know you not, whence ye are. Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity. There shall be weeping. A gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out. And they shall come from east and from west and from the north and from the south and shall sit down in the kingdom of God, and behold, there are last which shall be first. And there are first, which shall be last. Please let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to understand this very important text of Scripture. Our Father. As we dig into the important truths that we find in the text, as Jesus is teaching on the need to be ready for the return of the King. I pray that you will help me to communicate this text with a very simple basic consistency with the text in a way that everyone here knows exactly what your word says. And I pray that as we ponder the words of this text and the truths that we'll unpackage today, I pray that your Spirit would help us to understand how to apply it. Father, if there's someone here who does not know Christ as their Savior, I pray that they will see that the gospel calls them to repent and believe. That Christ died for their sins and they can be saved right here, this very moment in this very place. And for all those in this place who know Christ as their Savior, I pray that we will see how Christ emphasized some very important truths as he taught about the kingdom of God. And so we pray that the Spirit will move in our midst and in our hearts, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. The text in front of us is an important text in Christ's teaching. He's answering an observers lament that few are saved. And I actually kind of have to say there's a little nuance in that how he answers this individual because he actually does not directly address Their question. He actually takes the question and addresses everybody else. But he's answering observers lament that few are saved by stressing the tragedy of seeking the kingdom of God through self-effort. And the ultimate triumph of the gospel amongst the nations. So these verses are not primarily negative, in fact, they're primarily positive, but there is a negative element to the verses in front of us. To put it very simply, every person in this room who knows the Lord Jesus as our Saviors, we need to proclaim the gospel like Christ did. The kinds of things that He's going to emphasize in these verses, we need to emphasize them when we're giving the gospel to people. And I hope that as we see this laid out, you'll see exactly what those those truths are that are the elements of giving the gospel clearly. So part number one, we want to notice the content of what Jesus says in these verses before we ever move to apply a text we also we always need to make sure we understand what it's saying and we need to understand what it's saying to the people that are there. Jesus is having a conversation He's been laying out a series of teachings, and so what he's saying has a specific audience, and we need to understand that very well this morning. So the first truth we're going to find in these verses is that there is no issue. More important than the gospel. Let me say that again. There is no issue more important than the gospel. Being able to retire when everybody says in our society you should be able to retire is not the most important issue. Figuring out how to take care of some challenge at work is not the most important issue. Dealing with a conflict within your family is not the most important issue. I'm not saying those issues aren't important. They are. But the most important issue is the one that Jesus addresses first. And here is the way he puts it. He says, strive to enter. Strive to enter. The word strive has the sense of exerting an intense effort like an athlete in competition. Now this past Friday night we had our father-son camping trip and we threw out the wrestling mat and Pastor Josh really enjoyed being a wrestling coach for a little bit. And these boys, man, it's funny. Some of them they've wrestled a little bit, some of them haven't. But they were all excited about it. I mean they really had a good time. But one of the things that these young men learned yes uh this past week Is that when you step on that mat, that might be your buddy, but I'm telling you what, man, when you grab a hold of him and he grabs a hold of you and you're trying to take him down, he's trying to take you down, you exert a lot of energy. It's only five minutes, guys Those five minutes can be quite grueling. And the word, the Greek term, actually is the same term that we get our word agonize from. It's agonizomai. And this word has the idea of something that should consume all of our attention and our efforts. Now, where he's going to go from here is very, very important, but he's making the point here. People need to be concerned with one thing in life more than anything else. And that is what happens to their souls. That should be the most important thing. If you're in this room right now, or maybe you're on the live stream this morning And as you think about your life, the gospel's not the most important thing. And the kingdom of God's not the most important thing. It's lots and lots of superficial things that really have grabbed your attention. You need to stop and you need to reconsider. The fact is there's nothing more important than the gospel. And this is what Jesus says in Matthew 16. He says, What is a man profited if he gained the whole world? And he loses his own soul. What shall a man give in exchange for his soul? When we die and when we stand before Jesus, we're not going to be able to say, here's all this money that I made in life. Let me give this to you now and you can let me into the kingdom. He says You're not redeemed with corruptible things, like silver and gold, from your vain conversation. But rather with the precious blood of Christ, it'll be too late. What you lived your life for on this side, if it's the wrong thing, you're in trouble on that day. Second truth I want you to notice is that there's only one way to enter the kingdom. Notice what he says in addition to strive to enter, he says. The straight gate. Now, that word straight is not S-T-R -A-I-G-H-T, but it's S-T-R-A-I-T, which has the idea of a narrow passage. between maybe two mountains, or maybe it's a narrow passage in the sea. It's a fascinating term because in other parts of the Bible It's actually translated in the Old Testament. If you look at the Greek translation of the Old Testament, it's actually translated a stronghold when it talks about the places that David would go and hide from Saul. You say, well, what is a straight gate and what does a stronghold have to do with each other? And the truth is, they don't seem to have much to do with each other, but they actually do. Because a stronghold was a place, maybe in the mountains, where there's lots and lots of mountains and valleys, and these narrow passages where people can travel. And if someone was running from a person, maybe it was an army and the army was bigger than they were, they could run into these little areas and find an oasis where they would have food and they would have water. And if somebody wanted to attack them, they had to come right through that narrow way. I want you to think of it this way. If you had 10,000 people who had to get right between these two rows right here, how many people could hold them off? Probably a hundred? You say thousands, two hundred. Yeah, I mean if they're willing to stand in the gap and fight every single one that comes through there and they w they they just keep on coming. And they keep on stopping them. And so the idea is that there is this narrow passage where those people would come and they could defend it and they could be safe. He says there's a gate you've got to go through. It's narrow. He's emphasizing really kind of two things here. One is the fact that there's only one way. I'll comment on that in just a moment. There's also another sense to it as well. And that is that this is a way that is one at a time. You know, think like if you go to a football game or a baseball game, you go through these turnstiles and so you know you walk through and they like make sure you don't have any metal on you and You know, if you think about it, you know, you you go through and you're fine, but you know, some people they got metal in their bags and laser wearing jewelry and all this kind of stuff and they stop you and they got a tech to make sure you don't have a knife or a gun or something like that. But you go through one at a time. Click, click, show your, show your pass, go in, show them your pass, go in. One at a time. One way. He says, that's how you enter the kingdom of God. You don't enter it as a family. You don't enter it as a church. You don't enter it as a culture. You enter it as an individual. There's only one way. And that one way is Jesus. In John chapter 10, verse 9, Jesus says I am the door. By me, if any man enter in, he shall be saved You know what Jesus is saying? Jesus is saying you want to enter the kingdom of God, it's one at a time. It's not through your parents. It's not through your church. It's not through your city. It's not through your culture. It's not Some society, it's through a personal decision you make between you and God. And it's through the Lord Jesus Christ and what he did for you. So we see that second truth. The one is the absolute importance of this issue, the second being that it is a narrow gate. It's one way. The third is that this this many strive To enter in by establishing a basis and they will tragically fail. Let me say that again. Many strive to establish a basis to enter God's kingdom and they will tragically fail. Now it's important when we look at a passage like this to understand the kind of stuff that Jesus is dealing with when he makes this statement Because if we ignored the rest of the context, if we ignored the rest of the flow of this passage of scripture, if we ignored the religious problems that were going on at the time of Christ. We may in our heads think, if Jesus is saying, strive to enter the kingdom, he's saying, work hard, you earn your salvation. But that's not what Jesus is saying. And I know that because he has made it so very clear that it is not through what you do, it's through what he did. Let me show you what I mean by that. In verses 24 and 25, he says, Many I say unto you, will seek to enter in and shall not be able. When once the master of the house has risen up and has shut the door and you begin to stand without and to knock on the door saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us. Now, think about the flow of these verses. In verse 23, this guy goes, Hey, why is it that there's so few people that are saved? And Jesus doesn't even answer his question. He just says, strive to enter into the straight gate. He says it's all of them. Why is that? Because the guy's not supposed to be worried about how many people are coming and going. He's supposed to be worried of one thing. What has he done with the message? What has he done with the message? In verse 24, Jesus says, there are many who strive to enter in and they're not able to. You say, well, what is Jesus talking about? Well, let's go back and remind ourselves of who he's talking to and what was going on. And so in Luke chapter 11, this is only two chapters before, this is what Jesus says in verse 52. He says, Woe unto you lawyers, for ye have taken away the key of knowledge, and ye enter not in yourself. The knowledge to what? The kingdom of God. So the religious teachers of the day, by the way they were teaching the people, they took something that was available to them and they took it away, and they themselves weren't entering it. That's what he's saying. He says, ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in ye hindered. By the teaching of the religious leaders, people who had opportunity were getting turned away from the truth. In Matthew chapter 5, verse 20, Jesus said it this way: He said, Except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and the Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter the kingdom of heaven. He basically says, the system that people are preaching to you in your synagogues. This is how you enter the kingdom of God. Do good, be good, look good, follow the commandments, follow the ordinances. If you do these things, you go into heaven. He says, Nobody is as good as the religious leaders, and you've got to be better than they are if you want to enter the religion. the kingdom. Well everybody looks at him and goes, well then nobody's going. He's like, not that way. Nobody's going. Not that way. We get a little bit more insight into this in Romans chapter 10, because in Romans 10, Paul talks about his great burden for his Jewish brothers and sisters. And when I say brothers and sisters, I mean believers, but people who are of the same ethnic background. And there's a reason that Paul has this mindset. It's because he knows what it's like to be in their shoes, and he's burdened for them. And this is what he says. He says, Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. Meaning they're not saved, but they can be saved, and I want them to be saved. That's what he's saying. This is my consuming burden. And this is the explanation as to why they're not saved. He says, for I bears him record, and Paul could have said, I was the chief of all of them when I say this They have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. Question, does that sound a little bit like what Jesus said earlier, where he says, many seek to enter and they're not able to do it? I wonder why that is. Because that's what he's talking about. He says they have a zeal for God, but it's not according to knowledge. They being ignorant of God's righteousness. and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God. For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believeth. So this is what Jesus is saying. Jesus is saying there's nothing in life more important than the gospel and entering the kingdom of God. You better get serious about it. Number two, there's only one way. It's a narrow way. And you go in one at a time. And Jesus is the one. Number three, he says lots of people are striving and they're coming up short because they're doing it the wrong way. Instead of going to Jesus, his death, his resurrection, his impeded righteousness, and trusting in his work. They're trying to build up their own credentials. And they're doing it because they're ignorant of God's righteousness. They do not understand how high That standard is and how far short they follow that standard. And you know, this is how it works out in the world that we live in today. You ask a person, if you die today you go into heaven, and they'd say, Of course I am. You say, well, why? Go to church. Okay, anything else? I'm a giving person. I'm not a I'm not a sinful per hold on, hold on. You're not a sinful person. Well not like my wife. Not like my kids. Not like my husband. Not like my parents. Not like my neighbor next door. Hold on, hold on, hold on. Are you as righteous as Jesus? Oh no, nobody is. It's true. In other words, people believe in their minds that God compares us to each other. But that's not true. God compares us to himself. And we sit here and we go, well, if that's the standard, then I'm in trouble. Then we're starting to get it. Those who are ignorant of God's righteousness try to establish their own righteousness, and they do it in not submitting to the righteousness of God. Christ is the end of the law to righteousness to everyone that believeth. So when Jesus talks about all these people who are striving to enter in and they're falling short, that's what he's talking about. And the simple fact is that's the way most people are today. The religious system that they are following could have a different name in the title. But under the surface of that system is one simple self-righteous attitude toward God in eternity. I can earn my way to God through the things that I do. Truth number four. It is not about who you know, but rather who knows you. Now, I know I know we sometimes say this tongue in cheek, hey, it's not about what you can do, it's about who you know. But these verses tell us it's not about who you know, it's about who knows you. Listen to what he says in verse 25. He says, He shall answer and say unto you, I know you not. Whence ye are, then shall they begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets. But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not, whence ye are. Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth when ye shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God. And you yourselves are thrust out. Now before I comment on what he's saying, I want to give you this illustration. And I guess probably nobody in this room can identify with this because we're not professional athletes. But when I was a teenager, I was like really convinced one day I'm going to walk out on that field. I'm going to play ball. You know what I mean? Everybody, you know, every kid growing up thinks they're going to do that I want you to think about these professional athletes that are out on that field. There are tens of thousands of people, well maybe less than it used to be if it's baseball, football, right? There are almost a hundred thousand people sitting in those stands. And they're all yelling at the quarterback, and they're all yelling at the running back, and they're all yelling at the guy pitching at the baseball game, and they're yelling his name, and you're my hero, and sign this for me, and guess what That player is ignoring every single one of them. Because he's so mean. No, because he doesn't know any of them He doesn't know any of those people. Every one of those people in the stand, they know the player. That's my voice. What do they know about and you name a a guy on the Orioles or a guy on the Yankees or the Red Sox or one of these football players? I mean they can tell you all their stats and what happened at this time and they can tell you about the the games yesterday. They know these players. But those players don't know them. Don't know any of them. But if that player was out there doing batting practice and their mother said, Hey Johnny, mama 's here. I need to talk to you. He might go talk to her. Because that's his mom. He might stop everything that he's doing to go talk to one of his family members Think about the little kids that are, you know, they're the bat boys and they're sitting on the side and they grab the helmets of the bat. How do they get in those positions? A lot of them they're like kids of players. It's not about who it's not about who you know, it's about who knows you. And these verses, it's really, really clear. The statement, I know you not, is mentioned twice. He's saying I never knew you. Not like, oh, I used to know you and I forgot about you. That's not what he's saying. He says, I don't know you. You're not my child. There's no relationship between us. You say, well, well what establishes the relationship? It's the gospel. The statement, we have eaten and drunk in thy presence. And thou hast taught in our streets as saying, hey, they these people attract access to Christ and his earthly ministry as observers, but not believers. There's a difference. If you're sitting in the stand, you go to every single ball game this year at the Ravens Stadium or over in Washington or you go to all the Orioles games and you have season tickets and you sit there. And you've watched every single game, but that player doesn't know your name. You're no different than anybody else in the stance to them. No different And the fact is that these people, they watched Jesus, but they didn't embrace him. You know, there's people that do that in the church too. There are people that come to church and they go through the motions, but they've never embraced the gospel itself. Very tragic. I don't think it gets any more tragic than that. Having all this access to the truth and not taking the personal time to embrace the message. These people had direct access to Christ and his earthly ministry, but they'd never accepted him as their savior. The statement, ye shall see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God indicates that they had the testimony of Scripture, and they should have turned to these testimonies. And embrace them as believers. I mean, think about it this way. If Jesus would have talked to a Gentile population, oh, you're going to see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets, they go, who are those people? I don't know who they are. Well why wouldn't they know? Because they didn't have the scriptures like the Jewish people did. But when he mentions those names and he mentions those prophets, Those people are saying those are the national heroes in our society. Those are the people that walked with God and knew God. We know their stories and we know what they taught. We know what they wrote. But they did not embrace what they said. Truth number five. The gospel is for everyone. Notice what he says in verses 29 to 30. And they shall come from the east and from the west and from the north and from the south and shall sit down in the kingdom of God and behold. There are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last. Now there is a mentality sometimes amongst Christians and sometimes amongst the world that, well, you know The people that go to church, they're like the good people of society. I mean sometimes Christians kind of think that I'm a pastor, I know that we've all got the same problems. Okay. We do. We're fallen people. We have struggles in our marriages. We have struggles with our kids We have struggles in our workplaces. There are certain sinful habits that we wrestle with and we deal with. The bottom line is we're not perfect people. We're saves people, redeems people, forgiven people. We're saints by grace alone, not because of something we've done. And so someone outside the church may say, I'm not good enough to be a part of that group of people. And they're wrong on that case because these are all just sinners saved by grace. And sometimes people in the church look at people outside the church and they say, oh, that person is beyond. God could never save them. That's not true. How many people do you think thought that the Apostle Paul was going to become a Christian when he was dragging people to prison? How many people believe that he really was a Christian when they said, did you know that Paul now prays that he's preaching the gospel? They're like, hmm, I'll let some other church welcome him in. We'll see how it works out for them. And then I'll give him a chance. Barnabas had to do interference for Paul. Why? They didn't believe that Paul was legit. And I don't blame them. I think I would have struggled if I'd have lived with him that time. Folks, the gospel is for everyone. Jews, Gentiles, rich, poor, people whose lives have been enslaved to the most horrific of sins. People have been miserably abused. The gospel is for everyone. And so again, remind yourself that when this guy says to Jesus, why are there so few people that are saved? Jesus doesn't say, Well, you're wrong. He says, you need to consider yourself. That's what he says. And then by the end of the story, he says, oh, by the way, there's a lot of people that you don't think are going to be in the kingdom. They're going to be there. He says, there will be people from every kindred and tribe and nation. And so in Luke chapter 2, I think of the statement of Simeon. He says, Lord, now let your servant depart in peace according to thy word. Mine eyes have seen your salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people. A light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. Isn't that a great statement? You know how shocking it would have been if you'd have been in the temple on that day and listen to this guy going, oh, hold on a second. This guy, he's an old man and he doesn't know what he's talking about. He thinks this little baby is going to bring Gentiles in here. What in the world? He was speaking the truth as a prophet. He says this is going to be a salvation for all people. In Matthew chapter 4, verse 16, it says, The people which sat in darkness saw great light, and to them which sat in the region and shadow of death, light is sprung up. I 'll say a little bit more about this later, but the simple fact is the gospel is not just for a select group of people. It's for everybody. And you can be saved from your sins. If you're sitting in this room, you say, man, there's no way I could become a Christian because of, and you list all these things. There's one thing that keeps you from becoming a Christian. You know what it is? It's called pride. You say it's not pride to say I'm too bad. Yeah, actually it is. It is. You say, how in the world? I'm admitting I'm a bad person. But you're saying his sacrifice isn't enough. That's pride. That you would take the word of God and say it, I don't believe it, that's pride. So the question that we want to answer after this is, well then how do we proclaim the gospel like Christ? If these are the truths that were emphasized in Christ's words, Well then how do we proclaim it like Christ? Well let me give you a couple of simple marks that ought to distinguish how we present the gospel to people. They come directly from the text in front of us. The first mark is this. It will stress the preeminence of the gospel. Folks, what people need is not a better way of life. Now, not to mention, I do think that walking in accordance with the way God has designed the world is a good thing for people. Don't get me wrong. I think it's good. It's not good enough. It's not good enough. If I could get every single person in Anorino County to have biblical morals But they don't embrace the gospel. I haven't helped them. I've actually made it a lot worse for them. You say, why is that? Well, because they're still going to stand before God In Galatians chapter 6 verse 14 it says, God forbid that I should glory save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whom the world is crucified unto me and I unto him. He didn't say, I'm willing to admit it happened Yeah, there's this unfortunate thing called the cross, and Jesus was nailed to it, and I really wish I didn't have to talk about it, but I'll just slip it in there. And oh, by the way, he also rose from the dead. He says, I glory in it He says, there's nothing in all the world greater than the cross of Christ. Romans 1. 15 he says, as much as in me is. I am ready to preach the gospel. I mean, when I look at Paul, I go, that's something right there. I can't think of anybody in the Bible that I've read about that was more motivated save Christ and Paul. He says, as much as in me is, I'm ready to preach the gospel. He says, it is the power of God unto salvation to everyone that believes. I am not ashamed of it. The gospel is the most important thing. Mark number two, it will stress the exclusivity of the gospel. You say, well, I thought you said it was for everybody. It is. But it's one at a time. And it's through one person. That is Christ. You don't get saved as a family. You don't get saved as a church. You don't get saved as a culture. You get saved as an individual who recognizes I'm a sinner. I'm separated from God. Jesus died for my sins. He took the penalty of my sin on himself. He canceled my sin debt. He rose from the dead. And I turned to him and I trust my I trust in his faith. That's a personal decision. John 14, Jesus says, I am the way. the truth and the life. No man cometh unto the Father but by me. You say the only way? Yeah, that's what he's saying. Folks, you can't be saved if you think there's a couple of ways. You say, well, I'm willing to accept the Jesus way and I'll take a couple other options just in case I'm wrong. It doesn't work that way. It's all or nothing. You gotta be all in. You gotta trust in him alone, or you haven't trusted in him at all. Peter says in Acts chapter 4, verse 10, be it known unto you all and to all the people of Israel that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you all. This is the stone Which is set at naught of you builders, neither bec and which is become the head of the corner, neither is there salvation in any other. There is none other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved Acts 17, 30, Paul says, The time of this ignorance God winked at, but now commandeth all men everywhere to repent, because he hath appointed a day in which he will judge the world in righteousness. There's one way. It's Christ. Mark number three, it will stress the tragedy of self-righteousness. And this is a huge piece to giving the gospel. And folks, self-righteousness comes in a lot of different kinds of coverings. It can come in nice coverings, it can come in ugly coverings, it can come in religious coverings. and very secular coverings. But self-righteousness at its root is I'm good because I say I'm good. And I can come to God any way that I choose because I've earned it and I've proved it. And I should be accepted. In Galatians 2. 21 he says, I do not frustrate the grace of God. If righteousness comes by the law, then Christ died in vain. He says, if I can earn my way to God, then he wasted his time on the cross. Every single one of those promises means nothing because I could have earned it through my keeping of the law. And he says Frustrating the grace of God. What an amazing statement. Because grace is undeserved. I'm saying I can earn it. Romans chapter 3 verse 19, he says, We know that whatsoever things the law saith, say it to them that are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped. All the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. Romans 8:3, what the law could not do in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin condemned sin in the flesh. The carnal mind is enmity against God, not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. They that are in the flesh cannot please God. And as Paul said in Romans 10, they have zeal, but not according to knowledge. They're going about to establish their own righteousness, and they've not submitted to the righteousness of God. You know what the core value of the gospel is? The fact that my righteousness doesn't cut it, his righteousness is imputed to me. The cross takes care of my sin. His righteousness gives me a right standing. And you can't do it in your own righteousness. It doesn't cut it. It's filthy rags. Mark number four, it will stress the danger of complacency. In Luke 24, he says, O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken. Ought not Christ who has suffered these things and entered into his glory, beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. Who are these people? They were people who followed Jesus. They read the scriptures. They went to the synagogue. They saw his miracles. They heard his teaching. And they were slow of heart to believe all that the prophets spoke. In Acts chapter 3, he says, you denied the Holy One and desired a murderer to be granted unto you and killed the Prince of Life. And brethren, you did it through ignorance, as did all your other rulers. But those things which God before had showed by the mouth of his prophets, that Christ should suffer and hath so fulfilled, repent therefore, be converted, that your sins be blotted out. Acts 28. The heart of this people is waxed gross and dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed. lest they should see with their eyes, hear with their ears, understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them. What's the point? You hear the truth enough, if you don't accept it, you will become desensitized to it. And that is exactly what he was telling these people. You have seen all these things. and you've never acted on it. The fifth mark is it will stress the universal availability of redemption. There are two verses that come to mind immediately. One is 1 John 2 he says That Christ is the propitiation for our sins, and not ours only, but the sins of the whole world. Romans 3. 23 says that it is unto all and upon all them that believe there's no difference. Every one of us gets saved the same way through the work of Christ. What he did for us, John chapter 10, verse 14, I'm the good shepherd, I know my sheep, I'm known of mine. The Lord knoweth me, even so know I the Father, and I lay down my life for the sheep. And other sheep I have which are not of this fold, them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice, and there shall be one fold and one shepherd. He's talking about Gentile believers there. All these people who had been looking for Messiah when he comes, these Jewish believers on the Old Testament side of the cross, they hear Jesus and they believe. Why? Because they're believers. They see him. They know who he is. Jesus says there's others too. From every kindred, tribe, and nation. I'm going to bring them in. Romans 11. He says, I would not, brethren, that you should be ignorant of this mystery. Blindness in part happened to Israel until the fullness of the Gentiles become in. Yet in times past Had they not believed God yet now obtain mercy through their unbelief, that he might have mercy on all through the depth of the riches of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments. And his ways past finding out. Romans 5, Revelation 5, they sang a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take up the book and open the seal. For thou hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. And hast made us unto our God kings and priests, and we shall reign on the earth. That's how people should preach the gospel. You say, well, what's the takeaway? Well, here they are. The first is that there's only two kinds of people in the world. Now we could go a couple different ways with that, okay? There's men and there's women, all right? But there's two kinds of people in the world, those who know Jesus and those who don't Or maybe I should say, those who are known of Jesus and those who are not. Those who have trusted in Christ and those who have not. What is the difference between those who are in the kingdom and those who are outside the kingdom? It's the words repent and believe. You have turned to Christ. You have placed your faith in his finished word. That's what sets the two apart. For those who are on the outside, the application should be very clear. There is no message of greater importance than the message of the gospel. If you reject it, there is no hope outside of Christ. Only his death, resurrection, and righteousness can give you forgiveness and a righteous position. There's no other place that you can look and turn Any attempt on your part to establish a basis to be accepted by God will fail and is a rejection of his grace. No person can be saved through anything they give to God. The gospel calls us to repent and believe, lay aside whatever you are holding on to and embrace what He has given in Himself. That's what faith is. It's not Jesus, a couple other things. Let's put them together and see how it works out. It's Christ alone. For the believer, let's not allow ourselves to become complacent towards the plight of the world We cannot make people believe, but we are to give them the message that God uses to convict them of sin, righteousness, and judgment. I'm reminded of John chapter 16 Where he says that the comforter is going to be to the world, one who convicts of sin, righteousness, and judgment. He calls them to believe on Christ. He says, of sin, because they believe not on Christ. Amazing statement. Do you believe that's true? I do. And preach the gospel. He's going to convict people. They're going to understand. They're going to believe. Let's take the gospel to the nations. Let's steadily engage in every opportunity that God gives us. Let's be ready when someone who rejects comes back. You may have a person you've been witnessing to for a long time. And in your mind you say, you know what? They're never going to believe. Don't hold out hope that there might be a day that they say, hey, you know what? Let's revisit that conversation. Might happen when they're on a hospital bed. It might happen after they've had some tragedy. It might happen after some event in their life that has shaken them to the core and they re-engage with you. Guess what? You better take that opportunity. You better pray that God gives you opportunities. Let's take the gospel to everyone that we can. But let's proclaim it like he did. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you so much for your word. Thank you for the text in front of us. May we be hearers of the word. who are also doers of it. Not hearing and becoming cold and complacent and lazy and dull of hearing. But may we be ones who hear and believe. And respond. I thank you for your word. May it resonate in our hearts. We ask it in Christ's name. Before we come with our closing hymn, we're going to actually have a bapt two baptisms this morning. There might be someone in our midst who's never trusted Christ as their Savior. And if that's you, I'm not going to make an example of you, not going to tell you to come up here and Make a speech or anything like that. I'm just going to ask you to quietly raise your hand so that I can see that because I would love to speak with you. Take a Bible, show you how you can be saved. Is there anybody in our miss that say, Pastor, that's me. I've never trusted Christ. I need to. I need to trust Christ. Maybe you're following on the live stream today, or we have people that sometimes they email us, they say, hey, I watched your service three weeks ago. So maybe somebody a month from now hears this message and God works in their heart, send me an email. We can have a conversation. Show you how to be safe. Do not, do not, do not. Hold back in this issue. I'm going to ask if Doug can come and lead us in our closing hymn as we prepare for the baptisms that we have this morning. All right, we're going to close with page twenty-five Please stand with me. Page 25. Praise the Lord who reigns above. The same