Good morning, I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word and Morning Reflection and a New Week. And I want to remind you that last week when we were dealing with Psalm 35 , I mentioned that because we dealt with this in two parts, both in the morning and in the evening, that rather than doing what I typically do with dealing with our Sunday morning message from from yesterday. Instead what I'm going to do is I'm going to deal with yesterday's sermon in the following week, and I'm going to look at the second part of Psalm 35 uh which is what we dealt with uh not this week but the week before on Sunday evening. And I think that the things that we're going to look at are very practical. They're going to be helpful to us. And so I hope that you'll join us for the study this week and uh perhaps share it with someone who you think it could be an encouragement to them. Again, it's Psalm 35, and uh because of the length of the Psalm I'm going to read just a portion of it and then I'd like to kind of lay out an introduction for what we will discuss this week. It says this, it's a Psalm of David. Plead my cause, O Lord, with them that strive with me. Fight against them that fight against me. Take hold of shield and buckler. Stand up for my help. Draw out also spear and stop the way against them and that of them that persecute me. Say unto my soul I am thy salvation. Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul. Let them be turned back and brought to confusion that divides my hurt. Let them be as chaff before the wind, and let the angel of the Lord chase them. Let their way be dark and slippery. Let the angel of the Lord persecute them. For without cause have they hid from me their their net in a pit, which without cause they have digged for my soul. Let destruction come upon him at unawares, and let his net that he hath hid catch himself. into that very destruction let him fall. And my soul shall be joyful in the Lord. It shall rejoice in his salvation. All my bones. Shall say, Lord, who is like unto thee, which deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him. Now if you can remember back to last week, we discussed three pieces to the psalm. And we talked about The way the Psalm is laid out, there are three sections, and each of those sections had a portion that was a petition, a portion that was a lament, and a portion that was praise to God. And that's what I'd like us to focus our attention on this week. How does the Christian petition God properly? How does the Christian lament properly? How does the Christian praise God properly when we are processing affliction? And I think I need to remind us again of what how we would define those statements, a petition, a lament, and praise. A petition is crying out to God when we need his intervention. We feel our vulnerability. And we talk about a lament, we are literally pouring out to God what is in our heart. We are expressing the pains, the frustrations, the vulnerabilities, the weakness. We're literally saying to God, this is how I feel internally. I can't bear this burden. without me pouring it out to you. Petition, lament. And then the third word, praise, we know what praise is, but it is choosing to uplift God's name, uplifting him for his greatness and uplifting him for his goodness, even though we are experiencing pain and vulnerability for a season in our life. And so the questions that I want to answer this week are first question, how does the Christian deal with pain? The answer to that question is, he must lament in a biblical way Second question, how does the Christian deal with his vulnerability? The answer, he trusts God. He walks by faith He depends upon the Lord's strength and the Lord's wisdom and the Lord's intervention. The third question, how do people respond to their creator, Savior, and Lord? The answer is they should rejoice in him. They should praise him. They should uplift his name. They should be worshippers. And then the fourth question is, well, which one am I supposed to do at each moment? Am I supposed to lament? Am I supposed to trust? Am I supposed to rejoice? And the answer is really, all three of those things are supposed to be going on in our lives at different times. And there is this tension that we experience. When we are going through affliction, there is a sense in which we are pouring out before the Lord the burden of our heart. There's a sense in which we are crying out to him and asking him to intervene, and a sense in which we are being strengthened because we believe he's going to do that, and he's going to do that in the best way. And then there's also a sense in which we rejoice and we worship and we praise him with the anticipation that in fact he's going to answer our request. He's going to uplift our spirit. He's going to protect us in that moment where we are so, so very vulnerable. And so that's where we're going this week. I hope that you'll join us this week as we deal with this text, again, as we look at these concepts from the Bible, and as we think about the contrast between the way that the world processes pain and suffering and the way that the Christian processes pain and suffering. And the way that the world deals with the vulnerabilities that everyone experiences in the world as a creature and this being a fallen world. And the vulnerability that we how we process this as Christians and how we as Christians respond to God being our creator, Savior, and Lord versus how the world around us, who is still a creature who has a creator, has someone who has died for their sins and can save them from their sins, and someone who they're going to answer to as the Lord, whether or not they're willing to recognize that at this period in their life. How does the Christian versus how does the world respond to God in these situations? So please join us for that. Please be encouraged And so I hope you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll meet again and start digging into these concepts. Have a blessed day. Bye now