Let's all turn together to the book of Luke. We are in Luke chapter 22 this morning, and the passage that we're dealing with is a bit of a transition from what we've been talking about over the last several weeks, and that's the Olivet Discourse. And now we're going to keep moving our way ultimately to the cross. And so I'm going to read the text. We'll bow together for a word of prayer and then dig into some very important and interesting material. As we reflect on God's providence and the cross of Christ. Let's go ahead and begin reading in verse number one. God's word says, now the feast of unleavened bread was nigh. And it called and was called the Passover, and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might kill him, for they feared the people Then entered Satan into Judas, surnamed Iscariot, being a number of the twelve, and he went his way and communed with the chief priests and the captains, how he might betray him unto them. And they were glad and covenanted to give him money. And he promised and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude. Then came the day of unleavened bread when the Passover must be killed. Let's now together for prayer. Ask the Lord to really help us to see his word very clearly this morning. Father, as we look at this text of Scripture and as we think about all the various pieces that are a part of this story that ultimately led to the cross, I pray that we would see the working of God in the most difficult, in fact, some of the most unjust circumstances in all of human history. Help us to see how in your wisdom and in your care, you moved all of these events to the most singly important event in history, the cross. Father, we thank you for what Christ did for us on that cross 2,000 years ago. We thank you that he died for our sins, that he rose triumphant from the grave, and that because of his sacrifice, We can stand righteous, forgiven, cleansed, possessors of eternal life. We are so grateful for Christ's redemptive work. And the providential hand of God that brought it to pass. May we have a greater, deeper appreciation for what you did after having examined this text this morning. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is very interesting. Like I said, we have already spent a good bit of time talking about the Olivet Discourse, and some of you might be glad to move on from the Olivet Discourse and kind of pick up the rest of the story. But what we're looking at this morning is a bit of a hinged passage of scripture going from the Olive discourse, Christ's teaching, and then moving toward the cross of Christ and the Passover. It's important for us to recognize that a large chunk of the book of Luke is actually dedicated to that final week of Christ's earthly ministry. The same thing could be said of the book of John as well. And so as we look at this passage of Scripture and kind of that hinge moment, I think it's helpful for us to kind of step back and ask, what's the main point of this little transitional passage? Well, I'd summarise it in the following way, despite all the evil schemes, and in fact there are many, there is a satanic evil scheme. There is a disciple who is betraying Christ, evil scheme. There are the religious leaders who hate Christ and they want to see him killed, evil scheme, despite all of those evil schemes. God is going to use every single detail to send Christ to the cross at the right time, ultimately to secure every blessing that you and I enjoy as Christians that was purchased by Christ. That is what this passage is all about. All of the evil schemes did not thwart God's plan. In fact, they worked together in a way that redounded to God's glory and ultimately our salvation. Only God could do such a thing. In fact, as we look at this text, I think what we will see is that God's desire for us is that we would praise him as we think about all his care, all his wisdom, all his power that ultimately brings us to redemption. So how can we do this? Well, I'd like us to break it down by first of all looking at the story that we are in the midst of. And there is a story that is being told within the verses that we're looking at. This is also a story within the overarching story of that last week of Christ's ministry. So let me give you some of the basics. If we look at verses 1 through 7, this is kind of the summation of the whole story within the story. Now, the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover, and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might kill him. That is really the heart and the crux of what is going on in this story. And there are several different elements to this story that are fascinating. The first is the timing issue. If you look in verse number one, he says, it was the feast of unleavened bread which drew near. It is called the Passover. Now my guess is that most of you in the room do not know much about the Jewish Passover celebration. We know it happened. We know that it points back to what took place when the nation of Israel was delivered out of slavery in Egypt. And we know that it points forward to the cross, but we don't know a lot about what goes on on those weeks. And so it would be helpful for us to kind of step back and understand that every single year there is a period of time that people would celebrate the Passover. In fact, in the week leading up to the Passover event, the people would find a place, a lot of times it was a home, maybe it was their personal home, or maybe it was a home that they were staying in. during the Passover celebration and they would meticulously cleanse the house that they were going to celebrate the Passover in. They were to remove everything that was leavened. It was supposed to be a very sacred time. And the reason they did that is because on that day that God delivered the nation of Israel out of slavery in Egypt, they were to do the same thing. And so as they were preparing for this festival, this Sacred celebration, it would remind them of what was going on on that first week that it was that was celebrated The second thing that I want to mention is that there was a succession of events that took place on the week before the Passover. So on the 10th of Nisan, this would have been the first month of the year for the Jewish people, they would set aside a lamb called the Paschal Lamb. And that lamb would be set aside ultimately because it had been hand-selected to die as a sacrifice. And the blood of that lamb was going to be sprinkled on the altar where it was sacrificed. The animal would be laid on that altar, and it would be roasted. And a lot of times some of the sacrifices were completely consumed, some were not completely consumed. This lamb was not completely consumed. It was literally cooked. And then they would take the lamb home, and that night on the 14th of Nisan, they would actually celebrate the Passover, eating the lamb that had been cooked on the altar. And this is something that they did every single year, year after year. Well, as the people would gather together on that Passover evening There would be several things that would take place. , There were specific foods that they would eat. Obviously the Passover lamb, the Paschal lamb, was the center of that event, but there were other things that they did as well. One of the reasons that I that I draw on this is we can actually look at the history of the time in the first century to know what was read on that occasion, what was sung on that occasion, the kinds of things that were discussed. on that occasion. And so during that festival, the family would sit down and they would talk about the Passover They would explain it to their children. They would read a section of Psalms from Psalm 113 to Psalm 118 called the Hillel Psalms, and they would often sing those or they would quote them together. One section would be at the beginning of the meal, the other at the end of the meal. By the way, Psalm 118 should be very important to us as we think about the cross. Do you realize that the 118th Psalm is what was quoted as Jesus came into Jerusalem from the Mount of Olives during the triumphal entry? As they were saying, Hosanna, blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord, they were literally quoting the psalm that they would read at the end of the Passover. It's an amazing thing to consider What's also stated in Psalm 118 is that the stone which the builders rejected is become the chief cornerstone. And in the language of the psalm, he talks about binding the sacrifice to the horns of the altar. And so as they would sing this psalm to conclude the Passover. Every single year, whether people understood it or not, they were seeing about the events of that Passover week. Fascinating thing to think about. At the end of the Passover celebration , that would be the beginning of what they called the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And so for the next seven days, the people would rest And they would reflect and they would enjoy this celebration. So the Passover was not just a day, but there was a week leading up to the Passover, there was the actual week of the Passover, and there was a week after the Passover. This would have been a massive event that was at the center of the beginning of the month of every single year. It's also important for us to recognize that there were four Passovers that Christ celebrated over his earthly ministry. In fact, the book of John talks about each of these Passovers. Some of them are mentioned in great detail, some of them are just casually mentioned. But in each of these Passovers that Christ celebrated as he went up to Jerusalem, there's something very significant that John records about those events. The first is John chapter 2. In John chapter 2, Jesus turns the water into wine at the wedding of the Cana of Galilee, and this was supposed to represent to the people that in fact he is coming to establish his kingdom. What did John the Baptist do? He says, Repent. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. That's what he preached. And so Jesus performs this miracle. The only people that knew about it were a select group of people, but it was to picture the fact that he's coming to establish his kingdom. In his second Passover in John chapter 5, Jesus refers to himself as the Lord of Sabbath. And this is a reminder that he is God. He is the creator. He is the one who created the concept of Sabbath rest. On the third, he is called the bread of life, and he reminds the people that their fathers ate manna in the wilderness after the Passover, and they all died in the wilderness, except for two individuals. who got to go into the promised land, and he says, I am different than the manna in the wilderness. I'm the bread of life. This fourth is described in John 13, where he says that he is the fulfillment of the Passover. You say, why does all this matter? It all matters because it's a part of the storyline. The timing of Christ's coming, the timing of his death, all of those details are on God's timetable. We're going to expand that a little bit more in just a few minutes. But I want to look secondly at the characters of the story. When we say the characters, they're not characters with character, but they're characters nonetheless. And so in verses 2 and 3 it says, The chief priests and the scribes sought how they might kill him, and then entered Satan into Judah's surname Iscariot. being a number of the twelve. So there are three individuals, or one would be a collection of people who are described in this story. The first were the chief priests and the scribes. What we knew about these people is that they made up two sections of the religious, we could say, establishment. One group was the Sadducees, and the other were the Pharisees. Now, what we've learned about Pharisees and Sadducees is that they didn't get along. And the reason they didn't get along is because they had massive theological differences. So the Sadducees did not believe in the resurrection. The Pharisees did believe in the resurrection. The Sadducees were basically a political power and religious at the same time, and they had this very uh we could say interesting relationship with the Romans. They were the ones that dominated the temple worship. Whereas the Pharisees were more of a grassroots group of people. And they were the ones that led in the synagogues. They were the ones that interpreted the law for the people. They were the ones that were the closest to the people. And so you can see how these two groups put together in this body called the Sanhedrin would have lots and lots of contention, theological contentions, political contentions. But surprise, surprise, there was one thing they got along with. And you know what that was? They needed to get rid of Jesus. Both groups hated him They didn't want to lose their power. They didn't like how he interpreted the scriptures. They wanted him to die. That's the first group. Very important players in the story. The second individual that is mentioned is Satan. Satan obviously hates God and he hates God's purposes. And if we're to go all the way back to the Garden of Eden, God made a statement about Satan that is very, very significant in the story in front of us. That Satan would be crushed at a moment in history by the seed of the woman. The question is, who is that person? How is he going to do this? Well, the story is right in front of you. The person is Christ. What's going to happen is he's going to go to the cross, but the cross will be the greatest triumph in human history. Because through the cross, Satan will be crushed. Satan is an important figure in this story because he is the one who puts into the head of Judas that now is the time to take Christ down. Don't miss that detail because we're going to push into it a little bit later in the sermon. But Satan's involvement in this story is quite significant. And then the third that is mentioned is Judas. He's one of the twelve. He is the most infamous of the twelve disciples. Though he was entrusted with the resources, he was a deceiver and a thief. And we see that stated in John 12, verse 6. Because when we have the story of Jesus is being anointed there right before this Passover week, and Mary is crying there in front of Lazarus in the house. Judas says, what a waste. You could have taken all that precious ointment, you could have sold it and given the money to the poor, and then you would have done a good thing. Why waste it on Jesus? Why did he say that? Because he's the guy that would have gotten the money if she'd have sold it. That's really the bottom line, because it says he cared not for the poor, but because he was a thief. And had the bag and bear what was put there in. We don't know at what point Judas decided, I'm going to betray the Lord. But at some point along the way, he became very disillusioned with who Christ was. And he decided that the best thing to do was to profit off of the destruction of Christ. These three groups are going to come together at just the right time to accomplish God's purpose. Next we see the flow of the story. Verses 67 it says, and he, Judas, promised. and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude, then came the day of unleavened bread when the Passover must be killed. Now, sometimes it's helpful for us to step back and understand what's going on in this story. We know that the gospels tell us That on the Saturday night before the Passover week, Jesus was in Bethany, and that is when he was anointed for his burial. And Judas has a confrontation with Christ and the disciples and Mary, and this is a key moment in preparation for that Passover week. We then know on the next day, the first day of the week, Sunday, we have the triumphal entry where Christ comes down from the Mount of Olives, and as he comes down from the Mount of Olives He is literally fulfilling scripture, and they're quoting from Psalm 118, and they're saying, Hosanna, Hosanna, save us. Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Jesus comes into Jerusalem. He has a confrontation with the religious leaders. He goes into the temple. He observes what is there and he goes back to Bethany. On the next day, he comes in and he overthrows the money changers. You can only imagine how angry the Sanhedrin was when Jesus did that. And he made this stunning statement, you have made my father's house a den of thieves. Who does Jesus think he is? Well, they said, what right? What authority do you have to say such things? And then on Tuesday we have the Olivet Discourse, which is what we have spent several weeks looking at. What does Jesus do? He reminds the people that this temple that they loved so much, that was one of those seven wonders of the world kind of places, it was going to be completely destroyed. There'd be nothing left to it except some stones that were rubble. And that's exactly what happened. And sometime, probably on that day, is when Judas goes. And says, I can deliver him into your hands. On Thursday, they celebrate the Passover in the upper room. That's the flow of the story. Those are the players in the story. That's what's going on. But I want you to realize that there's more than just this story and these events, but there's a much bigger picture involved. And so I'd like us to kind of step back and go, what is really going on in this story? The first thing I want to mention here is that there is a prophetic picture that is unfolding. They are celebrating the Passover, and we know the Passover is talked about in Luke chapter, or excuse me, Exodus chapter 12. And in Exodus chapter 12, there are several very interesting components to the Passover story that are revealed that have tremendous parallel to what we're talking about in these verses. The first thing we see in Exodus 12. 12 is that Passover was a judgment that was going to establish deliverance. In verse 12, he says, I will smite and I will execute judgment. If you go back to the Passover story, you have these people that have no power. They have no ability to release themselves from enslavement in Egypt. And so God in His power demonstrates that he's going to deliver them by his strong arm. And out of each of the each of those plagues, what does he do? He demonstrates I'm superior to these gods that you serve. I'm I'm I'm power power over these gods that you serve and these and these. And he just he we could say he ratchets it up a little bit at a time and then it comes to the ultimate head. Who was the ultimate God in Egypt? I put that in quotes. The ultimate God in Egypt that was keeping those people enslaved? The answer is Pharaoh. And God says, you have hardened your heart, and you have hardened your heart, and you have hardened your heart, and now I'm going to bring you down. That's what he did. So in verse 12, when he says, I will execute, I will smite and execute judgment, that's what he means. He was going to judge all the gods of Egypt He was going to judge the Pharaoh's household and everyone who followed his viewpoint in rejection of the offering of a sacrifice that was available to them, and through that he would deliver the people. In verse 13, we see that he would do this through a substitute that would be killed and shed its blood. In verse 13, he says, When I see the blood on the doorpost, I'll pass over you. Also in verse 13, we are reminded that this deliverance comes by God's grace and it's through faith in his provision. I will pass over you, the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you. What is really going on in those verses? This is basically what God is doing. He's saying, I'm going to judge the land and I'm going to deliver my people. And if you want to be delivered rather than judged. You have to kill the lamb as a sacrifice. You have to take its blood and apply it to the doorpost. And when I pass through the lamb, because a substitute has died in the place of the firstborn, I'm going to pass over that house. And I'm going to come to the next house and I'll pass over that house, and I'll pass over that house because the blood on the doorpost tells me an animal has died in the place of the firstborn. That's really what he's saying. Deliverance or judgment? The choice is yours. Either you believe what he says, you take the animal, you kill it, you apply the blood, or you don't do it. And then in verse 14, this is a celebration that would remind the people every year of God's deliverance. This day shall be for you a memorial. Now here's what's really important about the Passover. In the minds of most of the people that celebrated the Passover, they were seeing it as something that looked back And in fact, it was something that looked back, but it was not only designed to look back. It was also designed to look Forward. And the reason we know that is because when Christ is celebrating the Passover on that week before the cross, he says, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. In other words, he's saying that this is the symbol that closes out the original understanding of this And points to the ultimate example of what this is saying. And this is something that you'll remember for the rest of time. In other words, you look back, you look forward. Deliverance in the physical, deliverance in the spiritual realm. And you can see the simple little parallels between these two forms of deliverance. In John 1. 29, we see it looking back. John says of Jesus. Behold the Lamb of God who taketh away the sins of the world. You know what that tells me? John understood the picture. He's the Lamb of God. He's going to take away the sins of the world. By the way, what is John chapter 2? John chapter 2 is the wedding at Canaan of Galilee. What's going on during that time? The people are getting ready to celebrate the Passover. So John is looking forward to the Lord Jesus Christ. And what does the cross do? It establishes a judgment that provides deliverance. Colossians 2. 14. That Christ, through his death, blotted out the handwriting of ordinances against us. He took it out of the way. He nailed it to his cross. And he spoiled principalities and powers. He made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. What an amazing statement. So yes, Christ was crucified, and yes, he died, and yes, he suffered, and yes, he was punished in our place, but that's not all it was. It was our debt being nailed to his cross. And as our debt was nailed to his cross, we were freed from that debt by God. And that debt provided, the payment of that debt provided the nail in the coffin to Satan Triumph over him in it. What is the cross? It is a triumph. It is a sacrifice. It is God establishing salvation. What an amazing story. Christ was the substitute who was killed and shed his blood. Galatians 3:13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. Who cursed him? The Father. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. Salvation comes by grace through faith. John 5. 24. Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me. hath everlasting life, shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death to life. Ephesians 2. 8. 9, by grace we are saved through faith, not of ourselves, the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Do you see the parallel? This is a part of the story. But there's also a prophetic timeline, and this to me is absolutely fascinating. And I'm not going to go into the weeds as much as I absolutely could on this, but I want you to realize it's not just what Christ did. But the timing of what he did was 100% a part of the plan of God. Don't miss that. In Daniel chapter 9, verses 24 through 26, Daniel wrote about something hundreds and hundreds of years. We're talking 500 plus years before this takes place. That gave a very particular timeline to the exact timing of the week that we're talking about right here It says, Seventy weeks are determined on thy people and the holy city to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal up the vision and the prophecy. As we work our way through this passage of Scripture, one of the things that we will see is that Daniel talks about 483 periods of time called Basically, these are the equivalent of a year. Now it's a little different than that. You need to understand that the reason it's slightly different is because they didn't have a calendar like you and I have today. They didn't have the Gregorian calendar. They didn't have the Julian calendar. So within the text itself, it actually gives us an indication of what each period of time actually is. It's 360 days. And you can actually do that by looking at the math within the passage of Scripture. But what he does is he highlights the moment that Jerusalem will be announced to be rebuilt. And the time when Christ is going to be cut off, and he puts a connection between those two events in history. 483 years or periods of time that are talked about in this text. are going to pass from those two events. What's interesting because we can actually look at history and we can know when those things happen. Now, there's debate that people have about the exact day. I understand that. But what's amazing is if you do the math, you take the period of time that he talks about, those 360 units. And you multiply them by 483, here's what you're going to find out. To the day that Jesus entered into Jerusalem, the day That timeline is nailed down. You know what that tells me? This could not have been fulfilled in the first Passover. This could not have been fulfilled in the second Passover. This could not have been fulfilled in the third Passover. It had to be on the fourth Passover. If you want to talk about it off the record, I can get into all the details with it. But just suffice it to say, this timing was impeccably planned by God and followed through exactly how he said it would happen. And then there is a providential fulfillment. What is Galatians 4 talking about? When it says the fullness of time, God came, he sent forth his son, made of a woman. to redeem them who are under the law that we might receive the adoption of sons. What it tells you is that God had a timetable The events occurred in the exact moment that God had predicted. Or maybe we could even use the word he promised, because it's both promise and prediction. This day corresponds perfectly with the Passover, which pointed to the cross. It shows you that God worked meticulously in every detail to bring that moment to pass when it did. Third thing I want you to notice is how the believer, how we should step back and look at all of these things. We talk about God's providence, that's a fascinating topic. In fact, we talk about history and how it unfolds, and I was to ask you, can you explain to me why that happened? You'd have to say, well, at what level would you like to talk about it? Would you like to talk about what was going on in the heads of the people who made decisions and this is how it unfolded? We could talk about it on that level. Or you could say, what was God doing in the world? We can look at it in a lot of different ways. It's almost like taking an onion And you take that and you peel off one layer, and then there's another one there, and you peel that one off, and there's another one there, and you peel that one off, and you just keep going because there's several layers to explanation as to why things have unfolded as they have. For instance, the first layer is just the details of what happened. By the way, whether you're a secular historian or a biblical historian, you can look at the facts. You can analyze the things that were written about Christ, and you can lay out here's what took place. I know that there's some outliers who will argue different things about that. But the reality is the Lord Jesus Christ, He clearly came, He clearly died, we know when it happened, we know all those details. But then the next layer is when it starts getting interesting. Why did it unfold like that? Well, a lot of people Especially a secular historian would say, well, here are all the human explanations. Here are the people that hated Jesus. Here's how he pushed against them. Here are all the confrontations. And they can explain all of the details that led to the crucifixion. And that would be another layer, the human, strictly human explanation. There's a third layer, and I don't think the secular historians are going to hit this one, but we as Christians would. There's a spiritual dynamic that is at play as well. This is not just the physical world, folks. There is a real power. There is a real devil. There is a real system of darkness. That hates God and hates his plants and actually moves and works in history. The Bible is full of examples that talk about Satan's work in the world. And this passage is one of those examples. There's a fourth layer. That is the purpose of God. Guess what? All of those pieces are a part of what God was doing. And so let's kind of take a moment to think about that. God's providence is an amazing concept. Listen to some of these verses from Proverbs. Proverbs 20 verse 24. Man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man then understand his own way? As a person goes through life and makes the decisions that they do, yes, they think them through, sometimes it's just reactions. But as people make decisions, there is a side to it where they don't even understand fully what's going on behind the scenes. They really don't. I mean, your life and my life is a testimony to that. I mean look over the last twenty, thirty, forty, however old you are, look back over that time and ask yourself how many decisions you made, and yes, you made them because you wanted to, or because those are the options that were available to you, but looking back You can see there's a side to this that you did not comprehend as you walk through it. Anything like that? Yeah, there's a lot of that. Proverbs 16, 33, the lot is cast into the lap, the whole disposing thereof is of the Lord. It's not random chance that determines how things unfold in life. Sometimes, as people predict, their predictions are totally wrong because they don't factor in. There's a God in heaven who works and orchestrates in the affairs of life. Proverbs 21, verse 1, this one is the one that really hits into this topic. The king's heart is in the hands of the Lord, and as the rivers of water, he turneth it whithersoever he will. You know what's amazing? Those three verses are illustrated in this text. We see the human side. Matthew 26, verses 1 through 5, it says, When Jesus had finished all these things, he said unto his disciples, You know that after two days is the feast of the Passover, and the Son of Man is betrayed to be crucified. He speaks emphatically, this is going to happen. But then listen carefully to the next statement. Then assemble together the chief priests and the scribes and the elders and the people unto the place of the high priest who was called Caiaphas. They consulted that they might take Jesus by subtlety and kill him. Listen carefully to the next statement, but not on the feast day, lest there be an upper among the people. Did you catch that? So Jesus says, I'm going to be betrayed. I'm going to die. And the people that are going to work out the details, they're plotting to kill him, but they're like, let's not do it right now. Because if we do it right now, we have all these people in Jerusalem. It's going to create this massive uproar, and that'll be a problem for us. On the human side, it seems like it's going to happen soon, but not now. But that's not how it unfolded. There's the spiritual side. Luke 22, 3-6. Then entered Satan into Judas named Iscariot. being of the number of the twelve, and he went his way and communed with the chief priests and the captains, how they might betray him unto them. And they were glad and covenanted to give him money. He promised and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude You know what that tells me? That tells me that the domino that fell, that really got it going at that moment, believe it or not, was Satan's influence. Did you catch that? That's in no way suggesting Judas wasn't responsible for what he did. He was. It was in his heart. He was willing to do it, but the timing of that moment, why it unfolded as it did, different than that thinking of the religious leaders, It's because Satan had a tremendous hatred for Christ. And he wanted him dead, and he wanted him dead now. And I remind you, there's a spiritual explanation as well to these things. We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities and powers, the rulers of the darkness of this world, spiritual wickedness in high places. But there's a third component, and this is the one that pulls it all together. And that is that God had a purpose at that moment in history. And and and we will see this in the way that John talks about Christ's death. The first Passover, John 2, 4, this is what it says. Jesus said unto his mother, Woman, what have I to do with thee? Mine hour is not yet come. Guess what? It wasn't time to die. After Passover 3 in John 7, verse 30, it says, Then they sought to take him, but no man laid hold on him because his hour was not yet come. John 8. 20. These words stake Jesus in the treasury as he taught in the temple. No man laid hands on him. His hour was not yet come. Do you see what he's saying? But listen to how it changes in John 12 and Passover 4. Jesus answered them saying, the hour is come. That the Son of Man should be glorified. John 16, as he's in the upper room, behold, the hour cometh and now has come. John 17, 1. These words spake Jesus and lifted up his eyes to heaven and said, Father, the hour is come. Glorify thy son, that thy son also may glorify thee. What changed? What changed was the timing. And who is the one who predicted such timing? It is God. And how did it unfold in such a way? Well, if we want to talk about it from a strictly human sense, we can explain it. If we want to talk about it from a strictly spiritual stance, we can explain it. If we want to talk about it when it comes to the overarching providence of God, we can explain it. All of those pieces are a part of this story. You say, how does that work out in your head? All I can say is, of the depths of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out There's a second component, and that is our duty. Everybody in the story had an opportunity. Each person, hey, you know what? God didn't make Judas betray Jesus Judas was free to do what he wanted to do. God didn't force Satan to move at the moment that he did. Satan moved when he wanted it. Those religious leaders, the Sanhedrin, they were not forced to do what they did. It was in their heart and they moved as they desired. They had real opportunity. Each one of them had the opportunity to see Jesus work. They heard his words. They understood what he was saying. And they hardened their hearts over and over and over and over and over again. God is not the author of the sin of these people. They chose it of their own will. We also see the influence. Each was influenced by his own self-interests. Judas wanted money. The Sanhedrin wanted to preserve their power. Satan wanted to triumph. And in the end, guess what happened? They all worked to accomplish the purpose of God. We also see that choices have consequences. Each had the freedom to make his own choice, made those choices, experienced the consequences of those choices. It still played a part in God accomplishing his purpose. There is no example in all of Scripture that more vividly describes and shows us the providence of God than what we're looking at this morning. But there's a third component I don't want you to miss, and that is God's grace. At 1 Corinthians 15, verse 9, Paul said the following. I am the least of the apostles. I am not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God, but by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace which was bestowed on me was not in vain. Do you realize that not only do we see the providence of God and not only do you see the horrible choices of people, but we also see God's hand of mercy and grace toward those very same people? Judas did not have to go and kill himself, but that's what he decided to do. The Sanhedrin didn't have to stay in rebellion against Christ, but that's what they did. And you know how I know this? Because I see the rest of the story of Peter, a disciple who betrayed the Lord, or not betrayed, who denied the Lord three times, and I see he's reinstated. I see the 3,000 who are converted at Pentecost, and by the end of the story, there's 5,000 converted in Jerusalem during that period, and many of those people did not understand who Jesus was. They were a part of that mob who said, Go ahead and kill him. And they separated themselves from those who had hardened their hearts. What is that? The grace of God. But the greatest example is Saul of Tarsus. The Apostle Paul was a man who hated Christ. He hated the church. He hated what was going on. He was a militant, aggressive opponent to the early church. Yet God got his heart. And he was converted. And what does he say in 1 Corinthians 15? By the grace of God I am what I am. I am the least of the apostles. I'm not even worthy to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. And so I want to remind you that it's not just about the choices of people and the providence of God, but it's about his grace, which is available to whoever will humble their heart and turn to him. How do you apply the text? That's a great question. Let me give you two final thoughts. First of all, for the non-Christian. There is only one way that you should respond to this passage of scripture, and that is turn to Christ and place your faith in his cross. That is the only right response. Think about his meticulous care that provides redemption. That was for your salvation. Consider the extent of his patience as he waited for that day. Jesus knew who Judas was. He knew what Judas would do. He knew all of those things. And he continued to show mercy and kindness. As the Apostle Paul, who was Saul of Tarsus, is militantly persecuting the Church of God, he extends patience to that man. Ultimately he would be saved. Consider the wasted opportunities for those who rejected him. Every person in that first century who saw the miracles, heard the teaching. who saw the death, saw the resurrection, knew of the ascension, they had opportunity to repent and believe, and they didn't do it. Consider the weight of the tragedy of rejecting Christ. Consider the miracle of what God did in the life of the Apostle Paul. God is still in that miracle-working business. He still saves souls. The gospel still transforms people. And so I want to ask you: if you're not a Christian, why would you turn away from the gospel on a day like this? Makes no sense. Don't harden your heart. Humble it and place your faith in Christ alone. He is the Savior. To the believer, I think the right response is to praise him for his care that brought about our redemption. We can trust God. We can rest in His care in our lives. If He took took so much care to accomplish His purpose in this way. Do you think that he's different in how he works in our lives? He's the same God. He has the same heart. We can rest in him. When you think about his patience and his love, rest in that. There are people who were on the wrong side of history on the front of the cross, but they turned to Christ after the resurrection. They repented, they believed, they were baptized, and God worked in their life and used them. And we're going to see them in glory because of God's patience and his love. We should thank him for the countless opportunities that he has given us. Maybe if you doubt God's care in your life, sit down and write it down on a piece of paper and just As you think about it, just keep writing them down and keep writing them down and keep writing them down and saying, God, thank you for this and thank you for this and thank you for this. That's where we should be in our lives. We should thank him for the cross and everything that was proclaimed by the cross, everything that was accomplished by the cross. We should thank him for our salvation. What does the Bible say? It's by grace we're saved through faith. It's not of ourselves, it's a gift of God. It's not of works, lest any man should boast. Whether you're a Christian or not, this passage has a very specific application for you. Don't turn away from what God is saying through his word. Let's bow for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed, before we close in prayer, I have one simple question. If you don't know the Lord Jesus as your Savior , Will you walk out of this service with a hardened heart? Or will you soften your heart in repentance toward God and place your faith in his finished work? What will you do? Every time we come in contact with the Word of God, we have an opportunity to be softened or hardened. The choice is yours. What will you do with it? If you don't know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, please. In the quietness of this moment, as I'm going to be bowing to close in prayer, call on the Lord and ask him to save you. Remind yourself that you are that sinner that Christ died for. That Christ went to the cross for your sin. That he rose from the dead. And that through trusting in him alone you can be saved. Call on the Lord there in your seat. Ask him to be your Savior. Depend on his finished work. Receive his forgiveness and his cleansing and his righteousness. If you need to talk to somebody, reach out. I'd love to take a Bible and work through the scriptures with you and show you how you can be saved. If there's any questions in your heart about it, don't leave this place hardened. Turn to the Lord. Let's bow together for a prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. It is so powerful. It is so comforting, it is so encouraging. Your ways are far beyond our comprehension. We cannot even begin to understand how wise How strong, how good you are. As we look at the cross and the misery and the pain and the suffering of the cross, may we not get over the glory And the triumph of the cross, and what it says about you and how you work, and what it says about the extent to which you have allowed your son to suffer so that we could be redeemed. From the curse of sin. Lord, may we be a humbled and grateful people. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.