Uh let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer and then we'll open our service this evening. Father, thank you for uh the Lord's day and just a beautiful day. I pray that you'd help us this evening as we are gathered to have Just a wonderful time in your word. I pray that you'd speak to our hearts through the preaching of your word and bless our time of singing praise to you And be with those who are in the midst of traveling. I know we're in the middle of heavy travel season. Please give safety to Those in our congregation like that. Pray that you'll just bless every aspect of the service and be glorified in it in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Thanks for joining us this evening here at Anchor Baptist Church. Let's open our hymn books to hymn number 109. Hymn number 109: Great is thy faithfulness. We'll sing all three verses. Please stand. Great is thy faithfulness, O God might. But there is no shadow uurning with me that changes for the And I've got a message to me. Summer and answer and spring up and honest. So I 'm going to go. Strike for make a bright roll for you. I will say thousands and fine, great as thy fable man, great as thy fabled man, no Great singing. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number four hundred forty-eight. Hymn number 448. Day by day. We'll sing all three verses. Day by day, and with these happy moments, strength I find. Meet my privacy for saying my father's party's comments I know cause for worry or for fear He goes for his life I mean , get under this day what we did for us What we 're the players to our middle with me Every day the Lord is loving near me with us , all mercy for each heart. All my cares keep payment Very cheery, he was named his counselor and heart, the most natural trail, with a short that was. At thy days, thy strength shall be unnatural. This thought blessed to me. Help me then in every trick. So do trust thy promise and the Lord that thy booth of these months almost offer me within thy holy Help me more transfer Hughes as far a word as mine One by one I think the moment And hymn number one hundred and fifty-five. Wonderful grace of Jesus, again we'll sing all four verses. Sing out on that chorus Wonderful great family, greater than all my friend House now my tongue needs tried, where shall we great me again? Taking away my burden, setting my glory for wonderful big money free time. Wonderful than that, great of Jesus, deeper than the mighty woman tree, higher than the mountains , working like the power, and also basically great for even before. Broader than the stone profit 's passion Brighton are the Lord and shake the five and bright name of Jesus. Wonderful race of Jesus preaching to all my heart But if I have been part of the other And then we might receive it for the wonderful grace of Jesus Christ. Wonderful and that's frequency Deeper than the mighty most sea Higher than the mountain, working like a fountain of the missing great words. Broader than the scope of my transgressions, greater more than all my fancy, all magnify the presentation. Wonderful grace of Jesus preaching the boss in by its transforming power making And the water will break out Jesus. It 's a be wonderful pants of breakfast of Jesus Deeper than the light we won't see Higher than the mountain, working like the fountain. Greater one than all my fullness and magnify the name of Jesus. Amen. Great singing. Okay, well on Sunday nights we like to take a couple of minutes to give What do we have here? Four forty ooh. Um I think I do know this one. No, we don't have to do the tag. He restored my soul when I'm weary. He giveth me strength and by death. Beside the still waters He guards me snap the wedding Surely goodness and mercy shall Follow me all the days, all the days of my life. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days. I like that tag too. Oh well, next time. One twenty two in the blue. Actually you know what? For efficiency sake, foreign resistance Let's go 157 in the red book. 157 in the red book, Grace Greater Than Our Sin. Nothing more, grace that it sees our sin and our else yonder on its house. And we'll love one of the bath one for the last place. With them , grace , grace , Christ , grace, grace that is greater than all our sins. And four hundred in the red book Take my life and let it be. Take my life and let it be consecrated. Take my hand on the both of God. Alright, let's go over to the blue book. 122 in the blue book. As the deer Singing verse two, verse two. You're my friend, and you are my My brother, even though you are a king, I love you more than any other, so much more than anything. You alone are my strength, my skill. To you are only my spirit. You alone are my heart's desire and I long. All right, and wait, why don't I have this twice? Oh we were doing oh well. Alright, we got time for a couple more. Couple more. Judah. The blue book and Kelly. One thirteen in the blue book. And yes. Four ninety two. All right, one thirty-four in the blue book. Great is thy faithfulness, O God, thy Father. There is no soul. Thou art honey with me Thou painter compassion Thoughts That thou hast sent thou Greater thy faithfulness morning by morning no mercy He dies All I happy I have done by death, great by favor All right, and one thirteen. Behold the king. Let's play it through. I think I know this one. Here we go. Behold the The king in tiny infancy As my life had before his majesty My time had come for Davis promised them to free us from So we were by before the came and we were We worship and we wise a prayer for praise If we were live for Christ and four ninety two in the red book. Four ninety-two. For the beauty of the earth. Ooh, I I know this one. Can we play it through once though? It's been a while since I've heard this one. Four ninety-two. Mm-hmm. This is a good one. Let's stand and sing all four verses. Here we go. For the beauty of dinner, for the glory of the skies, for the lovely. It's Brahma all around around us flies. Lord all dealy rest. Praise for the wonder the time of the day and of the night, hell and bell and tree and fly. Sun and moon and stars of life. Lord of all to be praise This are For the joy of human love, brother says not now and shelf friends on earth and friends of love for all day. So thoughts and mouth Lord are to be replaced This I never faithful praise for thyself To a race of freely give For that great grace of mine Peace, honor and joy. Great singing, please be seated The grace of God has raged for me And pulled me from the raging sea And I am safe On the solid ground, the Lord is my salvation. I will not fear when darkness falls. I'll see the dawn of the rising sun. The Lord is my salvation. No more God strong to live all in love My dad is one Lord is my loving My hope is hidden in the Lord. He flowers, each promise of his word when winter comes. I know spring will come The Lord is my salvation In times of waiting times of need And I know lots will I am leave I know his grace will renew his case The Lord is my salvation With my corn are gone, Sean to dead with all in love, my dead is made and a victory one. In my navation And when I reach my final death He will not meet me in the grain But I will write, you will call me a one, the Lord, in my loving. My God showed you all in love. My dad is paying another. Glory be to God the Father, Glory be to God the God, Glory be to God theory. The Lord is my noble, the Lord is my noble, the Lord is my Nobel. Okay, well if you could, let's all take our Bibles together tonight and turn back to the book of Genesis. And we have been working our way on Sunday evenings through Old Testament narrative passages And what we were ultimately doing is we are we are looking at the story of redemption. And what is very interesting about these foundational passages that we're looking at in the book of Genesis is that all of them in some way are pieces to this puzzle of God's story of sending the Redeemer into the world. And they also show us why we needed a Redeemer. And so these are wonderful, wonderful scriptures. In fact, as we dig into this text this evening, we will be looking at what is the longest. of all of the chapters that we find in the book of Genesis. Out of all of the the parts of the book of Genesis that uh Moses is writing down This is the most exhaustive of the sections that he deals with. And this is the section where God provides a bride for Isaac. who you may not have realized this, but was a 40-year-old single man when he got that bride. So Genesis chapter 24 is where we'll be tonight. We're just going to look at verses 1 through 9 for opening. But we're going to look at a lot of this entire chapter. So here's what it says. And Abraham was old and well stricken in age. Anyone know what that means? He was not a young man. He was very close to the end of his life. And this is why this is such a significant portion of Scripture. It says, And the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things. And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house that ruled over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and I will make thee swear by the Lord the God of heaven, the God of the earth. That thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell, but thou shalt go into my country, to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son Isaac. And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me unto this land. Must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest? Abraham said unto him, Beware that thou bring not my son thither again, the Lord God of heaven, which took me from my father's house. And from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that swear unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land. He shall send his angel before thee. Thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath, only bring not my son thither again. And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master and swear to him concerning that matter Now, when we come to this passage of Scripture, this is very clearly giving a story that is very different than the culture in which we live. Probably nobody in this room had your father pick your wife, or that basically your marriage was arranged by your families. But let's be very clear here. That is the way that most of the world has done this throughout human history. Now I'm not suggesting we need to go back to this, okay? And if that's what people take from the passage, then they are grossly misrepresenting what the intent of the text is. But there are several things customarily that we're going to find in these verses that are extremely foreign to the way that we think today. But that's really not the point of the passage this evening. The point of this passage is to show us that God is sovereign and he is working purposefully in all of the details of our lives. God is at work in even the smallest details. And so when we come to the text in front of us, rather than getting so focused on the well and this woman coming and pouring water and all those different things. Let's focus on what the passage is telling us about the way that God works in human lives. The way that God works in circumstances. So I'm going to give you the following summary of this passage, and then we're going to dig into some what I believe are very rich concepts that I hope will be a tremendous encouragement to you this evening. Here's a summary of Genesis 24. Genesis 24 is a testimony to the principle that God is often tested and accomplishes his purposes through ordinary means. So that we will see that he is faithful and he is active not only in the supernatural, visible, but also in the ordinary, seemingly insignificant moments of life When people talk about seeing evidences of God's work in their lives, they tend to want to see something really big, something miraculous, something supernatural. But I want to remind you that the primary way that God has worked in the lives of people throughout all of Scripture has been providentially working in the ordinary circumstances of life. You know, most of the things that Abraham experienced were not supernatural in and of themselves. Now we could say that the fact that his wife gave birth to a child when she was a very old woman was a supernatural work of God. Unquestionably that's true. But the vast majority of the things that we read about how God worked in Abraham's life, they're ordinary. They're just the normal things that go on in people's lives. The kinds of things that most people overlook. And they seem insignificant. The kinds of things that we often don't have the eyes to see. In other words, what God is showing us in these scriptures Is that the things that you often don't see as the big deals that God is doing, those are actually the ways that God is working behind the scenes in the ordinary circumstances of life. This is called God's providence. Genesis 24 is all about God's good hand of providence. And what's also very interesting about these verses is that they reveal to us that the way that God is tested And the way that God tests us is often in those seemingly insignificant, ordinary moments of life. This is how God tests our faith. This is how it is demonstrated if we are growing and maturing or not. So when we look at this text, what we're going to see is that God wants us to learn to trust him. And he wants us to learn to trust him in the ordinary details of our lives. Every single one of us gets involved in situations that weigh us down and they burden us, the ordinary details of life. And it's in those ordinary details that God says, trust me. The things like raising our kids day in and day out. The things like what's going on in our world today, what's going on in our country today, the kinds of things that really dishearten us. We have to learn to trust God in the ordinary details of life. And that is not an easy thing at all. This text is going to drive us to that conclusion. We can trust God. We must trust God. Abraham trusted God. We can do the same. Well, you may be asking this evening, how can we do that? So let's begin by looking at several simple but important truths that will drive us to this conclusion. The first of those truths that I want you to see this evening is found in verses 1 through 3. I'm going to read this and then I'm going to give you the truth that we find here. And Abraham was old and well-stricken in age, and the Lord had blessed Abraham in all things. And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled over the land uh over all that he had, put I praise thee my hand under thy under thy hand under my thigh And I will make thee swear by the Lord, the God of heaven, the God of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites among whom I dwell. Now you may be asking when we read that, what exactly is the principle or the truth that we find in those verses? Well, here it is. God's promises are often tested in ordinary ways. Now, in order for us to appreciate that, I want to remind you of some of the ways that God tested Abraham in very ordinary ways. For instance, The very first way that God tested Abraham was he talked to him and he said, I want you to leave your home country or of the Chalides and you're going to go to a land that I'm going to give you. He goes, where is the lip? Just go. So what's God doing? He's testing Abraham. He's saying, Trust me, obey me We think about the situation where there's a famine in the land. This is an ordinary circumstance. Everybody that lived in Canaan went through this famine, not just Abraham. And what does Abraham do rather than trusting God in the land of promise? Which very interestingly he's going to say Don't let my son leave the land of promise. At this period in his life, he's willing to leave the land of promise because he's concerned about his own life's preservation. And so out of fear he goes down into Egypt. But he doesn't just go down to Egypt. He tells his wife, please tell the people there that you're my sister. Well, why does he do this? Well he's afraid. His faith is being tested. We see that there was a military operation where his son Lot, or his not his son, but his nephew Lot was captured. And so Abraham leads this group of men. He's a valiant soldier. And he goes and he rescues Lot back. Pretty pretty amazing, honestly, if you want to look at it from a military standpoint. This just ordinary guy who's you know got a couple hundred guys to work for him, and they go and they take him against an army. But what is it doing? Another opportunity where he could have died, his life was in danger. For twenty-five years, from the promise God makes to the fulfillment of that, what does he see? No child Twenty-five years is a pretty long time. Now, some of you can say I can remember the last 25 and the 25 before that and the 25 before that. But that's a large chunk of time. Abraham was waiting during all this time. God finally gives him a child, Isaac, the son of promise, and then God commands him to go to Mount Moriah and to offer his son as a burnt sacrifice. Something that would have been completely shocking. All of these things are tests of whether or not Abraham believed that God would follow through with the promise. But perhaps one of the most interesting of all the tests, which is one that I didn't think about a whole lot until I started studying this text of scripture, is that after Isaac was born, forty years passed. Before he got married. I mean, stop and think about this. If twenty-five years was a long time for Isaac to or for Abraham to wait for God to finally give him a son, he now gives him a son. His wife has died, and here's Isaac still single. Now I have a question. How is this promise going to work out if his son hasn't even gotten married at this stage in his life? And here's Abraham, a very old man, and he's sitting there going, you know, I'm gonna have to do something about this. I'm gonna have to go send my servant to go get a wife for my son because he's still single. Maybe you've never thought about it, but the reality is this is probably one of the most unique of all the tests of Abraham's faith. And what's very interesting as we work through this passage is we're going to see that it was a test of his faith, but his faith was strong. He believed that God was going to provide, and he had learned how to trust God over the course of his life. There were several practical reasons why this was a predicament. When we study the life of Isaac, he doesn't seem to be an extremely assertive man. Jacob, he was pretty assertive. Esau, pretty assertive. Isaac, not so much. Who's taking care of all of Abraham's stuff? Well, it's actually not his son He's actually got to go send someone to go get a wife for his son. So he doesn't appear to be an extremely assertive man. Even when there were contentions, Isaac tended to pull away from those contentions. We see this in the life of Isaac. But there's another very practical reason for him being in a predicament, and that's because of where he lived. Now, we want to know what the Canaanites were like when we study Sodom and Gomorrah. That's what the Canaanite cities were like. God destroyed those cities because of the wickedness of those cities. We look at Lot and what happened to Lot and his family when they went and they lived in Sodom and how it destroyed their family. There probably were not a lot of great prospects for this guy, Isaac, to marry, who would be a godly woman who would help him to raise a godly seed, would there be? The answer is, of course not. And we're going to see that even in the way that Abraham guides his servant. He says, send him not to Canaan, but he sent him back to where his family was from. Abraham was extremely concerned that Isaac not marry a Canaanite and that he not leave the promised land. You say, why does that matter? I'll get into that a little bit later. The second truth I'd like us to see tonight is that Abraham had a conviction that in fact God would provide in this predicament. Look down in verse 4. He says, thou shalt go unto my country and to my kindred and take a wife unto my son Isaac. Now when he gives this command to his servant, his servant says, What if she's not willing to go? And Abraham says She's going to be willing to go. And he's like, I don't know about this. Later on in verse number seven he says, The Lord God of heaven shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a life unto my son from thence. What is this man saying? He's saying, I'm sending you on a mission, and I'm absolutely certain I'm absolutely confident that you are going to come back with a bride for my son Now the servant wasn't convinced of this. Abraham even had to give him an out so that he would go on the mission and his conscience wouldn't be compromised. But Abraham was not giving him an out because he doubted that God was going to do what he said he would do. You say, well, why was Abraham so convinced that a bride would come back with this servant? The answer is because God's word is on the line. God says, I'm going to make of you a great nation. And Abraham knows if he's going to make of my child a great nation. I say my child, he's 40. But he's still his child, I guess. If he's going to make him a great nation, he's going to have to have a wife. His wife's going to have to have children. There's going to have to be descendants. Abraham believed God was going to fulfill his word. I want you to just take a moment and I want you to notice how over the course of Abraham's life, the way that he viewed the promises of God changed. He matured. He grew. We tend to think of Abraham as a great man of faith, and he was, but I want you to see that over the course of his life, he grew in his faith. He grew in his maturity. He grew in his confidence in the Lord. Let's just do a quick survey. Look down in Genesis chapter 12 and verse 13. This is the first example I want you to notice of Abraham. Abraham was willing to obey God and leave her of the Calades. But then he goes into Canaan, and when he's in Canaan, there's a famine. How does he respond to this first test? Genesis 12, 13. He says to his wife, I pray thee. Thou art, say I, that thou art my sister, that it may be well with me for thy sake, and my soul shall live because of thee. Is that faith and confidence, or is that distrust? It's distrust. A terrible story. We dealt with this already. Abraham doesn't seem like a great man of faith at that moment, does he? Go down a couple more chapters, Genesis chapter 15, and look in verse number 2. So some time has gone on. God has made the promise, and Abraham is questioning whether or not God's really going to follow through with this. What's very interesting is Genesis 15 is the text that tells us that Abraham believed on the Lord and it was counted in him as righteousness. We could say this is when he actually becomes a believer. Here's what he says in Genesis 15, verse 2. He says, What wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless? And the steward of my house is Eliezer of Damascus. Abraham said, Behold to me, thou hast given no seed. Does that look like confidence, trust, or doubt? The answer is it's doubt. Now by the end of chapter 15. God speaks to Abraham again about this matter. He reminds him again of the promises Abraham believes. And we could say this is the moment when he is justified. And now from this moment, we're going to see that his faith begins to grow. And it begins to mature. But it's not fully matured in that moment. The next place I'd like you to look is in Genesis chapter 16. So this is the next chapter. This is not, you know, 50 years later. This is a short time later. And in Genesis chapter 16, Abraham still has not had a child. And Sarah comes to him and Sarah says to Abraham, Why don't you take Hagar and you can have a child through her? And that can be the child of promise. And so it says in Genesis chapter sixteen, verse three, that Sarah, Abraham's wife, took Hagar, her maid, the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan. And Abram follows through with this and he brings all kinds of trouble into his family. Question Is this faith that is strong? That is mature, or is it faith that's on the edge? It's faith on the edge. We then move to Genesis chapter 20. And this is just a very short time before God gives Sarah this child. In Genesis chapter 20, verse 2, it says, Abraham said unto Sarah, Sarah his wife, Say, she is my sister. Abimelech, king of Gerar, sent and took Sarah. So the same same thing that Abraham had done before his conversion when he went down into Egypt, it's the exact same thing that he does in Genesis 20. This is right before God gives him a child through Sarah It's absolutely stunning. What do we see? His faith is wavering again. But then we move to Genesis 22. And in Genesis 22, we see that Abraham's faith tested, having wavered, is a faith that has matured. It's a faith that has become much more matured and profound. And when we look at his response to God in Genesis chapter 22, We say this is a man who is walking with God, who is confident in God's promises. This is a man whose faith is mature. Genesis 22, verse 7. Isaac spake unto Abram, his father, and said, My father, behold the fire and the wood, where is the lamb for a burnt offering? And Abraham said, I love this statement. My son, God will provide himself a lamp for a burnt sacrifice. It's kind of interesting. What does he mean by that? Some would say that what he's actually saying is that he recognizes that there is a lamb that's coming. Okay? Not just that God's going to provide a lamb to take his place, but he's thinking even down the roads. But the fact is on that day God did provide a ram to take the place of Isaac. And it's a beautiful picture of what the Lord Jesus Christ did for us on the cross. He took our place. He bore the wrath of the Father against our sin on himself. He who knew no sin became sin for us, that we might be made the righteousness of God in him. God provided for himself a lamb, the Lord Jesus Christ. But Abraham, it says in Hebrews chapter 11, believed that if he even killed his son, God could raise his son back to life. What are we seeing here? We're seeing the confidence of this man. His faith has grown and matured. But then I want us to go back into the text where we are this evening, and that's Genesis 24, verse 7. Listen to what it says. The Lord God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, from the land of my kindred, which spake unto me, and that swear unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land. He shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence. Do you see a change in the way this man thinks He's grown. He's matured. He's growing in his faith. And just like Abraham was growing in the spirit. strength and in the maturity of his faith. You and I need to grow in the same way. But it doesn't come without a process. And Abraham's process was all these years of God testing him in the little, little details. I want us to move on to a third truth tonight. That third truth is that Abraham was patient even when his servant was hesitant. Now, what's very interesting about some of these other passages is that sometimes the person who was impatient was Abraham himself. Sometimes it was Abraham's wife. In this passage, Abraham has a steadfast confidence. that God is going to work. And his servant is a little bit uncertain. And you know what Abraham does? He doesn't condescend towards this man. He simply says, okay, let me tell you my confidence, but let me give you an out in case I'm wrong. Listen to what it says. Verse number seven, if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath. Folks, this statement was not a matter of Abraham doubting what God was going to do. He was willing to meet his servant where he was. He gave him an out to clear his conscience in case this man was afraid. My journey is going to be as unsuccessful. I'm going to be having given my word to my master, Abraham, and then I'm going to have compromised my word. He met him where he was. But this is not Abraham doubting. He is so confident in the way that he presents to this man the promises of God He's communicating patience and grace, not doubt. I want to move to a fourth truth. Very interesting here. Abraham was particular concerning the details of this message. Verse number 3, 4, and 6. Look down at what it says. He says, I will make thee swear by the Lord that thou take a wife unto my that thou take not a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites amongst whom I dwell. That thou shalt go unto my country, to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son Isaac. Beware that thou bring not my son thither again. Now there are two ways that Abraham is instructing this servant. The first is don't take a wife from the Canaanites. You might say, well, what's that all about? Does Abraham have some prejudice against the Canaanites? Well, the simplest way to put it is this. It's another way of saying, don't take a wife for my son who's not a believer. That's ultimately what he's saying. We think about in 1 Corinthians where it says, don't be unequally yoked together with unbelievers. What communion has light. with darkness, and he that believes with someone who is not a believer. The idea is when God brings two together and they take a a marriage and they become one flesh, his desire is that they produce a godly seed. And so when a person is purposefully choosing to marry someone who is not a believer, they're disregarding one of the greatest reasons God brings those two together in that union. It's so that they will produce a godly offspring. Abraham was extremely concerned that his son not marry someone who would cause problems in the raising of a godly seed. But someone who would be united where they would have a similar heartbeat. They would be both worshipers of the Lord. So he's not willing to compromise on this issue. Don't pick someone who's an idol worshiper. And what's very interesting is as you look at the details here, you're going to see it's very clear that the family that this man has gone to is a family that believes in the Lord, and they speak often of it. The second thing he's extremely concerned about is he says, don't allow my son to become complacent and leave the promised land. In other words, he believes that there is a covenant that is to establish a godly heritage, and he believes that there's an inheritance that's to be connected to the land of promise. So he doesn't want to compromise in any way on those two issues. The fifth thing that I'd like us to see tonight is that God worked amazingly through ordinary means. Look down in verses 58 through 67. Now I'm not going to read all of these details, but I want you to notice some of the things that we find. We see first of all that the servant met Rebecca. Look down in verse number 11. The man says this. In verse number 11, it says, He made his camel to kneel down without the city by a well of water at the time of the evening, even the time that the women go out to draw water. And he said, O Lord God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send me good speed this day. Show kindness unto my master Abraham. Behold, I'm standing here by a well of water, and the daughters of men of the city are coming out to draw water. Let it come to pass That the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink, that she shall say, drink, and I will give camels to drink also. Let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac, and thereby shall I know that thou showest kindness unto my master. Now please understand something. We do not see anybody getting a wife the same way in any other passage of scripture. So don't think that this is like This is the tried and true method on how you're supposed to find a wife. There might be some guys when they go to college and all that kind of stuff. They they they they have some you know spin on this particular passage. But what it does show us Is that even though this man he goes to this well and he says, there are lots of people that are going to come here tonight. They're going to get water and they're going to take it back to their family. God, I'm pleading with you. Let the person that's supposed to marry Isaac come out of the city. And let her meet me here at the well, and may she be willing to give me water and my camels. Is that too much to ask? You know what's amazing? God chose to answer his prayer. He did. These are just little details. When when when Rebecca was walking out of the city that that evening to go get water, it was just another day for her. Her. She wasn't thinking, oh boy, I'm gonna go get water and I'm gonna meet the person who's gonna lead me to my future spouse. Thought would have never crossed her mind. She was just going about her business. It was a very ordinary thing. It wasn't unusual for her to come and get water at that time. And she was a hospitable person and her family was hospitable. And the fact that she was willing to even give water to these camels may not have even been in their culture a huge deal. Ordinary details. God is at work. The fact that she was so selfless and hospitable, verses 17 through 20. It tells us that the servant ran to meet her and said, I pray thee, give me a drink of a little water from thy pitcher. And she said, Drink, my lord. And she hastened and let down her pitcher upon her hand and gave him drink. And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I'll draw water also for thy camels, that they what that they have done drinking. And she hasted and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again unto the well to draw water, and drew it for all his camels. Now when she did these things, we could say it's ordinary stuff. She's just being kind. She's just being hospitable. Extremely hospitable, let me tell you, when you realize how much water she's pouring and how long it would have taken and how much work would have been involved. But these are ordinary details. That God was working through. When he goes and meets her family, verse 31, he is warmly received. It says in verse thirty one, they said to him, Come in, thou blessed of the Lord. Wherefore standest thou without? We have prepared the house and room for the camels. He is warmly received, and as he begins to explain the mission, In verses 33 to 48, and through these verses, we see that these people listen carefully, and the way they respond is they say, God's in this. God's hand is at work here. We're willing to participate in what you have here. What is this? These are ordinary details, but God's hand is in them. One of the most intriguing to me is what we find in verses 54 to 58. She's actually willing to go. That's pretty stunning. Could be traveling a great distance She's never met this young man. Well, 40-year-old, I don't know, is that young? She never has met Isaac before She's never met Abraham before. She's willing to go. Listen to what it says in verse 54. They did eat and drink, and he and the men that were with him and tarried all night. They rose up in the morning and he said, Send me away unto my master. Her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with us a few days, and at least ten, after then shall she go. And he said unto them, Hinder me not Seeing the Lord hath prospered my way, send me away that I may go to my master. And they said, we will call the damsel and inquire at her mouth How many times are young people very uh insecure in the decisions they make? And they vacillate from this side to that side. And you just can't predict sometimes the decision that a person will make at a stage in life like she's in. And they say, Will you go with this man? She says, Yep, I'll do it. Little details. God 's at work in these things. But then maybe one of the sweetest parts of the whole story is the end of it. Verse 63, it says, Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the evening time. He lifted up his eyes and saw, and behold, the camels were coming, and Rebecca lifted up her eyes when she saw Isaac. She lighted off the camel, for she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh in the field to meet us? The servant had said, It is my master, therefore she took a veil and covered herself. The servant told Isaac all the things it had done, and Isaac brought her into his mother's uh Sarah's tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife. I love this statement. He loved her. And Isaac was comforted at his mother's death. Many people believe that Sarah had died about three years before these events. So Isaac was very grieved by his mother's passing. And what do we see? We see that God unites this couple, and there is a sweet and loving relationship established between them. The point of all this is to say one simple thing. God works in ordinary circumstances. That's what he's telling us. These are just ordinary details. Every single one of them, when you look at them by themselves, you go, What's the big deal? But when you see them all together, you know what you see? An incredible story. A testimony to the providential working of God. And what's very interesting about it is that you see repeated over and over and over again in this text. Testimonies to God's word. Let me give you some examples. Verse number 12. He says, O Lord God of my master, I pray thee, send me God's good speed this day. Show kindness unto my master Abraham. What's the servant saying? God, ordinary details, please prosper these. Verses 26 and 27, it says, the man bowed down his head and worshiped the Lord and said, Blessed be the Lord God of my master Abraham. He hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth. I being in the way the Lord led me to the house of my master's brother. Amazing statement, isn't it? Or verse 49 to 51 it says, If you will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me, and if not, tell me, that I may turn to the right hand or to the left. And Lab Laban and Betheul answered and said, The thing proceedeth from the Lord. We cannot speak unto thee bad or good. Behold, Rebecca is before thee. Take her and go. Let her be your master's son's wife, as the Lord hath spoken. Ordinary details. The providence of God. Verse 56. He said unto them, Hender me not, seeing that the Lord hath prospered my way, and send me away that I may go to my master. The providence of God. But here's the most interesting of them all, verse 60. Listen to what it says. And they, that is, uh Rebekah's family, they blessed Rebekah and said unto her, Thou art our sister. Be thou the mother of thousands of millions. What an interesting statement. Not just her all these kids of her own, but She's talking about her descendants, the people that would be the result of this union. He says they said, Be the mother of thousands of millions. Let thy seed possess the gate of those which hate them. Why did they say that? It's because of the Abrahamic covenant. You see, these people understood that this union was a part of God's plan of Redemption. In other words, it is through this little detail that God's going to just put one more piece into this puzzle of writing the story of how He's going to bring the Savior into the world. Folks, I want to remind you, this is how God works in the world. He works in the ordinary things of life. Ecclesiastes 11, 5. As thou knowest not the way of the Spirit, how the bones do grow in the womb. I've heard that it's with child, even so thou knowest not the work of God who maketh all. Proverbs sixteen one, the preparations of the hardened man and the answer of the tongue it's from the Lord Proverbs 16,9 A man's heart devises this way, but the Lord directs his steps. Proverbs 1633, the lot is cast into the laugh. The whole disposing is of the Lord. Romans 8. 28, we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. What's the point of Genesis 24? God works in ordinary details. That's what it's all about. You might say, well, man, my life seems to have a lot of ordinary details that don't seem to be making a lot of sense to me right now. They're very frustrating right now. God's not working as fast as I want him to right now. You think Abraham thought that in year 24? Out of 25 waiting for Isaac to be born? Or do you think that he was thinking that in year 39 when Isaac didn't even get married until year 40? The answer is yes. Even Isaac's mother, Sarah, she never got to see her own child Mary. When God is working, sometimes God is working very slowly. And very methodically. And it seems very ordinary. And it it we don't see the strong evidences of his hands many times in these details. But don't be fooled into thinking that he's not working. Don't be fooled into thinking that God has abandoned his people or that God doesn't care. He's working, he's involved in situations. Are you weary and doubtful of God's ways? I've been there. Are you weary I bet he was too. These scriptures call us to trust in God's power and in God's wisdom And in God's goodness. These scriptures call us to trust Him to work in the ordinary details of our life. This is how God works. And so my challenge from the word is simple. May we grow in maturity like this man Abraham did. May we learn. To trust God to work in the details of our lives, the ordinary details of our lives. Because He's working whether we're confident in it or not. Aren't you gl grateful for that? God didn't say Abraham, if you get it all right, then I can work out my plan. He said, I'm gonna do my plan. And you're gonna grow in the process. That's how God works in our lives. And that's something we should be richly thankful for. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to understand this very important biblical principle. Let's pray. Father, this is such a beautiful scripture. Very foreign from the way that we look at so many things. Yet it is an incredible testimony. to the fact that you work in a very powerful way behind the scenes in ordinary circumstances You orchestrate things for our good and your glory. Help us to trust you in that. Even when we stumble, help us to glory in the fact that you are so gracious and so good to us. You don't throw us to the side. You continue to work in our lives. You continue to work through us. Father, help us to mature. Like this great man of old, Abraham, matured over the course of many years. As he learned to trust you and put confidence in your promises, I pray that we would learn to trust you. And put confidence in your promises. May you take these truths and use them richly in our lives at this very important season of life. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. As I encourage you this morning, go back and read Genesis twenty-four with a pen in your hand. And dot notes Think about there's some really rich, rich details. I could not, in one setting, even begin to scratch the surface of all that is there. It is a beautiful text. So go back and read it and let God warm your heart with it. Let's go ahead and turn our hymn books to hymn 503, singing I go. And I hope that as we leave you're singing. Uh hymn five hundred three, let's stand together, please, and we will sing the first and the last verses, please. The trust is on Jesus already, but as the God of his sill is not. Sing it the calm of the fall, bringing the Lord, Spring the Cal of the voice blessed, for Jesus welcome in my own. When through the throne of grace I play, I find the honest crew, the mighty horse will bear my Singing and fall of all master, praising the Lord, praising the Lord, singing and call of all my stuff, for Jesus in I Amen. Well, I believe that uh if the weather's not bad, they're going to be playing volleyball out there. So if that's something you're interested in. Go for it. Uh Tori, can you please uh close us in prayer tonight? And uh Lord willing, we'll see you all on Wednesday. We're starting a new series and we're gonna be talking about family issues and And we're going to spend a lot of time dealing with some foundational matters in Genesis as we move our way into some very practical things. So I hope that it'll be a real encouragement. So that's where we're going starting Wednesday for you. Father, we are so grateful for the many ways in which you show grace in our lives. We thank you for your mercy, your continued patience with us on a daily basis. Thank you for the example of Abraham. The faith That he displayed in the ways that you worked through his life, and specifically uh in these ordinary ways in which you ultimately impacted uh the whole planet with the gospel of Jesus Christ through Abraham's obedience. Lord, we are asking for your blessing. We're asking for your wisdom as we advance through the week, as we travel, whether it's to work or to visit family or to simply go about our duties within our homes. We ask that you would show us grace, that you would speak to us throughout the week and bring us back safely till we meet again in Jesus' name and for his sake. Amen