Turn in your Bibles, please, to the book of Second Corinthians, and we're in chapter two tonight, and uh we've been dealing with a kind of sub a subtopic. And that is dealing with the topic of church discipline. And one of the things that I wanted to do was not just deal with the passage in front of us, but to recognize that there's a lot more to be said about that particular topic. And so um we're gonna kind of look at the other part of the story. If you remember um years ago uh when Paul Harvey was on the radio and you'd hear the first part of it, and then at in the afternoon he'd say, now the rest of the the story and he'd tell you that and I I remember riding home with my dad from school and I listened to uh that with him. And uh this is the rest of the story. This is the second half of this topic of church discipline. And this is very important. In fact, this is a topic that when we come to this third sermon or the second half of it, we really need to make sure that we understand this topic well. So let's go ahead and look down at 2 Corinthians chapter 2, and we'll read verses 1 through 11 together, please. It says the following, but I determined this with myself, that I would not come again to you in heaviness. For If I made you sorry, who is he then that maketh me glad? But the same which is made sorry by me. I wrote this same unto you lest when I came I should have sorrow from them whom I ought to rejoice, having confidence in you all that my joy is in the joy of you all. For out of much affliction and anguish of heart I wrote unto you with many tears, not that ye should be grieved, but that ye might know the love which I have more abundant unto you. But if any have caused grief, he hath not grieved me, but in part, that I might not overcharge you all. Sufficient to such a man is this punishment which was inflicted of many, so that contrarewise you ought rather to forgive him and comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. Wherefore I beseech you That you would comfort, you would confirm your love toward him. For to this end also did I write, that I might know the proof of you whether ye be obedient in all things To whom ye forgiving in anything I forgive also. If, for if I forgive anything, to whom I forgive it, for your sakes forgave I it in the person of Christ. Lest Satan should get an advantage of us, for we are not ignorant of his devices. Now, I know that that was uh quite a bit for us to process there. And my hope tonight is to just kind of take the main part of what's being communicated in those verses and to help you to understand what Paul is saying. So let me first of all give you a summary statement and then just kind of give you a little bit of background of what's been going on here. So when a wayward brother humbles himself in genuine repentance, We need to restore him to fellowship with the body so he can continue to grow. And as we look at his passage, we're going to see that God wants us to anticipate one that there'll be godly repentance when someone is is uh being dealt with in the right way and that too when this happens we've got to be very responsible in how we go about trying to help someone get restored So if we're to go back to the story that we were looking at in 1 Corinthians chapter 5, we see that the Apostle Paul had to confront the church Because there was a man in their congregation who was involved in very serious, very public, very unrepentant sin. And so this man wanted to maintain fellowship in the body. He wanted to function just like a normal member of the body that was there. Yet he wanted to persist in this very public very unrepentant, very serious sin. And for some reason, we don't know all the reasons, but we know that pride was at least a part of it. For some reason, the church would not address the issue. Could have been that the man was uh financially giving a lot, could be because he was a person of prestige, it could be that they were just being complacent. But whatever the focus of why, the fact is that Paul had to address them. This was something that was so serious that it was actually causing the church itself to have a compromised position in the community. And we know that when the world looks at the church, they're going to come to assumptions about the church. We should not give them, uh, we could say the opportunity to point fingers and say You know, you talk about a holy, righteous, just God, but look what you have going on in your congregation, and nobody even cares about it. This is a really big deal. Or, you know, to put it in just kind of a simple practical situation, it'd be like if we have a person who's a part of the church and they're in good standing and they're cheating people in the community and their business and everybody knows it. And uh it's known in the church and the church just kind of ignores the issue and somebody comes to the pastor one day and says, you know, I just want to ask you a question. Do you know that this man in your church is conducting their business this way? And you're like Sure. Do you know that they are cheating people? Sure, I know that. Does that bother you? No. That's really going to compromise the testimony of the church, is it not? Okay? The guy's going to sit there and he's going to go, what kind of a group of people are you? And he would have a reason to say that. And so while the church is not perfect, we're all sinners and we're saved by grace. We should walk like Christians and we shouldn't tolerate that kind of public unrepentant flagrant disobedience that ultimately brings uh the cause of Christ, uh uh uh it brings the cause of Christ to be doubted in the community. So let's go ahead and work our way through this passage because after that issue was addressed by Paul, the church actually obeyed him. They did exactly what he said to do. And now here we are, and this brother, who is truly a brother, who has been involved in very serious sin, is actually humbled. And he wants to do right. And he wants to be restored. Now Paul has to write back to the church and say, all right, it's time to restore this brother. And you need to make sure you do it the right way. So how do we go about doing this? Well, the first thing I want you to notice is that it's important for us to restore repentant Christians. And if you remember back to the discussion we had when we started this issue of church discipline, I mentioned that it's really not about wanting to punish people, and it's not about being vindictive at all. It's about recognizing that there are times that we have to go and we have to confront wrong. And y you might even say that if a person's going about this the right way, they're not going at uh at it because they're angry and they want to get something off their chest. In some ways they may even be very reluctant about it, but they're doing the right thing. They're willing to take that step, have that conversation, work through that issue Restoration is only to be done when there is clearly repentance on the part of the person who has been put under church discipline. So I'll summarize it this way. We must actively cultivate a healthy restorative culture in the church. At times a church may have to put out an unrepentant member of the body. When we do this, we need to know uh that the matter could unfold a couple of different ways, and we should prayerfully anticipate that there's going to be godly sorrow, godly repentance. And ultimately that brother or that sister will be able to be restored to communion with the church. We have to be willing, when that actually happens, to go through that process of restoring fellowship to the repentant Christian. And I want you to notice the admonitions in this passage. Because they are for all of us. In fact, we we could almost step away from this context where we're talking about restoring someone who has been unrepentant, now they've been humbled, now the repentant We could actually take this and recognize that these are principles that we could apply when we talk about interpersonal conflicts that we have with other people. When we talk about uh contentions that are between two brothers in Christ, this is not a church discipline issue. This is just two people that have a problem and they need to work it out. These are also principles that would apply in that situation. So notice each of them. The first one is in verse 6. Let me read it. He says, sufficient to such a man is this punishment which was inflicted of many. Now what do you think Paul is saying there? What Paul is ultimately saying here is this, you have gone far enough. In other words, do not overdo it. And this is a problem sometimes that we have when we deal with this could be true when we discipline our children. Do children need to be restrained? Of course they do. Do they need to be taught this is right, this is wrong, and there are consequences? Of course they can. Of course they need that. But as parents we can overdo it. We can be too harsh. We could t we could be vindictive in the way that we discipline our children. We could be imbalanced in the way that we do this. We could have uh punishment that's not, we could say, uh proportionate to the kind of offense that was there. And so we need to be cautious that we are restrained in the way that we do this And so in verse 6 he says, don't overdo it. When you go to take this action, don't go further than you should. Second thing we see is in verse 7. Look at this statement. He says you ought rather to forgive instead of continuing to hold this over this person's head. You need to be willing to forgive that individual. Now I'm just going to pause and make a statement here. Forgiveness and trust are not the same thing. I think it's important for us to understand this. Just because I forgive a person doesn't mean that I am going to restore to them the level of trust that they had before some kind of infraction. Trust isn't something that you are guaranteed. Trust isn't something that you and I are entitled to. Trust is something that is earned and it can be lost. So when we talk about not holding a grudge here and forgiving, what we're basically saying is you are to restore that brother or that sister But if somebody's been in charge of finances and they stole money, you wouldn't put them back in charge of finances, okay? You wouldn't do such a thing like that. Or or if they have misused a position of authority or or some other situation, you wouldn't just put them in that situation. You're simply affirming that you love them in Christ and that you are now restoring them back to fellowship in the body Third. The third statement is comfort him, lest peradventure such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. The idea is to be an encourager. Now, if someone is truly repentant, they're broken over their sin. When someone's like Yeah, I did that. Why don't you get over it and let me do what I was doing before? That's not repentance. Okay? That's not repentance But when a person is humble and they are broken and they admit their fault and they even seek and desire that there be some level of count of accountability there with them. That's a person who needs to be uplifted and encouraged and strengthened. Very, very important. Comfort him lest, peradventure, such a one should be swallowed up with overmuch sorrow. Now, you may ask the question, well, how do I know if someone needs to be comforted or if maybe they're not quite there yet? I'm going to come to that in just a little bit. We have to be very cautious that out of our desire optimistically to see some a situation resolved that we don't just jump into this and do something that really uh is is not wise and appropriate. But when it is clear that a person is humbled, then we need to encourage them. Fourthly, number eight, confirm your love toward him. Don't be cowused. So the admonition of the text is don't overdo it. Don't hold a grudge, be an encourage, do not be callous toward this person. And then the last thing that he says in verse 11 kind of helps us to understand why that is the case. The reason is because Satan will use our imbalance in the way that we approach an issue. Verse 11, it says, lest Satan should get an advantage of us. We are not ignorant of his devices. Go back in your mind to the story of David and Absalom. You know the story. And we we talked about this on Sunday night. So here Absalom kills his brother. And the reason he killed his brother was out of vengeance, but Part of the reason he took matters into his own hands is because his father did not protect his own daughter. And he did not execute justice in that situation. And so Absalom's like, if my dad's not going to do his job, I'm going to take matters into my own hands and I'm going to resolve the issue myself. Now, the way he went about it was wrong, but we can understand why he would have gone into that And so then he runs for his life because he knows his father's not happy. And through the course of time, Joab works his way into finally getting David to see he's to bring his son back. And when he brings his son back, the text tells us David did not speak to his son, and it gives us the length of time. Guess what was happening during that time? Absalom was like, why did you bring me back? Did you just bring me back to to to to make me wallow in misery even more? What was the purpose of that? And that is probably a big factor. It may be even the final reason why Absalom chose, out of hatred for his dad, to go and usurp the throne. The point is this. If David had handled it right at any one of those points, he had the opportunity to resolve a bad situation and actually see something good come out of it. But he made the wrong decision over and over and over and over again. Satan got He got a foothold in that situation. He took advantage. Well, guess what? Same thing can happen with you and I too. If we're not careful and we don't actually seek real restoration with people who we have wronged or who have wronged us, and we actually work through the issue the way that we should, then what's going to happen is a person is going to have this root of bitterness that's going to develop inside of them, and Satan will use that to create a foothold to create a lot more problems than has already been there. So the key is you got to be decisive and do the right thing. You can't sit on stuff. So that is the warning of the text. We need to deal with those who are repented and restore them. But the second thing is this We need to understand the marks of godly repentance. Now, if I'm going to tell you that you need to restore a repentant brother, then I probably should explain to you what a repentant brother is, okay? Because we need to understand this. And what's great about it is that that there are several passages of Scripture that give us information about this. In fact, even in the book of 2 Corinthians, you're going to have a section that talks about the difference between godly repentance and godly sorrow and what we could say is the world's repentance and sorrow. We're going to come to that. But the first thing I want to do is I want to define the word repentance. I think this is important because when we get to the definition of terms, sometimes we get a little bit sloppy and a little bit fuzzy in how we handle it. I would define repentance this way. Repentance is a spirit-produced radical change of thinking. This is not somebody who's just willing to tell you what they know you want to hear. Okay? This is not someone who's like, okay, tell me what I gotta say so that you'll leave me alone. That's not repentance Okay? Repentance isn't someone who's not going to go to that level who they're going to say, just tell me what I need to say, and then I'll tell you. They actually are a little smarter than that, and they can figure it out themselves what you want to hear, and they're going to tell you that. We've got to be very careful. Words are just words. If somebody tells you something, but there's no backing of action, then don't believe that there's been any kind of change in the heart of the person. But I've got to go a little further than this. Repentance is not just a change in direction. You can, for a period of time, stop doing something and move in a new direction, but there is no sustaining of that. There's a reason for that. Because real change starts at the heart level. Repentance is not just a change of behavior, and people can stop doing things. They can turn over a new leaf for a while, and God's got nothing to do with it. The Spirit of God has nothing to do with it. A radical thinking change has nothing to do with it. It's nothing more than pragmatism and learning how to maneuver in their interaction with other people. So we have to be careful. Repentance is a change of heart that will s that will result in a change of direction and behavior And I would even add this. There is a sustaining change that's involved in this. Now, I don't mean perfection Repentance doesn't mean you stop sinning. It doesn't mean that you're perfect. It doesn't mean that you're not going to stumble at times. But what it's telling you is that at the heart level what is guiding direction, what is guiding behavior, what is guiding passion, what is guiding decision, that has changed. And God is the one who works the change in the person. So that's what repentance is. Even when we talk about salvation, repentance is a part of this. You cannot believe in the gospel without repenting first. Repentance leads to faith in Christ. Second thing I want to say about repentance is that repentance should be a way of life for every Christian. A Christian that says, I don't ever need to repent again is a Christian that's Maybe he needs to step back and look at the basics and ask themselves some questions. And I would kind of break this down into two categories. There's repentance in what we could say is the gradual change of how we mature as Christians. And there's the repentance of I've been moving in a direction for a very long time and I've not been thinking clearly and God has shaken me, and now my thinking is radically different and the direction moves. I want to give you two examples of scriptures that show you this. The first one is Romans 12 verse 2. This is repentance that can be gradual, day by day, renewal of the mind. This should be a regular part of our lives. Every time you open up your Bible, And you read your Bible, every time you sit in a service, every time you have conversations with other Christians that are encouraging you and exhorting you and challenging you, iron sharpening, iron, that kind of a thing. This is actually going to take place in your life. Romans 12. 2. Be not conformed to the world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. So you have this certain way of looking at things and you open up your Bible and you're reading it on one morning or one evening, and as you're reading through the passage, you go, huh. I I think that the way I've been looking at this is wrong. And you're like, maybe I'm not understanding the text in front of me. So, you know, you start digging in a little bit more and you start realizing like, okay, I really don't get this. I really don't understand this. And then you're like, ah, let me pull up a commentary and uh see what they have to say about this. And you dig into that commentary and you're like, uh -huh, I see something here that I didn't see before. And then you have a conversation with an older Christian and you talk about this situation, all of a sudden they begin to kind of like expand on this concept, and all of a sudden A viewpoint that you held, a position that you held, a movement of your life has been confronted. And that confrontation leads you to a decision. Am I going to accept what the word says or am I going to fight it? And when we accept it and submit to it and say, yes, I will do what God says here, yes, I will think as God says to think. That's repentance. And when that's taking place on a regular basis in our heart, then what you will see is renewal of the mind that moves to transformation of character. Romans 12, 2. Be transformed by the renewing of your mind. Every one of us should be experiencing this. You should not be in the same position you were five years ago as a Christian. You should be growing. I don't mean that you're perfect, that you stop sinning and struggling. No, no, not at all. But what I'm saying is your perspective is becoming more thoroughly scriptural. Your character is becoming more and more conformed to the character of Christ. Repentance in the gradual sense. The second, and that would be kind of more the text we're dealing with here, would be a repentance that leads to a radical brokenness of heart after a season of self-centeredness and sinful behavior. You know, sometimes we take our teens to camp. You know, they'll be sitting there in a service and uh that message is kind of pointed, and uh after the service, uh one of the teenagers might come to me or might come to Pastor Josh and say Uh I need to talk to you about something. And they're like, you know, I've uh I've really been a jerk to my mom and dad. You're like, okay. Why do you say that And all of a sudden they just start laying this thing out and they might even start crying. And they say, I mean, I I can't believe that I've been treating my own My brother this way, my sister this way, my parents this way, my youth pastor this way. I've hated you, Pastor Joe, all this time. And now I'm confessing this to you. The idea is this, though. Someone has been holding on to something And the Spirit of God just like drives home that point. And you've probably, I hope, at some point you've experienced this. And so when a person is really pushing in the wrong direction, God will get a hold of their heart in this way. Listen to what it says in 2 Timothy 2. Verse 25. He says, in meekness instructing those that oppose themselves, lest peradventure God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive at his will. There is like an intellectual side to this truth. And there's an emotional side. It's the heart. This is heart level change. And the Spirit of God takes his word, and we who are working with someone who is stubborn and we know it. We need to be patient with them and just take the opportunity to give them the word. And at some point, God will drive those truths deep down into their soul. And you'll see that, that work of God. Third thing I want to say is this. Not all repentance leads to growth and restoration Say, well, how do you know that? Well I know that because there's a passage that we're going to look at in just a minute, and that is a little bit later in this in this uh in this book, 2 Corinthians, chapter 7, where he makes a difference, a distinction between two kinds of repentance. The first kind is a fleshly self-centered kind of repentance. If you want to use it this way, this is kind of like a survival mode, fear of consequence. I don't want that bad thing to happen. So I'm going to figure out how I can escape it and avoid it. Okay? That's a very different mindset than saying, God, against you and you only I have sinned and done this wickedness in your sight. And I am broken over it, and I'm reminded that this is why Christ went to the cross. And I want to be cleansed from this sin, and I want to walk in fellowship with you, and I want to treat my fellow neighbor the way that I'm supposed to be treated. to to be treating them. Those are two totally different things. How can I work the system so I have to deal with consequence? And how can I be right with God? Two totally different things. But at the beginning they might look similar. They might look similar. They might come with tears. They might come with a new change of statement. But time has this way of demonstrating what is true. So look with me in 2 Corinthians chapter 7, because this will help us to see the distinction between these two. Here's what it says in verse number 8. Though I made you sorry with a letter, I do not repent, though I did repent. That's an interesting statement. This is amazing. He says, though I made you sorry, I do not repent though I do repent. This is what Paul is basically saying. I didn't want to write what I wrote to you. I didn't want to have this conversation with you. But I have no choice. I'm an apostle. The church is my responsibility. I had to go and talk to you about this. It's like one of your children. You see something something that's Becoming a persistent problem and you sit down with your child and you say, I love you, and I hate to have this conversation with you, but I have to do it because I'm your dad Work, ladies, I'm your mom. God gave me this duty. I would be shirking my responsibility to not talk to you about this. And so there's a part of me that's reluctant. I don't want to do this, but I need to do this. That's what he's communicating there. It's very interesting. He says, I perceive that the same epistle hath made you sorry, though it were but for a season. He wasn't happy to see them in grief. But what he is happy about is that it's there's been a change at the heart level. He says, I rejoice not that you were made sorry, but that you sorrowed to repentance, for you were made sorrow sorry after a godly manner. And ye might receive damage by us in nothing. For godly sorrow worketh repentance of salvation, not to be repented of, but the sorrow of this world worketh death. Behold the selfsame thing that you sorrowed after a godly sort, what carefulness it wrought in you, what clearing of yourself, what indignation, what fear, what vehement desire, what zeal, what revenge. In all things you are proving yourself to be clear in this matter. Now, I want to just kind of break this down so that we can see it very practically. The church had been proud, but now they have been humbled. Ye were made sorry after a godly sort. And who is the source of that work? It's the Spirit of God. Secondly, this repentance was producing real change. He says godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of. This is basically what is being communicated here. Repentance, godly repentance is truth hits me. My thinking is confronted. And rather than resisting it and saying no in rebellion, I humble myself and I say yes. I embrace this. And as I begin to process the truth, what that's going to do is it's going to affect me on the heart level. It's going to make me tender. It might make me grieve. It might make me cry. I may not cry physically, but I am moved internally. I am broken. I feel the weight of it. But notice this. Truth that has been responded to affects the heart. And what does that heart level change do? That sorrow leads to change. Very, very important. Godly sorrow worketh repentance to salvation not to be repented of. And by the way, if I'm convinced that something's true, and I really am convinced of it, then I'm going to stick with it. I'm gonna stick with it. Why? Because I've been convinced that it's true. Sometimes it's gonna cost me, but it doesn't matter. I say this is true. It's like when it's like when Jesus says to Peter, he says, You see all these people going away, are you gonna go with them? He's like well Where am I supposed to go? You have the words of life. He's like, I don't have another Messiah to run to. You're the one. So I'm going to have to stick with you, even though I don't understand what you're saying right now. That's what repentance does. But worldly sorrow is different. But the sorrow of the world worketh death. Worldly sorrow cannot produce the kind of change that this passage of Scripture is talking about. Worldly sorrow can change behavior temporarily, but on the heart level there's a huge problem. It's not motivated properly It's not going to be sustained. Why? Because there's not been a conviction on the mind that says, this is wrong. I'm not doing this anymore. Even when I stumble, I'm still saying, I know this is wrong. I don't have the right to do it. It's not, oh well, you know, maybe it's not a big deal. No, no. You know, you understand it, you've embraced it, you've accepted it. Worldly sorrow doesn't produce that kind of change. It can't. Because it's all about pragmatism. It's about what works in the moment. What's going to get me what I want right now. Their sorrow was godly, not fleshly. And so he says says it this way. He said, you sorrowed after a godliness, after a godly sword. And he he describes this, and this is super helpful. He says, what carefulness it wrought in you. They were willing to take extraordinary measures to establish boundaries for themselves. So if I have a certain behavioral pattern that I know is wrong and I have consistently hit it, ignored it, excused it. Giving you all kinds of reasons why it's not a big deal, and then I finally come to the to the conclusion that I'm I'm wrong and I need to do what's right, then what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna say, I don't want to do this anymore. How can you help me do that What do I need to do to see real change? You know, it makes sense. Like real practical simple stuff. Steps that we're gonna take. So, you know, let's say it you know it just a simple issue like with your kids, you know, it might be something like, Well dad, can you make sure that you come in the room and wake me up at such and such a time and I'm gonna jump out of bed and I'm gonna do it? Can you give me a list of things that I need to work on and and and hold me accountable to it? I mean that's kind of like the parent-child relationship Might be that sometimes between a spouse you need to have a conversation where there's some things that you say, you know, hold me accountable on this. And you actually embrace it and you accept that. That's what repentance does. What carefulness it wrought in you. People aren't like, I've arrived, I figured it out, I'm good to go. They remember who they are. They remember what they're capable of. And there's a there's this sensitivity, this tenderness, this carefulness. That's what it does. Secondly, but clearing of yourself. Now, he's not saying you figured out how to excuse all of your actions. That's not what he's saying. You're willing to do whatever is necessary to resolve the matter. The idea is if if you have broken the law, you're willing to go and make it right. If you've taken something that isn't yours, you're willing to restore it. If you've told a lie, you're willing to confess it. You're willing to resolve the issue. Whatever is appropriate and necessary to resolve the matter and to put it behind you, you're willing to do that. Now, I'm not suggesting that people should be like looking for their pound of flesh. Let's get them, you know. I mean the whole point of this passage of scripture is don't go overboard with somebody like this. But the idea is that a person who's repentant is like, what do I need to do to resolve the matter? Now I'm going to tell you what I'm willing to do and you better accept this. It's what do I need to do to resolve the matter? There's a big difference between those two things. Third statement. What indignation. They intensely hate the sin, not the one who confronted them. Think about the book of Proverbs. It warns us about confronting a fool. Why? You confront a fool, you will face the wrath. Why? Because the fool's never wrong. A person who is wise in their own eyes, you could tell them anything. You could have the facts sitting right there in front of them and they'll be like, Well, I don't see that. You're like, okay, then what's the point of even saying something here? So repentance is I hate the sin. Worldly sorrow is I don't like the fact I got caught. I better do a better job next time. Hey, you're asking too many questions. You're stepping on my toes. Do you see the two the difference between those two things? One is very dangerous. The other is very godly. What fear? They were sobered by their vulnerability. They didn't become overly confident. A person who's like, yeah, I know I've stumbled in these areas, you know, a thousand times, but man, that's in the past, I'm ready to go and just do this, you know. It's sort of like I see this sometimes, where somebody, let's say they had an addiction problem. And and they've had this addiction problem for years and years and years, and all of a sudden one day they're like, I have victory over this, I'm done with it. And they're like, I would like to be a counselor now. And you're like, whoa, easy there, buddy. It's not time to take those kinds of steps. You'd be blown away with how many people who 've had major addiction problems will want to be counselors when it is very clear they are not in a position to do that. And they will even be offended that you would think that they're not ready for such effects. What's the point? The point is you are sobered by your vulnerability. Even the Apostle Paul. Who was such a strong and such a vibrant and such a driven, motivated guy, so conscientious, the Apostle Paul walked carefully when he considered his own heart. They were willing to put their passion , they were passionate about putting to death their sinful passions. He says, what vehement desire, what zeal, what revenge. It's kind of interesting. The Apostle Paul even says this. With the passion that I pursued what was wrong, I now pursue what is right. When Paul talks about his zeal, he says. As far as zeal goes, I persecuted the church. And you're like, well, that doesn't seem like a very good thing. He's saying, look, I believed that the church was evil. And I was all in and destroying it. And now I know it's true, and I'm all in and proclaiming the truth of the gospel. And so that's the change of the Apostle Paul. And this is what happens when there's garlic repentance. The last thing is, in all things you have approved yourself to be clear in this matter, their repentance was undeniable Now, I think we could be a little overboard where we are, let's just say, too hard on people. We gotta be careful. But you can see when there is true repentance in a heart that these are the qualities that you're going to see in that person And when you come alongside a person and encourage and comfort and strengthen them, and that's where they're at, that person has the potential to make massive changes of growth in their life. They really do. It's amazing how God sometimes this this person who was so resistant to God for all these years and and and they were not moving forward at all, all of a sudden because of where they're at in their heart, they just start making massive changes because God is working very, very uh very very quickly in their lives. And so this is a very, very important thing. Third thing I want to mention here, and this will be kind of the end here. is we've got to embrace the road of restoration. Verse 7, he says, you ought to rather forgive. You need to communicate to people that you forgive them and you restore them. Now, this is important. You cannot do that if someone doesn't communicate they're wrong. It's true. So how do I restore with someone who will not admit that they're wrong? I can't. It's not possible. I can choose to love that person. I can choose to show grace to that person. I can choose not to be a jerk to that person, but can I restore with them? No. Because the way you restore and the way that forgiveness actually takes place is someone goes. I was wrong. Will you forgive me? And you say, yes, I do. But when they aren't willing to say I was wrong, will you forgive me? How do you how do you how do you address the issue? You really can't. It puts a cap on what you're able to do to resolve the issue. So when a person has come to that place and they're willing to say I was wrong, forgive me, then do it. Communicate that. They need to hear it Secondly, be an encourager, verse seven, comfort him, lest perhaps such a one should be swallowed up over with overmuch grief When you have forgiven a person and there is restoration that has taken place, do the best you can to affirm your love for that individual. Thirdly, establish a fresh warmth of relationship. Confirm your love toward them. Verse number eight. And then lastly Diligently manage the health of the relationship, lest Satan should get an advantage for us, we are not ignorant of his devices. Now, a lot of the things that I'm saying when it comes to actually practically doing it, it's not easy. There's a lot of nuance in a lot of these things. There are times that you might need to talk to someone who's more objective than you are who could say, you know, I think that that person really is repentant. And I think you need to give them a chance. And I think you need to hear what they have to say, and I think you need to communicate you forgive them. And you may have another time somebody looks at you and says I know you really want to get this resolved with them, but that person is in no way where they need to be. And it's very clear to me and lots of other people around here. And so be patient and wait and keep praying for that individual. Sometimes we need others for God to use in our lives in that way. May God help us to obey this passage of Scripture. We need to be obedient with the hard commands. And anticipate God's good hand when we do it. Let me give you two final scriptures that ought to that ought to be in our minds as we walk away from this text. The first is this Colossians chapter 3 verse 12. He says, put on as the elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercy, kindness, humbleness of mind. meekness, long-suffering, forbearing one another, and forgiving one another. If any man have a quarrel against any as Christ forgave you so also do ye. And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness. What is that passage telling us to do? This should be a way of life. We are gracious people. We are gentle. We are not looking for fights. Now listen, you gotta stand your ground sometimes. But you're not going there looking for a fight with people. You're looking to resolve matters. You're looking to restore. Second passage is this. This is from the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 5. 9. Blessed are the peacemakers, they shall be called the children of God. You know what a peacemaker is? A peacemaker is someone who loves people enough to be willing to go through the misery of this process with them. It really is. Because this is not an easy process. When you have two people who are really at odds And there's a lot of trouble between them. For you to work through this with them is no easy process. You will make sacrifices. But you know what's amazing? When you're the kind of person that's willing to work through something with a person and go through that process and be forbearing and and you're tough when you need to be tough and you're kind when you need to be kind. And you have the discernment to work to the issue, you know what? That is when people go, there's no way that person isn't a Christian. Because there's nobody that can do that unless they had the Spirit of God working in their life. And so what does he say? Blessed are the peacemakers, they shall be called the children of God. The world knows that you're the real deal when they see how you treat people in those kinds of situations. By this all men will know you're my disciples by your what? Love for one another. And it's hard to love someone if you're going to work through trouble with them. May God help us to do that. Let's stop for prayer. Our Father, I thank you for this passage of Scripture as we think about this topic that we picked up on church discipline. Father, I pray that as a church Whenever we may find ourselves in a place where we have to do something like this, may we do it the right way. And I pray that when we deal with people in our interpersonal relationships, that we would follow these principles that are not just applying to the church discipline situation, but really to all kinds of relational tensions that need to be resolved. Give us wisdom. Help us to be patient. Help us to love as you love. Help us to keep the cross in our minds. And help us to see your hand at work in people's lives. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.