Let's go ahead and turn back in our Bibles to 1 Corinthians chapter 5. And this is the text that we were in last week. And what I'll do is I'll just kind of remind you a little bit of what we covered last week. And then we're just going to pick right back up with where we left off. Again, we're talking about the topic of church discipline and the need to have purity in the local church. And so we'll begin reading in verse 1. It says the following. It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles, that one should have his father's wife You are puffed up, and have not rather mourned that he that had done this deed might be taken away from among you. For verily, I, as absent in body and present in spirit, have judged already though I were present concerning him that hath done this deed. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you're gathered together in my spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, Deliver such a one unto Satan for the destruction of his flesh, that the Spirit may be saved in the day of our Lord Jesus. Your glory is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole love. Purge out, therefore, the old leaven. that ye may be a new lump as ye as ye are unleaven as ye are unleavened. For even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. Therefore Let us keep the feast not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. I read unto you in an epistle not to keep company with fornicators, yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous, or extortioners, or with idolaters, or then must you needs go out of the world But now I have written unto you not to keep company, if any that is called a brother be a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater, or a railor, or a drunkard, or an extortioner, with such a one know not to eat For what have I to do to judge them also that are without? Do not ye judge them that are within? But them that are without God judgeth. Therefore, put away from amongst yourselves that wicked person. Now the passage in front of us is in fact very, very important for us to understand. We talked about last week, beginning at the introduction, the importance of walking in holiness. And this is important for us as individuals. But not just as individuals, it's also important for us as a body, as a collective gathering of believers. And the reality is that When the church is careless in certain areas, there's always a downstream effect of that carelessness. There is a culture that is being established in a church that is either good and healthy and leading to vibrancy or a culture that is dead and a culture that is very dangerous and that is leading to vice. and carelessness and ultimately compromise. And so as a church, we should be very concerned that we do not bow the knee to, we could say, to compromise in these areas. And so the passage in front of us is important because it's dealing with a very specific situation that was going on at Corinth. And so the way that we started this last week is we asked ourselves some questions so that we could kind of familiarize ourselves with the content of what's going on And then from that, we're going to move to how to apply this. So the first question that we addressed last week was, what was actually going on in the church at Corinth? And I'm not just looking at what is stated in chapter 5, but in fact we need to step back and understand that this is one amongst many situations where the church was not handling things the way that they should. For instance, in chapter 6, verse 15, they were tolerating shameful pagan practices. He says, Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of a harlot? God forbid. The idea is that there were people who were professing the name of Christ Yet they were going up to the pagan temples and they were participating in the same idolatrous and shameful sexually debased practices that they had before they were converted. And he says, there's no way that as a Christian you should participate in these things. And then in chapter 5, verse 1, he talks about this very particular case of fornication. And basically what's happened is a man has taken his stepmother and he is involved in a relationship, a very inappropriate relationship with this woman. And the church knows about it And people in the community know about it. And in fact, it's one of those things that even in a very promiscuous society, this was considered a terribly debased situation. And so it's not just that it was sinful, it was. And it's not just that it was abominable to God, which it absolutely was, but it was abominable to even their pagan neighbors. that a man would so misuse his relationship with his father that he would do these terrible things. A third example, they were tolerating abusive behavior in 1 Corinthians 6, 1 and 2, he talks about people going to law. And basically dragging a brother or sister in Christ before the law court. And the idea here is not to say that we cannot use the legal system To protect ourselves in a just manner. That's not what he's forbidding. Government is God's idea. He created the government institution to protect those who are innocent and to punish evil. But the reason that he brings up this particular case is that these are interpersonal issues. These are things that should be able to be resolved one-on-one or with a group of individuals who care about doing what's right. And then rather than going through a godly process , with godly people who can help them work through their issues, they're going to use the strong arm of government to destroy a person's reputation. And really it's a form of abusing people and using the law to do it. The fourth example is that they were tolerating the corruption of the Lord's table. And that's what we read about in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. I'm not going to get into this a whole lot here tonight because we're obviously going to deal with this passage, but when we talk about the Lord's table and we talk about how we are to examine ourselves, this is a very sacred responsibility that we have. But one of the things that I think sometimes people misunderstand about this issue of examining ourselves is that he's not giving the suggestion that we are worthy Because of something in us or something we've put outside of us to come to the table and to celebrate communion with the Lord He's talking about the manner in which we come to the table. And so he says, don't partake unworthily. This is an adverb describing the nature of the way that people come to the table. And so a lot of times what'll happen is I've I've been there. I remember when I was a teenager, you know, I knew it was the Lord's table that Sunday night and and I would I would spend hours in my room trying to remember something that I had not confessed to God Because I didn't want to die when I took the Lord's table. That's not what this passage is teaching us to do. It's saying, when you come to the table, don't mock it. When you come to the table, don't come with a high hand. Don't come with arrogance toward others in the church. Come with an understanding of the sacredness and the beauty. And it should really be a joyful time. But that's not what was going on at the Lord's table. They were mocking it. People were even getting intoxicated at the table, and you go, how in the world? Could people do that? Well, the reason is they, in their mind, they understood that worshiping in the temple involved debauchery, and so guess what they did? They brought it into the church. The second thing I'll mention here is that the people were in eminent danger as a church. Professing Christians were being emboldened in shameful practices. First First Corinthians 4 18, some of you are puffed up. Its testimony in the community was being compromised. He says it's reported commonly that there is fornication, and even the Gentiles would not speak of these things. The sins that they were tolerating would spread in the church and cause destruction to the unity and purity of the body. Know ye not a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? And it was dangerous and high-handed. He says, I will judge you as present concerning him that has done this deed. And so the idea is that the church is in a dangerous position. And when a church is faced with compromise, And they choose to give into that compromise. They are setting the stage for additional compromises and additional problems And so this passage is very, very important. Second question. How was the congregation supposed to respond to this unrepentant sin in the body. And this is kind of where we left off last week. We talked about some wrong ways that people could go about doing this. For instance acting like it doesn't exist. Just you know, bury your head in the sand and saying, I don't see anything. Well, obviously it's there, and just because you buried your head doesn't mean it isn't there. Or adjusting the teaching of the church to accommodate the practice so that people will not realize, so their conscience won't be awakened to recognize the seriousness of this issue. And when we talk about the woke ideology of our culture today, a lot of progressive churches, you know what progressive churches have done? They've watered down doctrine and practice to try to accommodate the movement of culture. And by doing that, they're no longer Christian. It's just the truth. They do not proclaim a message that's consistent with biblical Christianity. It's not consistent with the doctrines of the faith It's not consistent with the practices of the faith. You do not have biblical Christianity when you bend to this. And so that would be a wrong way to respond. Or taking steps to cover the sin. Sometimes people, they know it's wrong, but they don't want people to look down on leadership. Or they don't want people in the community to have attention drawn to the fact that this church is filled with sinners who are redeemed, but they're still sinners. And so sometimes what people do to try to maintain a good faith, they will bury and cover the sin. But what does that do? It compromises leadership, it compromises confidence. It emboldens sinners. It's a very, very serious thing to do. Another would be talking about the sin privately to those who have nothing to do with it. And this is a really huge problem. You know, the truth is it's really hard for us to go and talk to a person who has wronged us and say, hey, I'm concerned about something that you said or something that you did, and And I'm asking you to reevaluate what you said, what you did, and then you work it out, all right? That's hard. That's right. And actually it cuts things short, but it's a lot easier to just lament your frustrations behind the scenes with people who have nothing to do with the situation. And a lot of times what that does is it just allows the situation to get worse and worse and worse. Sometimes people in leadership, rather than addressing the issue, will kind of take shots across the bowel while they're preaching and teaching. And that's another huge problem. The point is this: when sin is there, it has to be addressed And there's a right way to do it and there's a wrong way to do it. And so within the church, we need a healthy culture where it is normal for people to restore with one another. It should be normal, it should be natural for people in the church to work through issues together. There's something really wrong when a church never has people who have conversations. where you know what what you did was wrong and they say, you know, I'm you're right, I was wrong, and they they resolve the issue. That is very unnatural and very unhealthy when a church never has those things going on Because within the church context we're all sinners. We're all going to err in what we do. We're all going to err in time at times and things that we say. And there needs to be this interaction with one another where that is being encouraged regularly. And so this culture of restoration, where spiritual maturity is taking place, is very, very important. And that's what we see in Galatians chapter 6. If a man be overtaken in a fall, ye which are spiritual, restore, in a spirit of meekness, considering thyself. Bear ye one another's burden, so fulfill the law of Christ. And that's where we stopped last week. That passage teaches us that we're to lift up one another when we're burdened and where to go and restore those who are overtaken in a fault. By the way, those are two different things. Being burdened and being at fault are not the same. One would be coming alongside to lift up and encourage and strengthen. The other would be coming alongside to point out to hold hold a person accountable and then ultimately help them to do what is right. The second passage I want to go to is Matthew chapter 18. So turn there please. This passage is very important. And what I think is very interesting about Matthew 18, I know that this is a passage that is commonly gone to about church discipline. But it's actually not given to the church, okay? Because Matthew 18 is Jesus talking to his disciples before the founding of the church. But when he uses the term uh uh uh the body here, really it would have been they would have been thinking in terms of probably a synagogue scenario. But the principle would be both an Old Testament principle and a New Testament principle. So, how are we to work through these issues? Well, let's work our way piece by piece through these verses and then kind of come back into our 1 Corinthians passage. Here's what it says. If thy brother shall trespass against thee. Now, this is kind of important to just make this comment. Church discipline is something we do with Christians. Okay? Now I'm not saying that that there isn't wisdom in trying to work out issues with non-Christians, might I say. In these ways. If a non-Christian has wronged you, you can go and talk to this person one-on-one and try to resolve the issue. And if you can't , You could bring other people in who maybe can appeal to this individual. But when you're dealing with a non-Christian, you don't have the church. And you don't have the same worldview necessarily. You don't have the gospel at the center of this. And so when you're making an appeal in this issue that is resolving conflict, the gospel is at the heart of it. Christian forgiveness is uniquely Christian forgiveness. We go back to the cross and we say, as Christ has dealt with me, I'm supposed to deal with others. I'm to be forbearing as Christ has been forbearing with me. So if thy brother trespassed against They. Interesting to just make a comment here. That word trespass simply means he sinned. Okay? That's what he means. He's wronged you. And it's not saying that you are going to someone you wrong. Now, you can do this, don't get me wrong, but the fact that this person's not coming to you means one of two things. Either one, they don't realize they've wronged you. Or two, they do and they don't want to address it. Okay? That's the two options Either one, they don't realize it, or two, they do realize it and they don't want to resolve the issue. Maybe they don't have the courage to. Maybe they need some, you know, a little bit of help working through this process. And the truth is that when someone has wronged us and they don't realize it, we actually have to make a judgment call. We don't need to go to every single person every single time we believe they have wronged us in some way. And tell them, you did this to me. Because the bottom line is there's a lot of stuff we should be willing to overlook as believers because there's simply things that people do without realizing what they've done. And when when it comes to our marriages, I mean if you pick at your spouse every time that you believe they have wronged you, you will have a horrible, miserable marriage while it lasts. Okay? So you have to choose your battles. There are some things that you need to learn to overlook, but there are some things it would be wrong to overlook. You say, well, how do I know the difference? That's biblical wisdom. And sometimes you may need to talk to someone who is Not involved in the situation, and by it's not gossip to go to a person who has spiritual leadership in your life. And you ask them, hey, I have this situation, and they're not you're not going to them because you're trying to use them as a tool. And people do this. You know, sometimes somebody say, Yeah, I'm really having a trouble with my wife, and I'd just really like to know what you think I should do about this, Pastor. And you know what they're really wanting to do? They're wanting me to go and rebuke their wife, because they're not man enough to go and get things resolved with their wife, okay? I mean that's not what we're talking about here. I mean you really don't know how to resolve an issue And so you go to someone, they're not entangled in the issue, they're not emotionally caught up in it, you're simply asking them to help you work through the issue in a godly way. And that's totally fine. That is an appropriate thing to do. That's not gossip. Gossip is when you want to use somebody or you want to drop information because your desire is to turn a person against the person That's a huge problem. That's very, very dangerous. But the idea is that when someone has wronged you, and you've come to the conclusion that you have an obligation to go and address the issue. Then there's a right and a wrong way to do that too. Notice what it says. Go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone. You say, well, I need some backup. No, you don't. Not yet. You might. You might down the road. But initially you go one-on-one. You say, well, it's hard to do that. It's true, it's hard to do that. It's hard to talk to somebody who has wronged you. It's hard to have somebody come to you and say, I think you have wronged me. But it's the right thing to do. That's how we work through these issues. That's what godly people do. That's what mature people do. And they go in a spirit of meekness and they go in a spirit of humility. And they're not going with a weapon in their hand. I don't mean that physically. I mean like like they're trying to to hurt you. No, they really care about, they value the relationship enough they want to work this out. And so you go alone. Now, there's a couple things here. One is you want to resolve the issue as painlessly as possible. You want to contain this issue as much as possible. Your goal when there is a wrong is not to involve lots and lots of people. Your goal is to resolve it as peaceably and as privately and as painlessly as possible And the fact is that when you go to a person that has wronged you in a spirit of meekness and humility, and they receive it in that way, and you resolve the issue, it doesn't need to go any further. It's done It's resolved. There's a bridge that's been built, and now you're able to move from that. Hugely important. But in a real world like this one That doesn't always happen. I wish it did. But there's more to the passage. Why? Because that's not how it always works out. He says, but If he will not hear you, then take with thee one or two more. And the question is, why do you take one or two more? And everybody goes, I know why. Because you want to force the issue with this person. You want them to feel the pressure of more people looking at them, and that's not what the text says What the text says is it says, take with you one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established. Now this is very important. When you have a situation where it's one person's word against one person's word, there's a lot that can go awry. Two people don't always look at something the same way. In fact, if we go to an event and I have ten people watch that event and then and then we go to a room on the side and I say, tell me what you saw at that event. They all saw the same thing. Nobody's lying to me. At least they're not deliberately trying to deceive me. I hope, alright? And I sit in that room and I ask them questions. They will not tell me the same thing. They absolutely won't. In fact, it's interesting. Some people, their perspective of that event will be way more negative than it needed to be And some people's perspective will be way more positive than it needed to be. And I could almost predict the negatives and the positives based on the personalities of those people. It's just true. And so when when you ask people about a situation, some people, I mean, it's the biggest thing that's ever happened, but if you had 10 objective people sit there and watch it, they say, I don't know what your problem is, but that's not really a big deal. And then you'll have another situation where you'll have somebody, man, I don't know what your problem is. That's not a big deal. And you got ten people going, I don't know how you don't think that's a big deal, because that's huge And so what is the point of these two or three witnesses? The point is to make sure that the facts are clear. What really happened? How should we really look at this issue? It could be that the one who has initially gone to resolve the issue is actually more at fault than they realize. It could be that the person who has been approached initially is a lot more at fault than they realized. Okay? And so what happens is these other people come in and they help work through the issue together. They help establish the facts so that there is a truly just resolve in how this issue is done. It's not about putting pressure on someone. It's not about making it harder on them. It's about establishing the facts. Now it is true that there is a sense where you have other people involved, and now it becomes a little bit more serious in people's minds. That's true. There's no question about it. But the point is to establish the facts. Then he says this, if he shall neglect to hear them. By the way, isn't that interesting? He says them, not you. Do you notice that? In other words, this is now something that your witnesses are judging the two of you on. You know, like like a lot of times, let's say you have a marriage conflict or you know two people have this issue with one another and you know the first person that comes with the issue, they lay it out and you're like, ah, I can't believe this person would do this. And then you tell the other person And then you're sitting there going, like, where does the truth really lie here? And you feel like you need to have a conversation with both of these people. And you do need to have a conversation with both of these people. Notice he says, if they neglect to hear them, maybe you need to hear them too. That's the idea. So what do you do next? If they neglect to hear them, tell it to the church. And if they neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as a heathen man and a publican. Now what's the point of this? Let them tell the church, and if they don't hear the church, let him be to thee as a heathen and a publican. Basically what it's saying is this. When you cannot resolve an issue through this process And it's been done in the right way. There comes a point where the church has to get involved And when the church has to get involved and they say you are no longer in communion with our church, you're not saying you're not a Christian, but we are relating to you as if you are not a Christian. In other words, we are not affirming that we are convinced that you truly are a child of God. That doesn't mean that you aren't. But that's how we're going to relate to you. Now, this is kind of the background for what the Apostle Paul is dealing with in this passage. Paul is not teaching something new or rogue. He is building on, he's applying what Jesus has already taught in Matthew 18. So that moves us to this point. A godly response when a sinning brother refuses to face his sin in godly repentance. What is that? Public action has to be taken to remove the unrepentant brother from the congregation. Sister too. It could be either way. The person that is in question here. So the first thing we have here is this. Withdrawing from Christian fellowship. 1 Corinthians 5, 3 to 5. He says, Deliver such a one unto Satan. for the destruction of the flesh. I wrote to you in an epistle not to keep company with fornicators. If any man that is called a brother be a fornicator, a covetous or idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard or an extortioner with such a one not to eat. Put away from amongst yourselves that wicked person. Now there's a lot of stuff there that we could really dig into, but I want to hit a couple of things that I think are question marks in people's minds. The first is that statement, deliver such a one to Satan. You're like, what in the world does that mean? And a lot of commentators argue about it. But this is what I think it's saying. And I'm not infallible in what I'm about to tell you, but I do think this is what he's saying. That when you put someone out of the church congregation In this formal church disciplinary way, what you are ultimately doing is you are putting this person in a realm where Satan is invited To go after him. That's really what I think it's saying. You know the story of Job Satan comes to to to God and he says, um our j God says to Job, God says to Satan, have you considered my servant Job, there's none like him in all of your he fears God, he eschews evil, and Satan says, yeah, it's because you you put a hedge of protection. He says, all right, you can go ahead with these limits. And so what happens? His body is wracked. He goes through tremendous misery. Why? Because Satan is wreaking havoc on this man. I think this is actually the sense. That is one possibility. Another possibility is that when this person is put out of the church, their flesh is so emboldened without the restraint of that body. And the preaching and teaching of God's word and what we have in the church congregation, that this person will spiral down deeper and deeper, down that road where their flesh becomes emboldened more. and more. And that's actually a very strong possibility as well. So some would take it that what he's saying is that when they're put out of the church, that Satan literally goes after this person, some would say that when they're put out of the church, their flesh is strengthened and there's a downward spiral without the restraint of the work of the Spirit of God in the church context and the body of Christ. However you take it, this is very serious. And the result is misery and trouble for this person physically. But the question is why? Is it because God wants them to be miserable? The answer is no. He says so that they might be saved the day of the Lord. Say, what does that mean? That's another good question. In my view, if this is a true believer, we're talking about someone Who is going to stand before Jesus at the judgment seat of Christ? And if they have gone down this road and they have lived a life of wantonness, there'll be tremendous, unnecessary loss on that day. If this is a person who's not a believer and God will use this to humble them and draw them to himself so they repent and believe, this is a person who will be saved from eternal destruction. Because of the actions that were taken. The point is that the desire is not to see a person suffer, but rather to repent and be restored. That is the desire. We then also see the statement: do not keep company. You say, well, what does that mean? Does that mean I can't sit in the same room as somebody? The answer is no. That word keep company is something that's referred to that's referring to the communion that we enjoy within the local church body. And this is a term that involves very intimate closeness. That's the idea. And so the idea is not that you would throw this person out and shun them and never speak to them again, but you would not engage them as a brother in Christ who's in communion with the church and who you enjoy Christian fellowship with. Why would you not do this because you do not believe that they are. In other words, your interaction with them should be one of desiring to see them restored through repentance, faith, or repentance, and restoration. And then that statement, no not to eat, I don't believe it's saying you can't have a meal with them. Let's say it's your spouse. It can happen. Or one of your kids. Or one of your parents. That not eat not eating, I think, is actually referring to the Lord's table. And he talks about the Lord's table quite a bit in this context. It's interesting how he talks about Levin and this is a this is a major discussion here. And so I what I think he's saying is do not permit this person to participate in this sacred communion service where they are being affirmed as a brother who is walking with God. Now, those are all interpretively challenging statements, and some of you might disagree with me. No problem, I don't care if you disagree with me. Go look it up in a commentary and dig into it. Here's what I want you to walk away with though with this This is a very serious action. The consequences will be very heavy. The desire is restoration. And we at times may have to do this. Next, he says, withdraw fellowship. Other passages talk about this as well. 2 Thessalonians 3. 6. We command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus, withdraw yourselves from every brother that walks disorderly. Romans 6. 17, I beseech you, mark those who have caused divisions and offenses contrary to sound doctrine, which you have learned, and avoid them. That word mark is an interesting word. It has the idea of observe them very carefully Now you'll remember that at the end of Paul's ministry, there were some people in the church that Paul told Timothy, I warn you about that man right there. I'm not pointing to anybody here, okay. That man right there. There's nobody sitting over there, right? I warn you, watch that person. Why did he say that? He said they're dangerous. They're not honest. They follow doctrinal viewpoints that are that are wrong. They create contentions in the body. You need to be very cautious of that person. You say, like, it's okay to do that? Yeah. Not just okay, you have to. Part of wisdom is recognizing who you're dealing with in life sometimes And so there are people, even in the church in context, that we should be very cautious about. Now he's very specific about the kinds of things. which cause divisions and offenses contrary to doctrine. And we're going to talk about some specifics here because this is not just like, oh I don't get along with this person. We have this like We have this difference of opinion on this one little issue, and so I mark them. No, that's not what we're talking about. We're talking about very serious things here. So it moves us to a third question. What were the distinguishing marks of the con confrontation? The first is this the sin addressed, the sins addressed were the kinds of sins that bring one's profession of faith into question. Now we are not saved by what we do. But if we are saved, there are certain marks that follow a true profession of faith. I mean, when James talks about faith without works is dead, he says, Show me your faith without your works. Question: Can you do that? No. I'll show you my faith by my works. In other words, if you're really a Christian, you're going to see the evidence of that. That's the point. Saved by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, not To just walk in a disorderly manner, but we're his workmanship, creating Christ Jesus under good works. And so there are certain things that when a person persists in them, you go, is that person really a Christian? That's a fair question. These were verifiable, established ways of life. He says, if any, be uh, this is like, this is the identity of the person. This is who they are. This is encapsulating every year of their life. This is not somebody who stumbled one day and you say, that guy stumbled and now let's kick him out of the church. That's not what this is all about. And by the way, I mean we're talking about, we're talking about a person who gets intoxicated. We're talking about a person who's committed adultery. If a person has done something very serious and they resolve the issue properly, we're not kicking them out of the church. We're restoring that brother or that sister in Christ. But this is when a person is unwilling, they are repentant un unpenitent and hardened. And he mentioned specific things. Fornicated. A pattern of behavior that is distinguished by sexual sex. Covetous. A pattern of behavior that is distinguished by discontent and greed. An idolater. Pattern of behavior that's distinguished by embracing false doctrine A railer. A pattern of behavior that's characterized by verbal abuse. I hate to say this. There's some pastors that probably should be disciplined out of the church because they're railers in the pulpit. That's just the truth. They're not qualified to be pastors. And by the way, when you have pastors like that, I guarantee you there's a lot of men in houses that are very abusive with their words. Because they think it's okay. My preacher can say that, and I guess I can too, because he's a man of God. I'm a man of God. Railers. A drunkard, a person who is a pattern of being intoxicated. An extortion or a pattern of behavior that's characterized by deceptive manipulation that uses position to take advantage of the people under their jurisdiction. These are very specific things that are mentioned in this passage. By the way, there's other passages that we could add a few more. But I'm going to just point out that these are the kinds of things that rise to this level. They were bringing disrepute on the body of Christ. They were not being dealt with in godly repentance. They were compromising the testimony of the church. These things have to be addressed. So that moves me to my final question. How should a process actually it's not, but I probably will stop here. How should this process actually look? When sin becomes known, there are some things I want to work through to just to help us think through this. First of all is this Those who are aware of matter, who are aware of a matter realize it is serious enough to warrant a loving yet firm response are duty-bound to take that step. Now, I'm not saying this to take a shot at anybody, but a lot of times in the church, people who should go and have a conversation one-on-one want their pastor to do it for them Or they want a deacon to do it for them. And that's wrong. It is. If you've seen a situation and you're aware of the situation, then you go address the situation. Now, if somebody came to me and it was a serious matter, I wouldn't just blow them off. Don't get me wrong. But honestly speaking, there are a lot of situations I don't even need to know about them. A deacon doesn't need to know about them. When you know about an issue, go and address it privately, resolve the issue. And that's the end of it. And it doesn't have to go any further. But if you have a responsibility, then you have to do it. If you're not, you're being disobedient to God. Secondly. When a person does this, they must approach the person in a very humble and Christ-like way. Now, when we go back to the Galatians passage, he says, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. We go to Matthew. He says that that we're supposed to cast the beam out of our eye before we try to help somebody with a speck in their eye. What's the point? The point is that while you may have the responsibility to go talk to somebody about an issue, you also have the responsibility to do it the right way. And you may have to like do some soul searching personally before you take that step. Because you don't want to make the situation worse by going at something the wrong way. Thirdly, a person must seek to address the issue privately, face to face, hoping to limit the damage done. by the sin and making a repentant response as easy as possible. Put yourself in the shoes of the person you're about to talk to and ask the question If they came to me the way I'm coming to them, how would I respond? That's a really important question to ask. Don't just Send somebody a text message. Like, oh, don't do that. Don't do that. In fact, I would encourage you, don't ever put something in writing that you wouldn't want a bunch of people to read. I'm serious about that. Don't ever put something in writing that you don't want the person that gets it to read over and over and over and over and over again. Why? Because when you put something in writing, it's permanent. And so be very careful. Go and talk to the person. See their face. Let them see your face. Yes, it might start out kind of uncomfortable. Maybe everybody's on edge. But you know what? If you really care about that relationship, you'll work through the edginess, and eventually by the end of the conversation, it'll be very good. If they realize that the one sinning is unwilling to address the issue biblically, rather than letting the matter go, then approach two or three godly individuals who help in the next level. Where those people can actually come and they will be objective about the issue. And by the way, don't pick someone that is your advocate. Pick someone who speaks truth. They're going to speak the truth to you just as much as they're going to speak the truth to them. Don't pick someone that has a contention with that person. Pick someone who is going to be received as positively as possible. Your goal is restoration. It's not to inflame a situation more. These individuals are to act as a check-in balance to the process, as witnesses to verify details, as gifted Christians who will bring balance to the confrontation. Some people need you to be a little more forceful with them. Some people that you need to be super gentle with them. And some people have have a great ability to recognize the right way to do it, and some people they just frankly don't. They are a bull in a China shop. You don't want people like that in those kinds of situations. If the sitting brother refuses to respond in godly repentance, then you need to take the matter to the church, where the brother could potentially be removed. I'm going to stop there because I think that's a ton of stuff to process. The truth is, it's very easy for us to just say, you know, church discipline's a biblical thing, do it. It's another thing to realize that you've got to do it the right way. You've got to do it with the right heart. And might I add, This should be in the culture of all of our interactions. The kinds of principles that I talked about here shouldn't just be like rising to the level of somebody potentially getting removed from the membership role at a church. This is how we deal with situations when we have conflicts that arise absolutely well in every single person's life. So may God help us. to apply his word tonight. Let's bow for prayer and then we'll uh go to our prayer time. Our Father, we thank you so much for your word. I pray that the things that were shared tonight would be very helpful and practical. My desire is that your word would be our final authority and that we would, to the very best of our ability, approach all of these things in a godly manner. Bless our time of prayer. May it be very sweet, very Christ-centered. May we lift up one another. Be with those who can't be with us tonight. Strengthen them. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.