If you could turn your Bibles to First Corinthians chapter five this evening, and First Corinthians chapter five is a very challenging text of scripture. In fact, when I decided I was going to do a sermon series through the book of First Corinthians, I knew that I was going to deal with all kinds of uh heavy, complex sometimes divisive kinds of topics. And the topic that we're going to address tonight, in fact, it is very important. And I'm not just going to address it in one part. I'm actually going to address it in three parts. perhaps even four. And the reason for that is because I think it is such a critically important issue. And so the topic we're going to address tonight is the issue of what we call church discipline. Now that word discipline, when we talk about church discipline, maybe not may not be maybe the best word for us to use when it comes to how we're to think about this. It's really about calling people who have gotten away from walking with the Lord, and it's a very serious matter that we are calling them back to communion with the Lord. And the fact is that when a person says, I've placed my faith in Christ, we take them at the word. If they can explain the gospel and they can tell you when they trusted Christ and They follow the Lord and Believers baptism. We don't sit there and uh you know scrutinize them deeply and say, well, are you really a Christian or not? And we don't we don't do that. We accept their public statement of faith. But the reality is that there does come a point in the life of the church where sometimes people will live in such a way that is so contrary to their position as a believer, it truly calls into question whether or not they are And that doesn't mean that they're not Christians. But what it does do is it makes you wonder. It makes you question. And the fact is that God expects us as a church in those kinds of situations to go through a process of calling a brother or a sister to walk with the Lord and to walk in communion with the church. And we can fall into a couple of different, we could say, cliffs on either side of this issue. One would be that we just don't do this at all. And there are lots and lots of churches that the truth is You would never have a person who is living in a way that's unquestionably publicly seriously sinful, you'd never have their pastor sit down with them and say, I need to talk to you about this. Or they never have another person in the church that would sit them down and try to work through that issue. Or you have churches where you would never have a pastor or a deacon or staff members who would sit down two individuals who have a serious contention and try to help them work through an issue. And that is clearly wrong. The church should not be in such a place. If a church is not doing those kinds of things and they're really being irresponsible And they're doing something that's very dangerous for the people that are a part of that church. We all need those kinds of situations. However, we can go on the other side as well, where a church becomes so hyper-vigilant that in fact uh it becomes almost abusive in the way that people will go about this, where they'll become very overbearing And uh people are constantly walking on you know walking on tiptoes and eggshells because, I don't know, somebody might come and confront me about this issue. And the fact is that we really need to look at this issue biblically and understand I think another way is we might go through the process the right way, but our hearts are not right about it. And so there's a lot of different, there are several different ways that we could fall into error here, and we don't want to fall in error on any of them. And if we find ourselves in error, we want to pull back to where God wants us to be. So let's go ahead and look down in our Bibles at 1 Corinthians chapter 5. And we're going to read verses 1 through 13 together, and then the next time we come, we're going to look at this on a second side, and then we're going to look at it on a third side. So here's what God's Word says. It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles That one should have his father's wife. That's shocking, right? It certainly was shocking to the people in Corinth, one of the most debased cities in the Roman world. And ye are puffed up and have not rather mourned that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from among you. 4. I verily, as absent in body, but present in spirit, have judged already as though I were present, concerning him that hath so done this deed. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you are gathered together and my Spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, to deliver such an one unto Satan for the destruction of his flesh. that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus. Your glory is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump? Purge out therefore that old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye have, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ, our Passover, is sacrificed for us. Therefore, let us keep the feast not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness, but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth. I wrote unto you in an epistle, do not company with fornicators, yet, not altogether with the fornicators of this world. Or with the covetous, we're extortioners, or with idolaters, or then must ye needs go out of the world. Now I have written unto you not to keep company if any man that is called a brother be a fornicator or covetous or an idolater or a railer or a drunkard or an extortioner with such an one know not to eat. For what have I to do to judge them that are without? Do not ye judge them that are within? But them that are without God judgeth, therefore put away from among yourselves that wicked person. Now, when I read that passage of scripture, there are churches that would never, ever even read that text in a surface. And most certainly they would never preach or teach on such a text and a service. But the reality is this is the Word of God. And we need to really understand what is going on in this passage of Scripture. We need to understand exactly what was being communicated, why it was so very important, and how to go about this in a way that's consistent with God's desire. So First thing I'd like us to do is answer the question. Well, let me not get to the question first. Let me give you a couple of introductory thoughts before we jump into some of these questions. First of all, God calls us to a walk of holiness, and this is very important. He calls us to a walk of holiness because that's who we are. We as God's children are set apart to him. And we as a body are to live and walk in a way that is distinctly set apart to him. We are to live as the people that we are. And so we see this reflected in 1 Peter 1. He says, gird up the loins of your mind. Be sober. Hope unto the end. For the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. He says, as he which hath called you is holy. So be ye holy in all manner of conversation, for I am holy. Now that word conversation isn't like just talking The word conversation has the idea of the totality of our lives, how we live our lives. So because he is holy and he has called us to himself, we are to walk in that distinctiveness. Like he is. And it's supposed to encompass every area of our lives. Second passage, Matthew 5, 13. He says, Ye are the salt of the earth. But if the salt hath lost its savor, Wherewith shall it be salted? It is henceforth good for nothing but to be cast out and to be trodden under the foot of men. Now that statement, ye are the salt of the earth, I think that he is looking at this primarily in a collective sense. So you as a body are salt. Not you're supposed to be salt. That's who you are. That's what we are as a church body. And so when he uses the illustration of the salt losing its savor, the fact is salt doesn't stop being salt, but when impurities are mixed in with that salt, guess what? You can't separate it out. How do you remove the impurities from the salt? It's something you can't do. So it becomes worthless. So he says you just you throw it out on the street and then it just becomes salt in the street. That's the idea. And so he says, don't let the church of God, don't let the body of Christ be like that. Stay distinct. Or Matthew 5. 14 he says that you are the salt, or you are the light of the world. Again, he doesn't say you need to be the light of the world. He says ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hid. Let your light show shine before men that they may see your good works. Glorify your Father which is in heaven. And interestingly, when we talk about a city on a hill, And I know, you know, where we live here in Maryland is probably a little bit harder to appreciate this, but if we were to go to a a more desert region where you have a a city that is on and by the way, you know why cities were on hills in the ancient world? It's because Somebody'd come and destroy the city and then they'd build a new one on top of it and then the next group would come in and they'd destroy that city and then they would build one on top of it. So they the word tell is the idea of a hill and so Cities were on a hill because they were literally built on the rubble of the city that had been there before and the city that was before. And they were also in high locations so that they would they were in a good secure position. So the idea is that if you're going through a desert and there's a city up on a hill, everybody knows it's there. You can see it. You can't hide it. So he says, what's the point of trying to hide who you are? Live the Christian life distinctly. So these things are very important as introduction. So let's work our way through a couple of questions that I think will help us to appreciate the text and then how to actually apply it. So my first question is this, what was actually going on in the church at Corinth. And I know we've been working our way verse by verse through this book of the Bible or this epistle, and so we kind of have a good sense of some of the things Already. But I want to hit a couple of them. Obviously, in this passage of Scripture, chapter 5, verse 1, he says it is reported commonly That there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much named amongst the Gentiles. The idea is that the church was tolerating something that was very well known. And very scandalous. Okay? So if you were to think about the ethics of the Roman world or the Greco-Roman world There was a lot of permissiveness when it came to this issue of sexual morality. But there were certain lines that even the people of that time thought it was abominable for them to cross those lines. I'm not going to get into all those different things. If you read history, you'll know about some of these things. But this would have been one of those things. The idea that a man would commit adultery with essentially his stepmother, that's really what's going on here. So it's not just that a person committed adultery. It's not just that a person committed a sexual impropriety, but in fact, this is a person who has shamed their own father and has brought tremendous disrepute to his family and his community. And so here are these people in the church that know full well this has happened. It's not a secret. It's not hidden. There's no attempt to cover it up. Everybody knows it. They're talking about it, but they will not deal with it. And what's even more shocking about it is here is the church at Corinth where multiple times he says, You are puffed up. And the idea is they were proud that they were these godly people and he's like, You got this This guy in your church that's doing something even the Gentiles won't do, you will not address the issue and you think you're good Christians. He's like, what's your problem? Okay? It's a huge deal. So this is one of the things that's going on. And this is the one that we're specifically addressing tonight. Another thing that was going on, if we were to go to 1 Corinthians chapter 6, Verses 1 and 2. He says, there any of you having a matter against another go to law against before the unjust. No. And not before the saints. Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? And if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters? Now this is this passage is not Paul saying it's wrong to use the legal system in a right way. It's not what he's saying. God created human government. God established laws. The powers that be are ordained of God. That's what the text says in Romans. Whoever resists the power resists the ordinance of God, and he affirms the right role of human government. Notice the word right role. But one of the roles of human government is not to use the system to destroy your enemies. And that's what was going on here. So literally what you had is you had these civil disputes between people. And rather than those people sitting down civilly with people who are godly can help them, So that they could work through the matter in a godly way where somebody could say, you're wrong, you're right, you're both wrong, here's what you need to give. Here's the middle ground. Remember who Christ is, what He's done for you, and you work through the matter in a biblical manner, and people who have good sense are able to help you work out the issue and and you even allow them to do that. Instead, what they were doing is they were saying, I know what I can do. I can destroy you in the legal system. I got money, you don't have money. I can drag you before the magistrates I can bring all kinds of accusations and all kinds of charges. I can ruin your reputation. And they use the legal system to destroy their brother or sister in Christ. That's what he's condemning. He says, how in the world can you as the church do this? Don't you have people that can help you work these things out? The answer is of course. Of course you do. Don't you have instruction from the Word of God to help you work through these things? Of course you do. And so these are civil matters using the power of government to destroy an enemy. Totally forbidden. A third example, tolerating shameful pagan practices. Imagine this. 1 Corinthians 6, verse 15. He says, Know ye not your bodies are the members of Christ. Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of a harlot? God forbid. You say, what is going on there? Apparently in the new members class at Corinth, they had to sit down and teach these people, you can't go up to the pagan temples and be involved in all the things that you've been doing all throughout this time. They had to separate from those very sinful practices. And apparently some people hadn't figured that out yet. And so Paul had to directly address it. So these are very serious issues Another issue is that they were tolerating the corruption of very sacred things like the Lord's table. 1 Corinthians 11, verse 18, he says, When you're come together in the church, I hear. There be divisions among you, and I partly believe it. When ye come together, therefore, in one place, this is not to eat the Lord's supper For in eating everyone taketh before other his own supper, and one is hungry, another is drunken. And I think that word drunken actually has the idea of being intoxicated. Despise ye the church of God and shame them that have not? So when we celebrate the Lord's table, there is so much unity that is being pictured in that moment. I mean all of us we are on equal footing at the cross. We're reminded that our sins were nailed to that cross. God has given us a full pardon, full forgiveness. He has washed us clean. And when we come to the Lord's table, we're reminded of the bond that we have as brothers and sisters in Christ. We're reminded of the incredible sacrifice that was made for us. We 're reminded that we are forgiven and cleansed and we have fellowship with God and with one another. And he says, how in the world do you have something so sacred? And you're getting intoxicated. And and you're pushing people to the sides. It's like, what's going on? The idea is you've shamed this very sacred thing. So, needless to say, the church had problems. Big time problems. Second thing is this. They were in eminent danger as a church. Now, if we look at chapter 4, verse 18, and we also look at Chapter 5 verse 2, he uses a phrase, he says, you are puffed up. So in 418 he says, some are puffed up as though I would not come to you. Chapter 5, verse 2, he says, you're puffed up. And have not rather mourned that that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from among you. And so here are these folks that rather than being humbled, And recognizing they had issues they needed to address, they were lifting themselves up, and they were being very arrogant, even to the point where they were coming after the Apostle Paul. That's very dangerous. Because the guy who's going to tell you the truth is the one you're trying to go after. The one that you're stiff arming, the one that you're having an arrogant attitude toward. The second thing is that their testimony in the community was being called into question. In verses 1 and 2, he says, it's commonly reported that there is fornication Such as is not so much named amongst the Gentiles, you are puffed up, rather, you should mourn, because he that has done this deed should be taken away from you. Now, this is really important for us to recognize. Christians in the first century were a loathed people. Okay? So when it came to the community, you know, everybody in the community, they they worshiped lots and lots of idols. They were they were polytheists. People were all involved in the in the feasts and the festivals, which were very licentious, but Christians were like, ah, we can't do that. We can't go to those festivals. We can't pour libation to those idols. We can't bow the knee to the Caesar and say, You're a God. And so Christians were viewed with tremendous distrust. Because they were viewed as those people that disrupted the social order because they didn't submit to the to the Caesar the way that we do. They don't participate in the same festival. Festivals and feasts that we do. They don't go up to the temples like like we do. They have all these rules that they're concerned about. And here are Christians who are being basically viewed as you know the outsiders and now you have people in the church that are doing things that the world won't even do. And they're like, y'all a bunch of hypocrites Oh, you say do this, do this, do this, don't do this, don't do this. And we'd never do what that guy's doing, and he's a prominent person in your church. And nobody's saying a word about it. And everybody's talking about it, but nobody's addressing it. See how destructive that would be? Very destructive. And so when the church says this is what we believe and the church says this is what we do, but then we don't, the world says, aha, we know how you are. And guess what? They call us out. So Paul is concerned about this. Thirdly, the sins that they were tolerating would spread in the church. and cause destruction destruction to the unity and the purity of the church. Verses 6 and 7. He says, know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump Now I'm not a baker where I bake bread or anything like that, but I know that bread rises if it's got yeast in it. Okay? I do know that much, right? And so the idea is that if there's a little leaven in that dough, you give it enough time, and it's just gonna spread. And it's true that when the church is lax about issues that are very serious, then eventually that becomes the norm. In fact, even when we look at culture and society, you know Obviously culture drifts, okay? So what what was considered okay, say 50 years ago And what was considered like really taboo 50 years ago is kind of like mainstream now, right? And then the question is so like what becomes taboo in 50 years from now? Interestingly, a lot of times society whips back because they see how bad it's gotten and they push against it. That may very well happen here. We don't know. But the idea is that drift is constantly a thing. And so every time we give a little, something is taken. And every time something's given, somewhere is taken. It's almost like how erosion happens at a beach. And you've got to build the jetty, because if you don't build the jetty, the beach will be gone eventually. It's just it'll wash away. The same thing happens in the church. Fourthly, the church was in danger of a high-handed disobedience to Christ. He says, Verily, as absent in body but present in spirit, Have judged already as though I were present concerning him that hath done this deed. In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when you are gathered together in my spirit with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ, deliver such in one to Satan for the destruction of the flesh that the spirit may be saved in the day of our Lord Jesus. That sounds pretty serious. And I am going to come back to what he means, what I think he's saying when he says, deliver such a one to Satan from the destruction of his flesh. But the idea is he's he's basically saying this: this is an action that if you don't take it, you are defying Christ who is in charge of the church. No matter what a pastor thinks about this, no matter what members in the church, Christ is the one who is the ultimate Authority of a true biblical church. And so we have to take this into serious consideration. Question two. How was the congregation to respond to the unrepentant sin in the body? First of all, they needed to be willing to confront the matter in a godly way. And I think it's important for me to just pause and say there's a right and there's a wrong way to address problems. Okay? Just because you need to address a problem and do address the problem doesn't mean you went about it the right way. In fact, when it comes to issues of contention or going to someone who has who has stumbled in the Christian life The way that you approach them is very important. Because if we approach someone in a detrimental way, we may make it harder for them to actually make the steps they need to get things resolved. So there is no value, there is no benefit in just going in and being combative and aggressive. In fact, that could almost be as detrimental, even worse, than just leaving it alone. And so I want to mention a couple of, we could say, sinful potential ways to respond to a situation. One would be to act like it does not exist. And this is what I think people sometimes do. It's just it's the passive approach. If I ignore it, it's not there. If I ignore it, eventually it'll go away. That's not true. If you have a major health problem and you decide you're not going to go to the doctor and you're not going to get the issue resolved and you're not going to go through the process of finding out what's wrong and going through the process, guess what? That's killing you whether you want to think about it or not. The same thing is true when it comes to this issue of sin in our church and context or in our family context. If we act as if it doesn't exist, it doesn't change the fact that it does. Another thing sometimes people will do is they'll adjust their teaching to allow the practice that is going on. It's an accommodation. It's very common today. Why are some churches so silent on issues that are so clearly, blatantly, biblically not good? Well, because they just they're not willing to address an issue biblically. They don't want to go against the grain. I don't think that we should thrive on going against the grain just to go against the grain, but if what God says is what we need to do, then that's what we need to do. A third would be taking steps to cover sin. This is actually a huge problem. In fact, sometimes in places where people will hold very high standard of expectation. They'll see a thing that is very serious and they don't want people to realize we have this problem going on in our church. We have this problem going on in our family. We have this problem going on in our marriage. And so you know what they do? They come And they'll actually work to cover that issue. And so that's a huge problem as well. And by the way, when that gets exposed It's not just the person who sinned initially, but really implicates anybody who's aware of it who has contributed to covering it. Fourthly, talking about the sin to people privately, you have nothing to do with it. So sometimes what people do is I, you know, I know it's there I'm not going to cover it, but I don't have the will to go and address it. So what I'll do is I will I will lament this frustrating situation to people who are going to feel bad for me, but I will not address the issue That's totally spineless. I didn't say I didn't say it's easy to do the right thing sometimes, but it is spineless. If God's given us a position of authority or responsibility in our home, in the church, whatever the context, I mean, it falls on our shoulders to make sure that we do the right thing. And so talking about sin privately to others because we want to get it off of our chest, but we won't address it, that's just straight up gossip. It's very destructive. Next, talking about the sin publicly in a cowardly manner without directly addressing it. I know sometimes pastors will do this. Instead of going and talking to a person about an issue, they'll just make some statement in a sermon and everybody's like, oh, I know what he's talking about Okay. I know what he's talking about, but he won't go talk to the guy about it. He won't go address the issue. Again, a wrong way to handle it. Or directly confronting the sin in an irresponsible manner, in a vindictive way, in in in an aggressive, unnecessarily aggressive, sometimes, you know, you you meet it proportionate. Okay? If if if you can come at a person in a gentle way and they respond gently, you resolve it gently. If you've got to put a little bit more force that they understand this is serious, then guess what? That that might be what you have to do. If you have to really come hard, you want to get there at the end. Don't don't do it all at the front. Take the time. All of these are wrong ways, sinful ways, to respond to sin in the church. So, what is a godly approach? Oh boy. This isn't, I'm not going to get through this tonight. That's okay. It's an important issue, right? We've got to work through it. Alright, a godly approach under normal circumstances. What I mean by normal circumstances is that Just because there's a problem between two people doesn't mean it should be a church discipline issue. Okay. Under most circumstances You just go and have a conversation with somebody and you get it behind you. I mean that's that's the way things work. There needs to be a culture of restoration in the church. And I want to just kind of put this in front of you, families. You've got to establish this in your own homes. You really do. Sometimes the way that we discipline our children encourages them to be more dishonest than they would be had we never addressed the issue. Okay? We have to be careful about this. Your kids are sinners. They're gonna do bad things. They're gonna do things that make you upset. That disappoint you, that frustrates you, that embarrass you Just like you did that to your parents, alright? And your kids, they're gonna get that too when it's their turn. Why? Because we're raising people that are sinners. And when it comes to the kinds of issues that we address with our children, we can cultivate in their heart an understanding that when I've done wrong. I can actually admit it to dad. I can admit it to mom, and we will have a productive way to resolve the issue that puts it behind us. And is very restorative, and we move forward with a united relationship. That's not the way a lot of parents discipline. The way a lot of parents discipline is they ignore, they ignore, and they ignore, and then they panic because they're embarrassed. They just got caught. Their kid just did this. Now everybody knows what's going on. Or you know, I'm so frustrated that I'm really angry because you have made my life difficult today That's not why we discipline. We don't discipline because we're angry. We don't discipline because we're frustrated. We don't discipline because we're embarrassed. We discipline because it's our responsibility before God to teach our children How to do right, how to make things right, and how to move forward after it's been resolved. And so this issue of a restorative culture in the church starts with restorative culture in the home. It's extremely important. And if there are any parents who are like, you know, Pastor, you brought something up I haven't thought about. I'd love to flush that out with you. Absolutely would love to do that. I would absolutely love to have a series of conversations if necessary to work through that. And I think if we step back and we think about things in a biblical principled way, we would actually be able to come to some really good conclusions about how we approach this. But with that in mind, notice what the Bible says about this issue of restoration. Galatians 6. 1. If a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. And a spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. If a man think himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. Whew, man, you can preach a couple sermons out of that text right there. If you're going to address an issue with someone, you need to be a spiritually minded person. Why do you think in the book of Matthew where he says, judge not, lest ye be not judged, for with what matter measure you judge, it will be measured back to you. First, cast a beam out of your own eye so that you can see clearly to remove the speck that's in your brother's eye. Why does he say that? Because when a person is not spiritually approaching an issue, they will not help a person. You have to go about this the right way. And it starts with our own hearts. And so before you go and you discipline your kids, you might need to step into another room and have a moment with Jesus and get things right in your own heart before you go and address them. It's really true. You which are spiritual. And then the next one is the word restored. So this is not so much about vengeance or retribution. Or venting or getting something off of our chest. It's not about that at all. It's about restoring someone. That means the relationship's been broken and it needs to be restored. You know, a lot of the hurts and a lot of the wounds that we have in our families is because we don't really handle these issues the right way. And it begins to grow over time and then our kids get old enough to where they're not looking at us as oh daddy mommy they're looking at us as like eye to eye and they are starting to judge us and they're like, you know, Dad used to do this and mom used to do this and they might have a point I'm not saying it's right how they're acting, but they may have a point. So that word restore is very important. Then we see the word meekness, spirit of meekness. That word meekness means that I am controlled in the way that I go about addressing an issue. Meekness isn't weak. Meekness is measured. Meekness is proportionate. Meekness can come gentle, it can come moderate, or it can come very hard. But when it comes really hard, it's because that's what had to happen. That's what meekness is. Meekness isn't explosive. It's controlled. It's patient. Then he says, considering thyself, we never go into an issue thinking we have arrived. Nobody in this room has arrived. Till the day we die, we're still going to struggle with sin. And then he says, lest thou also be tempted. Then he goes on. He says, Bear ye one another's burden, so fulfill the law of Christ. If a man thinks himself to be something when he's nothing, he deceives himself. The truth is that the church has to have this in the culture of the community. Our families need this to be a part of the culture of our families. And so when we come to 1 Corinthians chapter 5, I know 1 Corinthians chapter 5 is going to seem very harsh. Put this man out, have no fellowship with him, don't even eat with him. Deliver him to Satan for the destruction of his flesh. But you need to realize that that is now the proportionate response. When maybe if they'd addressed it down the road earlier, that would not have had to be the proportionate response And interestingly, at a point down the road, they will actually need to kind of tamp it down a little bit to resolve the issue and bring them back. And so the restoration actually took place. So I'm going to stop there because I think I'll go another 20 minutes if I go to Matthew 18, but that's where we're going to go, Lord willing, next time. But um If anybody has questions, please don't hesitate to reach out. I'd love to work through this, be help to you. And I think that when we talk about a passage like this, it's so important That we don't fall off the rails on this side or on that side. And that when we cut it straight, our heart is in the right place. Very, very important. May God help us do that. Let's go out to go there for prayer and then we'll get our prayer sheets out and talk through what's there. Our Lord, we thank you for your word. Thank you for the power to change people. I know that you love every person in this room. You want us to walk with you and you want us to be faithful and committed to your ways, and I pray that you'd help us to do that. Father, help us to have a culture within our church, within our families, that is very restorative. And when people have done wrong, they will be addressed appropriately in the spirit of meekness. And that there will be a true restoration. That we will see relationships that have been broken, mended. And that the cause of Christ would go forward with great clarity because we are walking consistent with who we are. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.