Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we're very grateful for your care in our lives. And as we open up your word tonight, I pray that you would speak to our hearts. Help us to have clear minds. Help us to see this passage of Scripture and not to just understand it with our heads, but I pray that in our hearts we would strive to apply what we see tonight. Help me as I communicate it to do it to the very best of my ability. And I pray that you'll bless our prayer time as we bring these requests into your presence. We bear one another's burdens and we fellowship. I pray that The fellowship would be encouraging and that we would see you actively working in all these situations. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. All right, Galatians chapter 6 is where we are tonight, and you're going, hold on a second, 1 Corinthians, how are we in Galatians? And that's a fair question. Uh but we have been working our way through 1 Corinthians and we got into a text dealing with church discipline and we spent quite a bit of time talking about the content of that passage. And I thought that it would be very helpful for us to not just kind of leave it with the discipline side, but also to move into the restoration side. Because the purpose of church discipline is not to rebuke someone and then kick them to the curb, it's actually to draw someone to a position of repentance and reconciliation and then ultimately growth into Christ-likeness. And so the passage we're going to look at tonight is a really, really important part of this discussion. And so Galatians chapter 6, we're going to read verses 1 to 3, and we're going to talk about how God expects us. to have a healthy culture that is looking to see restoration. So here we go. Galatians chapter 6 verse 1. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, Ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ For if any man think himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself. Now, as I like to do, I like to begin with kind of a purpose statement or a summary statement, and so the passage in front of us was written to help us to understand how to develop a healthy culture where restoration is constantly being encouraged in the church. And so in order to do that, there has to actually be a culture that's established. And this is something that starts in every family. It starts from how we preach and teach the Word of God. It's a part of every aspect of church life. The reason that this is so important is because God wants us all to grow into spiritual maturity. And in order for that to happen, there are going to be times that we're going to We're to divert off of the path that we should be on. There can be times that we stumble, we get discouraged, there are going to be times that we become Proud, and we need one another to help us grow through those situations and ultimately continue pressing on into spiritual maturity. And so I want to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts as we think about this. Every believer struggles with sin. No exceptions. So, you know, we when when we're kids, I remember when I was a kid, I thought my mom and dad were like perfect. And then I got a little older and I realized like They're not perfect. And then I got to the point where they're horrible. And then I look back and I'm like, well, you know what? They weren't perfect. They weren't horrible. Actually, they are pretty decent parents. And being that parenting is kind of hard. But you know what? I see their faults And then, you know, your kids come behind you and they kind of go through the same process as well. And sometimes you go, well, man, I just can't wait till I'm like an old man because then I won't struggle with these sins anymore. And all the older men are saying, not true. We all struggle with the same stuff. Okay, different seasons of life. It's true that there might be certain things that are greater areas of temptation than others But we never stop sinning on this side of eternity. It's something we deal with constantly. And there's a difference between the way the unbeliever and the believer relates to this issue of sin. I want to just kind of set the tone on that first because it's important for us to think about this as we dig into this topic. The non-Christian, the Bible calls a slave. to sin. He serves it as it being his master. Ephesians 2, 2-3 says, in times past ye walked according to the course of this world. in the lust of your flesh. And you were by nature the children of wrath. I remember this illustration, I didn't hear it. I read about it in a book that Spurgeon liked to use. And he said, if you're looking in a stream, the dead fish never swim upstream. They just go at the flow. And that's such a simple illustration, but it's true. And so there is a course that the world is going, and it's a course of enslavement to sin and temptation. But when we become Christians, there's something that radically changes inside of us. We repent. We believe, we are regenerated, we have the Holy Spirit inside of us, and now we are in the midst of a struggle. Not a struggle to maintain our salvation, but to grow in our experience as believers. And so in Romans 13, verse 14, he says, put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ and make no provision. for the flesh to fulfill the lusts thereof. If you have a nation that's thinking about going to war, one of the ways that you'll know they're thinking about going to war is that you recognize that they are building not just defensive capabilities. but offensive capabilities. They are building the ability to go and to fight. And sadly, sometimes Christians We could say, store up provision for the flesh to give in to that. They'll say, oh, I didn't give in, but you have been feeding those fleshly desires and those temptations. And now you find yourself in a very vulnerable and dangerous position. We're in the midst of a battle, and that's the illustration that is used. We are new creatures, or 2 Corinthians 5. 17, and we are works in progress, Ephesians 2. 10, his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus unto good works. But even those things are true, even though those things are true, we are still in the midst of a battle. Romans 6 Reckon ye also yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive unto God. It's not automatic. Just because I'm a Christian doesn't mean I'm going to just go through life coasting and not have to make that decision to reckon myself dead to sin, but alive unto God. I must yield my member as an instrument of righteousness unto God rather than yielding my members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin. I have to make a choice. Next, we see that we're prone to seek the wrong kinds of means to grow. Two passages come to mind that are very interesting here. Galatians 3 1. O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you that you should obey the truth? Receive ye the Spirit by the works of the law? Are you so foolish, having begun in the Spirit, are ye now made perfect by the flesh? Now, the whole thing that's going on behind the scenes with that passage of Scripture is that you have people that came from a Jewish background And part of their Jewish background was the Levitical law. And that law was full of all kinds of restrictions, dietary restrictions. certain days that they were to observe, certain festivals that they were so supposed to observe, lots and lots of rules and regulations. And basically what Paul is arguing is that when you became a Christian You died to the law so that you could live unto God. And so now you're a new creature in Christ. But some people were being pulled back into that old system and they said, if you really want to be godly, if you really want to be spiritual, you've got to take that law and you've got to try to obey the law so that you can really be a godly person. And Paul's point is, nobody has the power to obey the law before they become a Christian. Why do you think that the law that couldn't save you before you're saved can somehow sanctify you and make you more like Christ? The answer is you can't. So by establishing all these rules and regulations, that's not how people grow. Or a second example, interestingly, Colossians 2. 20. If ye be dead with Christ. From the rudiments of the world, why, as though living in the world, are ye subject to ordinances? Touch not, taste not, handle not. which all perish with the using after the commandments and doctrines of men, which things indeed have a show of wisdom. And will worship in humility and neglecting of the body, not in any honor to the satisfying of the flesh. Now that passage actually the way that it's translated here is a little bit hard a thing to follow, but I'm going to kind of give you a summary of what he's saying. Do not think that by creating a bunch of rules and regulations in addition to the Bible, that you can make a person godly. It's almost like you know I grew up in the Christian school environment and uh I'm not against it at all. I'm very thankful for what I got. But it was easy for a person who was in that environment to start thinking that Christianity was a list of rules A list of things that I was supposed to do and how I dressed or how I wasn't supposed to dress or where I could go or what I could do or what I had to do. All kinds of different rules and regulations. And those rules and regulations were nothing more than we could say administrative standards that were expectations of all the students. They had nothing to do with godliness in the big picture. They don't make people godly. You're not ungodly because uh of some little wort rule that was made by a school, okay? The idea is that you do not establish godliness through a bunch of man-made rules. Yet that is a very common problem. A lot of people think that you can do that. You can somehow regulate people into being righteous and holy and moral. So the question is, how do people actually grow? And the answer is it's not through rules and regulations that we make up. It's not through striving to keep the law. It's through the pattern that God established in the local church. Where the Spirit of God indwells the believer and we grow together in community. It's discipleship Very, very important. So let's work our way through this passage and look at those pieces that are very very important. The first thing I want you to notice here is that we must follow our biblical mandate that is given in the text here. Whenever there is sin in the church It needs to be addressed. We can't just ignore it. You know, when there's sin in our family. Let's say my children do something and I'm not saying that I need to hover over my kids over every single little detail. But there are certain things that as a parent, if I'm lazy and I just kind of let it go, that's a pattern of behavior that's going to become well established in my children. And down the road, that's going to be extremely detrimental. It could be something as simple as allowing my children to be lazy. Or something as simple as allowing my children to uh you know get physical and kind of beat up on each other sometimes when they get angry. Or maybe when they don't like what they've been told to do and I say, no, you need to do that, and they start, you know, pitching a fit and storming off, I just like, well, I'm not going to do anything about that. No, no, you can't allow that kind of behavior. You can't allow your kids to hit each other. You can't allow your kids to be lazy. You can't allow your kids to be disrespectful or to be disobedient or to be dishonest. You have to deal with that behavior. Because if you don't, it's going to grow, it's going to metastasize. If it's not kept in check, then what's going to happen is you're going to have greater problems down the road. Your kids will become adults that don't know how to control themselves. who are very abusive and vindictive and dishonest and lazy and they don't have a work ethic. And a lot of those qualities are qualities that we should have begun working with them on when they're very, very little We understand that in our home context. But even in the church in context, there is a need for a biblical expectation in what is done. Do not ignore, accommodate, cover, or gossip over space. And that's exactly what's going on in the church at Corinth. 1 Corinthians chapter 5, he said, it's reported commonly among you that there is fornication. And not so much as is even named amongst the Gentiles. And you're proud and you're puffed up. And you can't do that. That's what Paul's saying We have to address sin. Don't seek out a bully pulpit to address sin in an irresponsible way. And sometimes pastors can do this, and sometimes parents can do this. I'll tell you how a pastor does it. A pastor gets up and he's just like blast somebody that's like sitting over here. Well we'll go to this quarter because nobody's over here right now. Everybody's kind of in the center and over on this side here. But You know, to just kind of blast this person. He's like, oh, I know who he's talking about. I know what he's talking about. Passes have no right to do that. Just preach and teach the word of God. But you know what's funny? We can pick it up when somebody else does it, but sometimes as parents we do that too. You know, we'll be sitting there at the dinner table and we'll just uh So at a little remark that everybody at the table understands. Because we're not willing to address something the right way Or we're angry and we just kind of blow up at our kids and we handle something the wrong way. You've got to address sin and address it the right way. And we talked about this in Matthew 18 yet last Wednesday, but just to remind you a couple of the things that we saw in that text that are related to this Galatians 6 passage. If the sin is serious enough to warrant a confrontation, then we need to fulfill our duty. Not everything has to be addressed to this level, but some things do. Sometimes we have to make judgment calls. And uh if you're uncertain, then talk to somebody, not to gossip, but to get their input. Is this something that I should address? And let hear what they have to say. Secondly, approach it with humility and love. We don't go into these issues because we're angry. We go into these issues because we love our brother in Christ, our sister in Christ. And we want to see them grow. We don't want to see them end up going down a path that is very destructive. Thirdly, we want to address the issue privately and face to face. Don't text. Texting is very, very confusing sometimes. You ever gotten a text message and you read it and every time you read it you come away with something a different interpretation of what was said. I have done that and and maybe you're one of those people that you always think the best. And then you let your spouse read it and they're like, oh, that's not what they're saying at all right there. Or maybe you go the other way and you think the absolute worst about what has been said. And you let your spouse read it and they're like Oh no, no, that's not what they're saying. The truth is that there's something very helpful about having a one-on-one conversation. Well you can see a person's face, you can see their body language. They can make a correction, you can make a correction in the middle of that conversation. Why privately? Because the point is not to get confrontational. It's just to help resolve the matter. Very, very important. Fourthly, if one sinning is unwilling to address the issue biblically, bring two or three godly individuals to the next level so that every word can be established. We talked about that last week. Let God use them to provide verification and balance to the confrontation. And then lastly, if the sinning brother refuses to respond in godly repentance, then take it to the next level, which is the church. So all of that stuff is stuff that we dealt with over the last two weeks. We looked at the 1 Corinthians passage. We looked at the Matthew the Matthew passage. The second thing I'd like us to do tonight is I'd like us to consider the importance of developing the tools that are necessary to do this in a godly way. This is very, very important. And there are several pieces from these verses that I want to draw your attention to that I think we've got to make sure that they're a part of the culture of our church. of our family, and if we're going to get into a situation that's very delicate, this has got to be at the core of how we approach it. So the first word is the word humility. Verses 1 to 3. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, restore and listen to this statement, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. One of the things that is a great danger for all of us, and I've found myself caught up in this, and I'm sure you have as well. We are good at pi picking out something that's wrong, and we are correct in our assessment of what we have seen. But somehow between Seeing, assessing, and deciding I need to engage it somewhere in there, we go from having the right attitude to having the wrong attitude. And we start to approach it in a way that's very proud, very self-righteous, and ultimately very, very detrimental. Notice the statement. Consider thyself lest thou also be tempted. Or if we were to go to that Matthew passage where it talks about judgment. He says, before you go to cast out a speck in your brother's eye, then remove the beam that's in your eye so that you can see clearly. Now the whole point of that passage is not to say ignore everything around you, it's to say, look at your own life first, deal with what is there, and then you'll have the clarity to help someone else. That's the whole idea. We see the same kind of thing coming out in this verse. Consider thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Humility is very important. We should not go into confrontation purely out of anger. We need to go with a humble heart. 1 Peter 5, 5. All of you be subject one to another and be clothed with humility, for God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace to the humble That's a really important scripture for us to remember. God resisteth the proud. Be clothed with humility. Very, very important text. And there are a couple of specific ways that he expresses this need in the passage in front of us. Look back at the verses he says. If a man be overtaken in a fault, sin is something we are all vulnerable to. Not just the person that we're trying to talk to. Trying to restore, trying to help, but we ourselves are. In fact, sometimes when we go to work with a situation with another person, we may actually find ourselves potentially being tempted in the very same area that they are. We've got to be very cautious. Secondly, we need to recognize the need to continually have restoration. We have that word restore, and the fact is that this is going to happen a lot of times. Over the course of our marriages, we're we're constantly going to have things that come up between us and our spouse. And I in a good marriage, a healthy marriage, a strong marriage, there's still gonna be times that we misunderstand each other. We miscommunicate. Sometimes we get things wrong. Sometimes we're too forceful. Sometimes we don't handle things the right way. And when those things happen, we're going to have to address issues. Restoration is something that is a continual need in the church. And then thirdly, age and experience don't eliminate our weaknesses. He says, consider thyself. Even a person who is spiritual needs to consider themselves. And when he uses that term spiritual, what he means is someone who's spiritually mature. Someone who's been a Christian for a while and they have grown in maturity, they have the knowledge, they understand how to approach the issue, even that individual needs to be very, very cautious. I'm reminded of 1 John chapter 1. In 1 John 1. 9 it says, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And what does John say? We. He doesn't say, if you, he says, we. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. He could have said, if you say it, I mean it's true. He includes himself. Why? Well, because he's made of the same stuff. So those are some very important reminders for us. So not just wisdom, but we want to look at a second one here. And that is the need for wisdom. Look down in verse number one Ye which are spiritual restore such a one. What does he mean by spiritual? If this is like a Sunday school class, you tell me, what do you think he means by spiritual? Does it mean he has the highest standard in the church? Does it mean that he's someone who feels very self-confident? What does he mean by spiritual? Well, in the context, he's referring to the kind of wisdom that is needed to respond to a problem like this so that it's biblically resolved. We can go to a similar passage in James chapter 3. Go there in your Bibles. Look at James chapter 3 and listen to what it says in verses 13 through 18 and see how this applies. to the concept of the need for wisdom when there is contention. He says, who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? Let him show out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom. Interesting statement, isn't it? Mekness of wisdom. If ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not. Lie not against the truth. This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish. But the wisdom that is from above is first pure. Then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated, full of mercy and good fruits without partiality and without hypocrisy Now notice how there's a contrast in this. We have one kind of wisdom that is described as being a meekness of wisdom. So true wisdom is not the person who is boom right in your face. It's the person who's restrained and recognizes the right amount of force to put into a situation. meekness of wisdom. On the opposite side, we see a person who is bitter and envying and has strife. What does he say? That is the kind of wisdom that is characteristic of the world. So when we talk about in the context of Galatians 6. 1, ye which are spiritually saying, you who have spiritual wisdom as opposed to earthly wisdom, you who have the meekness of wisdom. You who have that wisdom that is pure and gentle and peaceable and easy to be entreated and full of mercy and without partiality and without hypocrisy. Every single one of those words is hugely important if you have an issue that involves sensitive judgment needed. I mean, who wants someone to help them out who's partial? Who wants someone to help them out who is a hypocrite? Who wants someone to help them out that rather than being gentle is abrasive and aggressive and in their face? Who wants someone to try to help them that when you make an appeal, they just blow you off and they ignore it, as opposed to really hearing what you have to say? See, these are the kinds of qualities that are true of someone who is spiritual. So, when he says, you which are spiritual restored such a one, he's saying, those of you who have this meekness of wisdom. The opposite of this world's wisdom that is earthly and sensual and devilish, you are the ones who need to get involved in this. That means not everybody in the church should jump in to try to resolve conflicts with people. I heard that amen. Not everyone should. Not everyone should. I would say that maybe we should even be a little hesitant to jump into these situations. We should feel compelled out of duty because we realize that this is something we have to do, not we're just chomping at the bit to take this on. And I think that that sometimes Christians get kind of this hero complex. I've seen this many times, where they see this case, this difficult situation, they're like, oh, I I can fix that person. I can jump in there and I can get that issue resolved, and you know what? That's the last person that probably should be in those situations. Somebody who's a little bit hesitant and they're humble and they recognize this is a big deal and I want to tread very gently and I need God's wisdom, those are two very different attitudes. And so we see the humility side and we see the wisdom side. But there's a third one, and that is the need for virtue. He says, restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, considering thyself. Now that meekness is a character quality. So we're going from someone who's humble, that would be a character quality as well. But we talk about wisdom, we're talking about a person's ability to discern. and know what to say and how to approach an issue. We're talking about meekness. We're not just talking about them knowing what is right, but they actually have the self-control to do it. Some people can actually call balls and strikes pretty well. They really can. But they would not be in a good position to try to work it out with somebody. They really wouldn't. Because that is a character issue. It's not just about understanding the situation. It's having the self-control and the restraint to step in and do things the right way And so the other side of spiritual is the virtue needed to follow through with what we knew is right. And by the way, for those that are in the freedom that last class that we do on Tuesday night, he says, add to your faith what? Virtue. That's the very first thing that he mentioned. Because we need to be truly godly people. That's so important. And so we have passages like this, Galatians 5. 22. The fruit of the Spirit is love. Joy, peace, long-suffering, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. They that are Christ have crucified the flesh with its affections and lust. Those are character qualities of someone who is spiritual. If that's not in a person's life, then we could use the other word fleshly or carnal, okay? So we want to see someone who is truly godly doing this. And in 2 Timothy 2 2. 25, he says, in meekness instructing those who oppose themselves If peradventure God will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth. And those two passages, think about some of those qualities that are highlighted. Love. If a person's going to go and confront someone, they need to do it in love. Not because they're angry, not because They they want to you know get get up on an issue because they're trying to draw attention to themselves. No, it's love. Long suffering. Our mindset as we work with other people, should we should recognize it may be a very long process. Sometimes I I I've experienced this in pastoral ministry where you have a situation where you know there's a contention between two people and you're trying to work the issue out and you start realizing like this is not going to get worked out today. This is not going to get worked out tomorrow. This is not getting worked out in a couple of days. This is something that is going to be a prolonged period of time. where people are trying to work through the issue. Even if both individuals are really they desire to work through the issue, it may take a long time. And through that process, there are going to be times that you get frustrated. And there are going to be times that people come to sticking points and they back off. And so in those situations, you have to be patient with people. You have to be willing to engage when someone's ready to make movement, and you've got to be willing to sit there patiently and wait for them to do it when they're really not where they should be. And that's a frustrating thing to do, but it's something we have to do You can't force somebody to do the right thing. By pushing the issue, they'll just push away many times. And so we see that issue of long-suffering. Gentleness. That should be where we start You don't start with the most explosive possible way to resolve an issue. I guess apparently our president doesn't understand that. But that's a geopolitical issue. That's not an interpersonal issue. Oh, I shouldn't even go down that road. Just leave that alone. And our interpersonal issues. Ease into the situation. Don't come as forceful and hard as you can. Give yourself space to have to increase a little leverage from time to time if you have to do that. And how do you do that? You start gently. And sometimes you can resolve something without without any force, without it really getting ratcheted up at all. And sometimes that is not how it's going to get resolved, but you want to gradually move in that direction. And then meekness. This should govern the level of force that we use throughout the process. Meekness is strength that is controlled. Just because I can doesn't mean I should. You understand what I'm saying? It's kind of like uh you you probably some of these moms have probably watched their uh their husband go out there and play ball with their kids And all of a sudden, you know, this guy he's like he's like back in the junior high and he's like, I'm gonna pummel my kids in basketball tonight, you know? And you're sitting there watching, you're like, Oh, this is not good. Well, one day it's going to get reversed, you know, once your kid gets a little bit bigger. But the idea is this. When you go out there and you're playing with your kid You should play the level that that they're at. And hopefully, you know, you can play stronger and harder than they can. But you're meeting them at that level. And what is that? That is that strength under control. That's actually kind of an illustration of meekness. You go out there and you bring the level of force that is necessary for the situation. These are character qualities. And so it's not just the humility and it's not just the wisdom, but it's the character. These all come together when we talk about someone being spiritual. There's a fourth, and that's honesty. Consider thyself Another way to put this is that we need to have a healthy, appropriate inter intro introspection. And there's a kind of introspection that's not healthy. It's true. Some people obsess over their failures and their faults, and that's not healthy. And if you are prone to that, you may need someone that can help you work through those things when you're kind of going down in the rabbit hole. Okay? Some of us need that. Sometimes you need your pastor, your spouse, your parent, a very godly person who loves you, who kind of understands you temperament and the way that you tend to go. And when you get into that introspection, you need somebody to kind of work through that with you. That's important, okay? But there is a kind of introspection that's actually very healthy. Where we are sobered by our limitations. We recognize we've not arrived. We've not arrived in any of these areas. And so we see this being talked about in Psalm 139. David writes, Search me, O God, know my heart, try me, know my thoughts, see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting. You know what he's saying, God, help me to see. paths that I'm going down, that might be wrong. Or Matthew 7, why beholdest thou the moat that is in thy brother's eye? And considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye. Hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye, then thou shalt see clearly to cast the moat out of thy brother's eye We've got to look at ourselves first. The last thing I'm going to mention here is the word compassion. Verses 2 to 3, bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. If a man thinks himself to be something when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself Now, the first part of these verses, if someone's overtaken in a fault, restore. The second part, bear each other's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. These are actually kind of two different topics. But they really do fall into the same general category of the church being a place where we are growing together in community. One is I need someone to tell me I'm wrong. The other is I need someone to come alongside of me and maybe cry with me or lift me up, carry that burden with me Talk through an issue with me. Why? Because I'm weak. I'm burdened. I'm weighed down. A burden is a weight that someone carries. And some people It's just their general disposition. Some people are melancholy. And that's just how they're always going to be. You say, well, don't tell somebody that's melancholy. That's just true. It's important for us to understand our temperament. It's important for us to understand that there are certain kinds of temperaments, and who we are is it's it's okay, it's how God made us, and we need to understand who we are. Because with that understanding comes the need to have people come alongside and help us. So there's that disposition side. Sometimes it goes through physical weakness. This week I connected with a bunch of our seniors. Some of our seniors, they're really carrying great burdens, physical burdens. They're in pain a lot. They they they're trying to weigh should I should I get this surgery or not? I had this surgery and I thought it would help me. I had this treatment, I thought it would help me. It's not helped me. It's discouraging. This has been going on for all this time. And they're just thinking about all of these things. And you know what? That is a physical affliction that's a heavy burden on someone's shoulders. So this might be someone that for most of their life they've been healthy, they've been strong, they've been vibrant, they've been upbeat, but because of what they're carrying at this point in their life, they're very weighed down. Sometimes it's a besetting sin that plagues and weighs someone down. It's something that you've asked God to forgive you 10,000 times for. Say, no. Anybody ever walked away from a conversation with one of your kids and you're like, I gotta go to my room and ask God to forgive me for the way that I talk to my sin tonight From the way that I talked to my daughter, the way that I handled that situation. I've been in this place so many times and here I am. And you know what? That weighs you down. Because you say, am I ever going to stop doing this? Am I ever going to stop struggling with this? That's the kind of stuff we're talking about. Difficult seasons of life. And you know, some difficult seasons of life are the result of long -term issues. It's like a chronic issue. If you were to just experience this for a day or two, it wouldn't be a big deal. But you've been dealing with this for months now. You've been dealing with this for years now. And the cumulative effect of that pressure has really weighed you down. It could be something like that. Or it could be something that is just, it hits you so hard, it catches you blindsided. You weren't anticipating this, and you don't know how to make sense of it. Or sometimes you get hit with something here. And you think you're past that and then boom something hits you here and you think you're almost past that and then boom something hits you here and you're like, okay, how many times am I gonna get hit with something new? And it's just it it wears you down. We need the church. When someone passes away, you know the death of every person doesn't hit us all the same way. You may have someone that you knew for many, many years, and when they pass away, the way that you process it. And then another friend who you need the same amount of time, but because of the nature of relationships being different, you process it totally different. Or maybe when you talk about a spouse or a parent or a grandparent or a child. Or a close friend or an uncle, someone that invested in your life, the way that you process that can be very, very difficult. And you may feel very isolated and very lonely and very discouraged. Or maybe it's got something to do with the fact the person didn't know the Lord. And you feel like there's guilt. Or maybe there shouldn't be guilt. You tried many times to lead them to Christ, you prayed for them for years, and they said, nope, you can't control that. But these are the kinds of things that weigh us down. What do we need? We need compassion. Christ's love for us is active and practical. Our love for other people needs to be active and practical. 1 John 3 verse 16. Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us. We ought to lay down our lives for the brethren. But whoso hath this world's good and seeth his brother have need, and sheddeth up his bowels of compassion, how dwelleth the love of God in him. Little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed and in truth. May God help us to apply his word tonight. Let's bow for prayer Father, as we think about this passage of Scripture, I pray that you would help us to be a people who are actively engaged And promoting a culture that seeks restoration. Father, help us to be humble. Help us to be wise. Help us to be godly. Help us to be compassionate. Father, help us to be channels of your love. And when we see a brother who is in great need because they have stumbled, may we come alongside and seek to help them be restored to you. And when we see a brother or sister who is carrying a heavy burden and they're weighed down, help us not to look away, but help us to come alongside and lift them up. Help us to be a healthy and vibrant church where we do what we ought to do in these areas. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.