We're going to be in Ephesians chapter four, and we're going to look at uh thinking about the new year and the year behind us and the one before us, and we're going to look at putting on a new man for the new year in Ephesians chapter 4. Before I read our text, we're going to start in verse 17 of Ephesians chapter 4, but we find ourselves in a transition in Ephesians here, going into chapter 4. The way Paul typically does it is he'll go doctrinally heavy in his books that God was used him to pen. And so in Ephesians chapters 1, 2, and 3, it's very doctrinally heavy. And then by the time you get to chapter 4, it's kind of like the Romans 12, and we'll see some comparisons later in the message. But in verse 1, I just want to call our attention there before I actually read our text. In Ephesians 4, 1 it says, I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord. beseech you that you walk worthy of vocation whereof you are called. So because of the truths of the doctrine that he's been emphasizing the first three chapters. Because of these truths, now he's beseeching us that we walk worthy, that we would live out as individuals and as a church what he has been teaching us and making it very practical for us to live each and every day. And as we continue on through the chapter, we learn about the unity that we have in the Spirit and the oneness and just everything that God is. And how the he uses the church and the preaching and teaching to perfect the saints for the work of the ministry. And then we get to our text in chapter 4, verse 17. And here's where we continue to see he's emphasizing more the practical. And what we're going to look at here is putting on the new man. And I want to open up with an illustration before I even read the text. Many days and years of wrestling practice and sweating, both high school, college, you come back very sweaty and nasty. painting with my dad. You know, you get paint, the overspray in your eyes and it clicks in the corner. Good times. You know, and sometimes it goes in your nose and you're blowing paint out for days. All fun stuff. A couple of times I've been up in the attic I love insulation. Actually, that's a complete lie. I passionately hate insulation. You're up there trying to run wires and move stuff. And then what do you do? You can't wait to get cleaned up, get in the shower, you get all nice and cleaned up, a nice warm shower. Then after that nice warm shower, you get out. And you put on your dirty, stinky, insulated wrestling clothes, shirt, stuff all over again, right? That's not what you do? Maybe it's just me, maybe I'm odd. No, we don't do those things. Why? We put off that which is old, that which is disgusting, we get cleaned up, and we put on that which is new Something that is not going to defile or dirty us again after just coming out of a shower if we did our job. So, with that in mind, and that illustration, that is where Paul is going here, making it practical for us, as we go into the new year, to put off that which is old, not to return to it. but to put on that which is new. So with those thoughts in mind, let's look at our text, Ephesians chapter 4, starting in verse 17. This I say therefore, and testifying the Lord, that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their mind. Having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart who, being past feeling, had given themselves over to lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness. But Ye have not so learned Christ, if so be that ye have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth. Truth is in Jesus. That ye put off concerning the former conversation, the old man, which is corrupt, according to the deceitful lusts, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. and that ye put on the new man, which is after God, is created in righteousness and true holiness. Wherefore, putting away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbor, for we are members one of another. Be ye angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath, neither give place to the devil. Let him that stole steal no more, but rather let him labor, working with his hands a thing which is good, that he may have to give to him that needeth. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers. And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, whereby you are sealed unto the day of redemption. Let all bitterness And wrath, and anger, and clamor, and evil speaking, be put away from you with all malice. And be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you Let us pray. Father, we come before you, asking that you just be real through your word, that we would be sensitive to the spirit of of God that as we close out this year and start looking to another one. Father, would we be encouraged that we can, it is possible, for us to put away old habits Lifestyles, challenges from the past, and look forward new and afresh by your grace and leaning on your word, and Jesus Christ is the truth to put on Jesus Christ, to put on a new man. Father, we cannot do this on our own. Would we humbly come before you, desiring to love our Savior more than we love our sin? And would you help us this day to conform more to his image? Your son and our Savior of Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. So we're going to look at the first couple verses in verses 17 through 23 to put off the old man. Put off the old man. Now here, he is not talking to those that need to be saved. His audience is to believers. This is the church at Ephesus. And in if we read the very beginning of the epistle, it says Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, to the saints. Which are Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus. So he's writing, he's penning this in mind to those who are at a Sunday night service, to mature, to the faithful, to those that are here. That's who he's being used to pen this to. So though salvation is an application, he's talking to those that are believers. What to do after salvation, what our Christianity should look like. Not explaining how to get saved through this text. So I just want to put that, we're not putting off and putting on new as a believer as a becoming a believer justification, but how we should look in sanctification. So What does this look like though as he's describing what the world looks like if we were to put off the old man and some would have had these lifestyles Some in the church possibly may even be experiencing many of these very things. That's why he's saying, and he's testifying the Lord, verse 17, that you fent henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk in the vanity of their mind. Sometimes, even though we're in church, even though we profess to know Christ as our Savior, the way that we act, think, talk, and what we do doesn't look different than anyone else in the world. Your neighbors have no clue. The people around you don't oh I didn't know you were a Christian. Here he's saying we're not to walk, we're not to live our life as those that don't know Christ. There should be a comparison. Not that we should be weird and odd, oh yeah, this is a weird guy coming. No, but the way you conduct yourself How you live your life. So in the vanity of their mind, it's the emptiness, the worthlessness of their mind and in their thinking. It's not eternal. It's not God focused. In verse 18, it says having their understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them. Sometimes the teens get a kick, oh, there's aliens in the Bible. It means to be estranged. To be a foreigner just passing through doesn't mean little green guys with big heads. Maybe their heads are tiny. Maybe they don't exist at all. No. Having their understanding darkened. Their thinking is darker. Why? They're separated from the life of God. If you don't know God, how would you know his ways? How would you know what the truth is without God and his word? So they're alien. They're separated to the ignorance that is in. Some of them just do ignorance. They just don't know. They're just living worldly lives, and they're just sinners, and what do sinners do? They sin. Hey, guess who we are? We too are sinners. The only difference between them and us, if you want to say, is we're saved by the grace of God. But sometimes we choose to live as though there is no difference. So there is no distinction. So they can keep living in their ignorant ways and their ignorant lives and we don't reach out to them, we don't talk to them, and our life doesn't say anything different. And it says because of the blindness of their heart. So they're alienated, they're blinded. This is really a hardness A dullness of their mind. And this thought continues in the verse 19, who being past feeling had given themselves over to lasciviousness to work all uncleanness with greediness. So these are people they they are rejecting God. There are those that you will talk to, maybe around some with family, maybe you're gonna visit some more family up and coming, maybe going all the way back to Thanksgiving. But there's them who you talk to. You're trying to share the Lord, you're trying to share the truth about Christmas. And they are just happy to be in their way. They're set in their ways. And sometimes you just can't get them lost. You can't get them understand that they have sinned before holy God and Jesus Christ is God who took their place for their sin. But they're blinded. Others are rejected. They know. Oh, I know what Christmas is about. I know who Jesus Christ is. I just don't want to believe that. Sometimes it's just because they want to keep living their life the way that they want to. They want to keep making themselves God. So for whatever reason, they're alienated. They're giving themselves on to wickedness, to lustful lifestyles, to uncleanness, greediness. And what Paul is going to be used to remind them is this. They're getting hard, some are calloused , but what he says in verse 20 is. But ye have not so learned Christ. This is not what you've learned. This is not who you are in Christ. Remember the first three chapters, Paul has been opening up and sharing all different kinds of ways. He is telling them this is who you are in Christ. It's understanding our position. It's not better than someone else. It's we have trusted in Christ and we need to act like who we are in Christ. We are a son, we are a child of God. Through Christ. That is our position. Now what he's encouraging them is chapters four through six, really, it's what your walk, what it looks like to be a Christian. But some of us had these lifestyles. Some of them were living as if Christ hasn't made anything. But he's reminding them here by verse 20, he says, but we know different. We owe no we shouldn't be ignorant We shouldn't be calloused or hard toward the things of God. It's not saying that we're perfect. It's not saying that we don't ever sin. But when we do, we know better. And we should be striving to be more like Christ. But the truth is in Christ. We see this when we opened up in Ephesians 1, or when Paul did, in verse 13, it says, in whom ye also trusted. After that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, in whom also after ye believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. So it's after you you trusted in Christ, you heard the truth, you weren't ignorant towards it, you weren't hardened towards it, you were open, you were sensitive, you believed in Christ But you trusted in him, and that begins a change. You're justified before God. You're made right. You are now in Christ. That's chapter one, as we just read. But now chapter four, remember these things. Remember your position and who you are. If we don't understand who we are and our tendencies as a sinner, we are not going to be able to put on the new man if we don't recognize that the old one is dirty. Do you ever talk to someone? They got something in their eye, something around their nose. I had one of my kids so humbly remind me the other day, Dad, you got something about right there. I'm saving it for later. I mean like how long has it been there? I don't know. How many people have you talked to? I don't know. If you don't know that you're dirty, you just keep on going about your business. If we don't understand our wickedness and if we don't understand our sin nature, we can just go about life as if it doesn't matter. Sometimes we might know and don't care. Sometimes we just don't know. But as a believer, Paul's reminding them, this is who you are in Christ. We know different. We know better And he continues on in verse 21. He says, if it so be that you have heard him and have been taught by him as the truth is in Jesus. So here we see the truth is in Jesus. And many of these people, like Paul, would have probably heard the very words of Christ themselves. They would have more of a direct line of memory of I heard him say these things. Yeah, remember he's preaching that message? Yeah. Or my brother was there, or my my my father was there. They heard the messages, they heard the preaching of Christ, or one of his apostles, they had direct access to Christ. Some of them may very well have been alive. And so what Paul's referring to this, he said, you've learned from Christ, you've heard him and have been taught by him. And this is the truth. The truth is in Christ. And then he continues on. So he gives them, really, this is Paul's way of saying, these are this is this dirty laundry list. And by verse 22, what's he telling to do? that ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts. This is what you have to put on. You have to recognize that it's ungodly, that it is sinful. You need to take these things off like that insulated-filled shirt. Like that sweaty for me it was a wrestling shirt or or soccer. You know, it's dirty, it's nasty. You take it off, not to put it on when you get after the shower. The idea here is to cast off, to take it off as if not to return to it. I'm not going to take it off, wash myself, and then get dirty again. But as Christians, many times that's how we live out our Christian life. We come to church, we put on our nice clothes and our nice tie. We go home, we put on our home clothes. We go to work, we put on our work clothes. Whether they're dirty or not. What Paul's encouraging them here is put it off. The way that you think. If it's Lustful. We have learned different in Christ. You've been taught by him. Put these things off. The former conversation, who you were before Christ. Let's get rid of that. Remember that those things are not godly. We now know the difference. Put it off. And he says it's corrupt according to deceitful lusts. It's deceitful because sometimes we desire things that aren't right and it gets deceptive. How often do you see a billboard or a commercial or something and they make it look so good? It's so nice. To have a you know a can of Bud Dummer and it makes you look so attractive. That 's not true. It's deceptive Oh, smoke all these cigarettes or all these things and it'll make you look better. Or now now you can vape. You don't even have to put a real cigarette to your mouth and it's better for you. It's healthy for you. They make it put flavors to it to make it more attractive. And it's just killing you all the faster. It's deceitful. You're not happy in your marriage. There's so many better other things out there. It's deceitful. It's deceptive. Those are the former lusts, the former lifestyles. We need to recognize these things as this is opposed and against God. These are the things that we need to cast off, put off as if not to return. They're dirty, they're defiled. Get rid of them. Don't put them back on So we've been looking at putting off the old man. And he continues in verse 23, and he says, and be renewed in the spirit of your mind. And I just could not help but kept thinking throughout this passage of Romans 12 a couple different times. In Romans 12 it says, be not conformed to this world, to be transformed by the renewing of your mind. That change of our mind, that the way that we think about these, the way that we look upon these things, has to be biblical, has to be according to the truth of Christ. Because if it's just our way and what I think, I could be led astray. We know our hearts are deceitful above all things and desperately wicked. We know that we're bent and leaning towards sin, and so without Christ and his word intervening, we're going to continue to live in these Ungodly, lascivious, beguiled, defiled, greedy lifestyles. We need to be renewed in the way that we think about these things We need to give value to the truth of who Jesus Christ is. If we don't see these things, we will not see a need to put on a new man. If we don't see the wickedness and see how God has defined these things, we're not going to change. We're gonna go into the new year. Because what's gonna happen? You're gonna wake up Thursday morning, and you know what's gonna be the same? You. You! You're gonna wake up Thursday morning. It's not like you're gonna be 20 pounds lighter, taller maybe, with more hair. It's just not happening. Okay, it's not gonna happen. You're gonna wake up Thursday morning just the way you went to bed Wednesday night. Some of your hair's gonna be messed up. Mine never does anymore. I just can't figure that out. But We're gonna be the same. You are caking yourself into the new year. And unless we understand who we are, who Christ is, and we start applying the things that we're gonna get to here in a moment. We're going to get the same things over and over again. We might try and make changes in our own strength. So now we're going to spend the next little bit here on our second so we put off the old man, verses 17 through 23. He starts ending with the changing the way that we think, and then in verses 24 through 32, we're going to see how we got to put on the new man. to put on the new man. And there's an important principle I'm going to cover here in just a moment. Before we do, in verse 24, he says, that ye put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness. So here's what he's saying. He's given a list of things that are the old man. These are wrong. These are against God. Some do it out of a hardened, callous heart, some do it out of ignorance. Some of you need to be reminded I need to stop doing these things. And start living right. And then he says in verse 23, verse 24, to put on the new man, which is after God, created in righteousness. And true holiness. So we're created to look like God. We're created to have righteousness and holiness. As defined by God. So, okay, so what is righteous? What is holy? These are the things that we need to look at. It's going to be explained by God, but he is going to give us a very helpful hint here. And in verses 25 through the rest, what we're really going to see. Is the replacement principle. Before I get to that, I was reminded also in Romans 13 it says this. He just doesn't cover this issue, Paul, under inspiration of the Holy Spirit in Ephesians 4. He says it in Romans 13 this way. Starting with verse 12. The night is far spent, the day is at hand. Let us therefore cast off. It's the same word is put away. Cast off the works of darkness. And let us put on, same idea there, put on the armor of light. Let us walk honestly as in the day, not in rioting or drunkenness. Not in chambering and wantiness, not in strife and envying, but put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh to fulfill the lusts thereof. So Paul is also telling those in Rome, take off, put on. What's he telling to the believers here, to the faithful at Ephesus? What is he telling them? He's telling them, take off, put on. And what we're going to look at are the next couple verses. is just that. It's called a replacement principle. When you take something off, you gotta put something on. Because here's why. If you're struggling with a sin. And this is a you know an easier example like you, I'll give you two examples that'll be easier. But if you listen to battle worldly music You can't just say, oh, I'm just gonna quit doing, I'm just gonna quit listening to all music. Forget it. I'm not gonna listen to music anymore. If that's a big part of your life, it's hard to go cold turkey like that. You'll be far more successful in your life if you listen if you stop listening to bad music and replace it with good godly music. You're just replacing You're taking something that's bad, like the music, and you're still listening to music, but it's good, godly music. You're replacing it. Your success rate will be much higher. The first time I really heard this in a practical way was a pastor that I met, and he was a heavy smoker before he was saved. And he always wore shirts that had a pocket right here. And he would always keep his cigarettes right there in that pocket. And he'd always reach for the cigarettes all the time. He felt it there, he'd reach for it, he'd grab it, pull a cigarette, light it up. Okay. After he got saved, he was convicted. You know what he did instead of that pack of cigarettes right here? You know those little Gibeon like New Testaments, those Proverbs. He took one of those. It's about the same size, I guess a similar weight, but he took that and he highlighted verses. Marked them and he put that in his pocket. Why? Because just out of habit, he would reach. Even after being saved, he was convicted. I gotta quit. I want to stop doing this to the Lord. I know it's wrong, I'm gonna stop doing it. But out of habit, every once in a while he'd reach like he's gonna grab a cigarette. He got stressed, he got upset, whatever it would be, he'd reach for it, grab it, there's his Bible. Then he made it a habit. He would read a verse or two to help him that he'd already previously marked. It was just a habit. What did he do? He replaced a bad habit with a good habit. That's what he was trying to do to encourage himself in the Lord to do what's right. If we don't replace the bad and we're just gonna try and muscle through, I can do it, and just by pure great determination, I'm gonna make a difference, and I'm not gonna fall in the temptation, I'm not gonna do it. Yeah, okay, maybe. But if you replace the evil with the good. Your success rate will be much better. That's exactly what Paul is going to cover right here. It's going to be very simple, very basic. But it's replacing that take off and put on. If you only take off, you know what you're gonna be tempted to put on? If you don't make a purpose to put on something that is different, something that's godly, you're going to go back to the old. If this weren't true, Paul wouldn't have to tell those that are faithful in Ephesus at the church. We're sinners. We still love that which is wrong. And that's because we have to learn to change our mind and our thinking to understand to replace that which is evil. So when it comes to the new year, don't expect everything to magically be better on Thursday morning. It's not going to happen. It's not just there's nothing magic on the first. But what is needed is many times we have a little more gumption. Okay, after Thanksgiving and after Christmas, sugar is gonna go way down I tell myself that every year. And you know what happens? People are good, and gym memberships go up, and then the lights came on. Look at that. Wow, what timing, guys. Uh no, but what happens is oh I'm sick. Hmm. What happens by around Valentine's Day is people like, ah, forget it I'm saying they go back to old ways. We need the Lord's help and we need to replace these things. So let's look at it. We've been talking about it. Let's look at the Word of God and what it says about this replacement process Principle here. And so let's pick it up. He says, you know, put on the new man, which is after God created in righteousness with true holiness. Verse 25. Wherefore, putting away lying. Speak every man truth with his neighbor. Did you catch it? Put away lying. If you get habit of lying, what'd you say? Speak the truth. I know it sounds simple. But instead of thinking a thought of I'm just going to speak lies to people to make myself look better, children, I want to lie now to save myself consequence. If you just tell the truth, it most of the time will probably go better for you. I'm just saying that as a father of four. Children, it's okay. Just be truthful. Your parents will love you all the more. You probably will still have some consequences. I'm not saying you're not going to get out of the consequence entirely. Because you still need to learn your lesson. And to adult children, it's the same. It's the same. Put away lying. Speak every man truth with his neighbor. Now, if you're like me, when I first got saved and I read neighbor, I literally thought it was your next door neighbor. Who is your neighbor? Men? Your wife. It's so easy just to fudge a little bit. How you doing? Guys, to your wife. If your wife says she's fine, she's not. You better investigate. I don't know what it is. When they say fine Oh, okay. Is there a reason why you're not doing okay? I don't know what it is with the word fine. It's magic or something. I don't know. Speak the truth. Parents towards children. Children towards parents. Speak the truth. Speak truth. Don't lie. We're so tempted because we want to preserve ourselves. We want to get out of a constant. We want to escape it. And we say these are easy, but in the moment, Santa, isn't it tough? That's why you have to decide now. I just want to tell the truth. And many times I tell people, I'm not smart enough to lie to people. I'm really not, because you have to keep track of who you told when and why and how come and uh I'm not I'm not smart enough to keep track of all that stuff. I just Well, I just try and be truthful all the time, every time, and I don't have to worry about it. But I know it can be challenging. So speak every man truth with his neighbor Four, we are members one of another. Going back to earlier, we're of the one spirit. We're a unity. We're working in unity together as a church family, together as a individual family, as a family unit. Let's speak truth. That's who we are. We ought to be known as truth-tellers. If Christians can't tell the truth, what do you expect the world to do? Really? If they don't even know Christ, you're gonna expect them to be different to a Christian that can't tell the truth? What else? Verse 26. He says, be angry and sin not. Let not the sun go down upon your wrath. This is going to be tricky. It's not the anger that's a sin. If that were true, Christ who became a sinner the moment he flipped over all the tables at the money changers and all those things. But what we have to ask is, what was he angry at? We should be angry at sin, not at some unfilled expectation that we had. Anger is a motivator. Do you ever notice that? When you get angry, you get motivated. I have fixed fixed many things when I got upset in the moment. And ended up breaking it worse than it was before. But I fixed it. Anger motivates us to do something. It really does. But what we need to control, remember now as Christians, is I need to be angry at sin and not my own selfishness. Because of a lot of our anger comes from, I expect this, I want this, I didn't get it, so now I'm mad. And I want everyone else to know it. That's where anger a lot of time comes from. Unfulfilled expectation. Something didn't go my way. I wanted it. Like the kid at Walmart. What they didn't get the candy. We just heard a kid. crying the wow Christmas time is right around the corner and they're crying out loud I thought ooh I remember those days embarrassing days as parents You're trying not to get all red-faced and everything as you walk out, you get embarrassed, your kids screaming like crazy. We had it happen at Sam's Club many, many years ago down the the road. I won't forget that one. It was one of my children many years ago But anger, what's it saying? Basically, be angry at sin and be forgiving Be angry at sin and we can be forgiving. Be angry and sin not let not the sun God Another practical thing, I know it says not let the sun go down on your wrath. I really think the understanding there is take care of it sooner than later. If you want to get into a deep discussion, usually at night when you're both tired, is probably not the best time. On a practical level. I'm just saying, on a practical level, when you're both tired and exhausted, don't try and hammer out the big situation of the day or the week of right then and right there. But the Bible says don't let the sun down your wrath, and you're gonna spend the next couple hours tired and exhausted trying to hammer out the situation. If you go to bed, wake up, maybe get a good breakfast, it may go better for you. That's just the practical pointer for whatever it's worth. But we need to be angry at sin, not angry I didn't get my way. And be forgiving, a part of that. I think that's part of that, and we'll see that at the end. And he says, Neither give place to the devil. The devil is a liar, he's a thief, he's a murderer. And he desires you to get angry and upset and do things irrationally and do things quickly and do things in the flesh. That's what Satan wants you to do. Don't give in. Don't give in to that. Then he continues on, our replacement principle. What else? Let him that stole Steal no more. That sounds basic, but he gives a little more information about it. But rather let him labor, working with his hands the thing that which is good that he may give to him that needeth. So here's someone they have a habit of stealing. They're taking something that does not belong to them because they either don't have it, they're covetous, and they want it. What he's saying is that person should get a job. if they don't have a job. So they can labor with a hands-wise. So when they labor, they can earn their own. And then listen, they're not stealing what they're doing. They're taking what they've earned so they can turn that around and give. It's the opposite of thieving and taking and stealing. So the person that steals, teach them, get a job, work with your own hands. So that way you can give to others. Be thoughtful of someone else. Because thievery oftentimes is selfish. I want now and I want to do as little as possible to get it. So I'm going to steal something. Where if you labor and you work, you understand one more the time and the value and the effort, and you're thinking about someone else. Now I have something by which I can give. It's the opposite. So one is selfishness take for self, the other is learning to think about others, to give to someone else. And then the older I get, the more it is just great. I like Christians more for giving. I really do. It's just fun with with the kids and with family. You want to give. I get more joy now out of giving many times. Obviously selfishly, I guess, with selfishly with my kids, than getting. I don't expect anything from them. I want to give to them because I love them. But here, if someone has a problem stealing, stop stealing. But you can't just stop stealing. I'm not gonna steal anymore. I'm not gonna steal anymore. I'm not gonna steal anym It's get a job, think of someone else. Stop thinking about yourself. Think about someone else that way you can give. The replacement principle. We must move on. Verse 29. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use is edifying, that may minister grace unto the hearers. So don't use harsh, mean words towards someone else. Instead of tearing them down, edify, build them up. I was a Lego kid growing up. I loved Legos. Now they're crazy and you give all these directions and they're all 3D. It takes no imagination anymore. You just follow the pictures and it's It's amazing what they do now with it. Like, oh well I'll write on the app for that and just build the Legos. That's not how it was when I was a kid. You actually use your magic and you've actually built things. And as you build and put piece upon piece, you're edifying, you're building something. That's what we're supposed to do with our mouths. We're not supposed to tear people down. A lot of times we tear people down because we don't want to better ourselves. Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth. But that which is used of edifying, speak kind, sweet words to another, to build them up, to encourage them. Anyone can tear someone down. And sticks and stones may break my bones and words will never hurt me. That's a lie. Words are very words are very hurtful. And they tear people down all the time. And as I was told many times growing up, if you don't have anything nice to say, just don't say it at all. Even that in itself can be helpful. But our words are supposed to build, to encourage. Don't tear down. Lying can tear down. So tell the truth. Don't let corrupt communication. Don't don't and the idea almost is cursing and swearing and being mean towards people. Why is it that there are certain words that people want to show that they're upset, they use language that is inappropriate? To show their lack of vocabulary? To show that, oh, now I'm really mad? Mad at what? For why? Because something didn't go your way? We need encouraging. Be kind with our words that it may minister grace unto the hearers. Really, we can start boiling this list down of think about someone else other than yourself. Be really good. Wouldn't you put on the new man? The old man is all about me, myself, and I, and I want, and I want to get. The new man is I understand what Christ has done for me, and I want to help give to others and think about others. So after all this, verses 30, 31, and 32 kind of start bringing this all to a conclusion again And grieve not the Holy Spirit of God, where you are sealed on the day of redemption. Hey, listen, you are a child of God. You are sealed. It's not going to affect your eternity. But Don't grieve. Don't don't tear down God's heart. He wants you as your child to do well. I don't think any of us in here want our children to be a horrible, no-good in life. Yeah, that's what I want for my kids. Do nothing right, do everything wrong, and I hope you suffer for your entire life. None of us want that as our for our children. God, as our Heavenly Father, doesn't want that for us. Don't grieve God. Replace the old with the good. Take off the garments, cast them away, don't return them, and start replacing them with that which is good, that is truthful, that is righteous, that is holy. And verses 31 and 32 as he brings it all together, and this is kind of a repeat as he's concluding this. Let all bitterness and wrath and anger and clamor and evil speaking be put away from you with all mouths. Get rid of it. Don't return to it. But he doesn't end there. He ends with verse 32. Yes, all those things are true and they are evil and they are ungodly. Yes, that is true. But we need to replace them with that which is good. So what do you do? Be kind one to another. Tender-hearted, forgiving. I think that's kind of applies to some of these other ones that we're as we're concluding. Be kind to one to the tender-hearted, forgiving one. You know how hard it is to forgive sometimes? It can be a challenge. Because we're still upset, we're still angry, we're still thinking about ourselves. It can be very hard. And be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another. Why? Even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you, Christians. Those assembled in God's house. God has forgiven us. He who is perfect, holy, righteous, and with no sin, if he can take his sin upon himself. And forgive us. Who are we to think as a sinner that we can't forgive another sinner? Who do we think we are if we can't forgive another sinner? When God, for Christ's sake, hath forgiven me. So we need to make this principle and this understanding replacing principle, putting off the old and going on to the new. We need to be realistic when we look at a new year. Who am I before God? I am a sinner that struggles with sin. I need God and His Word to help me. I need to replace that which is old with that which is new. Maybe you can take some time as you reflect. What am I struggling with? What can I replace it with? And may God help us be more successful as we cast off, put away the old man, and put on the new and discord new year and may God help us. Father, we are just so thankful for your word. And I am really thankful for a new year. It is easier to go to a fresh start, to do things anew. To get excited about a fresh new year. Could we use some of that and stack that on top of your word? Father, help us to put on that which is truthful, holy, righteous, to put on this new man of who we really are in Christ. That we would not just be Christians because we tell people we're Christians, but we could also demonstrate it through what we do with our conduct, with our communication. with the way that we make life decisions, that we would begin really to think about others the way that you think and forgive. Us. Father, we will need your grace and strength. Will we put forth the effort to know your word, study it, and be sensitive to the Spirit of God that we would not grieve. You help us to put on the new man in the new year with your grace and help. And for the cause and glory of our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen.