Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our service today and hope that you've had a great week and we are looking forward to just a wonderful time in the Lord's house, focusing our attention on his word. And if you are visiting with us today for the first time or the first time in a long time, we hope that you feel very warmly welcomed. And also I wanted to mention that if you'd like us to reach out to you and visit you sometime this week or the next week. Just take a moment to fill out one of those visitor cards and put that in the offering box in the back and we'll make sure that we reach out to you and just find out how we can be an encouragement to you. Also, before we do our regular announcements, I wanted to just say a big thank you to all the guys that came out yesterday. And we cut down, I believe, like five oak trees. um that have been dead and just hanging around on the property for a while, which is uh not necessarily safe. And so we were able to cut those down yesterday. We Not only cut them down but we cut them up and we split them and we stack them and there's a lot of firewood uh that'll be there in the back. So if there's anyone that uh that does burn and uh needs some firewood, uh there's plenty back there. It's not seasoned yet. So So you'll have to wait on it to dry out. But just wanted to say a big thank you to all those who came out and thankful for the safety and a good time. And got a couple more announcements and we'll open our service. All right, good morning. Uh nothing going on this week. Kind of a little lull, but starting next Sunday night. Next Sunday. We're going to begin our missions month. Because of that, you will want to be in the evening because we won't be streaming every evening service just because of the sensitiveness that revolves around the missionaries and where they'll be at. So just be aware that Sunday nights, not every service will be streamed. But we start next Sunday night with our missions month, and you'll see already a few listed out in your bulletin of who will end up having joining us. Not this Thursday, but the following Thursday will be the ladies' meeting. We 7 p. m. be in the back in the fellowship hall. That next weekend we have the Father Son campout. So in a couple weekends, first weekend in October, Father Son campout start planning that I heard some of the fathers, well, more some of the boys are excited than some of the dads, but a great opportunity um there. And then we have the Baltimore Rescue Mission in a couple weeks. So just nothing going on too soon, but start looking down the road. We have some exciting opportunities. Pastor Josh. Our opening scripture reading is found in Psalm 113, and we will start in verse 1. Praise ye the Lord. Praise ye servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forever. From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same, the Lord's name is to be praised. The Lord is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens Who is like unto the Lord our God? Who dwelleth on high? Who humbles himself to behold the things that are in the heaven and in the earth? He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth the needy out of the dung hill, that he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people He maketh the barren woman to keep house and to be a joyful mother of children. Praise ye the Lord. Our theme for today's worship is for us to be sobered by the humbling duties of Christian servanthood. Please let's all bow for prayer. Father, we're very grateful for this Lord's Day. Thank you for this church. And we're thankful that we can assemble together and have our hearts turn to you and to your word. As the word of God is opened, as it is preached, as it is read, I pray that our hearts would be attentive to it. Father, help us to think about the rich truths that will be expressed. As we sing these hymns of praise to you, I pray that we would think deeply about the songs that we are singing and that our hearts would be knit together as we with one voice praise you as a congregation. Father, we pray for those in our in our midst who are dealing with great burdens and And heartache and difficulty, I pray that your hands would strengthen them and help them at this time to be strengthened by the Word of God. I pray for those who would have loved to have been here today, but physically are unable for some reason. I pray that you would be at work in their lives, help them to be able to have access to these truths through the live stream and I pray that as they hear the word preached and as they hear the sing of praise to you, that their heart would be encouraged by the things that they are able to be exposed to. And I just pray that you'd help us this week to be diligent in our duties and to do our work as unto you and not unto men. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Before we sing these hymns, I just want to remind you to really think deeply about what we will be singing. The first hymn is Amazing Grace. We haven't actually sung this as a congregational hymn in a while, and uh it is a great favorite. It's one that uh you know very well, I'm sure. Then the second is Be Thou My Vision, such a beautiful hymn And just very reflective to remind us of the need to think deeply about the Lord and to dwell on him. And then the third hymn that we'll sing before our next scripture reading will be A Passion for the And I pray that that is our heart's desire, that we would have a deep passion to worship the Lord and to serve Him faithfully. So let's remember these songs and think about the words as we sing them together. And with that, let's all stand, open our hymn books to hymn number 147, Amazing Grace. We'll sing all five verses. I've had number one hundred forty-seven. Great singing. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number 374. 374. Be thou my vision. And back just to Page three seventy-one, A Passion for Thee We 'll sing both verses. Great singing this morning. Our scripture reading will be found in the Gospel of Luke. We'll be reading Luke chapter 17, and we'll be reading the first 10 verses. Luke chapter 17, verses 1 through 10. The scriptures say, Then said he unto the disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come. But woe unto him through whom they come. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he cast into the sea than he should offend one of these little ones. Take heed to yourselves. If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him, and if he repent, forgive him. And if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day, turn again to thee, saying, I repent. Thou shalt forgive him. And the apostles said unto the Lord, Increase our faith. And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, You might say to this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea, and it should obey you. But which of you, having a servant ploughing or feeding cattle, will say unto him by and by, when he has come from the field, go and sit down to meet And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself and serve me till I have eaten and drunken, and afterward thou shalt eat and drink Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not. So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, Say, we are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Let's continue our singing. Let's stand and open our hymn books to hymn number three 391. 391. We'll sing I Am Resolve. We'll sing the first three verses. We'll pause, greet one another after that third verse, and then we'll come back together and sing. Verse four, I am resolved. I am resolved. I am not good. Great singing. Our last song before the preaching will be in our blue book, number 105, for me to live. Is Christ. Change things up just a little bit because I do believe we could really reflect well on verse number two. So we'll sing the first verse. The second verse I'd like to have the instruments drop out. Sing it reflectively as a prayer reflection. before the Lord. We'll come back, sing verses three and four together, and we'll come back real strong on that fourth verse. Here we go. For me to live is Christ. Together I call the shape of my love We live with unfold for me to live in God I need to cry on it What we do Welling was gone. Oh Lord, we pray thy will be done for Master Girl. We pray you do a mighty word that will apples we die And when the answer comes to us in form of trial and test We fail to see your loving hand refining by May it hurt me now and make up me what you are Oh both be the payori Now I call themselves for may my heart be glorified for send your great And I may stand when you appear Bye bye till your return, O place the perfectly, and all the jobs be burned Well, the burning save more build is on Ring for the best of joy and God by your refining pay May it purge me out and make of me what you mean Oh more be the pa, your be valid Now let's go and tell the mosque each other, Lord. May your heart be glorified. Lord Okay, well our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back for your class. The rest of you would like to invite you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together Luke chapter 17. Luke chapter 17, and the passage we'll be looking at is verses 1 through 10 together. And the topic we're going to address this morning is putting discipleship into perspective. Putting discipleship into perspective. Let's read the words of our Lord together, Luke chapter 17, beginning in verse 1. Then said he unto his disciples , It is impossible, but that offenses will come. But woe unto him through whom they come. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones Take heed to yourselves. If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. If he repent, forgive him. If he trespassed against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day, he turn again unto thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. The apostle said unto the Lord, Increase our faith. The Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this thiccomine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root. Be thou planted in the sea. It should obey you. But which of you having a servant, ploughing or feeding cattle, will say unto him by and by when he has come from the field, Go sit down to meet And will not rather say unto him, Make ready, wherewith I may sup and gird myself, and afterward thou shalt eat and drink. Does he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not. So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say we are unprofitable servants. We have done that. Which was our duty to do. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really help us to understand this passage of Scripture in front of us and how to correctly apply these teachings of Christ. Father, as we think about the words of our Lord Jesus, I pray that you would help us to understand that this is not just his word to the disciple 2,000 years ago. But this is his word to the disciple today. As your children, we have a great duty to follow you and to serve you and to walk humbly in obedience to your commands. And so, Father, I pray that you'd help us as we read this text and as we reflect on these truths to understand the great continuity we find in these ten verses. And how each piece of what Jesus says is what we need today, so that we might be faithful disciples who walk consistent with the position that we enjoy in Christ. And that we would be faithful in whatever duty you call us to today. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us is a fascinating passage of Scripture. One would be, first of all, when you read through these verses, it appears that each of these statements that he makes don't have a whole lot in common. In fact You look and you he talks about offenses on disciples and the fact that if a person was to offend a disciple of Christ, it would have been better for this person. to actually be thrown into the sea and drowned and that they do the thing that they do. And then he talks about what happens if people trespass against us and how we're supposed to handle those interpersonal disputes. And then he talks about having faith the size of a mustard seed, and he talks about uprooting a tree and throwing it into the ocean, and you go, what in the world do these things have in common. But the fact is that actually everything that Jesus says in these ten verses are a part of a simple con continuity of thought putting the issue of discipleship into perspective. In other words, none of these things are really to be looked at as individual teachings as much as pieces of the same instruction. To help people follow Christ with an enduring commitment. That's really what this is all about. And if we were to actually step back from this passage of Scripture and look at where it fits in the book of Luke, you would see that Jesus Jesus is actually beginning to transition toward Jerusalem and in verse uh in chapter 18 or after these things in verse number 10 he's about to move to the next location. So in some ways you could say this is the conclusion of a section that we have been looking at that goes all the way back to Luke chapter 13. I would summarize the text in front of us the following way. Those who follow Christ should prepare themselves for difficulties from outside And from within the church. Now I use the word church, understanding that when Jesus is teaching this, the church did not exist yet. Okay? The church came after this. But when we think about the application side of this for us today We think of it in the context of church. So those who follow Christ should prepare themselves for difficulties from outside and within the church, the remarkable advance of God's kingdom, and the need to maintain a humble spirit. As we look at these verses, we're going to say that his desire is that we face the Christian life with a healthy perspective. And so let's look at each piece of this passage and then let's see how they all fit together. And in how we're supposed to apply it. So first of all, truth number one, Christ's disciples should prepare themselves for external hardships. And verses one to two, this is what he says. Then said he unto his disciples. And by the way, if we look back over the different things that Jesus says, sometimes he's speaking to his disciples, sometimes he's talking to The scribes and the Pharisees. disciples. Sometimes he's talking to his disciples, but the scribes and the Pharisees are listening in. And so it's important for us to kind of notice who he's talking to. He says to the disciples, It is impossible, but that offenses will come. But woe unto him through whom they come. It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck and he cast into the sea than that he should offend one of these little ones. Now what Jesus is saying is meant to encourage the believer in two very specific ways. He talks about two facts. The first is that external pressure will absolutely come to the disciple of Christ It is impossible for a person to live the Christian life without from time to time experiencing this tension of worldviews. And because we are Christians, we are aligned with a biblical worldview, ultimately aligned with the gospel, aligned with the Lord Jesus Christ, and there being this tension that flows out of that particular identification. In verse 1, he says, it is impossible, but that offenses will come. Now he's not suggesting that we should be unagreeable people. Or that we should be nasty or confrontational. He's simply stating you cannot live the Christian life the way you're supposed to without there being times that offenses will come. It's important for us to think about that because what it does is it prepares us for the inevitability of these kinds of situations. It helps us to realize when they come, we go, you know, Jesus already talked about this. I can make sense of why this person has such an antagonism toward my worldview. I can make sense of why this tension is here. It's not because of something I've said or done as much as because of who I am aligned with and what he has said and what he has done and how I am identified with him The second piece, though, that's very important, is that he emphasizes that God will deal with those who attack his people. Now, when he says in verse number one, Woe unto them through whom they come, it's his way of saying this. While it is true that the world hates the Christian worldview, and it is true that a person who is aligned with Christ is going to face external pressure It is also true that God will settle the record on the final day. In fact, the way that he puts it is, he says, It would be better for him that a millstone were hanged on his neck and he were cast into the sea than that he should offend one of these little ones. Is that not a stunning statement? It would be better for that person if in this life they threw him into the ocean and he drowned And that he faces the ultimate wrath of God on the final day. Now, why does he say that? It's actually to comfort the Christian To say I am not in the position to set every single matter straight. I am not in the position to carry grievances about how the world responds to me. I'm in the position of doing what is right, trusting God to settle those matters, and whatever happens, whenever it happens, how it happens, He's in charge and he takes care of it Let me just throw in a little reminder to you. There was a man who created great offenses on his little ones. You know what his name was? His name was the Apostle Paul. And here is a man, the Apostle Paul, who when Jesus says these words, would have unquestionably been on the side of an antagonist to the gospel. He hated God's people. He hated the message. And he was in great danger. But Jesus took his punishment. And what does Paul say when he talks about himself? He says, I am the chief of sinners. I persecuted the church, but I did it in ignorance. And so I'm reminded of a very simple fact. While it is true that God will deal with the world, it is also true that sometimes God plucks many people from the world. World, who are once antagonists of the gospel. It's important that we stay the course in the Christian life, that we don't get bent out of shape when things go wrong from outside of the church. There are lots and lots of examples I could draw from, but one comes to mind in Matthew chapter 5, where he says this, Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad. Great is your reward in heaven. so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. I don't know what we're going to face as a nation in the coming years. But I do know this. If we are like other generations, we should anticipate hard times will come. And if and when they do, we should be as faithful as those who went before us. And we should take to heart the scriptures that are in front of us, that when these things come, we rest. And the goodness and the sovereignty of God. What are the implications? Well, we need to be mentally prepared for varying levels of persecution, and we can take great comfort in God's care for us when we face these kinds of issues. He is never on the sidelines looking at us with any kind of coldness or complacency. He is very merciful and he's very tender towards us as his children, even when we face hardship. Second truth I want you to notice is that he turns from what we face outside of us, and he turns toward what we face within the context that we live in every single day. The fact is that we probably suffer more frustration from the people that we live with day in and day out than we do with those who run this government. Now, I will say this, if you watch a lot of news and you're on social media a lot, maybe that would not be the case for you. But honestly speaking, how much of your internal struggle and frustration Is a result of the interpersonal struggles that you face with at work, with someone in your family, with someone that you have to deal with on a regular basis. Interpersonal disputes are things we deal with all of the time. And Jesus very masterfully addresses that issue. Looking down at what he says in verses 3 to 4, he says, take heed to yourselves. If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. If he repent, forgive him. And if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turn against thee saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. Truth number two, they should be prepared to encounter interpersonal disputes. Now, when we talk about something like persecution, over the course of our lives, we may face things like that in very short seasons from time to time in our human experience. But when he talks about this issue of interpersonal disputes, he talks about someone trespassing you seven times in a day. Okay? The reason he says that is because this is the way life is. When we work with people, if you're homeschooling your children, if you're a mother raising little kids, if you're someone who manages people in a work environment. Every single context that we deal with, because everybody in that context is a sinner, there's going to be friction. There are going to be interpersonal issues. And those interpersonal issues can become debilitating in the way that they wear us down. We go through the book of Proverbs as a family in the mornings. And one of the proverbs that we dealt with kind of recently was that he talked about a man who had a wife who was contentious. And he said that she's like a continual dripping. And by the way, when I apply this to my kids, I said it goes both ways. It could be a husband too, okay? So it's not just a wife, but the point is this. If you're sitting there and you hear Drip There comes a point where you're like, I'm tired of this. I don't want to hear this anymore. It's wearing me down. The more and more I hear this, the more crazy I'm getting. Well, you know what that is That's the way interpersonal relationships work sometimes. There's a drip and a drip and a drip and a drip. And then we really get frustrated. This is what Jesus is addressing here You say even disciples, even people who love Jesus, can have these kinds of things happen? Of course. Absolutely they can happen. They will happen. It's a part of life And so he gives four very specific commands about that particular kind of challenge to the disciple. The first is this. He says, guard your heart. And verse 3, he says, take heed to yourselves. Before he talks about how to address your brother your sister, the person that has been causing you a lot of internal frustration, before you ever address them, you've got to look inside first. By the way, we see this all over the scriptures. We think about Matthew 18 and Matthew 19, where he talks about this very teaching. It's the same thing. He says, if your brother trespasses. Go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. Or we think about Matthew chapters 6 and 7 during the Sermon on the Mount, where he talks about casting out the beam that is in your eye so that you'll have the ability to speak see clearly to cast out the speck that is in your brother's eye. Or we go to Galatians chapter 6 and he talks about the fact that you who are spiritual are to Restore one in a spirit of meekness and consider yourself lest you also be tempted. Before he ever gets into how we address another person, he says, Consider yourself. Take heed to your own heart. A lot of contention. A lot of contention is not one-sided. A lot of contention is not one-sided. Now many times if you break it down you'll see one person kind of instigated it and did something wrong and then the next person kind of responded and they did something wrong and the next person Kind of added to the problem and then they kind of add to the problem and all of a sudden it is a really big tangled mess. And then maybe at some point one person kind of backs down and the other person doesn't back down. But he says If you're going to address interpersonal issues, you've got to look at your own heart first. Nobody in this room can control the next person. But you can control your own heart. Second thing he says: address bitterness. Verse 3: if thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him. Now, there are some people that when they read that they're like, I love having the opportunity because God tells me to to rebuke my brother. But you're missing something. If you're responding in anger, nobody's got to tell you to rebuke your brother. You ever thought about that? You have to tell somebody to rebuke somebody when they are internalizing. They're internalizing the anger that's in their heart. In other words, Jesus is not saying, hey, when you lash out at that person who got you upset, you're obeying me. That's not what he's saying. He's saying when you're angry and it's boiling in your heart and you're sick and tired of what they're saying and doing and they don't even know it. Or maybe they do know it, but they're not willing to address the issue. You have no right to sit down and just internalize that anger And internalize that grievance and internalize that bitterness. You have no right to do it. You say, well, isn't it better to like defer your anger than to lash out of a person? Of course it is. But there's a big difference between internalizing anger and overlooking a person's fault. Because overlooking a person's fault is saying, you know what, they wronged me, but I'm not going to hold it against their account. It's not even worth getting into. I'm willing for the sake of peace to overlook this grievance. continue on in life. And I'm not holding it against them. I'm not boiling internally. I'm okay with it. I've accepted that this is the way life can be sometimes But when you say you're overlooking it, but in fact you're internalizing it, that's when this text says, address your bitterness. Now, someone might say when we talk about bitterness, which we talked about for an hour this morning in Sunday school. So if you're in Sunday school in my class, you're like, whoa, we really hit this topic. God's providence, folks. That's just the way it goes sometimes. But listen carefully. If we're internalizing bitterness, it's very easy to justify it. The truth is most of the time when we get bitter about something, we were wronged. In fact, sometimes we were grievously wronged. But the fact that we were grievously wrong and we're unwilling to address the issue and we're unable to actually go to the person to try to get a reconciliation. That's where the problem lies. And so he says, guard your heart and address the bitterness that you have in your soul. Thirdly, willingly forgive. And verse number three, he says, if he repents, forgive him. Now again, when someone reads this verse, if he repents, forgive him, there would be some in our congregation, or maybe some who are listening going, well, I know how it works. If they don't say it the way I want them to say it, and they don't make the concessions that I want them to make, and I am not able to actually hear the words I want to hear the way I want to hear them, to see their heart broken and begging for forgiveness, I'm not going to say a word to them, I forgive you. Now I don't think that's what Jesus is suggesting here, folks. He's simply saying this. When you go to somebody who's wronged you, and you address the issue correctly because you've checked how you're going to them yourselves. You should anticipate, especially someone who is a brother in Christ or a sister in Christ, someone who loves you, that when you come to them in such a manner, their heart will be tender. And they will see their wrong and they'll address it. And they'll say, Would you forgive me? In that situation, what are you to do? forgive them. The issue can be put behind you. And what does this do? This actually provides a bridge to strengthen relationship that has been fractured. And by the way, in our marriages, those who've been married a long time The reason that you've been married a long time and that your marriage is stronger than it used to be is not because you live life uh as a married couple without ever having a contention. It's that you Figured out how to work things out the right way. And maybe you didn't always figure how to work things out the right way, but eventually you did, and things changed and you grew and you matured and you developed. And so the idea is, when there's a problem, look internal, address the issue, forgive. The third statement is in fact the most fascinating of all of them. In verse 4, he says, if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, Seven times in a day, he returned again to thee, saying, I repent, thou shalt forgive him. Now, again, I don't think Jesus is sitting here going, on number eight, crush him. Because I mean let's think about it for this. When Peter was talking to Jesus, he says, well, how many times should I forgive my brother? Seven times? Where did he get that from? Well he he heard Jesus say this and and he was probably waiting for Jesus to pat him on the back and say, Peter, well done, you figured it out. And Jesus is like, how about seven times seven? And Peter's like, What what's going on here? I thought I was doing it the right way. What does Jesus say? He's saying don't catalog the wrongs of others. Don't catalog the wrongs of others. You ever had somebody come to you and they're like, I have an issue with you? Okay, let's hear it. And they pull out a list. You're like, hold on. I thought you said you had an issue. Well, they're all interconnected. Like, uh maybe they are, but I feel like we have a lot to overcome here. Yeah, I'm laughing and you're laughing, but I hate to say it. A lot of us we do that. We're we're saying number five, number six, number seven. All right. He does it one more time. And Jesus in his own way is simply saying, don't keep records of people's wrongs. If you do that, you will destroy your heart. You won't get along with anybody. And nobody will want to get along with you. It will be rough. Now, why is Jesus addressing this issue to the disciple? Well, maybe one of the reasons is because his disciples were quite an interesting group of people. You had Simon the Zealot, and you had Max the Max, Matthew the tax collector. And so here are these two guys. One is like, get rid of the Romans, and the other is like, I work for the Romans. I don't think they got along all the time. So they might have had some interpersonal disputes from time to time. Could you imagine doing with a guy like Peter? He's always gotta have something to say. And he's always gotta be the first one to say something and Yeah. The fact is that Jesus had to say this to disciples because when people are working together in the Lord's work, they're still sinners. And they still struggle with interpersonal issues. And by the way, Satan loves to plant seeds, to bring dissension between God's people when they're serving him. And so we see these four very simple commands, guard your heart, address bitterness, willingly forgive, refuse to catalog the wrongs. And I'll summarize it this way. We're going to face interpersonal conflicts even when we are striving to serve the Lord. These conflicts should motivate us to take personal inventory first. We cannot allow ourselves to sit on grievances and allow them to fester in our hearts. When people genuinely desire forgiveness, we've got to be willing to grant it. We cannot allow ourselves to keep a running list of wrongs. Now, after hearing Jesus say this, what do you think was going on in the disciples' minds? I can tell you, Jesus, this is impossible. There is no way that we can live according to such an ethic. Peter's like, I can't deal with my brother. And his brother's going, I can't deal with my brother. And they're singing this and they're and somebody says, well, we need a little help here, Jesus. And so that leads us to the third truth. Verses 5 and 6 he says, Then the apostle said unto the Lord, Increase our faith. I'll put this another way. Jesus, there's no way we can do this. So you gotta somehow put into our hearts that we can do this. Increase our faith. And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea, and it should obey you. Now this is an interesting statement, and I think that when when we go to a passage like this, sometimes we read this statement If you have faith as a grain of mustard seed, you might say unto this sycamine tree, be plucked up by the root, plant it in the sea, and it should obey you. And for some reason we take that verse, we pick it up, and we completely ignore everything that's been said. And everything that's gonna be said, and we apply it in all kinds of areas that it was never intended to be applied into The simple fact is that these are people that should anticipate the remarkable advance of God's kingdom and they were going to be able to be a part of it. And for them to be a part of this work that God is doing They were going to learn how to do what he told them to do. His disciples needed their faith to be strengthened. That's why they said, increase our faith. They also needed the assurance that God will accomplish the work in them and through them if their faith was directed properly. That's why Jesus says, if You had faith as a grain of mustard seed you might say unto this sycamine tree, be plucked up by the root and planted in the sea, and it should obey you. I want to break down what Jesus is saying a little bit so we can hopefully understand it properly. The first word if is important. This is a promise with a condition. What he's saying is something that is true. But you have to respond to what he is saying. And these disciples had to respond to what he is saying. The second thing is this: the key is not the size or the maturity or the strength of the faith. And that's why he says, faith as a grain of a mustard seed. What Jesus is basically saying here is that if you will believe, even small, even though it's not very big, it's not very strong, it's not very mature, But if you will believe what I'm saying and you will act on what I'm saying, the things that I can do through that are quite remarkable And what I can do through that is something you can't anticipate, but in fact I will accomplish it. God can accomplish the impossible. And that is what he means when he says this sycamine tree. Now I I had in my c my mind this question. Was Jesus like leaning against a tree when he said that? This tree right here, if you would have faith like the grain of a mustard seed, this tree right here, you could you could uproot it. Is that what he's saying? No That's not what we say. Or when he says something very similar, in a different set of contexts, where he says, This mountain, is he looking at a mountain saying, See that mountain right there? If you'd have faith like a grain of a mustard seed, you could speak to that mountain and it would start moving to the side. Is that what he's saying? No, it's not. Jesus is referring to something that has just been stated, that is going on at that moment, and he uses a tree. To illustrate what he's talking about. You say, well, what is this sycamine tree? Well, in the immediate context, he's talking about two things One is how Christians are to relate to persecution. And the other is what Jesus says about forgiveness. The very thing that these guys said, based on hearing this from you, we do not believe we can do this. You need to strengthen our faith. So what does Jesus say? If you just believe this a little bit. And take a step on the basis of that little bit of faith, you can do it. That's what he's saying. That root that has gone deep into your soul that seems like it's absolutely impossible to uproot, it can be impossible. In other words, the person who was sitting there who had great bitterness in their heart toward a brother or a sister. And that bitterness was something that had literally controlled every aspect of this person's innermost being. If that person would take what Jesus said seriously. They could see God remove that. And he's actually not just talking about the immediate context. There's actually an even bigger picture that's going on as well. As we think about chapters 13 here to chapter 17, Jesus has been teaching to the disciples He's been speaking to the scribes and the Pharisees. He's been speaking to the disciples. He's had all these combative interactions back and forth, back and forth, back and forth, back and forth. And those disciples are watching all of this. And those disciples are hearing all of this, and they're starting to get this sense that the group of people who are running the country And the group of people that are teaching in the synagogues, and the group of people that are managing the temple, and the group of people that the nation is following hate Jesus so much they'd murder him if they got the chance. And they're sitting there going, how in the world is Jesus going to accomplish what he says he's going to accomplish? And how in the world are we going to be able to be a part of that? And so there's really kind of two things that are here. One is the immediate stuff that he's talked about. forgiveness issue, dealing with the struggles of those who are persecuting God's people, but stepping back, they realize there is this building animosity to Christ, and we're identified with it, and it doesn't seem like this is going to move. In the right direction. So what is he saying? He's saying, if you would just believe me a little bit and you take action on what I'm saying, I can do those things. things. Do you ever sit here at this point in history and go, this country could never turn back to God? Do you ever sit down and go, how in the world do we get people in power that we have? Do I really trust that this country's got enough sense to vote in a way that's going to be good for its own interests? And even if they do, I mean, we can't reverse all the damage that's been done in this nation just on the most basic family level. Think of how many people are raising children and they're not restraining them at all? They're not teaching them that there's a God in heaven that they're answerable to How many people are raising their families in a completely secular worldview? And you look at that and you go, is it possible for this to be turned around? I think that sometimes. Oh, you have a little faith. Let's focus on what's most important. Let's do the right thing in our homes, in our church. Let's trust God with that little grain of faith and realize that He's going to build His church no matter what goes on around us. Let's realize even the most insurmountable situations that we're dealing with in our own personal context, we can do the right thing. We don't have any excuse. We can act on what he has stated. What are the implications here? Well the implications are despite the external pressures of persecution and the internal pressures of interpersonal conflicts, God will accomplish his work. If we trust him, even when our faith is small and weak, he will accomplish great things that we could never imagine were possible. We can obey him in the most difficult situations we face. He will build his church and nothing can stop it. Anyone can be a part of this great work. So just have that little grain of faith. That trust and the care and the promises and the commands of scripture. Truth number four, they have to serve with a humble spirit. Now, it is very easy for us in our thinking to say verses 7, 9, 8, 9, and 10 have nothing to do with what he's just said. But that's not true. Because Jesus is not just telling them if you had faith like a grain of a mustard seed, you could do the things that I've said, but he's going to say, and here's how you combat the wrong thinking that you have. They've got to serve their master with a humble spirit. Look at what he says in verses 7 through 10. He says, but which of you having a servant ploughing or feeding cattle will say unto him, by and by, when he has come from the field, go and sit down to meet? It will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken, and afterwards thou shalt eat and drink. Does he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not. So likewise, ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you. Say, we are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do. Now let me kind of step back for just a moment and kind of put us into this situation and think about some of the ways people could have responded to what Jesus was saying. You have this very difficult person that you're dealing with. And you know that you shouldn't respond to them the way that you do. And so you hear the teachings of Christ and you go, okay, first of all, I'm going to look inside. I'm going to make sure my heart towards them is right. Okay, I did that. The first thing that pops in my mind is that was hard. I'm doing great. And then the next thing you do, I've been internalizing this, I gotta say something about it. So you go and you take that step, which is not an easy thing to do. Hey, I think that you've wronged me. I don't know what they're gonna say to me We have this conversation. And I get over my fear and I get over my apprehension of what might happen. And the conversation goes very well. And they say, You're right, I was wrong. Please forgive me. And we forgive them. And we go, I'm doing really good right now. This is great. And then they wrung us again. And I go, okay, seven times. All right. And we go through this again, and they we get it resolved, and then it happens a third time, it happens a fourth time, and it happens a fifth time, and it happens seven times in the day By the end of the day, we're going, you know what? I'm a pretty good Christian. I mean, look at me, man. I have forgiven people that have wronged me seven times. I didn't internalize the anger. I went to them. We resolved the issue. I forgave them. My heart is right. I'm the kind of Christian Jesus wants. You know what he says? Actually, you just did what you're supposed to. Did you catch that? You just did what you're supposed to. You say, no, I did something exceptional. He says, no, you didn't. You did your job. Now, these verses, I think when we read them, I think some of us we go, man, that's really harsh. Well, let's not forget that Jesus is the master, but he also served us. I'm going to go there in just a second. But Jesus is never telling you to do something he himself has not already done. And it would be a totally new point if he hadn't done what he did. But let's notice what he says here. Four simple thoughts. One, servants give rather than receive. Verse 7, if which of you having a servant ploughing or feeding, will say unto him by and by, When you come from the field, go and sit down to meet. He says, you don't do that. He works in your house to prepare your table. Now I'm glad we don't live in such a context anymore, but most of the time the situations he's talking about, this is a person who owed a debt, and this is why they're working for another person. That's why the Bible says that a borrower is a servant to the lender. Because you have to pay off the debt. And here's the guy. I worked in the field and I did my work. And he says, Well, you also need to prepare the table as well. Servants give, they don't receive. Verse number eight, will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith thy may sup and gird thyself and serve me till I have eaten and drunken, and afterwards thou shalt eat and drink? They put the master's will first. Verse number nine, does he think that that servant, because he did the things that were commanded of him? He says, I true not. He doesn't thank him. They are not commended for doing their basic duties. If you've worked for someone and you're supposed to get get to work at eight o'clock in the morning and you show up at eight o'clock and you you scan in and you do your job, do you go to your boss and say, I just want to say you should commend me because I came at eight o'clock? You go Well if you came at 801, we'd have something to talk about. You came at 8, that's what you're supposed to do. You're like, oh So that's what Jesus is saying. Nobody commends a person for just doing what they're supposed to do. That's what they're expected to do. Fourthly, they should endeavor to faithfully serve with a humble heart. Verse number ten When ye shall have have done all those things which were commanded of you, saying, We are unprofitable servants, we have done that which was our duty to you. to do. This is what Jesus is saying. Do not prop yourself up and get a big head because you're simply doing what you're supposed to do. You know how many Christians feel really good about their service to God? And if they could really step back and see it from his perspective, what they're doing is very small in life eternity. Very small. The truth is, the things that we think make us commendable to God, they don't. We aren't commended because of what we do for God. We're commended because of what he did for us. If if we were to come into God's presence and say, look at all the things that I've done for you, it'd say, Well, those are called filthy rags. And I say, I'm glad there's Christ's righteousness. That's why salvation had to be in such a way. In fact, even the Apostle Paul, as he talks about his understanding of salvation, he says, the things that were counted gained to me, I counted them loss. For the excellency of the knowledge of Christ. And I count those things done that I might win Christ. And be found in him not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but the righteousness of God, which is by faith, the righteousness of God, which comes from God Himself. So Paul was building up all these credentials in his mind, and he felt like God should accept him. And when he stands before Jesus, Jesus says, why are you kicking against the pricks? You're trying to build up your reputation before me, and it's nothing. It accomplishes nothing. Now, someone might say, well, then why in the world do we serve God? We serve him because we love him. And when you love him, you don't keep track of all the things that you've done. You just do them because they're free in your heart. You say, well, why would we love such a God? Because he loved us first. In Matthew chapter 20, Jesus said, You know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them. And they that are great exercise authority upon them, but it shall not be so among you. Whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister. Whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant, even as the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto you, but to minister and to give his life a ransom for many. Philippians 2, 5, let this mind be in you which is also in Christ Jesus. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. And took upon himself the form of a servant and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. No one should serve God because they're trying to earn his favor. Nobody. Nobody should serve God because they think they're going to impress them. And nobody should serve God because they're trying to impress other people. We simply should serve God because we love Him, understanding what He accomplished for us. And so the whole point of this passage of scripture is to simply say: if you've had just a little bit of trust, and you in your mind recognize you're a servant, not a master. You can do these things. You can do these things. And this is how we will be faithful as servants of the Lord. We've got to serve him with such a mindset that in fact we serve him out of love. We serve him because he is worthy of so much praise and glory. We aren't serving him because of something we get out of it. We aren't serving him because we're trying to get other people to look at us in a certain way. We're not serving him because we're trying to build up some pressure point that we can kind of force God to give us what we want. That's not why we serve God. We serve him because we love him. So the question is, how do you apply the text? A couple words I want you to remember. The first word is the word preparation The Christian life at times will be very difficult. It may be lonely, and we may feel vulnerable and targeted. We will at times experience friction with the people closest to us. We must navigate these challenges with endurance, wisdom, and grace. If you're going to stay the course and be a faithful disciple of Christ, you've got to be prepared for what you'll encounter You can't go into the Christian life with a naivety. You've got to be willing to accept you don't see things the right way when you encounter things that in fact They bring to the surface wrong thinking about the Christian life. The second word is the word encouragement. The task before us, the obstacles we encounter in God's work may seem extremely daunting. The advance of God's kingdom where we live may appear very slow and weak. We are tempted to doubt God and what he is doing in us, through us, and around us. Even the smallest faith when placed upon the right source will enable us to be involved in God's great work of building his eternal kingdom in all ages. The things that you're doing in the Lord's work that might seem very small and nobody sees them but God, they're actually important. The things that seem very ordinary and mundane, if they fall into the things that God commands us to do, they're actually huge. And most people don't do them. The greatest people are people who understand what matters most and they do it. Not what the world thinks matters most, what God says matters most. Nothing can overthrow the work God is doing. We have the privilege to be a part of it. So I leave this final reminder. Success should never result in pride. Endurance and faithfulness should never become credentials we present before other people. We must be diligently performing our duties with a humble, happy heart that delights in the privilege of serving the one who gave everything for us. us. Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to do that. Our Father, as we think about this text of Scripture, May the truths that we have just looked at sink very deep into our souls. Father, help us to serve you with great joy. Because we understand how kind you are and how good you are. When we encounter difficulties, whether externally or within our immediate context, help us to navigate each of those situations In a godly way. Help us to rely upon you. Help us to grow as we see you work. Help us to be faithful. Help us to realize we're just servants. Help us not to cultivate in any way an entitled attitude towards one another, towards you. We ask all this in Christ's name, amen. Please, I'd like us to turn for our final hymn to three hundred and ninety. I surrender all. And I'd like us to just sing the first and the last verses of this hymn, but I'd like us to sing it having thought about everything we've heard today. What's read. What's preached on, what we've sung about. Let's sing this with a genuine desire in our hearts to submit to the Lord's purposes. Please let's stand together. First and the last verses of I surrender all. All to Jesus I surrender all to my All in the easy to let on easy days for the friends and Sorry, we got the next stuff on the last verse there. Well I hope that you'll be able to join us this evening. Uh Brother Josh Moore will be preaching tonight. I'm looking forward to that. I want to mention that we will be starting our missions month officially next Sunday. And this is our Our theme for the month, also when you head out this morning, make sure you pick up one of our missions booklets that's going to tell you a little bit about the people that are going to be speaking on each of those weeks. And the way that we're going to do it is most of them are going to do the presentation side and the Sunday evening service at the chunk of time that we normally do our missions moment and our our favorites and all that. So we will not do those things. We'll have our missionaries giving their presentations. They'll be uh answering questions based on the time. See how that goes. And they'll be preaching in the evening. And as was mentioned earlier, some of them are going to be serving in sensitive areas, so we will not necessarily live stream all of them. Those that we can, we will, but just be aware of the fact that that some of them we will not be able to. And just looking forward to the group that we have with us this week, I think, or this this month, I think it's going to be Just a really great time and our missions month is always a lot of fun. It's a time that we can really be taught about missions, that our hearts can be rekindled in this area. And um it's kind of similar to like a revival month, okay, because we're going to be talking about reaching the nations and how we are able to participate in that as individuals. So Please come with a heart that desires to be fed and challenged, instructed, and come with a heart to minister to these missionaries. They they need that encouragement. And some of them they serve in areas that are They don't have a lot of uh American friends. Sometimes it's a mission filled for a reason, okay? Um and so uh sometimes they're very lonely and they deal with a lot of pressures that are different. Similar but different than than what we do. And so we want to be a church that really encourages these missionaries. And they say, man, my time at Anchor was just so uplifting. Not for our sakes, obviously after this morning, but because we want to be a blessing to them. So please let's keep that in our minds. as we uh have that this coming month. I'd like to ask if Brother Tony Florio can come and close us in prayer. And if you're visiting with us today, stop by and greet my wife and I. We want to be an encouragement any way that we can. Heavenly Father, as we about to go home, we are gr grateful to be here. Oh Father, we We thank you and praise you for the sermon today and Lord we are willing and waiting for the next week as our mission f missionaries will come and report So we pray Father that you bless the rest of the day. Bless those which are here today. I pray, Father, if there is anyone in here tonight, I mean today. which is not saved. I pray Heavenly Father that today will be the day of salvation. In Christ I ask it. Amen.