Before we get started, I think it's important to remember where we are. Kind of walk through the lay of the land of where we've been so far. And we're right in the middle of the story involving Jeroboam. We've kind of seen all the way back, we jumped through, and we When over 1 Kings 11, when we first are introduced to Jeroboam, one of the things to understand is that Jeroboam is the result of Solomon's unfaithfulness, resulted in God splitting the nation. We know that it God sent to Jeroboam and he told him that he was going to be the next king. He was chosen by God, just as Saul and David before him, and that because of Solomon's unfaithfulness. But because of David's faithfulness, the nation would not be split during Solomon's time. But because of Solomon's unfaithfulness, during his son's time, the nation would be split. And one of the things importantly we remember is that just as the nation was split, and we look at that very negatively, and it was not a part of God's, I would say, greater plan. But it being split, God had a simple desire, and that that was he alone would still be the God of the divided nations, that he would still be the God of Judah, and he would still be the God of Israel. He did not desire that that would change. In 1 Kings 12, Rehoboam's folly and Jeroboam's apostasy, we end up seeing Jeroboam's poor counsel just confirmed the prophecy. It split the nation. Jeroboam takes his ten tribes. Rhaboam takes his two, and the nation splits. And as Pastor Josh walked through last week, and it was ultimately that Jeroboam departed from God's promise and builds other centers of worship. He built one at the very top in the north at Dan and he built a second one at the city of Bethel. And it was here that we have to remember that God gave, I would say, a very significant promise to Jeroboam, saying that, if you will follow me and serve me, I will have your line continue like I did with David's. What if you really were to pause and think about that, what God was saying, we think about the Davidic line and how significant that is, and that this line would continue just like David's. A very significant promise. And Jeroboam says, no, thank you. I want to do it my way. And I'm going to emphasize my way as we walk through this. If you will with me, read, we're going to read jump at, I know I said 1 Kings 13, but look back one verse and we're going to start in 1233. 1233. So he offered, he being Jeroboam, offered upon the altar which he had made in Bethel, the fifteenth day of the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised of his own heart. And ordained a feast unto the children of Israel, and he offered upon the altar burnt incense. And behold, there came a man of God out of Judah by the word of the Lord unto Bethel. And Jeroboam stood by the altar to burn incense And he cried against the altar and the word of the Lord and said, O altar, altar! Thus saith the Lord, behold, a child shall be born unto the house of David, Josiah by name. And upon thee shall he offer the priests of the high places that burn incense upon thee, and men's bones shall be burnt upon thee. And he gave a sign the same day saying, This is the sign which the Lord has spoken. Behold, the altar shall be rent, and the ashes that are upon it shall be poured out. And it came to pass when Jeroboam heard the saying of the man of God, which he cried against the altar in Bethel, that he put forth his hand from the altar, saying, Lay hold on him. And his hand, which he had put forth against him, dried up, so that he could not pull it in again to him. The altar was rent, and the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign which the man of God had given the word of the Lord And the king answered and said to the man of God, Entreat now the faith of the Lord thy God, pray for me, that my hand be restored me again. And the man of God besought the Lord, and the king's hand was astored him again, and became as it was before And the king said unto the man of God, Come home with me, and refresh thyself, and I will give thee a reward. And the man of God said unto the king, If thou wilt give me half thine house, I will not go with thee. Neither will I eat bread nor drink water in this place. So it was charged me by the word of the Lord, saying, Eat no bread, nor drink water, nor turn again by the same way that thou camest. So he went another way and returned not by the way that he came to Bethel. We were to look and summarize this passage. I want us to sit grab the simple aspect and we're going to walk through the whole chapter. Even the next 20 verses or so, it says I want to understand that Jeroboam's earlier disobedience caused God to send a prophet to confront him. And the prophet's initial faithfulness was not guaranteed to finishing faithfully. As his death would ultimately be a testimony of disobedience, or rather obedience to his word was so significant. The proposition I would want us to understand is that God desires that we glorify him by obeying his word. I'd even go as far as to say that he is glorified when we radically obey him. And we're going to see this idea of radical obedience, just the simple scene throughout the story. The first thing to understand, though, is God's judgment was because of Jeroboam's disobedience. God's judgment because of Jeroboam's disobedience. The first thing we begin with is where he was at. He began in Bethel and he was there and it was that the man he was offering altars. To kind of put that in perspective, he was directly disobeying what God had said to do, he was in the wrong place at the wrong time, if almost so you could say that in so many ways. And this man, man of the Judah, he's going to be repeated over and over, I'm just going to simply call him the pro Judah's prophet. I'm just gonna call him that rather than the man of God out of Judah every time that he's mentioned. But uh Judah's prophet. Judah's prophet here, he comes unto him in the word of Bethel and it's this pr timing is important. Because one of the things we're going to see is this ultimately is God's grace throughout the story. But the man of God, of Judah, comes here, this prophet, and he makes two prophecies. The first one is a future prophecy of a greater destruction. There's as he talks about what's going to come on there, the man of the house of David, Josiah by name. It's significant and it's important to remember. What happens? This happens later if you were to write down. We're going to jump to it, but if you were to look at it later, 2 Kings 23. 2 Kings 23, Josiah. comes and he's going to destroy the temple of Bethel and there's a great destruction. Again, we'll walk through it later. But one of the important things is Josiah. Yahweh heals, supports, and heals. The Lord will support and heal. And it's this idea that Bethel is supposed to be ultimately this great. Sin against the Lord. And God says there's gonna be a time I'm gonna send someone to come and heal and support and support me and heal this land. So we have this important outlay. But then the second prophecy that's even more important is It's to give him the authority to recognize he's sent by God. The second prophecy there is a judgment. Sorry. Prophecy is a validated power and source. He says, just to verify this, uh this is the sign, verse three, he goes, and he gave a sign the same day saying, This is the sign which the Lord hath spoken. Behold, the altar shall be rent, and the ashes that are upon it shall be. shall be poured out. And that's exactly what happens a few verses later. He wants to say, this authority, I'm not just a madman that's mad at you, Jeroboam, for what you did, but I am sent by God. And Jeroboam has the incorrect response to this. Oftentimes when we read through, we walk into the life of David. We walk through Solomon. We walk through Saul. And we can remember if you remember different times as we've been walking through them for the last year or so now. I want you to think about how often when someone made a mistake and the man of God went up to them and confronted them, there are different responses. Saul always had an excuse. David, woe is me, he responds and he says, you are right. He tears his clothes and he repents and he turns towards God. Jeroboam has a third option presented to him that we've not seen yet. This option rather is Lay hold on this man. He wants him out of his sight. He wants to take care of him. He wants him gone. He's not just trying to backpedal a little bit like maybe we saw Saul doing. We saw David who went forward and says, God, you are correct. That was on me. But we see Jeroboam come forth and he says, I'm actively fighting against God. I will not listen to this. The way that he repeatedly rejected uh God. By the way, this is Jeroboam ignores God in many ways. The first thing he does is lay hold on this man. He rejected his response is to condemn the man rather than repent to God. He points to the man saying, This is from you, it's your fault, not from God. He repeatedly rejected God. He was building idols. His warning of the prophet here, he's given multiple opportunities of grace, and yet he misses them. Jeroboam's cry for help though whenever he puts forth that hand he says slay hold on that man it says his hand dried up and it would not return to him again whether that was it was stuck out there or dropped at his side and was unusable by him One of the things that's very notable is when he cries for help. His heart is shown. If we were to look back at 1233, if you notice why he built the altars the way he did. It says, and so he offered upon the altar which he had made in Bethel, the fifteenth day of the eighth month, even in the month which he had, notice this, devised of his own heart. It wasn't from God that he made these decisions, but this worship of an idol came from the way he wanted it done. We jump down to verse 6. As the king answered unto the man of God, Entreat now the face of the Lord thy God. He doesn't even try and cover it up a little bit and backpedal and say, hey, this is the Lord my God. He goes, no, this is your God. My God is over here. This calf, that is my God. Your God. He seems to have power. Can you entreat him? He obviously has more power than my cast does. I almost see the arrangement of these verses to show an opportunity of grace that God extended here yet again. Because Bethel was a place of worship that was supposed to be done, that there was going to be a city there, it was an important city. There was an altar. But it wasn't until he stretches forth his hand that the altar falls apart. I believe that this could have been an opportunity for if if Jeroboam had responded and repented and turned back, that God said, because of your heart, I will not do these things, just as he's done so many times before. That he would not destroy maybe that altar in that day because of the heart of Jeroboam if he would have repented. But Jeroboam doesn't do that Jeroboam continues forward, as that is the theme of Jeroboam, is he's going to keep pushing forward. He's an industrious man as he was originally told. He keeps pushing forward in the wrong direction, but he keeps pushing forward. And when he is healed, whenever Jeroboam's healed, he tempts Judah's prophet, the temptation and his response. I would believe that Jeroboam looks at everything has a price and that it can be purchased just as many others and Bibles we're going to look at in a second. But Jeroboam sees the man of God with power and not the source. Notice in verse 7 what he says. He says, he says unto the man of God, come home with me and refresh thyself. I will give thee a reward. He goes, I'm going to reward you. Why don't you become one of my priests? Earlier in chapter 12 talks about whoever wanted to be a priest could be a priest. This man obviously has power, so let him come unto us. Let him be one of my priests. Let him have power that this God has, and let us worship with him. Let me have him. But by way, this is the same thing that happens with Naaman and Elisha's servant. He's tempted and he does turn towards it. But it's also the same idea of Simon Magus in Acts 8 that he wants to Buy that he believes that he can just simply buy God's power. This is not the first time, but it happens over and over as we look through Bible history that this continues. Just as when Jesus was tempted in the wilderness, this man's response is the same way. He responds back with the word of the Lord. Verse 9. So even though he was tempted to go do this, he remembers that the Lord says, Eat no bread, nor drink water, nor turn again the same way that he came. So he went another way. He didn't wait for Jeroboam to respond, he went another way. But just as Jeroboam was judged for his disobedience, the same can be said of this prophet. Judgment because the man of God of Judah's disobedience, because of the prophet of Judah's disobedience, he would be judged. The story continues. It says, now there dwelt a prophet, an old prophet in Bethel. This is verse 11. And his sons came and told him all the works the man of God had done in that day in Bethel. The works which he had spoken unto the king, them they told also to their father. And their father said unto them, What way he went he? For his sons had seen the man of God whence, which came from Judah. And he said unto his son , Saddle me the ass, so that they saddled him the ass, and he rode thereon. And he went after the man of God and found him sitting under an oak, and he said unto him, Art thou the man of God that came from Judah? And he said, I am. And he said, Come on to me. Come on to He said, He said unto him, Come home with me and eat bread. And he said, I may not return with thee, nor go in thee, neither will I eat bread nor drink water with thee in this place. For it was said to me by the word of the Lord, Thou shalt eat no bread, nor drink water there, nor turn again to me by the way that thou camest. And he said unto him, I am a prophet also, as thou art. This is the old prophet, Bethel's prophet. speaking. Bring him back. So the the angel spake unto me by the word of the Lord saying, Bring him back with thee into thine house, and that he may eat bread and drink water. But he lied unto him. One of the first things is we're going to look at here is the prophet's temptation and ultimate failure because Verse 19, so he went back with him and did eat bread in his house and drink water. Jeroboam was active disobedience. If I could really say it, I would describe it as active disobedience. He knew what was right, what God wanted, and he said, absolutely not. This prophet, the Judas prophet, was not necessarily a lack of disobedience. I would argue it was a lack of discernment. He had the knowledge, he knew what God's word was, but he couldn't discern false from right teaching, what was correct. He did not discern what God's word was. And I would say that is so careful of today's day and age that we of so much technology, whether it be YouTube, TikTok, fill in the blink for social media sources. That our young people are listening to, that they have the opportunity, and people are going to fill their heads with different things that they need to make sure they can discern what is true. Know God's word and what it says. Just as this false prophet, or sorry, just as this Judah's prophet was led incorrectly, it's being experienced today regularly. He went home with him. 1 John talks much about this. And I really want to, we're going to come back to this in a little bit, but we know him. We know that we know him and know that we love him by keeping his commandments. We know that we know him and that we love him by keeping his commandments. That's going to be an important aspect later on. That's 1 John 2. 1 John 1, 4. We contest what is true by knowing Christ. Very actively there's a path in 1 John 4 talks about knowing his word and knowing false teachers. And then 1 John 4, 6, we are able to know the spirit of truth by identifying the spirit of error. 1 John writes heavily. If you have an opportunity, read 1 John 4, read 1 John 5, read the whole book of 1 John, and how we can know. him and how we can know what is true by knowing his son and how to stay the the path. Well, God's judgment falls on the prophets. God's command was to be followed without question. I would go as far to say that this may have seemed arbitrary at the time. If you really were to think about this, he said, eat no bread, don't drink any water, and don't come back the same way. Period. I have a three-year-old right now. And if any of you can guess what his favorite word is, it's why. And oftentimes we ask why. Mrs. Taylor, you gave testimony earlier and you asked why. And we ask why all the time. And that's not necessarily to be discouraged. But one of the things here, the command from God was given just as a as a statement. No explanation, just go and do. He wanted complete radical obedience. You may ask why he didn't give the why The obedience was to be centered around faith that I know God has best for me. Because of the prophets Lack of obedience. He was killed and he was buried in a grave, the old prophet of Bethel 's tomb. That plays a significant role, I would say, later during Josiah's reign when he comes in. And the prophet's death verify the word which he brought to Jeroboam. And it was the prophet had not been killed. It would have been a testimony that he did not have the authority to condemn the altar of Bethel. This was verifying, so he says, God said I should not do this, but he does it anyways. God in many aspects had, I don't use the word had to, but he killed him to say he disobeyed my word. By the way, Jeroboam, you disobeyed my word. The same is going to come for you. The story puts these at the same thing that Jeroboam's disobedience is equal to the prophet's disobedience. We may not see those as the same, but this story places it on the same threshold. This is a test of radical obedience. The prophet was to be committed to God's word and his word only. And I would like us to notice Jeroboam's resolve as we look through this. Jeroboam did not care. Verse 33, after this thing. This is all literally to mean after all this happened. And the the story continues on that he does hear back to what was going on that This man of God of Judah was slain by a lion that it was there and it makes it throughout the the city of Bethel. And Jeroboam goes, All right, cool. I don't have to deal with this anymore. And he says, return, Jeroboam returned not from his evil way, but made again of the lowest of the people of the priest whatsoever he would, he consecrated him and became one of the priests of the high places. And this is the thing, the sin of the house of Jeroboam, even to cut it off and to destroy it from the face of the earth. Jeroboam, the idea where it says, return not from his evil way, was he continued on. He kept pressing forward. Again, that theme of Jeroboam that he just kept moving forward in the wrong direction. He did not care. Only continues that he rejects God over and over and over and that he had no desire to repent, but just continual resolve to reject God. And ultimately, Jeroboam set the new standard for each king of Israel that would follow his evil path. If you read through the book of Kings and Chronicles, I would argue that he is the antithesis of David. Of a king that did good, he would say it would be compared to that he did good unto his father or unto David his father. But if you look at one that was doing evil, it would be oftentimes compared to he followed after his father, Jeroboam. the complete opposite of David. When we look at the story here of Jeroboam, one thing I want to remember is we look at the idea of identifying Counterfeits. My wife, for a time, was a bank teller, and bank tellers are taught how to identify fake bills. And there are many ways to fake bills. You could bleach it, you could clear it off and print new ink on top of it and that you know turn a $5 bill into a $20. So when you look up, there's still a face there. I call it a ghost image, but instead of having to be the proper face, it's going to be another face. That's a simple way to counterfeit. But rather than being taught all the different ways to counterfeit, they teach them what is true. One of the ways, simple ways, is having to look up and you can see that ghost image. I hold a 20 here and one of the things that's very interesting you can do very easily is you can run your finger along the collar of the president. And you'll be able to feel the ridges. And that's a very simple way to identify. Just as this prophet of Judah failed to discern , It's important to identify counterfeits. But this entire story, as we get to this end of this chapter here, it's kind of a sad ending if you were to stop there. But I want to continue on, and I want us to look to the king that was prophesied at the beginning. That a king by the name of Josiah. So if you would with me, jump to 2 Kings 23. 2 Kings 23. To kind of understand what's going on here, Josiah was a young man when he became king, served as king for many years. But as he went to he wanted the the the money and the all in the house of God to be counted, he wanted to go through it, they stumbled upon it this scroll, this book scroll. And Hilkiah finds it. I always imagine that he pulls this out and he goes he blows it off so he can read what it was and he starts to roll it out a little bit. And he realizes what he has, and he runs and he tells another man who told another man who finally this scroll gets to Josiah. And when Josiah reads it, 22 verse 11 says this. And it came to pass when the king had heard the words of the book of the law, he rent his clothes. He was radically changed by the word of God. He heard it one time and he rends his clothes and realizes the mistake they were going on. Josiah was confronted with the truth. He was radically changed and was obedient. So the story continues, he goes throughout the nation of Judah doing great reformations and trying to change things. He even goes into the Israel, the nation of Israel, and starts clearing some of them out, be one of them being Bethel. Bethel again being in the southern portion of Israel is Judah comes up, Josiah comes up here and it says, verse 15. Moreover , The altar that was at Bethel and the high place with Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, who made Israel to sin, had made both the altar and the high place, he break Israel. down, and burned the high place, and stamped it to small to powder, and burned the grove. And as Josiah turned himself he spied the sepulchres that were in the mounds, and sent the bones out of the sepulchre and burned them upon the elder, and polluted it. According to the word of the Lord which he gave the man proclaimed who proclaimed these words. Then he said, What title is that that I see? The men of the city told him, Is the sepulchre of the man of God which came from Judah and proclaimed these things that thou hast done against the altar of Bethel? And he said, Let him alone, let no man move his bones. So they let his bones alone, and the bones of the prophet came out of Samaria. And all the houses, also the high places that were in the city of Samaria , And the king of Israel had to provoke the Lord anger, Josiah took away, and did to them according all the acts he had done in Bethel. And he slew all the prophets in the high places that were upon the altars, burned the men's bones upon them, and burned And returned to Jerusalem. One of the things I want us to really look at here is he destroyed the high places, slew evil priests, and tore down just as the prophet had prophesied. Part of you wonders, did he read his own name in that book? Did he say did it come through and he read his name there going This man Josiah by the house of David will go up here and he took the initiative to go up there. I have no idea. Or did he just see God's word says this should not be the case and I'm going to obey exactly what it says? He began removing graves of the different priests until he gets to this man a prophet. Now I would say this is significant because it's important to recognize What that meant. By the way, it says his bones were carried out of Samaria. He was returned. But that they would have. Sorry. But that they were taken home. What this also does is protects the man the old prophets. Maybe the old prophet realized what he did with the death of that Judas prophet. But he repented a little bit and he protected his family by being born there. By the way, Josiah is almost 300 years later. God's word comes true. Josiah was an obedient king, but we know as any man, he was incomplete in his obedience. We're sinners. But as we look through the story, I want to draw a couple parallels of how we can see Christ's obedience. One of the things we're going to see is Christ's obedience. If we were to look at the story of Genesis 3 with Adam and Eve, there's many parallels. As I look at them Because Judah's prophet had God's word. Adam and Eve had God's word. They were told a simple command. No reason why, but just said, Will you obey me because I said? Do you have faith that I'm saying something that is best for you? Judah's prophet was deceived just as Eve was deceived and Adam disobeyed. Again, we have two people that disobeyed. Judah's prophet was judged. Adam and Eve were judged for their sin. Judah's prophet pointed to a future king. Adam and Eve pointed to a future king. Just take a moment and look there and how there's this theme of pointing to a future king. That we all fail. We fail like Jeroboam, whether it be active disobedience or unable to discern what is right at times. We fall into both these categories. And we, like Josiah, want to obey when we read God's word, we find times that we are going to obey. But yet we're still going to fall short. And as we look at Christ's obedience, I want us to remember that Jeroboam was judged for his disobedience. Judah's prophet was judged for his disobedience. But Christ was judged for my disobedience. If you just listen there for a second, you don't have to turn here. We're only going to be here for a second. Isaiah 53, 4 through 6. Surely he had borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken. But he was wounded for our transgression. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon us. Upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we are like sheep that have gone astray We have turned everyone to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all He was oppressed, he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before his shearers is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. What an intense no other word to say, but an intense passage to really pause and reflect. We look through Jeroboam's disobedience. We look at this prophet's disobedience. And yet the man who was the most obedient to God, he was judged for me. But what does this mean for us today? As we remember back the prophet proposition that God we glorify when we obey his word I want to pause and make us not think that this obedience is because I obey God I am loved, or because I obey God, I am made righteous, or because I obey God, I am pleased in his sight, or I maintain my salvation. That is exactly what the Pharisees believed. But rather, I would go back to what 1 John said in that because we love him, we're going to obey him. If you love me, keep my commandments, as John wrote earlier in his gospel. Our heart walks by faith and seeks to please God. And because we seek to please God, we obey his word God deserves our exclusive worship. That was the fault of Jeroboam. He weathered worship himself. I know he put calves up, but if you read what he says, it's all about him. God desires and deserves, not just desires, deserves our exclusive worship. The story is a result of rejecting God and placing something over God. Jeroboam failed, and we, like Jeroboam, set up idols in our lives and take our eyes off of him at times. God deserves our exclusive worship. Today, tomorrow, every day. A simple aspect here is also repent and be saved. One of the aspects of the story, if you really read through the life of Jeroboam, is how many times he was given an opportunity. God did not have to send the man, the Judah's prophet, to him. He simply could have said, because you disobeyed me, I'm going to tear you apart. You're dead to me. He could have easily done that, but he didn't. We see throughout the story that honestly, Jeroboam was given more opportunities of grace than the prophet was. At any time, Jeroboam could have turned and he didn't. We cannot miss that there is an opportunity that God has extended to us as a savior. By the way, be thankful for the grace that we have. Don't abuse that. We look at the story here. Jeroboam was never thankful for the healing that he had received. He was given these opportunities. He never thanked God. We think about the opportunities on our daily basis, things that we don't think about that we're missing or that God does. Let us pause and find time to give thanks for what he has done. I find this one very true in my own life, but don't miss the God of the blessing for the blessing. Jeroboam wanted the power of the prophet rather than who that prophet came from. He cared nothing about God, but he wanted that man. Oftentimes in our life, we are seeking peace rather than the God of peace. We're seeking healing rather than the God of healing. We seek fill in the blink rather than the God of fill in the blink. I think back to our college and career study recently, is we oftentimes we we seek the fruit of the spirit as an object that we are trying to seek to attain rather than Something that is a result, an outgrowth of a relationship with Christ. And I said as I know this is oftentimes what I am very guilty of. It's because we're so oftentimes focused on me, me, me. We're bombarded by society to tell us that we need to it's all about me, me, me. We miss who God is, and we seek his blessings over the God of the blessings. And ultimately, we need to know God's word because it calls us the way from idolatry to repentance, faith. And glory of God. The only way to please God is by faith. When we obey Him, we have to obey by faith because we love Him and that He knows what's best for us. Let us pray. Father, thank you for today. Thank you for who you are Now we look at these stories here and we see just disobedience. And it's a reflection of who I am, that I am disobedient to you, Father. But I pray though that just as you pointed to Josiah, a future king, Adam and Eve to a future king, that I in my life will point to a future king. Remembering who you are and what you've done that because of who you are and what you've done, that I will love you. Because you love me, we I love you, Father. This love drives us to obedience. Let that be true of everyone here tonight. Thank you for all you've done. You will do, and you are doing right now. Praise in his precious holy name. Amen.