We're going to be in the 38th Psalm this uh evening, and I want to kind of give you a little bit of a preview of what we're gonna be talking about over the next several weeks. And what we're going to talk about is the importance of raising children with a healthy conscience. And as I think about pastoral ministry And I think about conversations that I have with people, I'm becoming more and more convinced that one of the most important areas that we need to help people deal with is issue of conscience. And by the way, when I think about the kinds of conflicts that tend to develop between people in families, in church settings, sometimes just within interpersonal relationships. One of the areas that tends to be a huge sticking point is how to deal with issues of conscience. And so what I want to do first of all tonight is I want to talk about the importance of a healthy conscience. And then we're going to move from talking about the importance of a healthy conscience. Hopefully, the next time we meet back together, we're going to talk about what the conscience actually is. actually is. Why is it that we why is it that we have this thing called a conscience and how does it actually work? It's actually a really, really important topic. And then from there we're going to move into a third topic of discussion and And that is, what does the scripture say about how to deal with our conscience when it comes to issues where we have differences with other people? And so I think that these are going to be very practical. And one of the reasons that I'm going to deal with this is because your conscience, whether you realize it or not, is being shaped in the household you grew up in. Your conscience is being shaped in the church that you're in as well. While you may have never heard a passage or uh expounded dealing with the conscience, The kind of preaching you have listened to over the course of your life, it's shaping your conscience. Even if the word's never used, it's shaping your conscience. How you think about Sin and how you deal with sin and how you relate to other people and how God views you, all of those issues are being shaped in your home life. One of the reasons sometimes that I think we struggle as adults is because when we were kids, the way that our parents trained us was very deficient. Or the kinds of churches that we grew up in, frankly, were not healthy in the kinds of preaching and teaching that they had. extremely practical and helpful for you. Because ultimately what we want to do is we want to raise a generation of young people that when they grew up in adulthood, they know how to actually deal with life. They know how to make good decisions. They know uh how to deal with these issues. They don't have a conflicted soul all the time. In fact, there's peace and there's joy, and they actually enjoy the Christian life. And they can look at other Christians who have differences of opinions on issues that don't rise to the level of needing to be separated from, and they can actually love that brother or love that sister. and they can enjoy sweet fellowship, even though they actually have differences on issues that fall into this issue of conscience. These are very, very important and practical topics. So let's look at Psalm 31 together this evening. And I'm going to go ahead and read the entirety of this, well, not the entire psalm, but it'll give you enough of a sense of the psalm that we can dig into it. Here we go. It says, O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure, for thine arrows stick fast in me. Thy hand presseth me sore. There's no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger. Neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. For mine iniquities are gone over mine head, as in heavy burden, they are too heavy for me. My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness I am troubled. I am bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long, for my loins are filled with a loathsome disease. Read that one a few times. There is no soundness in my flesh. I am feeble and sore broken. I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. Have you ever felt This way? You might feel this way right now. You might feel this way a lot. Well, Psalmist, David, who wrote these words, is a man who deeply loved the Lord. He knew the Lord very well. Yet in these verses, what we see is a man who has a troubled conscience. And that troubled conscience is something that wasn't just affecting his brain, it was actually affecting his body. In fact, when a person has a troubled conscience, you can see it in their disposition. You can see it in their demeanor. You can see it in their health. The person could begin to lose a lot of weight, they could begin to gain a lot of weight, they could be very troubled, they can be very unsettled. It's not just a mental challenge, but it's something that actually will begin to affect even our bodies. And that's what David is expressing in these verses. What he's showing you is that when we have a conscience that is bothered, it doesn't just affect our minds, it affects our entire person. This issue is extremely important. So let me first of all begin with a summary statement, and then I want to give you a couple of introductory thoughts that I think will help us as we think about this topic. The following psalm reveals the complex physical, mental, and emotional anguish we experience when we have violated our conscience. It's not just the mind and it's not just the emotions, it's the whole person that is affected by a troubled conversation. And I can think of times in my own life where I found myself in this place where I was so troubled that it actually made me sick to my stomach. Okay? That's what David is describing here. What ultimately we we see is that God wants us to be people who are mentally healthy. We have a heart that is full of joy. We have the ability to actually function in life and we get along with people and we enjoy our position in Christ, and there's a vibrancy. That's what God wants. But if we don't deal with our conscience correctly, that won't happen. It absolutely won't happen. And you know what? If we're not thinking correctly ourselves, we will pass on to our children a very unhealthy view of the Christian life. And we will see the consequences of the way we have guided them in the way that they function as adults when they begin to have struggles. So let's talk about a couple of introductory thoughts. First of all, one of the most important things we do in our homes is shape our children's values. It's not just telling our children what to do. It's teaching them how to think about life. What's important, what matters. The same principle is true in the church. As pastors, my my greatest burden as a pastor Is that week in and week out, what I put in front of this congregation is something that feeds their soul, feeds our souls. Okay, I say their, our, we're all part of the same body, that feeds our souls. It challenges our thinking and ultimately what it does is it takes areas where we're not thinking biblically and it it reorients them back to God, back to his word, so that we're in a position to think in a healthy, godly, Christ-centered way. By the way, this is also true when it comes to this issue of discipling younger believers. So when an older believer is discipling or training a young younger believer They're passing these things on to them. So it's not just a family issue. It's a church issue. And it's a mentoring kind of issue. And all these things need to come together. We also need to understand how our conscience works if we're going to live healthy in light of the truth. It's critical that we do this early, and it's critical that we are consistent. And so when it comes to working with our kids, believe it or not, our children's consciences are being shaped when they're three, four, and five years old. Probably more than when they're 13, 14, and 15 years old, to be very honest. Because they're they're they're more tender. Uh they're not bucking our authority the same way that they do as they get old. They're not looking at us like we're peers, but they're looking up to us. And so what we're pouring into them when they're very young is extremely Extremely important. I also want to say this about this issue of thinking in a healthy way. Thinking healthy is not the person who has the constantly pricked conscience Sometimes as Christians we think, well, I know that I have a healthy conscience because I feel guilty all the time because I know I sin all the time, so I always feel guilty. That's not a healthy conscience. It's really not. God doesn't design for us to walk about life and and we are constantly weighed down and constantly burdened and constantly troubled inside. He wants us to have joy. Fullness of joy. That's the whole purpose of 1 John. It's also not the person that's desensitized their conscience. So you kind of end up on both sides. You could be on the side where everything in life bothers you. It's a conscience issue and you're always troubled. And then you're on the other side where you don't ever feel pricking or conscious about anything. Those are both extremes that are not healthy. They're not healthy at all. So, what does it mean to be healthy in our soul and in our heart, in our thinking? Let me put it this way. The person who thinks biblically and lives consistently with the biblical worldview and processes their sin in a healthy way in the light of the gospel is the person who is a healthy thinking Christian. Your conscience needs to be trained by the Bible , not somebody else's opinion Or some book that we read, the Bible, a biblical conscience. And then we're living consistent with what we actually believe to be true. Because when we don't think cons or we don't live consistent with what we believe to be true, that's when our conscience is troubled. And then how do we deal with sin? When we sin, which all of us do How do we make this right? How do we deal with these things? These are all very, very important issues. So let's go ahead and look at this psalm again. The first truth I want you to notice is that David was a man who knew God. Yet at times he experienced intense physical, mental, and emotional anguish because of his sin. Listen to the verse again. He says, Oh Lord, rebuke me not in your wrath, or chasten me not in your hot displeasure. Thine arrow arrows stick fast in me. Me. Thy hand presseth me sore. There's no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger. By the way, Psalm thirty thirty-eight isn't the only Psalm that David talks this way. There are other psalms where David refers to things the exact same way. And so the question is: how is it that this person who was a believer, he was called a man after God's own heart? How could he be like this? Well, one of the reasons he was like this is because he had a temperament that was prone to introspection. Some of us are by nature more introspective than other people. You know, if you if you have three children or four children or two or whatever, they're not all going to have the same level of introspection. They are different people. And so you might have a child that they never deal with this at all It just isn't they they're not they're not bothered by it, they're not affected by it. Um not saying that they don't feel guilty over their sin, but they don't get plagued with this. They just don't. And then you have other children that that this weighs them down constantly. They grow up in the same home, they hear the same preaching, they hear the same truth tracker, tiny trackers, they learn the same scriptures you go. Why is there a difference? It's temperament It's a personality. David was a person that when he felt things, he felt them really high and really low. He was a very passionate person. And some people are just, that's that's their temperament. It's important for us to recognize this because some of us are more prone to this than others. Factor two. His sin complicated his life because sin has natural consequences. When God says not to do something, he's not just doing it because he's against sin, he is against sin. But there's a side to it where it says, I'm against sin because it hurts you. It destroys you. It's destructive by its nature. I mean we could take we could take any any kind of sin. We could take lying, we could take unfaithfulness within a marriage, we could take a bad temper, we could we could take all different kinds of sins. And we can just analyze, so when a person responds this way, when they speak this way, when they do these things, what just naturally happens? Okay? What naturally happens is the destructive nature of sin. And so when a person sins, guess what? God doesn't have to punish them in order for bad things to happen. Do you understand that? You know, sometimes they'll say, oh, I'm dealing with all these terrible things. God's been punishing me strong. God doesn't have to punish us for us to experience the negative consequences I hope that's um that you understand that. And so when David's talking about his sin and how it's affecting him Life is complicated by sin. Another third factor, his conscience was violated by his sin because he was living contrary to his worldview. And so when we when we when we know that something is true and we know that something is right and somebody asks us, Do you believe that? you say, Yes, I believe that. And then we go from here and we do the opposite. Guess what happens? We feel conflicted and our soul. Because it's like we have two minds. Think about James where it says that a double-minded man is unstable in all of his ways. He's like a wave that is driven by the sea, driven with the wind and tossed. He's basically saying if you have two minds about a thing This is what you believe, and this is what you do. This is what you know to be true and this is what you want to do. Guess what happens? You're a conflicted person. And lots of people live that way. We've all lived that way at times. This conflict is going to eat at us internally. And so David's expressing that. A fourth , his internal turmoil would at times drive his thinking away from a biblical framework. Don't miss this. I'm going to draw our attention to this when we work our way through these verses. When your conscience troubles you, when you're internally struggling, guess what often happens? What you know to be true and what you affirm to be true, you stop actually functioning like you believe it's true And sometimes you even start believing something that you would not affirm to be true if you weren't facing that pressure. You know, you you you somebody would ask you, is God good? And you say, Oh yeah, I know God's good. But then, because of your circumstances, while somebody asks you, is God good, you say yes. You're complaining about how God's not being good all the time. And you know what that's showing you? That's showing you that your emotions are starting to drive your thinking. And this is what happens. It happens all the time. It happens when we experience guilt, we experience the negative consequences of our sin. It happens when we experience the challenges and the difficulties. So his internal turmoil was driving his thinking away from a biblical framework. And lastly Lastly, not the first, but this is where we go first. At times, God is actively chastening us out of fatherly love. Now, I think most people, when when we sin and then we experience the consequences of our sin, we immediately think God's punishing me. That's the very first thing we think. I've done it again. God's getting me. I think most of the time, it's just you're getting the consequence of your actions. And when we feel this internal turmoil and we're going back and forth, sometimes we go, God's chastening me. God chastens us when we're resisting him for a long, long time. That's what he does. And he does it out of love. And so those five factors are all coming together, and they're affecting David's heart. The second thing I want us to see tonight is that all these factors are communicated in this psalm. And not only are they communicated in this psalm, but they're communicated in lots and lots of psalms. So let's work our way through these verses so that we can see that laid out. The first thing we're going to see is in verses 1 and 2. I'm going to read it and then comment on it. He says, O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore. What's David saying? He's saying, I feel the intense displeasure of God against my sin. He's describing how he feels. Now, question. Is the way that David feels actually how God views him? I bet if I was to do an opinion poll, I would get a very mixed answer on that. Okay? But let me answer the question. There is therefore now no condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. We have passed from death to life, and we're not under God's wrath anymore. So when God looks at His children who are dealing with sin , He doesn't look at us the same way that he did before we became his children. He doesn't boil in anger and wrath at us. But that doesn't mean we don't feel sometimes that that's how he looks at us. And so when David describes how he feels, he's not necessarily describing a healthy processing of what's going on inside. It is true that our sin is an offense to God. It is true we should never indulge in the flesh. It is also true that his perspective of his heavenly father was completely wrong. In fact, I I go back to what we talked about in Romans chapter six just last week. Never once does Paul say the reason that you should walk in holiness is because if you don't, God's going to be angry with you. I mean, if that was true, then that's exactly what he would have said. He doesn't say this is how you become a Christian, this is how you stay a Christian. This is how you keep God from being angry with you. He simply says, you're a Christian, you're a new creature in Christ. You're dead to sin. You're alive into God. So walk like a new creature because that's what you are. That's what he said. That doesn't sound at all like what David's saying, does it? You see, David's expressing his heart, but the way he's thinking is not consistent with reality. But that doesn't change the fact that's how he feels. Doesn't change it at all And so many times, Satan is so good at this, he he leads you to believe that when you do this, it won't matter. And then as soon as you do it, he pounces on you and he crushes you and you feel like you could never stand up again. Do you understand what I'm saying? That's exactly what he does. Neither viewpoint's correct. You sin, it matters You sin, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And so when David expresses this, he's expressing I feel this intense displeasure from God, but he's not looking at God as a loving father. Who cares about him? He's looking at him as the angry judge who's going to crush him. He's wrong in how he views him. The second thing that we'll notice is in verse number three. He says, There's no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger. He's feeling the weight of God's hatred against his sin, and he feels it so intently that he feels it even in his body. It's pretty amazing to consider. Verses 3 to 4. He says, Neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin. Mine iniquities are gone over mine head as a heavy burden. They are too heavy for me. He felt this incredible heaviness in his heart because of his sin. He felt as if it was impossible for him to get back up. You know, think about that proverb where it says, that a just man falleth seven times, but he what? He gets he gets back up. He gets back up. up. The difference between Saul and David wasn't so much what they did, it's what they did after what they did. When Saul was confronted with it, he excused it. He wouldn't face it. When David was confronted with his sin, he says, Have mercy on me, O God, according to my your loving kindness. He says, Against thee and thee only have I sinned and done this restored to me the joy of my salvation. All those things. He got back up. That's the difference. But in these verses, he's feeling like he can't. That's a troubled conscience. Verse number five, he says, My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness. Literally, he's dealing with the physical consequences. Now, we cannot be absolutely 100% dogmatic about this, but what I think that David is actually talking about here is something extremely personal. I think he's talking about the fact that because he has been a sexually immoral man, there are some consequences physically that he's living with because of his promiscuity. I think that's actually what he's talking about. It's also true that he's describing the fact that when a troubled conscience is going on inside, you know, anxiety, depression, fear. You know what those things have the tendency to do? They inflame physical. Problems as well. When we feel this pressure internally and we don't process it biblically, then ultimately it leads to us physically having problems. Because there's a connection between our mind, our body, and our hearts. There's this interpersonal connection, there's this connection. And so he's really describing what happens inside. Next verses 6 through 8 he says, I'm troubled. I'm bowed down greatly. I go mourning all the day long. My loins are filled with a loathsome disease. There's no soundness in my flesh. I'm feeling I've roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart. What David is expressing is the complex connection between the physical, the emotional, and the mental. Now, sometimes we experience issues and honestly, it's it's nothing more than a physical issue. You know, sometimes when we have stuff going on internally and we feel anxious and troubled, we probably need to sleep a little more at night. We need to eat a little bit better, and we might need to go and exercise. That doesn't take care of every situation. That takes care of some situations, but not every situation. Sometimes it's that our thinking theologically is wrong. And we actually need our thinking to be corrected. And so we have to kind of go and look at what does the scripture say and what am I thinking? And we start doing those things. The truth is sometimes it's a combination of a couple of things going together. And so it's a lot more complicated than just saying, oh, here's the simple answer to what's going on. Our body, our mind, our heart, there's this interconnection. We're not just brains. Nor are we just bodies. We are persons who are created in the image of God, body, soul, and spirit. If we neglect our bodies, it affects our minds. It affects our emotions. All of our mothers who have had little children and you've been sleep-deprived for a long, long time. time, no know exactly what that's all about. Oh, why do I feel so, you know, so awful today? Well it's because you woke up five times in the night and you've been doing that for months on end. It would not be normal if you felt alert and chirpy and it was just a great day. Why? Because physically you can only handle so much. The body and the emotions, they're connected. And so we see that. Our minds can be weighed down. They can trouble our bodies. If we ignore our conscience, it's going to affect us. The whole person. What's the simple point? The simple point is we need to understand what our conscience is. We understand why we respond the way that we do. And then we need to process it biblically. That's what we need to to do. So that moves us to our third truth. do You can't fight against reality without real-life consequences. You cannot fight against reality without real life consequence. This is true in every single area of life. Okay? The way things are Doesn't matter if you want it to be different? Does it matter if you're convinced that things are different than they are? Reality wins. That's the way that it works. And so our temperaments matter, and we need to understand our own nature. No matter how strongly we believe something, if it's not true, our worldview is going to break down at some point, and the end can be very, very tragic. We need to know the truth and live in the light of the truth. And sin 's consequences can be very troubling and very complicated. Proverbs 13:15, it says this: Good understanding giveth favor. But the way of the transgressor is hard. I think when we read that we should ask the question, why is it hard? And I think if we had a little board right here and we said, why is the way of the transgressor hard? and we started listing, you'd be shocked at how long that list would get. It's not just a one-answer kind of a thing. The way the transgressor is hard because sin has natural consequences. It makes your relationships with other people difficult. And you just continue on. There are consequences for sin. James 1. 15, when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished, bringeth forth death. There's a natural consequence for sin. And so that moves me to something very practical. When it comes to church life, when it comes to our personal life, when it comes to our family life. We need our worldview being shaped by the Bible. In the church, we need a steady diet of biblical preaching and teaching. And the reason is because we need a healthy mindset that is established in the church. I'll give you this illustration. So if all you ate was cheesecake. And cheeseburgers. And Chick-fil-A every day except Sunday, of course, because Chick-fil-A is not open on Sundays. And you ate this all the time, what would happen to you? Would you be a healthy person? The answer is no. In fact I can tell you, I went through some little seasons here and there where I would go to Chick-fil-A, because it's just up the road, all right. I would go there like for lunch a couple times a week. And let me tell you, what it did to me was not good Okay? I felt nasty. I started gaining weight. I could go to the gym and I could run and I could lift weights, and I still felt nasty. Why? Because what you put in your body is is either going to make you healthy Or it's gonna it's gonna deteriorate your health. It's such a simple principle, but it's true. Junk food tastes great, but it kills you It's very simple. Junk food tastes great, but it kills you. And so, the more you eat it, the more you're, you know, killing yourself slowly and painfully. That's the way it works. Well, we know this is true in the physical realm. It's true in the spiritual realm, too. It's not just neglecting the scripture that hurts people. I think we're neglecting the scripture is somebody who handles it in a very irresponsible way. Because they're giving you the impression that this is what God said. And if it's not what God said, but you're building your life on it, guess what? You're building your life on a lie. It's junk food, it's destructive. So it's not just the church, though, it's in our own personal lives. We need to constantly have our lives being shaped so that we are in a healthy place. Being under the preaching ministry Reading the scriptures, getting good books that we read. By the way, you know, it's not just reading, it's reading good books. Today we were doing PE with the uh with the the teen boys, and we were learning some very basic things. We were learning how to shoot a layout. And I told them, I said, I don't want you to focus on making the basket. I want you to focus on the right mechanics. They're like, what? Yeah, I'm serious. Because if you know how to make the basket but you don't develop right mechanics, then then two or three years from now you're gonna have a coach who's gonna say, What are you doing? I gotta like completely reteach this stuff to you And so get the mechanics right, get the basics right, and as you get that right, and that becomes a a habit, a pattern, then you're gonna make the shots because the mechanics leads to good play. And so in our personal lives, we need to make sure that we are growing spiritually. We are going through this training process personally. And then family. Family is the downstream. Probably the greatest thing that you can learn if you're a parent about helping your children is to be a godly person yourself. It's true. You can try to teach your kids anything you want. If you're not a godly person yourself , it's going to compromise everything that you teach. Just that example is a very powerful thing. That you personally are thinking correctly, biblically, theologically, because whatever you're teaching to, if you do a good job teaching your kids a bad thing. then you're hurting them down the road. It's like the coach that teaches a bad habit to a kid on a basketball team or on a baseball team or on a wrestling team. And down the road, they're going to get a coach who knows what they're doing and they're saying, I've got to reteach you this whole thing. So we got to make sure what we're teaching our kids is actually sound. It's very, very important. So the very simple takeaway from this evening is this: this issue of the conscience is a big deal. We need to have healthy consciences personally. We need to understand what it takes to have a healthy conscience so that we can help our children grow. Grow and develop in these areas. And that's where we're going over the next couple of weeks. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I pray that you'd help us this evening as we think about these truths. To be convinced that this is a heavy matter, and then to really dig into the scriptures so that we understand this Issue very well. Father, help us to think in a biblical manner. Help us to live consistent with that biblical thinking. And then help us to pass that on to our children. We ask it in Christ's name, amen.