Good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Hope that you're having a good week. Uh let's bow for prayer and then we will sing a song and then get into a very important topic. So let's Father, thank you for the word and the opportunity tonight to open it. And I pray that you would minister to our hearts very richly. As we look at a very practical passage of Scripture, I pray that the truths that we find in this passage would really resonate in our hearts And as we think about our own spiritual growth and then how to guide our own children, I pray that you give us wisdom. Help us to be godly people, help us to have wisdom, help us to have a firmly biblical viewpoint when it comes to how we approach the Christian life. And I pray that tonight as I go through these passages, you'd really guide my thoughts and use this for your glory. We ask it in Christ's name, amen. 577 is where we are tonight for our opening hymn, and we'll sing the first and the third verses of Be Strong in the Lord, and you'll see the correlation to what we're going to talk about tonight. Please come on, please come, he's gone , isn't it? Okay, well the text that we're going to be looking at tonight is Ephesians chapter 6. So if you have your Bible, let's turn there to Ephesians chapter 6, and we're going to look at verses 10 through 19. I know this is a very familiar passage of Scripture, but it is a very rich and a very practical passage of Scripture. And it's really pertinent to the discussion that we're having on helping raise children that are prepared to deal with temptation in life. And one of the most practical things that we can do as parents is to really prepare our children for the kinds of things that they not only deal with as young people, but eventually they're going to be adults, they're going to be on their own, they're going to be heads of their own households. And they need to be well prepared to deal with temptation in life. They need discernment. They need to be strong. They need to be wise. Ephesians chapter 6, verse 10. Here's what it says. Finally When a pastor says, finally go, oh boy, when the Apostle Paul says, finally you go, oh boy, finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord. And in the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand, stand therefore. having your loins skirt about with truth, having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace Above all, taking the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked, and take the helmet of salvation and the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints and for me. I'll stop there. I know there's a lot more that we could say, but this passage of Scripture, Ephesians chapter 6, is a very important piece to understanding how to deal with temptation. And I was I was talking to Charlie uh before the service, and I said, yeah, I was I'm listening to Martin Lloyd Jones, and I think he's got an entire book of sermons on Ephesians chapter six. And I'm going to try to deal with it in one night tonight. But the truth is there's a whole lot more that could be unpackaged than what we're going to look at tonight. But what I'd like to do is I'd like to get kind of the big picture because what we want to do is we want to help think about how to have a worldview that is ready to deal with temptation. So let me begin first of all by giving you kind of a some a summary statement for what we're going to deal with tonight, and that is that we need to teach our children how to prepare for victory before they face temptation. We need to prepare our children for victory before they face temptation. One of the great tragedies of life is that we often go into very difficult situations without good equipping. Now I'm not saying that because we've heard these passages taught and we've read through the Bible and we've memorized these scriptures that we are we're just we got this silver bullet silver bullet we're not gonna have any problems. I'm not suggesting that at all But what I will say is that if we have a good, solid biblical worldview, it's really going to help us when we encounter temptation. And if we don't, we are really going to get chewed up in life. We understand the importance of preparation before something. When we were in school, the teacher would say, here is when you have your tests. And you know the test is coming up or here's when you have to have this project done. And you know that if you want to be successful on the test, number one, you've got to pay attention in class. Number two, as you start getting to it more advanced classes, you you gotta take notes. and then you need to review your notes and then you need to study your notes so that you're well prepared for a test. A person that doesn't pay attention in class, a person that doesn't take notes, a person that doesn't review their notes, a person that doesn't study their notes before a test, guess what happens when they take the test? They don't do very well. I have some examples in my history of that exact thing happening. And it was a very painful lesson to learn. You can't get away with that. You need to be prepared. Think about athletics. I just was uh chatting with my wrestling coach from college. He's about to turn, I think he's 79, about to turn eighty years old, and he's writing a book, and it kind of Drew me back to remembering when I was in school and I was competing in wrestling. And one of the things that we would do is we would prepare for tournaments and he would always say, You're training for the nationals in October. I know they're not till March April, but you're training in October and you're training in November and you're training in December and every single match. is preparing you for that ultimate one. And we learn news that he put us in situations and he'd put us through terrible, terrible pain and agony as we were training. And he would say, this is gonna really help you when you get to the national tournament. What's the point? You gotta prepare. You walk onto the mat and you haven't lifted and you haven't trained and you haven't mentally gotten tough and you haven't put in your time running and you're not ready. You're going to get crushed. Same thing is true when it comes to temptation. We need to be mentally prepared to deal with this thing called temptation. And we need to be mentally prepared so we can help our children be prepared for this. And so this passage of Scripture is critical. Let's begin, first of all, by looking at the relationship between prayer and preparation. Notice what it says in verse 10, and then we'll kind of pull back to the end of the section because he kind of gives you all this explanation, then he makes a little statement at the end. You'll see what I'm saying in just a minute. He says, Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might, put on the whole armor of God that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. And then as you work your way down, look down at verse 18, he says, praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints and for me. Now there's a reason that I skipped that little section. It's because when he says, put on the whole armor of God There's something that's supposed to be happening throughout the entire process of putting on the whole armor of God. You know what that is? Praying always in the Spirit. In other words, we're to put on the whole armor of God in a prayerful manner. That's really what he's saying And so it's not like put on the armor of God and then, oh, by the way, you need to pray too. It's put on the whole armor of God in a prayerful way. And so that leads us to a question. What is the role that prayer plays in this dealing with temptation in preparation for the battle? Well, the first and most obvious thing is that we're supposed to put on the armor in a prayerful way. I'll also add this. Sometimes we get into our minds that the way that we deal with temptation is when I'm in the midst of temptation, I just get on my knees and I say, God, please take this away. Has anybody ever done that? A hundred times and failed a hundred times? Anybody ever done that? Because that is not the role of prayer and temptation. The role of prayer and temptation is that I'm in the midst of temptation. Let me just bow and God help me not to deal with this. And I just fixate on this thing, and I'm pleading with God, take this away. Why don't you leave that room? Why don't you go find something else to do? We're going to talk about how we respond biblically. Not tonight, on another night, but that's not the role of prayer. Prayer is an expression of dependence on God as we do what He tells us to do. In other words, our obedience is done with an attitude of dependence and submission and humility. I'll give you an example of what I'm saying. In Matthew 6, verse 13, when Jesus is teaching his disciples how to pray, he says, This is how you're supposed to pray. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. You're supposed to pray, God, please don't direct my steps. and to a place where I'll experience temptation. But if and when I am in temptation, because that is your providential plan, that I face such an issue, then deliver me from it. That's what he's saying. What is that expressing? Dependence. Humility. I can't do this in my own strength. I need the Lord's enabling. There's a third aspect that I want to mention, that is that it's about directing our focus Notice how he says to pray. He says, pray always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for what? For yourself. Is that what it says? He says, for all saints and for me. What's amazing is when we pray when it comes to this issue of temptation. We are almost entirely, at least I am almost entirely, thinking in terms of my temptation, my testing, my struggle, my issue. But that's not the way that Paul says to pray. Pray for others who deal with the same thing. And pray for me. Because I'm in the midst of a spiritual battle too. What's amazing is that the way that we pray is about acknowledging our dependence on the Lord, and it's actually about diverting our attention away from us in our situation and on to others. And you're going to find out But that's actually a really important thing. Like let's say you have a person that's really discouraged and they're really frustrated and they're weighed down with a certain test or temptation, and all they think about is themselves. Do you think they're going to get out of that? No, they're not. But when they start thinking about a brother or sister who's dealing with the same thing, all of a sudden they go, you know what? I'm concerned about them. And their situation. And I'm burdened for them. And you know what? You know what happens? All of a sudden you start to think about another issue and you are not thinking about obsessing over your own situation. And so Paul is saying that as you put on this armor and as you are prayerful about it and your dependence on the Lord, you're directing your focus away from your self-centeredness, which is the obvious way that we tend to think, toward others. Very, very important. The next thing I want to mention is the importance of a biblical worldview. And this is really where we're going to camp out today. This is where we're going to focus our attention because Paul addresses several different pieces of armor that he tells us to put on. Here's what it says in verse 10. Be strong in the Lord and the power of his might, put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. And then he's going to tell us each of the pieces that we're supposed to put on. Now, when Paul does this, don't think that Ephesians 6. 10 through 18 is completely disconnected from the book of Ephesians. This is basically Paul going, everything that I've talked about in this epistle that I've written to you, I'm going to give you an illustration of how to put it into practice in one simple, condensed place. That's not the way we tend to think of it. We tend to think of it as, oh, I'm going to go ahead and study Ephesians chapter 6. And we we completely forget the rest of the book. But let's remember it was a letter. You sit down and you read the letter. It's just a part of this letter. And so what he's saying is connected back to everything that he's already written. And I want you to see this connection in just a few minutes. So the first thing that we're going to mention about having a biblical approach, a biblical worldview, is the importance of taking a holistic approach. I know this word holistic is It's almost a kooky word being used today. But when I say holistic, what we're saying is this. You can't leave off one area. Every single aspect of this armor is essential. So you can't like put on the helmet, but then not pick up the shield. Or you can't wear the breastplate, but choose not to pick up the sword. You need to put on your belt. And you need to put on your shoes, and you need to put on your breastplate, you need to put on your helmet, you need to pick up your shield, and you need to pick up your sword. You need to do all of it In other words, every single piece of the armor is essential. You can't be half-heart about this, you can't be selective about it, you can't be lazy about it. You can't be proud and say, I can go go through battle without dealing with this particular issue. We can't do that. Any area that we leave off will leave us vulnerable to Satan's attacks. And by the way, there is a temptation in all of our lives to kind of like get this attitude that I give God this area of my life, but then this area is kind of off-limits to him. I can kind of play with these sins and I can do this stuff over here and they're and they're kind of disconnected. And so I have my church side of life and then I have my my secret side of life. You can't do that. It's a holistic approach. Every aspect is very, very important. And so I want to mention that. He says to put on the whole armor of God. Secondly. The importance of truth. In verse 14, he says this. Stand, and that's a defensive word. Standing your ground, stand therefore having your loins gird about with truth. Now, thankfully today we don't dress like they did in Roman days. But everybody wore basically like a toga or a robe. And so when someone went into battle and they were really going to get into battle, they would take that robe, it's like a skirt, and they'd take that thing and they'd roll it up and they would tuck it into a belt And by tucking it into the belt, they had the ability to move very freely. Okay? Because they needed to be quick And agile, they need to be able to stand their ground. They could not be encumbered with this long flowing thing that's going to trip them up. And so, in order for a person, using this analogy, very interesting. Interesting analogy. In order for a person not to get tripped up in this spiritual battle that we face every single day, we have to put on, before anything else, a belt of truth. And what he's referring to is the importance of a worldview that is rooted firmly in what is true, not an assumption, not a feeling. Not some personal opinion that people have. It is firmly rooted in what is true, God's Word We could say a person needs to have a good doctrinal formation. And by the way, when we read the book of Ephesians, those first five chapters are all about doctrine, doctrine, doctrine, doctrine. Why is that? Because doctrine is an essential aspect to being able to stand your ground in the spiritual walk. A person that neglects sound doctrine that isn't learning the word of God, that isn't building their life on the truth, is a person that's going to stumble in the Christian life. There's absolutely no doubt about it. And so he's thinking about something very specific, the content of the book. And so the simple truth is this: we must build our lives on what is solid and what is unchanging, and that's scripture. Not our emotions. Our emotions can be like way up and down. All the time. All the time. How we feel in a moment is it's it is not a safe guide in life. You you will be like a person who is sitting in a boat in a storm and you're just going up and down and pretty soon you're seasick. That's that's kind of the picture. And by the way, James uses that very analogy. A double-minded person. What what's a double-minded person? It's a person whose life is not rooted on something solid that doesn't change. They're vacillating from this position to that position. It's a very dangerous place for us to be. So build your life on what's solid. So we see the importance of a holistic approach. We see the importance of truth, a biblical worldview founded on Christian doctrine. Number three. The importance of a living out of our position in Christ. Now, this is a fascinating statement that he makes next, and I'm going to comment on it. How I would have a tendency to look at it, but then I want you to look at some cross-references. I'm going to ask you actually to turn to these passages because I think it will be helpful. So in verse 14, he says, having on the breastplate of righteousness. Now, whenever we talk about righteousness in the Christian life, immediately my thinking goes to position. Okay? Justification. I am declared righteous on the basis of the righteousness of Christ. An imputed righteousness. This is a righteousness that is not inherent in me. I am a sinner who's been justified. Okay? That's all of us. And that is true. And I'm in no way trying to diminish that, but I do not believe That what Paul is talking about in this particular point is a positional reality. But that's where we tend to go. You say, well, why do you believe that? Well, it's because of the the cross references that we're going to look at in just a moment. Because there are several other passages of scripture where the scriptures actually make a reference to something like this. The very first example. The funny thing is I just read this the other day in my own personal devotions, and that's Job 29. Listen to what Job states. Job 29, verse 14. He says, I put on righteousness, and it clothed me. My judgment was as a robe and a diadem. Now listen to what he says next. I was eyes to the blinds. Feet was I to the lame. I was a father to the poor. The cause which I knew not I searched out. Question As Job is making this statement about putting on a robe of righteousness, was he talking about something positional or practical? He says, I was a father to the poor, the cause which I knew not, I searched out. I was eyes to the blind and feet to the lame. Is that practical or is that positional? I'm waiting. Positional or practical? It's practical, okay? All right. Now you might say, well, okay How do you know there's a connection? Well, let's go to another passage of scripture. Let's go to Isaiah 59, verse 17. Okay Now this particular and by the way, when Job is talking in this particular passage, I think that there is a bit of a flaw to the way that he's looking at his his experience in life, but he is clearly stating that my life is characterized by a distinctly righteous, practical kind of life. Not perfect. He's not saying he's sinlessly perfect. But he's talking about living in the consistency of his position. Isaiah 59, 17. It says he put on righteousness as a breastplate. And helmet of salvation upon his head. That sounds kind of similar to what we're talking about here in Ephesians chapter 6, doesn't it? Turn over to another passage, 1 Thessalonians 5, 8 to 9. 1 Thessalonians 5. 8 -9. He says this, let us who are of the day be sober Putting on the breastplate of faith and love. Question. Putting on a breastplate of faith and love, is that a positional reality or a practical reality? It's practical. It's practical, okay? Because you're of the day, because you have this position, you're supposed to live like you're in that position. That's what he's saying. He then goes on to say, and for a helmet, the hope of salvation. He's talking about an aspect of our salvation that's not positional or necessarily the practical side, but the future side, our glorification. And that's going to be helpful as we continue in this study in Ephesians 6. He says, For God had not appointed us unto wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ. Now, in all those verses, what we're looking at is an emphasis on practical righteousness Or what you might say is the living out of the position that you have in Christ. There's another passage that states this in a different way, but a similar concept. He says, besides this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue. And then he talks about several virtues of how we're supposed to live as Christians. Now, Peter is not saying this is how you become a Christian. He says, you are a Christian, therefore this is how you're supposed to live, this is how you're supposed to walk. And then he goes on to say this: if these things be in you And abound they make you that you shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. But he who lacks these things is blind, cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged of his old sins The point is this: when Paul says put on the breastplate of righteousness, he's not saying stand in your position as much as live in the light of your position. That's what he's saying. He is going to talk about positional realities in just a minute, but this is very important. Here's why it matters. Sin is always destructive. It is always entangling. And living a vibrant Christian life is not only living in the light of the truth of your position. But it is seizing the benefits of that position, and you're going to live a life that is much freer of entanglement and the scars of sin if you live consistent with your position. So what Paul is saying is, since you are a Christian, live like one. Because by living like one, it frees you up in this spiritual battle. Very, very important. So he's talking about the fact that we need to put on the whole armor of God, the fact that we need to stand on the firm truths of the scriptures, and we need to live practically in the light of our position. The fourth thing that is mentioned is the importance of a clear understanding of the gospel. Look down at verse number 15, back in Ephesians chapter 6. He says, and have your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Now, if your feet are shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace, are you running somewhere or standing somewhere? It's an interesting question, isn't it? In the Roman world, if a person was going to stand their ground, they needed to have cleats. In fact, their sandals for their battle cleats, if you want to call them. them that. These had nails or spikes so that they could stand their ground. And so when the Apostle Paul gives this analogy He's not talking about somebody running in an offensive position, but he's talking about somebody standing in a defensive position. He's going to talk about the offensive later. But he's talking about someone standing in a defensive position. And he talks about the gospel as a gospel of peace. Question If you're living the Christian life and you have all kinds of internal turmoil, are you victorious or not? Are you victorious or not? If you have doubts about your salvation, are you victorious or not? If you have doubts about whether or not God loves you, are you victorious or not? If you have doubts about whether or not God accepts you as his child, do you have a strong position or a weak position? The answer is weak. You can be fully saved, righteous in Christ, forgiven, loved, and you're eternal and secure. But you don't live like it because you don't think as if it's True. Doesn't mean it's not true, but you don't live in the light of that truth. And so what he tells us is that the way that a person can stand with stability is to have their feet shot at the preparation of the gospel of peace. One of the most important truths that a pastor can communicate to his congregation is that there is nothing for you to give to God to strengthen your position. Nothing. There's nothing you can do for God to make him love you more. Nothing. But you know there's a lot of Christians. That the reason that they live the way they do is because in the back of their mind they're trying to prove something to God. There's nothing you can prove to God. There's nothing you can do to make him love you more. There's nothing you can do to make yourself more righteous or more holy or more possessionally secure. Nothing Listen to what it says in Romans chapter 5, verse 9. He says, Being now justified by his blood, we shall be safe from wrath through him. When we were the enemies. We were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more than being now reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. Colossians 120 Having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things to himself, by him I say Whether they be things in earth or things in heaven, you who are sometime alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled In the body of his flesh through death to present you holy and unblameable and unreprovable in his side. As a Christian, we should never be serving God because we're trying to prove something to him. Or because we're trying to earn his favor, or because we're trying to get him to love us, or we're trying to get him to keep us. Those are matters that should be fully settled in our own hearts. We should be completely secured in our position before God. And if we do not feel that sense of fully secured in Christ, We need to go back to the scriptures and we need to read and we need to meditate on and we need to allow the scriptures to speak clearly to us because God is unquestionably clear on these issues. This truth gives us a sense of acceptance in the beloved. I'm amazed that when Paul writes to the church at Corinth, he calls them saints. They were a messed up group of people. Saints, holy ones. Isn't that incredible? You know why that is? Because they w were. They didn't live like it. They didn't look like it. They probably didn't feel like it. But they were. Why? Because they're in Christ. It removes the fear of being lost or the pressure of trying to maintain God's favor. One of the greatest areas that we are exploited in the Christian life is the area of fear. This concept addresses fear at its most significant level. Does God love me? Does he accept me as his child? Am I safe in him? Those are very, very important questions. And I am convinced that many, many Christians deep down inside struggle with this concept because they're not thinking biblically. And so that's what that piece of the armor is addressing. Number five, or five, six, I don't remember which number it is. So we'll go with five. It might be five. The importance of a daily attitude of dependence. He says in verse 16 Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. One of the most basic ways to describe how a Christian is supposed to live is to walk by faith You know what walking by faith is? It's recognizing I can't, in my own strength, reminding myself of God's character. His promises, his ways, and based on what I know to be true about God, because of what his word says very clearly, I choose to rely on what God says. That's what walking by faith is. Now it's really easy to say that. It's really hard to do that. I mean, we get ourselves in situations, sometimes it's got nothing to do with the decision that we made. Sometimes it's entirely decisions that people have made toward us, circumstances we find ourselves in, but we have to choose to remind ourselves of God's character, his ways, his promises. and choose to actively trust in them. And that's exactly what he's talking about here. What does Satan want to do? He wants to undermine your confidence in the Word of God. He wants to undermine your confidence in God's goodness. He wants to undermine your confidence in God's character and how God works in the world. And so he's working to undermine And we have to choose to remind ourselves of truth and actively depend on it. That's what he's talking about. By the way, I love this analogy as well. In the Roman world, when they had shields, there were two kinds of shields that they used. One shield was kind of like a personal shield. And one was a shield that essentially it it formed a group that was uh almost like uh an ancient version of a tank Okay. And what the Romans would do is they would literally lock shields and as a unit, they would have some guys that hold the shield on the top and they'd have These shields that were locked together in the front and they would move as a unit, and it was a terrifying thing if you're on the other side of it. And basically all these These darts that are getting hurled at them and all these arrows that are getting thrown at them, what's happening is it's just it's bouncing off of these shields. It's because they're all locked together. If one of those people decides I'm gonna pull away from the group and I'm gonna do my own thing, guess what happens? He's toast. What happens if enough of the people that are in that group begin to break ranks and fall away? You know what happened? All of a sudden their strength is gone, their defense is gone, they're not able to stand. But when they all walk together and they move as a unit, the other side's in trouble. They can stand their ground, they can move forward. And it's a beautiful picture of the importance of the church. There's a reason we need Christian friends. There's a reason that we need brothers and sisters in Christ in our life. Because the fact is that we are a lot stronger when we stand side by side. Than when we isolate ourselves. Much stronger. Every single one of us. None of us can stand alone. God didn't design for us to stand alone. He designed for us to stand together And so this is a vital, vital, important truth. Number six, we'll go with six. The encouragement of our future salvation. In verse 17, he says, take the helmet of salvation. Now if you remember back to the 1 Thessalonians 5 passage, He mentions the breastplate of love and faith. So we're talking about the practical righteousness. And then he mentions a helmet. And this is the way that he puts it. He says, for a helmet, the hope. Of salvation. Now, when when Paul uses the word hope, he's not saying, Boy, I really hope that God saves me And I really hope that I don't face wrath. And I really hope that this gospel really is true. That's not what he's saying. He's saying God is incapable of lying. God has promised, and therefore he's incapable of telling a lie about what he's promised. He's going to follow through. So the degree to which I'm confident my hope is solid. That's what he's saying. But what is he solid about? His future salvation. How do we know that? He says, For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation. By our Lord Jesus Christ. And if you look at that passage of scripture, he's actually talking about eschatology. He's talking about the things that are going to happen during the time when the church is raptured up. And this is actually important. Verse and we're talking about the rapture and even how we look at the timing of the rapture. But basically, what he's saying is this: there is a future salvation, and that is what's supposed to guard your mind. Let me be really practical about this. One of the areas that we get exploited is in the area of discouragement. Anybody ever got discouraged? Yeah, you know what discouragement really is? Discouragement is looking at our feet instead of looking at the horizon. That's really what discouragement is. I'm looking at what's in front of me instead of looking at what's ahead of me. We live our lives that way a lot. Sometimes we get so bogged down what's going on right now at this moment that we have no concept of everything going on around us. And we have no concept of what's going on down the road. Now, please, the fact that I can't see it doesn't change what's going on around me. And the fact that I can't see it doesn't change the fact that it's coming down the road. You could have a believer that his his salvation is secure, he's going to heaven. But he's looking at his feet all through life, and he's a miserable, stubborn person. And he's upset at God and he's discouraged and he's disgruntled and he's complaining and get along with people. And he lives at the feet of Christian life. And you know what God says? Look up. Look at where you're going. Look at what's coming. Get your eyes off of your feet and start looking at what I'm doing and where I'm going with with your life. That's what he's saying When we think we can't carry on, we all get there. And we think that we've reached a breaking point. And we we can. This truth oblists us and strengthens us to persevere and be faithful. God says, would you just look for a moment at where you're going? And what I've promised, the end result. That's what he says. This is one of the critically important pieces to being victorious in the cross. Christian life. Because discouragement's a real thing. We can get very disheartened. And so he says, look up, look forward, look where you're going. Number seven, the importance of Scripture continually renewing our minds. Out of all the pieces that Paul has mentioned, every single one of them is for defense. Standing ground. Your shoes, standing ground, your breastplate defending you. Your shield, defense. Your belt, defense. This one's different A sword is for offense. A sword isn't just to defend. A sword is to take the enemy out. And this is a critical piece to this whole puzzle. He says the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. This is the tool that God uses to do offense in our lives. This is the tool that God uses to transform us. And to make us a different person, and to actually go forward against the enemy. Lots and lots of scripture talks about this. Romans chapter 12, verse 2. He says Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed through the renewing of your mind. What does God use to transform us through the renewing of our mind? Scripture. Second Corinthians 3. 18, he says, We all with open face, beholding as in a glass. The glory of the Lord are changed into the same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of the Lord. Where are we beholding the glory of the Lord in a glass? It's in the scriptures. So the Holy Spirit takes the word and he changes us. 2 Timothy 3:17. He says, the man of God may be perfect, thoroughly furnished unto all good works. What accomplishes that? The scriptures. Psalm 19, 7 and 8. It converts the soul. It makes wise the simple. It rejoices the heart. The commandments of the Lord are pure and they enlighten the eyes. What is that? That's about changing us. That's offense. Psalm 119 verse 11, thy word is a thy word have I hid in my heart that I might not sin against thee. It's all about offense. All about offense. So you might say, okay, Joel, I appreciate that. This is helpful. But I'm not a soldier. I don't have a shield and a belt. And oh well, I have a belt but not this kind of belt, and I don't have all these pieces. So let's make this real practical. How do I actually do this? How does this even matter? Let me give you some some simple implications here. The first is this. You cannot cheat without consequence. You can't cheat without consequence. That's really simple, isn't it? Put on the whole armor of God, every single piece is i is important. Can't cut corners You can't cheat without consequence. Number two, our lives have to be built on truth, not emotion, experience, truth. Emotions are up and down. Experience is a very interpretive matter. Two people can sit in the same room and see the same thing come out with a totally different mindset about it. It's shocking, but true. It's absolutely true. Might be a husband and wife. They're sitting there and they're they got a totally different view about something that they just witnessed or conversation they'd just had. You and another believer, you have a totally different mind about it. Experience is prone to interpretation. Your emotions go up and down. Truth stands firm. Three, you cannot play with it with sin without painful, complicated consequences The believer says, you know what? I'm saved, I'm forgiven, I'm righteous in Christ, I'm holy. I could do whatever I want. I can continue in sin that gracefully abounds. Paul says, God forbid. Why? How can we that have died to sin live any longer therein? Sin has devastating consequences, painful consequences, complicating consequences Four, we need our stability to be firmly rooted in the unshakable security that we have in Christ, the unchanging acceptance he has granted us in Christ I think this is one of the greatest points out of all of these. Because you could have a person that has a pretty biblical worldview And you could have a person that is very conscientious, and they're doing their very best to walk with the Lord, and they're trying to put on all the pieces of the armor, but the bottom line is, deep down in their heart, they're trying to prove to God. You need to accept me. You need to love me. They're trying to prove something that God says it's already taken care of. And you know what Satan does? He exploits that vulnerability. He does it over and over and over again. We need the stability of a firmly rooted, unshakable security that we have in Christ. Number five, we need to take the Christian life one day at a time. Remind ourselves of the truth and choose to rest in it. Now, I mentioned that you're not supposed to look at your shoes, you've got to look up, okay? And there's an aspect to the Christian life just like that. But there's also an aspect to the Christian life where you just take one day at a time. Today might seem overwhelming, but what's making today overwhelming is that you're worried about tomorrow and the day after and the day after and the day after and the day after. And that's why today is so hard. Not because you can't face what you're dealing with today, it's because you're trying to face today and all these other days that are completely in the hypothetical. Anybody ever been there? Yeah, I know. All right. We've all been there. One day at a time. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof. God gives us today our daily bread, even something as simple as the food that we eat. He strengthens us with today's food. And that's what walking by faith is. You take one step at a time. Every journey starts with one step. That's an African proverb. I remember talking about that in Ghana. Every journey takes starts with one step. And it's true. And by the way, every journey is completed one step at a time. Number six, we need to keep our focus on the long term rather than the short term In other words, rather than just seeing the struggle of today, sometimes we've got to look at what God's doing in the very long term. future. You know, when we when we read the book of Revelation, we could look at it two ways. We'd go, whoo, what's going on? This is a really complicated book. Or we could say, hey, God wins. Now I'm glad he wins. I really, you can look at it both ways. And so in the Christian life, we need to sometimes lift our eyes up and say, God, remind me again. That there's going to be a day I stand before you complete. There's going to be a day that when I stand before you, I'm going to see you as you are. I'm not going to deal with sin anymore. I'm not going to deal with temptation anymore. I'm going to enjoy eternal glory in your presence. And you need to think about that. We need to continually be in the Word. There are no substitutes to the Scriptures. So, how do we do this when it comes to our children? This is not something I'm going to spend a lot of time on, but let me mention it very briefly. We've got to live before them as a pattern that's worthy of emulation. Now, I'm not suggesting that our parent or that our children need to follow us. They should follow us if and how we are following Christ. But a lot of what our kids are learning, they're learning by watching us. They're learning about God. They're learning about controversy. They're learning about how to resolve conflicts. They're learning about how to deal with setbacks and discouragements. They're learning by watching us And my question is, does that scare you? Does that scare you? The fact is, if we are walking in a consistent way, our children will see it and they will pick up on it. And they will want that. It will shape them. Number two, develop a relationship with them that allows you to shape their thinking into those patterns. If we are thinking biblically about these issues of temptation, God's going to give us endless opportunities. To have conversations with our children that allow us to inject into those conversations a biblical worldview. Over and over and over again, we will have endless opportunities. And that however many years they live under our roof. Number three, handling conflict and failure through the lens of a healthy Christian worldview is extremely important. Everybody in this room fails at times. We all do. Everybody in this room deals with conflicts at times I I wish that wasn't the case. I really do. I wish we always were successful in what we did, and I wish we got along with everybody in every circ circumstance, and we never had a conflict. But you know the truth is this. Sometimes God Allows you to have conflict because that's how you grow. And sometimes he allows you to go through failures because that's how you grow. And your children watch this and they're learning. And lastly, I've mentioned this before and I will mention it again. It's about consistency, not perfection. There is no perfection in any life in this room. None. Our position is perfect because of Christ's righteousness. But consistency is about staying the course. It's about the trajectory. It's about where you're going. It's sort of like if you're looking at, uh well I don't know if this is a great time to bring this up, but if you're looking at stocks and you see uh ups and downs and ups and downs downs. But if you're looking at it over a ten-year period, hopefully what you're seeing is is an upward trajectory. Okay? That's what you're hoping to see. A lot a lot of downturns and a lot of upturns and you can't even predict when they're gonna all happen. But it's about trajectory. And a lot of what being a consistent Christian is, and a lot of what being a consistent parent is, it's about consistency. So my prayer is that's what we'll do. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to put these things to practice. Father, thank you for the word. Very rich text. A lot that we could have unpackaged far beyond what we did tonight. But I pray that you'll take this very simple overview and use it for your glory in our lives. We want to be consistent Christians. We want to be faithful parents. We want to see our children embrace the Christian faith and walk as disciples of Christ. So I pray that you'd help us to be the kinds of parents that point them to Christ. Christ. We ask all of this in Jesus' name. Amen.