Well good evening. Hope you guys are having a good week so far. Pastor is still on vacation in Florida, but uh tonight we're gonna just enjoy some fellowship around God's Word. Have some time of prayer and enjoy one another's company. Let's bow for prayer and get started. Father, we come before you, thankful for the opportunity to be in your house. And for everyone, it's a very busy week with a lot of things going on as the summer. gets uh gets going. I pray, Lord, you would uh give us all rest and and peace as we pause and reflect on the truths of your word and lift up our our needs and our uh our praises to you We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, we're going to sing just one song, hymn number 371. We'll sing a passion for thee, two verses of 371. Set my heart, O dear Father, on thee and thee only. Give me a thirst for thy presence divine Lord, keep my both. Judge me from earth. Turn my heart up to A punch to be more suffering my soul and a first for my God Now my friend was working on Justin Served. Father, love me with all of thy heart. Father, fill with thy spirit and led me for service Let now for Christ every morning smart, teach me to follow himself the submission Give my joy and I soul's won in ball a passion for the Lord Salaf bar in my soul and a first born I God thy prayer or thy power in part Not just to serve but survive with all thy heart. Great singing that was a little high for a win. Wednesday night. But uh you guys did great. All right, tonight we're going to be in the book of 1 Samuel. The book of 1 Samuel, I want to share with you a message from a series on the life of King Saul. And he's not exactly an obscure figure in scripture. We know that King Saul is a very tragic figure. But before we kind of delve into what is really kind of the the one of the low points of King Saul's life I want to just kind of kind of lighten things up a little bit and reflect on something that happened very early in my marriage that um really I look back on and I laugh at It was when I was trying to make uh sweet tea for my wife using stevia. And if anybody has ever used stevia before, you know stevia does not taste like sh sugar at all. And from being in the south, you know you gotta use at least two, three cups of sugar to make that tea sweet. And so I thought during a break there in my um in my classes at college that I would put together some some sweet tea. So I got the the pot boiling or the the the Yeah the the stove pot going and it was boiling up the tea and I had the s the stevia ready to go. I had the it measured out and then I put in the tea, I put in the sugar, I stir it up. I'm like try it just to make sure it's all right. You know, this is gonna be great. My wife's gonna be excited, and I take some some of that tea, I put a little icing on it to to cool it down. I'll take a sip. And I poured it in the sink along with the whole picture and I was done with that. I was so deluded in my thinking that I didn't realize that that stevia was really gonna be some really diluted Sweet tea. It was not sweet at all. It was an abomination. Um, there's really times in our lives where we can be deluded In a very similar way. We think we're we're pleasing God and we're following God and we're doing wonderful things for God. But really we're only serving self. Serving ambitions that really have no foundation, no biblical basis. And that's kind of where we see King Saul here. in chapters 23, 24, and 26 of 1 Samuel. Now thankfully the the these chapters provide for us a contrast Between David and King Saul, where we see King Saul failing repeatedly to follow God and continue in his delusion and thinking he was following God. You see David pursuing God. Pleading for God, praying to God, seeking godly advice. And so tonight as we look at these three chapters, we're going to see that God wants us to understand the difference. Between following God and really being deluded to think we are. And in Reading these chapters, we can see how we can do this by recognizing three important areas of the Christian life in which we need to have clear biblical thinking. Look with me, please, in chapter 23, starting in verse number one. Then they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Kalah, and they robbed the threshing floors. Therefore David inquired of the Lord, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And the Lord said unto David, Go and smite the Philistines, and save Kailah. And David's men said unto him, Behold, we be afraid here in Judah. How much more then if we come to Kalah against the armies of the Philistines? Then David inquired of the Lord yet again, and the Lord answered him and said, Arise, go down to Calh, for I will deliver the Philistines into thine hand. So David and his men went into Kalah and fought with the Philistines and brought away their cattle and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Kalah. And it came to pass when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David, to Kalah. And he came down with an Ephid in his hand, and he was told Saul that David was come to Kalah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into mine hand, for he is shut in by entering into a town that hath gates and bars. And Saul called the people together to walk To go down to Calan to besiege David and his men. As you can see, we're in the midst of Saul's pursuit of David. Saul is completely blinded in his efforts to get rid of David, who he sees as a threat to his throne, to his dynasty, to his position as the king over Israel. And in this pursuit, he becomes deluded to the point where he honestly thinks he is doing God's will. And it is sad and it is tragic. But David provides for us contrast. We see him following God, particularly in recognizing God's will, as we read here in these first several chapters or the first ver couple verses. He recognized God's will first of all through revelation Now, David, when he was when he heard news that the Philistines had come into Calah and were stealing their their food, he inquired of the Lord whether or not he should go and fight them. And got and David Receive direct revelation from God. Then later, when Abiathar, we'll read about it here momentarily. When Abiathar came along the scene, he brought with him an ephah. Now ephah, as you know, was a tool which the priests used to figure out God's will when really all they had were about five, maybe six books of the Old Testament. And we're not quite sure what this was and what it entailed, but we know that it was used, and David had access to it. And later when we see Saul going down into Caleb to uh not Caleb, but going down to to get rid of David, to kill David. David says, well, am I going to be delivered up into Saul's hands if I stick around? And by using the epha, Abiathar was able to tell David directly, God's revelation of truth. Yes, if you stick around, Saul's gonna come and you'll be delivered up to him. And David fleece. Now we don't we don't have that that privilege. We don't have that direct access to revelation from God's lips or from an ephah, but we do have divine revelation. We have God's word. We have absolute truth from our God. And so If we're going to know God's will, we need to know this book. We need to study this book. We need to prayerfully work through this book and allow the Holy Spirit to teach us and to minister to our hearts and minds. However, if we get to a position where we become so deluded and thinking that we are following God's will when we're not, well then we end up doing what Saul did. And Saul assumed God's will through presumption. You saw that in verses seven and eight of chapter twenty-three, when he heard news that David was in Kalah, he was ecstatic, he was excited. He thought, here's my chance. God has delivered him into my hands. Never once did he pray. Never once did he pursue a priest to intercede for him. He didn't even so much as quote or reference the Mosaic Law, which is God's word. He simply presumed, assumed We can look in Saul and think, of course, it was presumptuous of him to assume that God would want him to go and besiege a city that had nothing to do with them and to kill David, who was completely innocent. But we're often very guilty of presuming upon God, aren't we? How often have we made a decision based on a feeling of peace or by following someone's advice without really seeking biblical wisdom. Instead, we often like to indulge our confirmation bias. We like to live in our echo chamber. When we're in that position, we're presuming upon God. We're presuming we know what God's will is. And that's when we're deluded in thinking that we are following God. We need to recognize that In order to determine whether we're following God or stuck in our delusion, we need to recognize where God's will Or where we can get God's will. And that comes from, as David shows us by example, divine revelation. We have that in God's word. The next area of the Christian life in which we need to see in which whether we are following God or we are stuck in our own deluded thinking Isn't that we recognize godly people as blessings from the Lord? Notice in chapter 23, verse 15 of 1 Samuel. And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life, and David was in the wilderness of Zif in a wood. And Jonathan, Saul's son, arose and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God. And he said unto him, Fear not. For the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee. And thou shalt be king over Israel, and I will be next unto thee. And I also saw my father knoweth. And they too made a covenant before the Lord, and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house. We see David being encouraged, being strengthened in the hand by Jonathan. David saw how encouraging Jonathan was as a godly blessing. He's a remarkable man. I don't know if you've ever had taken the time to study Jonathan, King Saul's son. Here's a man who was the heir apparent to Saul's dynasty. He was a remarkable military leader. He was highly respected by the people of Israel. And yet. When he was standing in front of the man who would essentially take his throne, not just his father's, but his. He says there in verse seventeen, I shall be next unto thee. He says, I'm going to support you. I am on your side. I will strengthen you. I will be at your disposal. What a blessing from a man probably about twenty years older than David on top of that He was an encouragement to David. He was a godly, godly man. And to be honest, I think sometimes we find encouraging people to be a little uh I don't know about you, but I I I struggle sometimes being around really positive people You you know who I'm talking about, right? The one that never ever sees anything wrong with anything. All they have to say is something that's really nice and positive and encouraging and yeah, this is gonna be great. To me I'm like uh I have a hard time with that. But in reality, those people really are a blessing. They're a blessing from the Lord, especially believers who recognize that our sovereign God is in control. And his ways are high above ours, and we can follow him and trust him and see that he is doing a great work around us. David saw the encouraging Jonathan as a godly blessing, but in contrast, the deluded Saul Saw some other folks as his quote unquote godly blessing. Notice in verse 19 Then came up the Ziphites to Saul to give you, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strongholds in the wood, in the hill of Hakilah, which is on the south of Jeshimon? Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down. And our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand. And Saul said, Blessed be ye of the Lord, for ye have compassion on me. Go, I pray you, prepare ye, and know that know and see his place where his haunt is. And who hath seen him there, for it is told me that he dealeth very subtly goes on and Makes plans to go down and to besiege David, to surround David, to destroy David. But did you notice how he treats these Zephites? When David was in the forest near Zif, in the wilderness of Ziff, it wasn't bothering them. He was just dwelling out in the woods, kind of like Robin Hood, you know. Hiding. And he said if I oh David's over there. Go up to Saul and say, hey, we know where David is. He's conniving, backstabbing, unhelpful, wicked Zephites. And Saul says , You're a blessing from the Lord. God obviously sent you. You're going to help me kill this innocent man and all of his friends. He was utterly deluded. But listen, we're we're just as deluded to think that we're following God When really we're only seeing people as godly blessings because they serve as means to our own end. We like to sometimes entertain those who are filled with slander and treachery as long as they're against what we're against, as long as they're talking about someone that we don't like, someone that disagrees with our or agrees with our cause is benefiting us in some way. Yeah, those are our are a blessing from the Lord. Not the encouraging, maybe even rebuking, brother and sister in Christ. Listen, if we're going to follow God and not be deluded in our thinking, we need to recognize God's good people for who they are. We also need to recognize God's will as coming from divine revelation. But finally, we'll see in chapters 24 and 26. That if we're going to be those who follow God and not be caught in the trap of delusion , we need to recognize what godly behavior looks like. A godly behavior is very much dictated by our consciences. And in chapters 24 and 26, we see David and Saul exhibiting some very different consciences. I won't take the time to read those two chapters, obviously. But you know these accounts. You know in chapter 24 when Saul and his army was ready to kill David. And they spent the night in a cave. David happened to be in that very same cave. And he had his chance to get rid of Saul once and for all. He goes up, he's got a knife in hand. But he would not touch the Lord's anointed. Instead, he just cuts off a piece of his clothing. And even that smit him in his heart, tore him to pieces. Later in chapter 26, we see a very similar account. This time, Saul and his army are in sort of this trench in camp. And they're sleeping, and Saul has his spear standing up from the ground, this symbol of royalty. And David and Abishai come up to him at night. And Abishai kind of goes in, like, hey, this is your chance. You can stop this. Kill him right now. Destroy your enemy. And they said, no. David said, I will not touch the Lord's anointed. He had a godly conscience In both cases, he recognized that God had an established authority. That God was the one that put Saul on that throne. And he would not go against his God. We're not here tonight to Necessarily talk about different consciences. Sometimes a godly conscience can be a little bit of an overly sensitive conscience. But we should not be a people who ignore our conscience. David did what he had to do to get Saul's attention, but he did it knowing that his actions were being watched by his Almighty God. And as followers of God, we ought to be. sensitive to the reality of his omnipresence. The Lord is truly watching us in everything that we're doing. However, we see in contrast the deluded Saul, who even when Confronted with his sin, still, still thought he was doing what was right. We know that it when David confronted Saul with the piece of his skirt, and when he had stolen his spear and confronted him with his spear, both times Saul said, I've sinned. I've done wrong. In fact, the first time when David held a piece of a skirt, Saul started weeping. He was bawling his eyes out because he thought Well, I don't know what he's thinking. I know that he probably felt very embarrassed, felt very ashamed, felt very vulnerable. But did he repent? No. He cried over his actions, went home, and started the whole cycle over again. He exhibited a very double-minded conscience. One that really thought, okay, I'll deal with this sin now, but put it in my back pocket and save it for later. You know, diluted thinking does not always involve an unawareness of our sin. In fact, more more often than not, we recognize our sin. We might even confess it. But We either do it with insincerity or with double-mindedness, or for one reason or another, we don't deal with it. When we do this, we sear our consciences over and over again. We keep feeding that delusion. We keep thinking, hey, I'm serving God. I'm confessing this sin. But I'm not killing it. I'm not getting rid of it. Really, in doing that, we say, God, you see my sin now, but you can't see it now. May God help us if the reason we struggle with habitual sin is because we're deluded to think that our confessions have any merit with a double-minded conscience. We can't keep sin in our back pockets. We have to kill it. It's only then that we can follow God with a clear, wholehearted conscience. Rather than in our own deluded thinking. God wants us to understand the difference between following Him And being deluded in our thinking. We know that when it comes to King Saul, what it really boils down to, this tragedy, this this this fall of a of a great great potential king. to what we see here tonight, a man who is completely deluded. Someone who thinks that he's following God when in reality he's not. But thankfully, Scripture shows us a contrast. We see David, someone who recognizes that to recognize God's will, he needs divine revelation. Someone who sees godly individuals as true blessings from the Lord. Someone who has a godly, God-shaped conscience. So let's examine ourselves. Let's look at ourselves tonight. Are we followers of God? I'm not talking about whether you're saved or not. I'm talking about are you actively following God right now? Or you thinking you are when in reality you're really serving your own ends, your own means. Let's strive to be a people who follow God with clarity. Let's bow for prayer. Father. I thank you tonight for this passage, these three chapters, which we can spend a lot of time on. But tonight we really want to focus in on whether or not we are following you. And Lord, it's sometimes Not intentional, but we get diluted with with various things and then get caught really following our own purposes. Help us to reset ourselves tonight if that's where we're at. And if we are following you, Lord, I pray you would help us, encourage us, strengthen us to keep. Because like David, even following you does not always put us in the best of circumstances. But we know that it does put us in the best of positions. And that's in the center of your will. Lord, I ask you would help every single one of us tonight to orient ourselves on you. To follow you with clear minds, clear purposes, and undiluted thinking. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.