We're in First Corinthians chapter six, and I don't know for sure if we'll finish this tonight, but uh seems like we've really mocked a lot out of this passage of scripture. But actually what we've been doing is looking at Paul's approach to how he is addressing Areas of great concern to the church. And so we're going to look at again tonight, but we're going to look more at the content of what he says, kind of the overall picture. And so this evening the topic we're going to address is how redemption affects our relationship to God. Let's go ahead and look in verse number 12 and read it together. Here's what it says. All things are lawful unto me, but All things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any Meats for the belly and the belly for meats, but God shall destroy both it and them. Now, the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord, and the Lord for the body. And God hath raised up the Lord and will also raise up us by his power. Know ye not, your bodies are the members of Christ. Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid. What? Know ye not that ye that he which is joined to a harlot is one body? For two, saith he, shall be one flesh. But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit. Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body, but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God. And here's where we want to focus our attention. Ye are not your own. For, here's the explanation, you are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God 's. Let me read that last little section again. He says What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God? Ye are not your own. For ye are bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Now, I want to start out by using an illustration. I've never tried this before, and uh it's first time ever, but I tried to uh create an illustration using AI And so there's a little picture up there, or there's going to be a picture of a tree. And uh I I did a lot of uh you could say adjustments and I'd say not not this this because I got some really weird images, some really weird looking trees. But I really wanted to kind of capture the sense of what I think Paul is saying in these verses. And if you look at this tree, you probably can't read it from where you are, but what you have in this picture is you have a tree that has roots in the ground, and under those roots it says the facts of the gospel. This is what Christ did. He came in the flesh, he died on the cross, he rose from the dead. Those are the facts of the gospel. And then growing up out of those roots is a tree trunk. And that tree trunk has the word redemption on it. And the reason for that is because it's telling us what the facts of the gospel did. In fact, when we look at these verses, at the end he says, you are bought with a price. And the word we'd use is we are redeemed. And so we're going to dig into that concept a little bit because that word for means everything that he's saying here. kind of connects back to that concept. So we start with the facts of the gospel, then we move to what it accomplished, redemption, and then we see the branches of the tree. And in the branches of the tree What we see are two very specific theological implications that are rooted in the gospel. On the one side, we have that you are the members of Christ. And then on the other side it says you are the temple of the Holy Ghost. And here's what's very interesting. As I was looking through this passage, there was something I'd never really noticed before until I Dug into a little bit more. Do you realize that each of the three persons of the Godhead are mentioned in the text and our relationship to them on the basis of redemption? So it talks about our relationship to the Father. It talks about our relationship to the Son, and it talks about our relationship to the Spirit, and we're going to see that that is really at the heart of what we have here. So the reason I start with that illustration is to help you to realize that what Paul is doing is he's saying this. Everything in the Christian life is built on the facts of the gospel. Christ came in the flesh, he suffered in the flesh, he died on the cross, he rose from the dead. And then what the gospel has accomplished is it has redeemed us to God. And then here are implications. And notice they are theological implications and then I didn't go this far but if you look at all the little individual branches that branch out from those concepts those would be practical applications that flow out of the gospel as a redeemed people to the fact that we are the temple of the Holy Ghost and our bodies are the members of Christ. All of this is connected. And so when we talk about the Christian life, we have to recognize that we are gospel people. That means it all starts with the gospel. It's all grounded in the gospel. It's not just a bunch of rules and regulations, a bunch of moral principles. It is stuff that flows directly out of the gospel. And that's what he's showing here. And that also led me down another rabbit trail as I was thinking about this as well. The New Testament talks a lot about the individual roles of the three persons of the Godhead in our salvation. I'm going to give you an example of this. Because it has a lot of bearing on what we're looking at in the text in front of us. Each person of the Godhead has a unique role in your salvation. God has saved you, but the Father's rule in your salvation and the Son's rule in your salvation and the Spirit's rule in your salvation, they're all different. But they all work together in perfect Unity because we're talking about the distinction of person and the unity of essence and the significance of one plant So, Ephesians 1 3, listen to what it says. And notice how he speaks in terms of the Father and of the Son here It says, blessed be the God and Father of the Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. Carefully listen. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy without blame before him in love, having predestined us unto adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself according to the good pleasure of his will. So in that passage, it's saying that God has determined, that's the word, predestined us to adoption. And when we talk about adoption, We're not emphasizing the initial aspect of our salvation, but rather the culmination, the final aspect of our salvation. This is the glorification of the believer. And so it's emphasizing the Father's plan, and you can see that the Son has a part in the plan. Distinction of roles. Then we see the second part. Ephesians 1. 7. In whom we have redemption. That word is very similar. It's actually a different Greek term than the term that's used in the passage we're looking at tonight, but they would be synonymous. They're dealing with the same concept. We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins. So it talks about what the Father did in the plan, and then it talks about what the Son did in actually fulfilling the plan. The father doesn't go to the cross. The son goes to the cross. And the son 's work is for the father and consistent with his plan. I mean remember back to Jesus in the garden, he says, Father, if it is possible, remove this cup from me, but not my will, but whose will? Your will. Okay? So we see the distinction of the role of the Father and the Son. And then we see the third, the Spirit's role. We could say it this way: the Father plans redemption, the Son pays for redemption, and the Spirit secures redemption. Verses 13 and 14, in whom ye also trusted, referring back to Christ, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and whom after you believed you were sealed. with the Holy Spirit of promise, which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory. And so this is a fascinating concept because what it shows you is father's plan, son 's work, spirit's role and securing. And so if I was gonna use the visual which I couldn't get one that actually didn't look really weird, I was gonna have one that was A blueprint, and that was going to be the Father's role, and then I was going to have one that was a lamb. Christ dies for us And then we go to the second or the third aspect. I was going to have the spirit who is the seal and I was going to have like a signet ring, but I could not get a good picture. So I just gave up on it. It was a waste of time. But the reason I bring that up is to say this. All of those pieces, believe it or not, are in the background of the text in front of us. Paul is saying that the reason you live for God is because you are redeemed to the Father, and you are redeemed through the Son, and you are kept by the Spirit. And he's going to talk about our relationship to all three persons of the Godhead. So I summarized it like this: our redemption has specific Theological and practical ramifications to each person of the triune God. So let's work our way through the text and see what it says. All right, and the first truth we're going to notice here is this. Our bodies are redeemed to the Father. Look down at verse 14, and then we're going to skip over a little bit to verses 19 and 20, because they're kind of pulling these two pieces together. It says, God hath both raised up the Lord and will also raise up us by his power. Ye are not your own, ye are bought with a price. Now, when he says God raised up the Lord, he's making a distinction between two persons. Do you see that? So he's saying that the Son was raised by the Father's power in this particular passage. And then he's connecting this back to the fact that we are redeemed. to God and we do not belong to ourselves. And we see this little phrase, ye are bought with a price. What does that mean? Bought with a price. So if you go into the Greek text, you look at the word, the word is agorazo, and if you know anything about Greek, an agora was a place where they did buying and selling. It was a marketplace. And so really what he's using is a term that was commonly used in the marketplace to talk about exchanging that's going on. So someone says, you have something that I want. What does it cost? And the person who's selling it says, well, it's going to cost you this if you want it. And they say, how about let's reduce it? And they say, nope. Firm price, you gotta pay it in full, and they say, all right, I want it, I'm gonna pay for it, and then they give the money, and then they exchange the item. That would be the common use of this term. And it's not just a term that would have been used in Greek culture, it was also a term that was used when we talk about the septugen. And so we see the concept of buying and selling an exchange. So the word bought indicates what takes place in the market. And then we have the word price. This is indicating that someone is selling something and they are establishing a price. And the one that is purchasing is actually rendering payment or exchange for the price that's been established. So if I want to buy something from you, I don't set the price you do. Okay? I have to bring the item to you. So in the illustration, what it's showing you is that the purchase of our redemption is to the Father at the price that he has established. And theologically and practically, this is very significant. A lot of scripture talks about this concept of redemption. In fact, these are the same term being used in these other passages. For instance, Romans chapter 3, verse 24. We are justified freely by his grace through, listen to the word, the redemption that is in Christ Jesus Same word. So our justification is not just about our righteousness coming from Christ. When we talk about the book of Philippians, Paul says, I will be found in him not having my own righteousness. which is through the law, but the righteousness of God by faith. But it also indicates that there is an aspect of justification that's connected to our redemption. The second example is Ephesians 1. 7. We have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our sins. So justification is connected to this issue of redemption. Forgiveness is connected to this issue of redemption. And then in Romans 5. 9, we also have the concept of reconciliation. This is a really interesting one It says, thou art worthy to take up the book and to open the seals therefore, for thou wast slain and hast redeemed us to God. by thy blood out of every kindred and tongue and people and nation. So all of those are connected to the theological implication of redemption. But this passage is kind of dealing with both theological and practical. We also have other passages that deal with the practical side For instance, in 1 Corinthians 7. 23 he says, ye are bought with a price. Be not ye the servants of men. Service. Who do you serve as a master? Titus 2. 14, he gave himself for us. That he might redeem us from all iniquity and purify unto himself a peculiar people zealous of good works. And so he wants us to be a laboring people. So what I'm trying to show you here. is that the theological and the practical are pulled together in this concept of redemption. And so I summarize it like this. The price was determined by the Father. It was paid to the Father by the Son, and it results in our bodies belonging to God. That is the concept that we have in the first part of this text. Second truth I want you to notice, and by the way, that is in relation to the Father. The Son did not pay himself for our redemption. He didn't pay the Spirit for our redemption He paid the Father for our redemption. Second truth is this. Our bodies are the members of Christ. Notice in your Bible at verse 15, he says, know ye not your bodies are the members of who? Christ. Now notice he didn't say you're they're the members of the Father. And he doesn't say they're the members of the Son. He specifically mentions not the Son, the Spirit, he specifically mentions the Son here. Because this is indicating a unique relationship to Christ, the second person of the Godhead, that is a result of us being redeemed to the Father. Now that phrase members of Christ is something we need to kind of think about a little bit here. The word members refers to a part of the human body. It could be describing the mouth, the hands, the feet, the tongue. You go into lots and lots of other areas. But it's also used many times to illustrate spiritual concepts related to the church and our relationship to God. Let me give you some examples. The first ones I want to deal with are physical, and then the second section I want to deal with ones that are, we could say, illustrative. Okay? He's using them as a picture. James 3. 6. The tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity. So is the tongue among our members. It defileth the whole body. Notice how he uses the term among our members. So the tongue is one among many pieces of our body. And it's uh it's very destructive potentially, okay? Our tongues can Destroy people, they can whittle them down, they can lie, they can they can also bluff, they can do a lot of good, or they can do evil Then we have the example in Romans 12. 4 of how this is referring to the corporate context as in the body of Christ. and how we as individual members of the body function together in a similar way to the way your hands and your feet and all of your body works together. He says, we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office. And that word office there has the idea of a function. This is what they do. So feet and hands don't do the same thing in humans. Can you pick up a baseball with your foot? Some people can. Actually I can, believe it or not. But uh Or I mean they say I could. It's been a while. But uh some people can do that. Like they can actually like contort their uh their foot and they can use it like like a hand, but um it doesn't work like a hand under normal circumstances. Okay? Why is that? Because God gave you hands to do hand work and God gave you feet to do feet work. And God gave you eyes to do eye work and all that. And so his point is that just like your body has a lot of different members, the church has different members that work together. Different personalities, different strengths, different weaknesses, different gifts. They're all put together so they work together in unison. A second example, 1 Corinthians 12, 12. As the body is one and hath many members, and all the members of that one body being many are one body, so also is Christ. Same kind of concept, right? But then it gets personal with it. And the personal example is Romans 6. 13. Listen to what it says. And I'm going to expand on this a little bit. He says, yield, neither yield or do not yield your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin. But yield yourselves unto God as those who are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God. So what he's saying is your members are to be used in a way that honors Christ You could almost put it like this. We have this song we sing channels only. And the idea is that we're like we're a conduit, alright? What when we read when we lead somebody to Christ and we disciple someone, when God uses us in some capacity He works through us. Yes, we're serving in a capacity, but the power, the enabling, it's from him and through us. It's not starting with us. And so basically saying instead of taking those members and using them for evil, yield them to God. Do what he wants you to do. And so the most personal of all these examples is in Romans 6. Notice what it says. What? Shall we save them? Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. How shall we that are dead to sin live any longer therein? And then he goes on to expound this concept of how we have been liberated from one realm and we've been placed into a new realm and we are dead to the old realm and we're alive to the new realm and we're to walk in the newness of life that we have in Christ. That's his whole point. And so the point is we've been united with Christ in both his death and his resurrection. We've died to sin. We've been raised to walk in newness of life. Since this is positionally true about us, we must choose to live in the light of it. That's what the word reckon means. Account it as if it's true. Act like you believe it. Live like you actually think it's true. It is true. But account it. Reckon it. We must Recognize that what we do in our bodies actually matters to God. And so we see the second part. So the first part is about redemption to the Father. The second is about our members being the members of Christ. The third part is that our bodies are the temple of the Spirit. This one is maybe perhaps one of the most fascinating of all of them. Verse 19. What? Know ye not your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and you're not your own. Now I want to just pause for a second. There are two places in 1 Corinthians where Paul makes the argument that we, the believer, are the temple of the Spirit. But what's very interesting about it Is that he actually deals with two different concepts in those passages? In one passage, he deals with the collective nature of we the body when we are gathered together, being the place where God resides. And so there's something very unique about when we gather together as a body, like you know what it says in Matthew, where two or three are gathering together, I'm there in the midst, okay? We know that passage of scripture. But the whole point is he says, you as a body are the temple of the Spirit of God. That's actually the argument he makes in one passage. In this passage, he narrows it into the individual. So really it's true in both senses. It's true in the collective sense, it's true in the individual sense. So I am right now the temple of the Spirit of God. You, believer, right now are the temple of the Spirit of God. When we dwell when we all gather together as a body. The Spirit of God works and moves and dwells and resides in our midst. It's a pretty awesome thing to think about. Say, well, I don't even know if I truly understand that. Neither do I, but that's what it's saying. But I want us to burrow down a little bit deeper into this. The statement, your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost. What did the temple represent for a person living under the old covenant? If you had lived in the time of Christ , or before the time of Christ in the Old Testament, what would you have thought of when you hear temple? Well there are a couple of things that I jotted down here. One would be this You would think this is the place where God reveals that he wants to dwell amongst his people. I mean, that's a really shocking thing. I mean, the nation of Israel They build the tabernacle and the Spirit of God, God's Shekinah glory, his presence, dwells in that tent, right above the mercy seat. And that presence of God, the Shekinah glory, gets up and moves them from one location to the next location. And if you were to look at the mapping of where the nation of Israel was to camp, because God I'm telling you, God regulated everything about Old Testament Israel. I mean everything. From what they ate to where they resided as they moved through the wilderness to where they resided once they were given the promised land. To how their calendar was supposed to lay out, everything about it, how they were to bring a sacrifice, who could offer the sacrifice, how were they to do it, what kind of an animal. It's all laid out. Why Well, because God's holy and we can't just approach him any way we want to. But what you see as you read through the Old Testament is that this is God showing, I want to dwell amongst my people as messed up. And cranky and contentious as they are, I love them. And I want to dwell among them. That's what it's saying. The second thing it reveals Is that God's glorious presence is there and God wants to commune with his people God wants us to fellowship with him. One of the reasons God made us in his image with the capacity for relationship, we can actually make real-life moral choices between right and wrong, is because that's what gives us the capacity for relationship. And God desires that, not because he needs it. He's not lonely. Oh, I don't know what I'm going to do without these friends. That's not the way God is. But he loves us and he wants to commune with us. And so we see that being represented in the temple and in the tabernacle. The third, and this one is quite startling. I am reading through the Old Test, well, I'm reading through both Old and New Testament, but I'm I'm working my way, slogging my way through some of the Old Testament passages. And the thing that really stands out, I'm in a section right now where it's talking a lot about sacrifices. And the thing that really, really stands out to you. Is that if you were living under the Old Testament system and you went to the temple and you saw a priest, he would have looked like a butcher. You know why? Because he would be covered in blood. They killed thousands of animals on a daily basis. Thousands They offered the blood over and over and over and over again. The priest could not go into the Holy of Holies. without very particular established ways of approach. On the Day of Atonement, they had to kill an animal for themselves They had to send an animal outside the camp and they had to kill another animal that would ultimately be the offering for the people. And so what's being pictured over and over and over again is that God can't dwell amongst sinful people without sacrifice. And we are constantly being reminded of sin. And we're constantly being reminded of death, and we're being constantly reminded of the shedding of blood. And we're being constantly reminded that sin and holiness, they don't go together. And that's being demonstrated there at the temple. And the fourth thing I'll mention is this. It anticipated the future fulfillment of the system. Do you realize everything that was pictured in the Old Testament system, all those things you and I don't even fully comprehend, they were fulfilled in Christ. Isn't that amazing? They were fulfilled in Christ. And so as they were doing this over and over and over again, there was something that was supposed to go into the minds of the people. This doesn't cover it. This is something that is temporary. We need something permanent. We need something once and for all. We need something that's going to settle it forever. And so whenever they went to the temple, whenever they went to the tabernacle, those things were being put in front of them. But here's the second thing I want to mention: Christ fulfilled all these things in himself. And this is what's so amazing. Listen to what it says in Hebrews 9. 26. Now Once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many. And unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation. What an amazing statement. Chapter 10, verse 9. He taketh away the first, meaning the old system, that he may establish the second. By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. And then he's going to draw his contrast. This is amazing. Every priest standeth daily ministering and offering off time the same sacrifices, which can never take away sin. Those animal sacrifices did not remove sin. They provided atonement. They provided covering for the ultimate sacrifice that would remove the sin once and for all. He says, now we're remission of these is there's no more offering for sin. Now do you understand what he's saying? What he's saying is this. If Christ came and he removed the sin once and for all, the system is obsolete. We don't need it. It's done. Where remission of these is, there's no more offering for sin Because it has no purpose. It has accomplished its purpose of pointing to Christ, and he's dealt with it in his flesh. Having therefore boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus, by a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us. Listen carefully to this next statement. Through the veil that is to say his flesh. So as Christ hangs on that cross and he says it is finished, and this veil that's 80 feet tall rips from the top to the bottom, this massive veil. When it rips, you know what it's saying? You don't need a veil anymore. It's obsolete. Christ gives you access to the Father. There's no more sacrifice for sin because he did it. He's removed it. It's gone. It's no more there. And so he says what was anticipated throughout the whole Old Testament is done in Christ. I hope that gets you excited. Aren't you glad you don't live under that system, man? You would have had to kill animals all the time. Think of how squeamish some of our kids are To see blood and to see an animal die. That was a normal part of life. A normal part of life in the ancient Jewish world. It was to remind us sin matters serious. But here's the part that really really gets a hold of me. We don't go to the temple. We are the temple. Catch that? We don't go to it, we are the temple. And I want you to think about the incredible difference between us today and what we have available to us through Christ and what the Old Testament saints had. There was only one time in the year that one man, the high priest, could go into the temple and go into that holy of holies and offer the blood. And if he didn't do it the way he was supposed to, he would die. He would die. There are examples in Scripture of people who did not go God's way and they died in the process. It's a stunning thing to consider. And so here are people that had no access to the immediate presence of God. Why? Because the sacrifice hasn't been paid yet. And now you have people like you and me as messed up in the head as we can be sometimes. And as much as we can go down roads that we absolutely shouldn't, we have not just access to the Father. But the Spirit indwells us. We always have his presence with us. 1 Peter 2 he says it like this. You also as lively stones are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices. And here's the statement that should catch us all. Acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Why is our worship acceptable to God? Because we're in Christ. Why is our service acceptable to God? Because it's perfect. No, it's not. Because we're in Christ. And that's what makes it acceptable. It's not us. It's Him. It's our union with Him. Our sins are entirely removed, our debt is entirely paid, we are fully and unconditionally accepted in Christ. We have more access to God than these people could have ever imagined. We enjoy his continual presence. And here's the point. With all those benefits, why do we act so foolish with these bodies? Why do we do it? Why do we do it? Apply it like this, verse 20. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Your body belongs to Him. Your spirit. You are a redeemed person. So how we live in the body really matters to God. Not our position, but it matters. He saved us from our sin and unto himself. The implications of the cross are both theological and practical. Each person of the Godhead is directly involved in our redemption. And you can see this laid out in the text in front of us. We are uniquely related to each person as a direct result of what God has done for us. So let us glorify him in our bodies and in our spirits which belong to him. The next time you are tempted to go down a certain path, say, why would I take these hands that are the members of Christ and use them for this? Why would I take this tongue, the members of Christ, and say that? Why would I take these eyes, the members of Christ, and look at that? Why would I use this body that belongs to him the way that it does? As one who has been redeemed to the Father, Why would I not submit to his leadership in my life? As one who is the temple, the dwelling of the Spirit of God, how in the world can I take the presence of the Holy God? Who we read about in the Old Testament who could not come in contact with sin and involve him in such activities. Why? How? We've got to think in these terms. It's not just theology, it's practice. And they go together. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we think about your word, I pray that the truths of Scripture would stick into our hearts. I pray that we would be both richly blessed by what we have heard, deeply moved by what we've heard, and also we would be convicted. But may that conviction not lead us to despair. May it lead us to glory in the sufficiency of Christ and his sacrifice for us. May we be a very thankful people. May we walk in holiness as you have redeemed us to do. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.