Well, good morning. Good to see each of you on this uh I was going to say beautiful Palm Sunday morning. It's beautiful somewhere, unfortunately. It's beautiful inside, not necessarily outside. But I hope that you've had a great week and looking forward to really a wonderful Christ-centered service. Also looking forward to having our children sing this morning as well. So we're looking forward to a wonderful time. focusing our attention on really the heart of the Christian gospel and that is the death and resurrection of Christ. First of all, I want to mention a couple of items just so that you're aware of them. There's a ladies meeting on April the 1st. So ladies, please make sure that you mark your calendars for that. Also wanted to mention we have our quarterly business meeting on April the 11th. And that is going to be Just one of the things that we're going to talk about is our sacrificial Sunday. We're not doing sacrificial Sunday this year on Easter Sunday, which is something that we have done, but we want to uh present an item there in that meeting. So that we can decide in a business meeting on that. So I want to remind you that we'll have that on the 11th after the evening service. Also our next men's Bible study in Donuts time is April the 10th, so uh men, please mark that on your calendars. And then also we have spring meetings on the 18th through the 21st of April. So please mark your calendars. I hope that you'll be able to attend those meetings. We have the Gellis family with us, and we're looking forward to just a great time spending time in the Word and being challenged from God's Word. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer. And before we do that, I want to open up with our scripture reading. And this will be our text for the evening service, Psalm 23. So Psalm 23, we'll be reading verses 1 through 6 before we go to the Lord in prayer. The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me lie down in green pastures. He leadeth me beside still waters. He restoreth my soul. He leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his namesake Yea, though I walk to the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil, for thou art with me. Thy rod and thy staff they comfort me. Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies Thou anointest my head with oil, and my cup runneth over. Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. And I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. This morning, as we uh gather for worship, we're going to be focusing on the importance of redemption through Christ's sacrifice on the cross. And so Let's remember really what is the heart of the gospel, that Christ died for our sins. So let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service together. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together as a local church. We thank you for each individual that's here today. Thank you for every member, every visitor. Every person who will have an opportunity to sit under the ministry of the scriptures, I pray that every aspect of this service would point glory to the Lord Jesus Christ, would instruct our minds. would stir up our hearts and that our hearts would overwhelm be overwhelmed with praise and gratitude to you. We thank you so much that you are a God who's holy. And we're reminded that the reason the cross was necessary is because of your holiness and your separateness from sin. Father, we are so grateful for your patience. And we recognize that even when we stumble, you lift us up, even when we are down, you come alongside of us, even when we are we are astraying, you pursue us. I pray that this morning we would be encouraged by your patience. We thank you for your righteousness and the grace that was demonstrated on the cross of Christ. Father, we thank you so much for the blessing of your redemptive work. I pray that this morning we would have a greater appreciation. for what was accomplished on the cross of Christ. Father, we want to lift up to you our nation. We want to lift up to you the state of Maryland. We want to lift up to you our local governments. that you would help those individuals who are in places of authority to govern this country and in our local uh areas in a way that honors you, in a way that is best for the citizens of this community. in this nation. Pray that your hand would be wonderfully at work in people's lives. Father, we pray that you would be with persecuted Christians all over the world. There are many places where on this blessed day people are not gathered together openly as we are, but in secret, in fear. I pray that you would strengthen those, be with those who are imprisoned. for the sake of the gospel, encourage them and strengthen them physically and emotionally and spiritually in this time of isolation and suffering. Father, we pray for our ministry partners all around the world. I thank you for people on every continent. That is at work making disciples, planting local churches. Thank you that we can have a small part in those ministries, both in prayer and in our financial giving And then, Father, we pray for our church family and those who've joined us this morning as guests. I pray that those who are suffering would be strengthened, whether it's physical suffering, whether it's internal emotional suffering. Whether they're struggling spiritually, I pray that you would meet the specific needs that they have this day. Strengthen them. Strengthen them through this service. Thank you for those who've joined us on the live stream. May they be encouraged by this time of worship before you. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Osana Holdana Imbraha Osana Osana Osana Chulam To the best of jail. Hold on, hold on to the world. You are the king of Israel and David. Now in the can set on My blue children welcome you they hold me for you when I pray and pay again. Well, how you follow that up? Amen. Wow, that brings back some old thoughts about Christ riding triumphantly into Jerusalem on a donkey. And I go back to the Old Testament. The Lamb of God rides triumphantly into Jerusalem. Back in the Old Testament, they would take the sacrificial lamb. put him up for observation. Here's Christ riding into I mean he's already proven he's faultless, he's pure, he is without sin. He rides into Jerusalem once again to be examined like that sacrificial lamb. before he goes to the cross, pays for our sins. Oh that uh that what that song gave me chills, kids. Thank you very much for that So, as I get settled down here a little bit, let's take our hymnals and turn to page six. We'll start our morning service on Palm Sunday with page six. Please stand with me. I sing the mighty power of God. Sing it out. We're going to sing all three verses. I sing the mighty power of God. That they love memory right that spread up blings are not And no more day must understand all the joys of bed and all the stars. I sing luck , but will be hurt with word, before creatures with this work has been home. That's the good Lord have one wherever I came my eye , I know I 'm not. There's not a plan for him as makes my glory. I thou I am alone and I moved like a Amen. We're gonna turn to page 299. If you'd like to arise, my soul, arise. We just may sing all morning. Sing it out, Arise my song. Arise my song. Share up by gilking with my dear happy Before the thorn mass, before the one my shirt, I never spent a We ever need to have to receive his life. I now am recognized. Your big voice I hear the oldest child, I can no longer be comfort. I now draw back with unfairness, I now draw back. Amen. Go ahead and have a seat while we turn back to page 273. Page 273. Christ the Lord is risen today. Yes, today I Sons of Bin and Angel Say. Raise your voice and joy of high hallelujah, sing it in every replica. Aleluya , glorious king. Yes, now I say all allure, dying what it all. Yeah, where thy victory o 'grade workers. But the paikad , Nothing forbid him rise. Christ had led our way. Made like him, like him, with eyes are. Great black sky, all they are Hey man, that's good singing. Now for our scripture reading, we're going to go to John chapter 12. John chapter twelve, verses twelve through nineteen. Verses twelve through nineteen say On the next day, much people that were come to the feast when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna! Blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon as it is written. Fear not, daughter of Zion. Behold, thy king cometh sitting on an ass's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him. The people, therefore, that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead bear record. For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracles. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? Behold, the world has gone after him. And may the Lord add his bleeding or his blessing upon His word. And perhaps he'll untie my tongue here as well. Let's get back to singing so you don't have to listen to me read. So uh Now we're going to take the hymn book back. Okay. And we're going to turn to page 265. Page 265. Page two sixty five is right in here. Christ arose Oh, in the great day, Jesus my day. Wait in the coming day. Jesus, my Lord, up from the gravy arrows. With a mighty trial for his fall. He arose the victor from the dark door. And he lives forever with his ace to the rain. He arose. Rise for roast day watches. Jesus, my sandwich , they sealed Jesus my location. From the great king arose with a mising trial for his cause He arose a victor from the dark knowing that he was forever with me. Say to rain, he arrives, he arrives , I'll ask a road. Cannot keep his pray, Jesus, my neighbor the border. Jesus, my Lord , when the crave he arose with a mighty trial for his voice, he arose a victor from the dark. No rain, I neighbours forever with his saints to reign. He arrives, he arrives, Hallelujah. Amen. That's good singing. Okay, now we're going to go to our blue book song that we've been singing all month is going to be great is the Lord. We're going to sing all three verses. Say it with me on this. Within a white decomprin to pardon everything. Lift up your voice and I proclaim. And praise his only man. The Lord glory and having no pray the Lord. Exalted in the board. Worship is the Lord Great Lord Amen. Please be seated. I don't know about you, but that was a tremendous, tremendous blessing. So if that was a blessing to you, let's just say a hearty Amen. That was a real blessing. If you could take your Bibles, let's turn together to John chapter 12. And I know our children are being being dismissed to the back for junior church. And I know this is Palm Sunday. In fact, um Palm Sunday is a very special time because it's reminding us of the final week. that of Christ's earthly ministry. And really we could say that this is the culmination of why Christ came. And so as Jesus is coming into Jerusalem on that final week, he is coming into Jerusalem for the purpose The very purpose that God appointed for him to come to earth. And so it wasn't just that Jesus came to perform miracles and to teach about the kingdom of God. Jesus came to establish the one and only means. to which God could actually give us his eternal kingdom. And so with that in mind, let's read again the text, John chapter 12. And we are looking at verses 12 through 19, though a lot of the passages of scripture we'll look at this morning are in the Old Testament. So keep your finger ready to move to Isaiah chapter 40, because that's where we'll be going after we look at this text. John twelve verse twelve says this On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna. Blessed is the King of Israel, who cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon, as it is written, Fear not, daughters of Sion. Behold the king cometh sitting on an ass These things understood not his disciples at the first, but when Jesus was glorified, they remembered that they had written these things of him. And that they had done these things unto him. And the people therefore, when he was with him, w uh the people therefore that was with him, when he called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead bear record. For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle. And the Pharisees therefore said unto themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? Behold, the world is gone after him. Now sometimes it's important for us to just kind of go back in our minds and imagine what this event would have been like. In fact, it's hard for us to understand how many people would have been gathered together there in Jerusalem at this time. I want you to realize in the ancient world it was very, very unusual for a city to have, say, four or five hundred thousand people, even upwards to a million, if you were to actually compare the size of Rome to Jerusalem. Jerusalem was exceeding the city by two or three times in size. But it wasn't just the size of Jerusalem under normal circumstances, but this was a very, very special time. This was the beginning of the year. This was the Passover week. And so it's not just that you had normally about a million people living in this city. coming and going, being involved in business and going about their business, but on this particular day, you have people from all over the Roman Empire People from North Africa, people from up into Europe, people from over into Asia, and they have moved on Jerusalem because they are there to celebrate the Passover. You say, well, you mean non-Jews came to Jerusalem for the Passover? Absolutely they did. And the reason that they came was because they believed that Israel's God was the God who created the world. Well, as they're gathering together there in Jerusalem, Jesus performs an amazing, unprecedented miracle. Now, Jesus has performed lots of miracles. Jesus has healed people. Jesus has fed 5,000 individuals on a hillside. Jesus has walked on water. Jesus has performed countless miracles, more than are even recorded for us in the Scripture, because the intent was not to give us every detail of Jesus' ministry, but to help us understand the storyline and the intent for which, the purpose for which it was given. But out of all of the miracles that Jesus performed, perhaps the greatest leading up to this week is what took place in a little town called Capernaum. Where one of Jesus' closest friends, a man named Lazarus, died. In fact, when this man died, Lazarus died. Jesus and his disciples tarried a few days and then came to the city, and there in that little village they went out to the place where Lazarus had been buried in a tomb. And Jesus walks to that tomb as people are grieving, and he tells the men and women that are gathered together, go and remove the stone. And Jesus called out to Lazarus, Come forth. Scripture tells us that Lazarus' body was already beginning to decay. But Lazarus, alive and well, fully whole, walks out of that tomb. You know, it wasn't just that Jesus had been preaching repentance and preparation for the kingdom, but Jesus had demonstrated Through unprecedented signs and miracles that in fact he is the Messiah and they should believe on him But that miracle, the miracle of Lazarus being raised from the dead, was the one that really stirred up problems for the religious elites of the day. The fact is, because Lazarus was raised from the dead, there was now an incredible division amongst the people. Some people believed Jesus is Messiah. Others said we've got to get rid of him because he's going to undermine our power, and the Romans are going to get agitated with us, and they're going to remove us, and ultimately we're going to be in huge trouble with them. In fact, to give you a sense of the kind of division that was going on at that time, I want to read to you a couple of scriptures leading up to this event that help us to understand this. Many believed on Christ. In John 11, 45 it says, when the Jews which came to Mary had seen these things which Jesus did, they believed on him. Some were very troubled by his popularity. In verses 46 to 48, it says, But some of them went their way to the Pharisees and told them these things that Jesus had done. Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a counsel and said, What do we do? For this man doeth many miracles. If we let him alone, all men will believe on him, and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation. The religious elite secretly plotted to take Jesus by force and to have him executed. In verse 49, it says, One of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, It is expedient for us. That one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. It's a really interesting statement, isn't it? And the next thing I want you to see is in verse 51. This spake he not of himself, but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation. And I love the next statement. And not for that nation only, but also that he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. This man, Caiaphas, not understanding the implications of what he was saying, was actually prophesying. That Jesus would die not just so that these men could keep their place for a few more years. But so that his people could be saved from their sins. Not just the people gathered there in Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover. Those Jews that were looking for Messiah, people like the Simeons and the Annas of the Old Testament. But literally Jews and Gentiles all throughout the Roman Empire These individuals would be able to enter into the kingdom of God and have their sins forgiven because Jesus would go to the cross to die for the sins of men. What's so sad though is that as Jesus came into Jerusalem on that triumphal entry, many of the people that were lined up on those streets, that were waving those palm branches, that were saying, Hosanna, save us. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. They did not understand why he came to Jerusalem. Jesus had not come to establish the kingdom. He came to establish the means through which the kingdom would come. In other words, if it wasn't for the cross, if it wasn't for the empty tomb, there can be no eternal kingdom with people like you and people like me in it. You see, how could they not understand? This morning that's what I'd like to talk about. How could they not understand that Jesus had come to die? I want to begin with this first question. What exactly did the people of that period of time, those Jewish individuals that were lining that street? What did they understand about the Messiah? What did they believe about that man that was riding in on a donkey? that was actually fulfilling Old Testament prophecy, yet they themselves did not understand fully the implications of it. How did those people in those days view Jesus the Messiah? Why don't you turn with me to Micah chapter Micah chapter 4? And if you can't find it, that's okay. Just listen along. Micah chapter 4, because we're going to see in this passage a statement about the understanding that people would have had of the Messiah. In Micah chapter four, verse one, it says this, In the last days it shall come to pass that the mountain of the house of the Lord shall be established in the top of the mountains. Now when he talks about the mountain of the house of the Lord, he's talking about Jerusalem. Jerusalem is built on a mountain, on a hill. It's overlooking this valley area. Whenever people went to Jerusalem, they had to go up to Jerusalem, up into that higher elevation, and he says, this city is going to be established. He then says, Many nations shall come and say, Come and let us go into the mountain of the Lord. And ye shall judge among many people, and rebuke strong nations afar off, and they shall beat their swords. into ploughshares, and their spears into pruning hooks. Nations shall not lift up a sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more, but they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree. I love that statement. That's why I'm growing figs and vines in my yard. Just let you know. They're gonna sit under their vine and their fig tree. Not not exactly, but I am growing those. That's right. They're gonna sit under their vine and their fig tree. And none shall make them afraid, for the mouth of the Lord of hosts hath spoken it. Now I want you to realize that this is a messianic prophecy that is prefiguring when the Messiah is going to establish his kingdom. And this is going to be a time of peace. It's going to be a time of prosperity. It's going to be a time when there aren't wars going on between nations. And as the Jewish people would have read these statements that were made just before the Babylonian captivity, they would have read these things, and as people that were oppressed by the Romans, they said When the Messiah comes, you know what he's going to do? He's going to take Rome and he's going to crush Rome just like that. And he's going to establish this city. And people from all over the world, they're going to flood to this city because they're going to recognize the God of Israel, the God who created the world. He has established this as his capital, and everybody's going to flood there, and we're going to be the nation that is a light to lighten the Gentiles. This is going to be the fulfillment of all those promises that were made to Abraham and to Isaac and to Jacob. Through your seed, all the nations of the earth are going to be blessed. We're going to sit on the portions of land that God has given to our families, and we're going to tend those vineyards, and we're going to sit under those fig trees, and we're going to enjoy the prosperity of peace. in this land that God has given us. Jerusalem being established. The center of worldwide interest God judging Israel's enemies, God defending his people, God establishing peace. They don't even need a military. They're not worried about enemies coming and giving them trouble. Peace, prosperity. I want to ask you a question. Is that what you want? Is there anybody here that doesn't want that? The sad thing is we think that we can get it without God. That's the way that these people looked at Jesus. As he walks into as he rides on that donkey in their minds, he is coming to fulfill Micah's prophecy. You say, why did they understand it that way? The truth is, Micah wasn't the only place that we read prophecies like this. I'd like you to go to Isaiah chapter 40 with me, and I want you to look at some of the richest most encouraging, most powerful scriptures in all of God's Word. In fact, I want you to kind of understand the context of the setting. From Isaiah chapter 40 till the end of the book, 26 chapters. Written about 150 years before the Babylonian captivity, God gave through Isaiah an encouragement to his people. that he knew we're going to get taken into Babylonian captivity, were going to be crushed and discouraged as a nation, would think that God abandoned them. God wanted to encourage And strengthen that group of people that were going to be in captivity. In fact, it's interesting. Some of the scriptures that I'm going to read are some of the most comforting scriptures you have ever read. And they're probably the kind of scriptures you'd put on a wall in your house. The first one I want to mention is Isaiah 40, verse 1. Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith God. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem. The voice of him crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Made straight a desert and a highway for our God. The glory of the Lord shall be revealed, all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it, the grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. Could you imagine reading those words as a Jewish captive in Babylon? Comfort my people God is going to come and he's going to come to be amongst his people. You read these verses of encouragement. This is how he opens this section of the book of Isaiah. We see other passages there in Isaiah. Isaiah 40, verse 3, prepare a way for a God, chapter 40, verses 12 to 15. He says, Who hath measured the water in the hollow of his hands? And meted out heaven with a span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in a scale, and the hills in a balance. He's saying, I want you to picture what God is like, his power. His strength, his authority. It's like he goes to the ocean and he just lifts it up in his hand and he says, that's the water of the oceans. He said the nations are like a drop in a bucket before God. He's giving you a picture of God's power, God's authority. He says, Who hath directed the Spirit of the Lord or bent his counselor and taught him? With whom took he counsel? Who instructed him and taught him in the path of judgment and taught him knowledge and showed him the way of understanding? Though the nations are as a drop of a bucket and are counted as the small dust of the balance, behold, he taketh up the isles as a very little thing. When Paul is writing Romans 9, 10 and 11, he quotes from this text of Scripture talking about the sovereignty of God. And the incredible wisdom and knowledge of God. Verses 25 to 31, it says, To whom then will ye liken him? Or who shall be equal? Lift up your eyes on high and behold who hath created these things, and bringeth out their hosts by number. He calleth them all by name by the greatness of his might. For that he is strong in power, not one faileth. I know that you know this passage. Hast thou not known? Hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? There is no searching of his power. Even the youth shall fain and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall, but they that wait on the Lord shall renew their strength. They shall mount up with wings as eagles. They shall run and not be weary. They should walk and not faint. Chapter 42, verse 1, he says, Behold my servant who I am hold, mine elect. In whom my soul delighteth, I've put my spirit upon him, he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles. Isaiah 40, verses 46, 9 and 10. He says, Remember the former things of old. For I am God, there is none else, I am God, there is none like me. Declare the end from the beginning, from the ancient times, the things that are not yet done, saith my counsel, shall stand, I will do all my pleasure Isaiah 48, 12, Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my calls. I am he, I am the first, I am the last. Mine hand also hath laid the foundations of the earth, my right hand hath spared the heavens. All ye that assemble and hear, which among them hath declared these things, the Lord hath loved him. I actually have a whole grocery list more of comforting encouraging passages from that portion of Isaiah that uplift God as the Almighty One You say, why does this matter? The people were anticipating Messiah coming in power and in might. They were expecting him to come in and not go to the cross, but they were expecting him to come in and crush their enemies. They were literally saying, save us from our enemies. But here's what they didn't understand. There can be no blessing without redemption. Isaiah chapter 53 is set in the center of this section. Isaiah 40 It's the end of the book 66, right there in the center of this discourse that God has given to encourage his people. to exalt his power, to exalt his wisdom, to exalt his sovereignty, to talk about his eternal kingdom, to comfort his people. In the center of all of that is this text right here in front of us, Isaiah 53 I want you to turn there and I want you to think about why that is in the center of this section of encouragement. Redemption is the only basis through which God can bring all of these blessings to the people. The Messiah came to suffer and to establish the basis of redemption. And Zechariah chapter 9, verse 9. In fact , That passage that we read this morning goes back to Zechariah and quotes this passage. He says, Rejoice greatly, O daughters of Zion, shout, O daughters of Jerusalem, behold thy king. cometh, he is just in having salvation. Lowly riding on the donkey Once you realize for Jesus to take his throne and to have a kingdom that's inhabited by the redeemed, he's got to go to the cross. He's got to go humbly and he's got to go in a lowly manner so that he can establish a means through which all the inhabitants of the kingdom can be a part of it. Isaiah 50 verses 2 and 3 says this that he hath no form nor comeliness when we shall see him. There's no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men. A man of sorrow is acquainted with grief. What's amazing is in the midst of this passage of encouragement, exalting God's authority, his power, his wisdom, the fact he will establish his kingdom. He says, your king is not coming initially in power and in might, but in humility. And when you see him, you won't recognize him. His glory will be veiled because he has set aside his glory to go to the cross. And as he goes to that cross, he is establishing the one and only means through which you can enter his kingdom. He literally came to take away sin. Isaiah 53, verses 4 to 6. Listen to what the text says. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. He was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. And we talk about chastisement, we're talking about someone being beaten as a consequence for their own actions. Yet he says, he was chastened to establish peace between us, the offenders, and God's justice. All we like sheep have gone astray and turned everyone to his own way. Yet the Lord laid on him the iniquity of us all. As Jesus is riding into Jerusalem, while these people don't understand the implications of what he's doing, he's literally coming to die for their sins. So that they can inhabit his kingdom if they'll embrace him as their Messiah. Now this is not understood by them at the moment In fact, even Jesus' own disciples, many of them, did not fully understand this. It says, after these events, after the resurrection, we remembered the place where the prophet said. You know what that tells me? They had to go through these events to recognize what they meant, why they mattered, the implication of those things. A lot of times we can sit in church and we can hear the word of God preached and taught and we can memorize it and we can say it and it just blows right over our head, and then one day it just hits us like a ton of bricks, and we go, whoa, I didn't realize that. After these events, they look back and go, now I understand what Zechariah was saying. Now I understand what Isaiah was saying. He willingly offered himself for us. Once you realize that Jesus said, I'm willing to take this cup. Jesus willingly went to the cross. What's amazing about redemption is God provides in himself The means through which we're made right with him. It's an incredible thing. Like that's love. That's grace. Somebody wrongs me and I establish the basis through which we can actually be right with one another. That's not the way it works in the world, does it? That's what God did for us. In verse 7 it says that he was oppressed and afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth. He was brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he opened not his mouth. Jesus knew exactly what he was doing. He knew exactly why he was there. He knew exactly what he would face. Yet he is silent. As he is mocked by his accusers, as he is beaten, as he's spat upon, as he is dishonored as he goes to the cross, Jesus laid down his life. Even I think about the moment Jesus is on the cross. And it says, after all these things were accomplished, he lifted up his head and he said, Father, into your hands I commit my spirits. He said, it is finished. He gave up the ghost. What does that tell you? Jesus laid his own life down. It wasn't like he went kicking and screaming to the cross. He went there for us. His death on our behalf fully satisfied God's just wrath against our sins. In verses 10 and 11, Isaiah 53, it says, It pleased the Lord to bruise him. He hath put him to grief. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied I think most people don't understand justice, to be very honest with you. Let's say that you have a person in the state of Maryland who commits a crime and they go to the courtroom. And they stand before the judge, and they stand before the jury, and the case is made. I ask a question: Who is the case against? Is it against the person that they stole from? Is it against the family of the person they killed? The answer is no It's against the state of Maryland. You know why that is? The reason is because the family cannot forgive them for what they've done. They don't have the authority They cannot do it. They can forgive them in a relational sense if they choose to do such a thing, but they have no authority to forgive them in a legal sense Because the offense is against the state that is there to protect the people Do you realize that when we talk about Christ going to the cross, literally your sin and mine stood before God's eternal justice? And there is nothing that could establish a means of God's appeasement against the wrath against sin except his willingness to go to the cross. It says, He made his soul an offering for sin. The travail of his soul satisfied the wrath of God. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. God 's justice demands death for sin. Christ lays his life down as our substitute, and God's justice is fully satisfied. That's what Isaiah 53 is all about. His substitutionary death gives a just basis for us to be declared not guilty before God's court. Verses 11 and 12 By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, he shall bear their iniquities. The word justify means to declare rights. In other words, before the courtroom, you're not guilty Not because you're sinless, but because your sin's been dealt with in the courtroom. It's been dealt with by the cross. It's been dealt with in the sense that you're now righteous in Christ. You're now forgiven in Christ. This is in the center of the encouragement to Israel from Isaiah 40 to Isaiah 66. And he finished his work because the just basis. provides a continual intercession on the behalf of sinners. Verse 12 says, he shall divide the spoil with the strong. It's a really interesting statement. We don't really think this way so much anymore, but in the ancient world, this is a pretty common way to look at things. You go to war, somebody comes against you, the winner takes all. You know what I'm saying? The spoils of victory. He says, when Christ went to the cross, he triumphed over sin, triumphed over death triumphed over Satan. He made a show of them publicly. Literally in another context, it says that it's like he's parading through the streets and in the ancient world The winner would walk down those streets in a procession, and they would bring with them the captives of victory and all the spoils of victory, and all the people would praise the victor and they would mock the person who'd been beaten. Literally, when Christ goes to the cross, he triumphed over those things. He fulfilled the promise of Genesis chapter 3. The seed of the woman would crush the serpent's head. He openly demonstrated that. And then he says, the spoils of victory, all the blessings that come in Jesus, they're available to you. That's what he's saying. In other words, the kingdom comes through the cross. This is why Jesus tells Nicodemus, except a man is born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God. You must be born again. That's what he says. He says, You cannot enter the kingdom in your own righteousness on the basis of your own good deeds. You have to come by virtue. of the new birth. He says he'll divide the spoil with the strong, because he hath poured out his soul unto death. Because Jesus goes to the cross, because Jesus conquers death and sin, he can give you the spoils of victory. He was numbered with the transgressors. He bears the sins of many, and he made intercession for the transgressions. Intercession means that he stands on our behalf though we still are sinners and he says because I went to the cross, because my blood was shed, because forgiveness was taken care of on the cross, he's your child. That's what it means to be in Jesus. It means that you're accepted because of him, not because of you Folks, Isaiah 53 is what those people lining the streets did not understand. They wanted the spoils of victory. But they didn't understand that he divides the spoil because he pours his soul out unto death. They don't understand That. But let me be very practical. I think a lot of people in churches don't understand that too. We think that God gives us eternal life because we come into this place. Because we pulled money out of our wallet and we put it in that little box. Because we do the very best that we can to do what is good. I'm not against church attendance at all, I promise you. Okay? I'm not against giving faithfully to support the Lord's work at all, I promise you. But I can tell you this, you do not become a Christian by coming to this place. Just like you will not become a car by sitting in a garage. You become a Christian by faith alone in Christ's sacrifice on your behalf. All the blessings that come to the Jewish people come through the cross. Let me give you a crystal clear explanation. of where this is. In Daniel chapter 9 verse 24, Daniel writes these words after Isaiah writes these words. In Daniel chapter 9, verse 24, it says, Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people, upon the holy city, and I want you to listen to the way he puts it, to finish the transgression. To make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, To seal up the vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy. Do you understand why the cross was necessary? Because that is how The transgression is finished. That is how sin is ended. That is how there is reconciliation between God and man. That is how everlasting righteousness is established That is how God is able to establish an eternal kingdom where he sets right everything that is wrong in this broken world. He eliminates evil. He establishes eternal joy with God. He vindicates his people. He's just against those who are evil. He brings in salvation through redemption And I asked this question this morning. As you think about Palm Sunday, and you think about all those people lined up on the streets, do you understand what they didn't? Do you understand why the cross was necessary? And not just do you understand it But have you embraced it? When the Bible talks about the gospel, it's not just a message we're supposed to intellectually think about. It's a message that we're to understand and then we're to embrace. Literally, we turn to this message and we trust in this message and we stake our eternal destination on the work of Christ. What he did, why he did it, and why we need it. In Galatians chapter 3, Paul put it so simply, Christ Hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone that hangeth on a tree. Now when Paul wrote those words, do you not see how that is connected to Isaiah 53? And then Daniel's statements And then the understanding that Abraham had that God's going to provide the lamb and the Passover lamb and all the way back to the Garden of Eden where he says The seed of the woman will crush the serpent's head. The curse that came by one man is conquered by one man. The Lord Jesus Christ. And I ask you, have you trusted in the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior? We talk about being a Christian, it's not about how you look It's not about the way you present yourself to people. It's about whether or not you've been given new life in Christ by trusting in what He did for you on the cross. What we do as a Christian is something that flows out of what we are in Christ. And my prayer is that if there's anyone here this morning or have joined us on the live stream that does not understand the gospel. That you will come to recognize that and turn to Jesus and trust in what He did for you on that cross. I'm assuming most of us know the Lord is our Savior. We've trusted in Jesus as our Savior. I want to encourage you to really glory and cherish what Jesus did for you. There are far too many Christians that truly are saved. But the weight of the cross has not touched their soul very much. It's something we should never get over. It's something that we need to remember day after day. God wants us to understand the importance of Christ's redemptive work. And so I want to encourage you to respond in the way that is appropriate in light of where you are before God. Let's bow together for prayer this morning. Just want to ask two questions as our eyes are closed and heads are bowed. My first question is: Is there any person here as a believer that says, Pastor, I I don't think about the way to the cross nearly enough? And I just want to glory in the Lord this morning and thank him for what he did for me. And I just want to acknowledge that. Not in front of everybody's eyes, but just before God, I want to acknowledge that. Anybody raise your hand and say that's me, Pastor. I Needed that reminder today. Second question is this. Is there anybody here that would say, Pastor, I I've never understood the gospel like that. I didn't realize that it's not about what I do for God, it's what he did for me in Christ. I've never trusted in his finished work. And today I need to do that. Is there anybody that would quietly raise your hand and say, Pastor, that's me, I need to trust Christ as my Savior today. I've never done this, but I need to do that. I see that. You can put your hand down. I want to encourage you as you're sitting there in your seat, in childlike faith, tell God that you know you've sinned against him. And that Jesus died for your sins, and you believe that, and you are trusting what he did for you on that cross. And you're asking him to save you based on what Jesus did for you. You believe he died and rose for for for you to be able to be saved. Just tell him that. Say, well, Pastor, that that's not like an eloquent. Who cares? The Bible doesn't give us sinners prayer. It tells us to repent and believe. Trust Christ right there in your seat. If you do that, you know what he'll do? He'll save you. The very moment you do that. If there's anybody here that does not know for certain that they're saved and you have questions, I'd love to meet with you. Go through the gospel and talk to you about how you can be saved. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for these wonderful truths. Help us to never get over the weight of what Jesus did for us. Every time that we come to this season, I pray you'd give us a renewed sense, a deeper sense of how precious the gospel is. Father, help us not to be like those people on that roadside who did not understand why Jesus came to Jerusalem that day. I pray that if there's anyone that's not trusted you as Savior, that today would be the day that these truths resonate in their soul, that their eyes are open to their spiritual condition, and that they trust Christ as their Savior. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's turn together in our hymn books to hymn 278. 278 and the song we're going to sing is One Day. One day. Let's stand together. We're going to actually sing. I think we're gonna sing all four verses. Actually, I didn't go that long today. Let's sing all four verses. Dying he saved me burying me carrying my sins for a live rising He just did right freely forever One day he scared me for glory yesterday on the second one day they had him up cavalry One day they nailed him to die on the tree Supering space and retracting Hearing my death smiley deeper. Buried he carried my sins for away Russian he charged See me forever One day he 's calming for glory, yesterday, let me collapse One day the common looks down for his coming One day the skies with his glory wonder my beloved was bringing Gloria Savior this Jesus is mine Living he loves me, dying he saves me, buried he carried my sins far away, rising he justified Free me forever. One day he's coming for glory yesterday. Amen. That's a wonderful, wonderful hymn I want to encourage you, if you can, uh come back tonight and join us. We're going to be looking at the twenty-third Psalm, and we're going to be looking at how that psalm is really an expression of how because of the resurrection God is our everlasting shepherd, the good shepherd. And so I know that's a very uh familiar uh psalm, but I hope that you'll be able to join us for that. Um it was a very, very encouraging psalm for me to study personally, and I hope that it'll be a blessing to you. I do want to encourage you next Sunday we're celebrating the resurrection and so please uh invite people, encourage people to come. That being said, if uh we have the same group today with a couple more people, I think we're gonna have to move forward a bit 'cause it's pretty full right now. So I want to encourage you next Sunday, knowing that we will very likely have some guests with us, in addition to who's here this morning, that we move our way up. And uh we also may have to adjust our seating just a little bit uh to accommodate that. But I want to encourage you, um invite folks. We do have little invitation cards out in the lobby, and so if you can uh pick up a couple of those and invite folks. I'm looking forward to just a wonderful time remembering Christ's resurrection. Last year we were remembering Christ's resurrection in our living rooms. So this year we're thankful that we can gather together and we can uh meet in person. And so I'm just very, very blessed by that. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. And um I'd like to ask if uh Brother Florio, would you mind coming and closing us in prayer, please? Thank you so much. If you're visiting with us Hope you come by and greet me on the way out. Um if you if you've gotten a visitor card, I'd like to ask you to fill that out and just put that in the box so that we can uh connect with you in the coming days. Good to have each of you here today. Lord God, we are so grateful for today. Lord, we are reminded the great entry that Christ came to Jerusalem In order for him to die on the cross for our sins. We are so grateful and thankful for that. And I do pray, Father, that we go home, that you give us traveling verses, bring us back again this evening. In Jesus' name I ask it. Amen.