Philippians chapter two. I'll again read the verses that are here And then we will get focused on what Paul is trying to communicate and why and everything that is involved with that particular passage. So Philippians chapter two, verse one , following. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows and mercies, Fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord and of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves. yourselves. Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. I'd like to just focus on the main point of this particular section of Philippians. If I could summarize it, I would make this statement. Paul's greatest desire for the church was that they would experience communion with one another as they reflected on their position in Christ. And what it took to secure that position. That was Paul's heartbeat. And it wasn't just Paul's heartbeat, but it was God's will. In fact, as we study the book of Philippians, what we will see is that though they were a wonderful church, they had a lot of good qualities. Paul commended them in a lot of ways. They also had some weaknesses. And later on in the book, there were two individuals, Jodius and Syntaci, that Paul calls out by name, and he actually says, the two of these people need to resolve an issue. And one of you, he doesn't say their name, but he says, you need to go and help them to resolve that. Well, that's not the only reason Paul writes the book, but I do believe as I've studied the book that that is something that's really heavy on Paul's heart throughout the entire pat the entire book. And so throughout the book, there are several times that Paul makes statements that are setting up or laying a foundation for that particular appeal that he's going to make to really three individuals. The one is going to help the people and the two who've had the problem. Boy, it's a good thing that we don't have Paul writing those kinds of things today, you know, and I'd hate to have my name be mentioned. Uh Joel, you and this guy need to go and get this resolved. But the reality was that Paul knew that those two individuals really love the Lord They'd all worked together for a period of time. Paul had a tremendous love for them, but he knew that it was going to take some foundational groundwork before he got to that point. Well, this passage, this is a section that really was part of that foundation. And you know, Paul had experienced a lot of challenges while he was not just ministering at Philippi, but once he ended up in prison. There are actually people who were doing the work of the ministry kind of to Despite Paul, and he knew that, and people were saying, what are you going to do about that? And he sort of shares his heart on that particular issue. So Paul is really laying a foundation in a lot of what he says. But I want us to reflect on the the various parts of this text. There's actually four parts that I want us to look at. And the first part is really important for us not to overlook, and that is that Paul starts with the position that these believers have in Christ. Now it's interesting. He doesn't state you all are believers. But he does state you all are believers in a way, and I want you to see how he does it. Notice what he says in verse number one. If There be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any vows of mercies. Now, whether you realize it or not, Paul has just stated, if you're in Christ, then this is for you. But he didn't say it that way, did he? He deals with their position, not from the position side, but from how it works itself, how it manifests itself out in the Christian experience. So notice what he says. If there's any consolation in Christ, if there's any comfort of love, if there's any fellowship of the Spirit, if there's any bells and mercies What exactly is he talking about? Well, I want to take them one by one so that we can understand what he's really saying. He's painting a picture of healthy, vibrant Christianity. The first statement, consolation in Christ, is an interesting statement because the Greek word for consolation is the word paraclete. I don't know if you've heard that word ever used in any other passage, but when Jesus says, I'm going to go away in John chapter 14 and John chapter 16, he says, I need to go away, and when I do, I'm going to leave the Holy Spirit, and He's going to be your comforter. He's going to be your paraclete. And the idea is somebody who comes alongside another individual and he strengthens them, he encourages them, he just helps them go through along the way. Well, when Jesus mentions that the Holy Spirit is going to have that role for these disciples, in this text, Paul is mentioning Christ. the second person of the Trinity to be the paraclete for these individuals. He says, if you have experienced The Lord Jesus Christ, not physically, not some revelation or some manifestation, nothing like that, but the Lord Jesus Christ has come alongside you and he has strengthened you and he has walked through life with you, then I'm talking to you. That's what he's saying. If you don't know what I'm talking about, let's try the next one. He then goes to comfort of love. And this has the idea of this internal Sense, internal sense that you belong to God. I think of Romans chapter 8. In Romans chapter 8, it talks about the presence of the Holy Spirit. And what does he say? The Holy Spirit helps us with our infirmities when we don't know how we should pray as we ought. He bears witness with our spirit that we are the children of God. And he moves us to cry out, Abba Father. This isn't the experiential side of the Christian life. In other words, a person who has repented and turned to Christ in humility, recognizing it is Christ alone and his finished work, it's Christ's righteousness, not his righteousness. That individual who has been born again has an experience by which the Holy Spirit, who indwells them, gives them a comfort that they belong to him. You might say, well, how is it that God does that? Well, in some ways it's kind of a mystery. The reality is it's like you're sitting in a service, you're a child of God, and as someone is preaching through a text, As you're sitting there and reflecting on those truths, there is something internally, you can't necessarily describe it, but the Holy Spirit inside of you is encouraging you and strengthening you and putting joy in your heart and reminding you that you belong to me. That's what he's doing. In fact, in Galatians, when it talks about the fruit of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, gentleness, goodness, faith, meekness, temperance, those things, those are the we could say the characteristics that demonstrate that the Holy Spirit's present is in the heart of a believer. And so as a believer walks with the Lord and as the Spirit of God changes him progressively into the image of Christ, he experiences this sweet communion and comfort of love from God Himself. He mentions a third. Fellowship of the Spirit. And the word is quinania, which has the idea of community or communion. We are going to have communion. And the reality is he's saying that there is something that the Holy Spirit puts between other believers, other Christians, that makes communion sweet. The best example I can think of this is sitting across from Mr. Biney when I was sitting in the Resource Center many, many months ago. And I remember looking across at him and talking to him about the gospel and about our walks with the Lord and those kinds of things. And I looked at this man and I said, you know , I can't help but be amazed that you and I, who are so different, could have such a connection in our hearts. I don't know if you understand what I'm saying. It's like we're having this conversation and we are from different worlds. The guy's old enough to be my dad. He he had thirty-something siblings. He grew up in a village that just got electricity very recently. I mean he's lived in a very different world than I have. And there's no reason that he and I should have a close friendship. There is no reason on paper that that should be the case. Yet I feel this affection for this individual. And he feels it for me. And you ask the question, how in the world is that possible? Well, this is what he's talking about: the fellowship of the Spirit. As we commune with God and we feel a closeness to God, we also commune with one another and we feel a closeness to one another. And then he makes a fourth statement. He says, any bowels and mercies. The best way to describe this is The first time I called my wife and asked her if she'd go on a date with me, I remember I was Very excited and terrified at the same time. And I remember standing in my uh college dormitory room And walking to the phone probably twenty-five times, picking it up and putting it back. Picking it up, putting it back, dialing the first two or three numbers, and c duh, I just and I felt this incredible internal Turmoil because I felt emotion deep down in my guts. You understand what I'm saying? Or you're dealing with a strongly emotional experience. It can be a good experience, a bad experience, a terrifying experience. But the reality is. That when you feel emotions in your gut, those are the deepest emotions that we feel. Well what's interesting is that in the ancient world, when they talked about someone having Mercy and kindness and affection for another individual, they would describe it as emotion from the gut, bowels and mercies. And so what he's saying is that as a group of people, you have experienced emotions that are related to one another that are as deep as are humanly possible. Now you say, why in the world didn't Paul just say, if you're a child of God, then this is for you? Why didn't he do it that way? I think the reason is because he understands that their problem is an emotional problem. It's not just a thinking problem. But it is an emotional problem. And so before he addresses the emotional problem, he appeals to the fact that because they're in Christ They've experienced the Christian walk in a very deep and passionate way. And so he says, if you've experienced that, this is for you. He could have just said, if you're in Christ, but he described it in that kind of a way. So part one, he starts with their position in Christ. Part two, he states a general wish for these Christians. He says, verse 2, verse number 2, fulfill ye my joy. Now this is interesting. Paul already has expressed at the beginning of the book that he has tremendous joy as he thinks of these Christians. You know what is amazing about Paul, and it's amazing about God as well. Paul has the ability, God has the ability to look at a person who is sinning Who is struggling, who's immature, who's even being carnal, and he can have a loving affection for that individual yet believe they're wrong. Okay? He has that ability. We have a very difficult time having that ability. He had the ability not only to do that, but to thank God for that individual and to express his gratitude to that individual. Yet we have a very hard time doing that. out. Just being very honest. You know when we stand at the judgment seat of Christ and we stand before God, it isn't like it's a hundred percent gold, silver, and precious stone or a hundred percent wood, hay and stubble. It isn't gonna be that way Over the course of fifty, seventy, eighty, ninety years, whatever God gives us on this earth, however long we've served Him, there is going to be an elaborate mixture of what was very pleasing to God and what was very honoring to him and a lot that wasn't. Yet God is going to be able to look at us and with perfect love He's going to be able to look at us and say, this wasn't good, and this was. Yet I still love you. My view of you has not changed in any way. I can commend you where it is necessary to commend you. I can reward you where it is necessary to reward you. And I can say, well done. Isn't that a fantastic thing to think about? If God wasn't able to do that, then we'd have to be sinlessly perfect for Him to be able to reward us and Him to be able to commend us. So when Paul says, fulfill ye my joy, what he's basically saying is, I already rejoice in you, but there is an element or there are areas where I have to hold back a bit. And in those areas, I want you to shore up some things so that my joy can be fuller than it is right now. It's kind of an amazing concept. He says, I want you to be like-minded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. I want to take those four statements and just give you the layman terms. Like-minded means he says, I want you to have the same thinking. Same thinking. Same love means I want you to have the same affection. One accord means I want you to be doing the same thing, and one mind means I want you to have the same direction. Paul looked at this congregation who he could praise, who he could thank God for, who he could say, I have fullness of or have I have much joy over you. Yet he says, if you want my joy to be full, then you need to have the same thinking, the same affections, the same activities, and you need to be moving in the same direction. Part two. He then goes beyond something very general, and he goes to be more specific. Part three. He states their We could say his wish in some practical terms. He says, Let nothing be done. And then he lists several things that We should not do. Let nothing be done through strife. Let nothing be done through vainglory. But in loneliness of mind esteem others better than themselves. Look not every man on his own thing, but every man also on the things of others. You know, the way that's that's written in the Old English, uh, he's not encouraging people to steal. He's encouraging them to put others first. Let me mention what he's saying. Nothing through strife. The word strife has the idea of a rivalry. I remember um In the early days of our of our church in Ghana, there were two individuals who were like the foundations of the church. Okay. It's like if you wanted to see the the face of the church, these two guys were they were like the core members And a tremendous amount of time was invested in those two individuals. And a lot of people in the church came as a result of their personal relationship to those two individuals. But there was something that I picked up on and something that came to a head from time to time in our congregation, and that is that those two individuals had a bit of a rivalry amongst themselves. So this guy was kind of like the founding member, and he was sort of like the half-founding member. And If you wanted to do a project you and you gave it to this guy, then this guy was trying to figure out a way that he could kind of undermine that project. And sort of make this guy look a little bit, you know, suspicious or something. So he could get in on that. And I remember that it kind of came to a head in some issues, and we had a terrible time trying to resolve that matter. It's the grace of God. It's the grace of God that that these two men reconciled with one another. And um and just uh it was a very sweet and wonderful thing when the Lord accomplished that. But that issue of rivalry is something that it can happen in so many places. You know, and it happens between people who are serving and people who are active. And it's amazing how pride can just sneak its way into our hearts, and all of a sudden the good things that we're doing become the platforms through which we display our abilities. And so he says, let nothing be done through rivalry. Paul was thinking about specific individuals when he said that. He says, let nothing be done through vainglory and is simply pride. That's really what he's saying. Don't be proud and don't Be rivals with other people. He then contrasts and says, but on the other hand, in lowliness of mind, esteem others better than themselves. He basically says, have humility. See yourself correctly before God. Esteem others better than yours themselves. View others as more important than yourself. You know, that's not the way we do it. It's just not. If there's an issue, our rights, generally speaking, come first. You know, it's sort of like you get on the airplane and they say, if there's an accident, put on your mask first, right? Okay, in that situation, if you don't put on your mask, you can't help anybody else because you will die in the process. But the reality is that we should be cautious that we don't begin to have this me first mentality. We don't have to uh encourage ourselves to do that. That's a natural thing. We have to keep that inclination in check. He says, look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Look out for other people's interests, communicate, ask questions, listen, internalize other people's Expectations and concerns. When he says, let's uh look not on your own things, he's saying, you need to know what other people are thinking. You need to listen to them. You need to consider their interests. We don't do that. It's not natural. We aren't inclined that way. And so Paul understands that the reason that these very good people who he really loves have an issue It's because rather than looking out for the interest of the other guy, it's theirs. Rather than there being humility and them seeing themselves correctly, there is strife, this rivalry, there is this content. And so Paul is saying, please put that stuff down. Put it to the side. Don't do that. Well, this morning I mentioned something, and it's appropriate here as well. It's one thing to hear, don't do that, or do this. It's another thing to observe. It's another thing to see an example. And so rather than Paul just simply saying, don't do this and do this, he says, don't do this. Do this and look at an example of someone who was perfect in every single point, yet he experienced the exact same Temptations and frustrations and pressures that you experience, yet without sin. Part two: Paul presents Christ as our perfect example He says, let this mind be in you, verse 5, which was also in Christ Jesus. Notice the various phrases to kind of draw attention to what he's saying. He says, first of all, being in the form of God. What does he mean by that? Well, when we talk about Christ, we're not talking about just a man. He was fully man. He got hungry. He got sick. He got tired. He learned how to walk when he was a toddler. He learned how to read. He went to the synagogue. He developed just like any other normal child, with one exception, no sin nature. He was tempted just like you and just like me in every single area the Bible says, but he did not sin But he was more than a man. He was God in flesh. When it says being in the form of God, he's talking about what John is saying in John 1. In the beginning was the Word, the Word was with God, and the Word was God. We're talking about God, the creator of the world here. His second statement, he thought it not robbery to be equal with God. Now you know it's interesting. I I'm amused a little because my kids They're really like focused in on robbery because you know they know what it's like to have somebody break into their house, tear apart their room, take stuff, you know, that kind of thing. So they talk about robbery. And when I talk to you about this passage, I ask them the question. I say, if you're a robber Are you taking something that belongs to you or something that doesn't? They're like, something that doesn't. Exactly. So when Jesus when it says he did not think it robbery to be equal with God, what does that mean? It means that he wasn't taking something that didn't belong to him. He had equality in the Godhead, okay? Jesus was God in the flesh. When he came to earth, he didn't stop being God. He didn't become a lesser God. He didn't become like Some subcategory of God. No. He was fully God. It wasn't stealing something or taking something to have equality with God. Yet it says this: yet he made himself of no reputation. So this person who is God in the flesh, who is not stealing anything by being equal with the Father within the Godhead. This individual made himself. That means he made a conscientious choice to have no reputation. Take your mind back to Isaiah 53. It says he has no form or comeliness, and when we see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men When the disciples called Nathaniel and said, We have met the Son of God, Jesus of Nazareth, he said, what good thing can come out of Nazareth? Right? So when Jesus came to earth in his humanity, it wasn't just humiliation because he took on human flesh and the weakness of human flesh. And submission to humans, okay, his mom and his dad. But the position he took within that economy was one of humiliation. And he did it willingly. But then he makes this final statement: he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. I think we tend to focus on the cross from the standpoint of the physical pain that Jesus experienced as they drove nails into his hands and his feet. We tend to think of the physical pain he experienced when he was beaten and when he was spat upon and those kinds of things. But that's just one element of the pain that he experienced. Because the purpose of the cross was not just to kill people, it was to humiliate them. It was to make an example of them, and it was to make people who witnessed that very terrible uh killing, basically. It was to make them terrified, that they would not resist Roman rule. They would not violate the law. They would not bring insurrection. It was to bring terror to those individuals. So Jesus did not just experience physical pain and suffering. There was tremendous emotional grief that he experienced. He was rejected by the Father. The perfect fellowship within the persons of the Godhead was temporarily put on hold. He says, My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? When he was in the garden and he was crying, Father, remove this cup from me. Yet not my will but thine be done. He was not experiencing the physical pain of the cross at that time. He was experiencing the emotional suffering. The rejection, the humiliation. Yet all of this he did so that we who are so rebellious against him could be reconciled to him Now I want you to put that in the light of how we relate to people. And I say we, I'm very much included here, okay? When we are wronged , we tend to have a very strong sense of justice. And we demand justice at every single cost. And this is what makes it impossible many times for us to reconcile with people. Because our sense of personal justice is so great that we just can We can't resolve things. Boy, isn't it good that Jesus didn't do that? There would have been no cross. The reality is that the cross was grace, unmerited favor It was more than mercy. It wasn't like God looked down at mankind in our pitiful condition, broken and sinful. And abandoned and separated from him, and he had mercy and pity on us. He did, but that's not all of it. There was a sense in which he extended grace. We tend to think, you know, God got a good deal when he got us. That's not true at all. So why does Paul do this? Because he says, if you are going to have the kind of unity that will fulfill my joy, then you have to have the mind of Christ. You have to be willing to approach issues the way that Christ approached you You know, it's interesting in the Sermon on the Mount, Jesus says, if you don't forgive men their trespasses, neither will your Father which is in heaven. I have always struggled with that. Why is why does he make that statement? Because he's basically saying, you don't understand the weight of what I've done for you. You don't understand it. The reality is, as God's people, there should be no more humble people in all the world than Christians. There should be no more joyful people in all the world than Christians There should be no more or no less vindictive person than a Christian. And the reality is that this is what God wants of us. And so as we come to the Lord's table, let's reflect on what he did for us. Let's reflect on the fact that his body was broken for us. That his blood was shed for us. But let's also keep in the back of our minds that his mind and his submission And his heart toward us should be the motivation that we have towards one another. That's practical Christianity. Healthy Christianity experiences, as he mentioned it before, bowels of mercies, consolation in Christ, comfort of love, fellowship of the Spirit. And I can tell you that that is a wonderful place for us to be in. It is a wonderful place. It is a simple place. And it's a place that we can all be in. And so this evening, as we prepare to take the elements, I just want to invite you to reflect on Christ, what he's done, and then consider the practical implications in your own life. As to how God would lead you and direct you in your personal interaction with one another. Many, many people will be better against a parent. till the day they die. A spouse against another spouse, uh relatives, church members, all kinds of various possibilities. There is no end to the potential ways that we can be Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and then We will sing one hymn before we take the elements together. Let's pray. Father in heaven, I I'm very humbled by this passage because it hits me right between the eyes. My sense of justice is very high, and all of us can can admit that that is probably the case. Our unwillingness to resolve our our conflicts, our pride, the divisive spirit is something that is always something that we struggle with And even after a service like this, we can experience uh forgiveness and communion Yet in just a few days we can begin to struggle again with these same issues. And I just pray that you will really minister to each of our hearts this evening. Strengthen us. Pour into our hearts a very godly perspective. Stir up our minds through these texts. Lay upon our hearts areas that we need to And I pray that you will soften our hearts that we might be submissive to your spirit as he works in our lives. As we come together and we take these elements, I pray that we would do it with our minds fully engaged and our hearts Very much focused on Christ, that it would be a very grateful and unifying time. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.