I've tried my hand at gardening a few times. I've never been successful. The last time I tried to garden was um at our house in Florida where we lived. We were in Miami. The house was right up against a canal. When you guys have critters here, you have to watch out for maybe squirrels, rabbits, deer. I think are some of the major um critters you have to deal with. Well, I was not ready for the critters I had to prepare for. And you guys may think, oh, you're thinking of crocodiles or alligators. No, it was iguanas. Uh everything I tried to grow, if the skunt if the sun did not kill it, the iguanas ate it. So we tried to deal with it a little bit. We got a little greenhouse garden thing from Aldi. So we pulled the them in there and I was not ready for the Florida sun to just demolish and scorch everything that was inside that greenhouse. That was the last time. But I did understand a simple principle that many of you will understand. The principle of sowing and reaping. We look at this passage here, 2 Chronicles 10. One of the things we're going to see, I want to keep in our mind this idea of sowing and reaping, and that where we jump into when we see Rehoboam and Jeroboam's strife here, that it didn't happen in a vacuum. There were events that led up to this, and we're going to try and paint a picture of what was going on. So first off, as we look at the summary of this passage, is that Solomon's heart created a rift in the nation between them and God. And then Rayabon's hardness only deepened the rift, changing the landscape of the nation forever. But I would like to argue that this was not, or that this would all, that God would be glorified. And as we look at this passage, God wants us to understand what we sow, that is also what we will reap. If you're in 2 Chronicles 10, read with me verses 1 through 5, and then we're going to jump down to verse 12 through 15. And Rehoboam went to Shechem. And for to Shechem were all Israel to make him king. And it came to pass when Jeroboam the son of Nabat, who was in Egypt, whither he fled the presence of Solomon, the king heard it, that Jeroboam returned out of Egypt. And they sent him they sent and killed him. So Jeroboam and all Israel came and spake to Rhabom. They sent saying Thy father made our yoke grievous. Now therefore ease thou somewhat the grievous servitude of thy father, and his heavy yoke that he has that he put upon us, and we will serve thee. And he said unto them Come again unto me after three days, and the people departed. And then verse twelve. And so Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day, as the king bade, saying, Come again to me on the third day. And the king answered them roughly, and King Rhaboam forsook the counsel of the old men, and answered them after the advice of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add thereto. My father chastise you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions. So the king hearkened not unto the people, for the cause was of God. That the Lord might perform his word, which we spake by the hand of Ahijah the Shilanite to Jeroboam the son of Nabat. There's gonna be an underlying principle after Sowing and reaping that I really want us to see throughout this message is that God was working to prove His word. He would what He was saying, what's going to happen is He was going to bring it to fruition. But to begin this passage, we can't look just here at 2 Chronicles 10. We actually have to jump back several chapters to where Pastor Josh was last week. If you would keep your finger here, but jump over to 1 Kings 11. 1 Kings 11 verse 26 is kind of where we're going to start out. One of the first things we need to see is the seed was a heart problem, and specifically the father's heart problem. Pastor Josh, again, as we were talking last week, work through how Solomon's heart was turned away from God. He started chasing after women and greed. Ultimately we see the sin of greed in his life. We saw in 1 Kings 10 that he was chasing after gold. He started chasing after horses. And then chapter 11, verse 1, it says he had wives, sworn wives were multiplied. But as you also looked through the chapter, you saw a lot of how he was being very pragmatic. That he was doing whatever was best to help out this wife or this person to make diplomatic relations to maintain. And if I were to argue, Solomon's heart was that he was walking away from God and putting more faith in man and these other gods more than God, the Creator, the God of his father, David. And it's through this heart that God rejects Solomon. By the way, God rejecting Solomon was built upon a promise that he had given Solomon earlier. If you were to look back even earlier to chapter 11, verses 9 through 13. One of the things that this is, I preached this about a month ago and we were looking at this, but this is actually God responding to the prayer at the temple saying, I heard your prayer and I'm answering according to these ways. But God said this to him. He said, and the Lord was angry with Solomon because of his heart turned away from God. Sorry. I'm getting ahead of myself a little bit where I'm at. But this is God responding about the situation. It said the Lord was angry of Solomon because his heart was turned away from the God of Israel, which appeared unto him twice. And he commanded him concerning this thing that he should not go after other gods. And he kept not that which the Lord commanded. Wherefore the Lord said unto Solomon, For as much as this is done unto thee, Thou hast not kept my covenant, my statutes, which I have commanded thee. I will surely rend the kingdom for thee, and I will give it to thy servants. Notwithstanding in thy day, I will not do it for David, thy father's sake. But I will render the hand of thy son, howbeit, I will not rend away all the kingdom. Will give one tribe to thy son for David, my servant's sake, and Jerusalem's sake, which I have chosen. There's actually a direct response earlier to chapter 9 is where I meant to say, is that God gave a very conditional promise saying, Solomon, stay faithful to me. Your kingdom's gonna go on. It's gonna do well, it's gonna flourish. But if not, I'm gonna take it away. There's gonna be problems for rejecting me. So we start seeing this. And I would want to argue that God came unto him. And one of the characteristics we've seen God over and over, and you look through scripture, especially in the Old Testament, as we look through over and over that man's sinfulness is not without an opportunity of grace. When you start to see someone sinning and they start making choices, God gives them an opportunity. And depending on how that person reacts, God can continue his course that he has promised. Or if the person will repent and change their course of action and return to him, he's willing to As the Bible says, even that he will repent, that he will change his course, that he's going to deal with people. I think one of the most obvious stories that we see this is the story of Jonah. That you see how God changed the way he was going to deal with the Ninevehes because they repented and turned to him. See in Moses. We see this as a characteristic over and over and over. But you read here and you see no such turning. Nothing's happening. Solomon's heart was not stirred, if I can say it that way, about the way that This was going on. And it mentioned here in these few verses 9 through 13 that it says, I will give it to thy servant. This is where we saw in our passage that we read the first time this man's mentioned in Chronicles is the man Jeroboam. And this is where we're going to jump down to verse 26. And Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, the Ephraith of Zereda, Solomon's servant, whose mother's name was Zura, a widow woman, even he lifted up his hand against the king. And this was the cause they lifted up his hand against King Solomon. Solomon built Milo and repaired the breaches, the city of David thy father, and the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valor. Solomon seeing the young man that he was industrious. And he made him ruler of the charge of the house of Joseph. So we're kind of setting up this picture that God that Solomon sees this. I can use a a more a different word than industrious but if I can see a word ambitious. He sees this ambitious man coming up in his ranks and he says, let me reward his ambition. He's the servant and I'm going to give him this land of Joseph. The result is he does rebel against the king. And God sends a prophet to meet with him. The prophet comes and speaks to him, and this is verse 29, and says, Ahijah found him in the way, and he clad with a new garment, and there were two alone in the field. Ahijah takes this new clothing that's never been worn, he rends it, and he tears it into pieces, and he gives ten to Jeroboam, saying, Of these ten are going to be the representative. And if you will stay faithful to me, I'm going to jump down to 37, verse 37. And I will take thee, and thou shalt reign according to all thy soul desireth, and shall be king over Israel. God says you're going to be king. How you want to lead is up to you. He gives a choice to Jeroboam. But pay attention to the promise that is in verse 38. And it shall be, if thou wilt hearken unto all I command thee, and will walk in my ways, and do what is right in my sight, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant, did. I will be with thee and will build thee a sure house as I built for David and give Israel unto thee. If we were to read through this and understand what's going on, that God is simply telling him that if he were to be faithful, that he's going to get the kingdom. But if you will serve me and stay faithful to me, you will have a line that rules over these ten tribes just as David's line will rule over Jerusalem. That's an important detail we have to understand at the end that we look here, and just as I said, that God's going to be glorified, that God's work is going to be glorified, that we're going to see that God's going to prove his word. But I'd also like to make the argument based on this verse that how we see Israel end was not according to God's design. How they got Taken away the exiles and everything happened was not according to God's design, but against the man of a sinful man's choice. I'm not getting into all of that tonight. I'm gonna pass it on for future sermons. But with that understanding. Help us jump to where we saw the seed, the heart problem begin in Solomon, that he was seeking after everything, that God says, because of your choice , This heart problem, the seed that you have sown, but because for your servant David, you're not going to reap it. Your son is going to reap it. If I were to pause and even think in our own lives, how that is so true that this the sins, the things that we are going to do in our lives, that our children are going to reap, because the choices that we make. Whether we mean to them or not, they're going to work through the damages. So we see these events and we've set up the understanding. We start setting up the picture. Let us jump to our text now, 2 Chronicles 10. And we're going to look at bake this into three different sections. The first section we're going to look at is gathering of a nation. Everyone comes together. This is verses 1 through 5 about how Rehoboam goes to Shechem, and for Shechem were all Israel come to make him king. In verse 2, and it came to pass that Jeroboam, the son of Nabat, the same Jeroboam we had mentioned earlier, Who was in Egypt? So at the end of the story I did not read. He flees to Egypt because Solomon is going to kill him. So he flees. Whither he had fled from the presence of Solomon the king, heard it, so he hears the meetings going on. This is Jeroboam's hearing the meetings happening, that Jeroboam returned out of Egypt. And they sent and called him. So Jeroboam and all Israel came to spake to Rareboam, saying, Thy father made our yoke grievous. Now therefore ease somewhat the grievous servitude of thy father. And his heavy yoke that he put upon us, and we will serve thee. And he said unto them, Come again unto me after three days. So there's a couple things looking at here is that who's constantly being brought up. The person we just saw for the first time was Jeroboam. He's Bringing himself back up. He's coming up a few times. And what he's doing here is a little up to discussion. Maybe he he he was clearly leading the people. I would say it's created some tension with Rehoboam. I say the way Kings 11 ends, 1 Kings 11 ends, Solomon knew of what was promised to Jeroboam. So because of that, I could easily understand, I believe that the text here kind of lays this out that there would be some tension between Jeroboam and Rehaboam, that Jeroboam's gunning for his job, if I can put it in so many words. This tension here starts building and it sets the stage of what's going to happen later. The people's request, though, is not anything extravagant. Both Kings and Chronicles in the story here, 1 Kings 12, parallels this very closely. They both point to how Solomon was very burdensome on the people. He put pressures very hard, taxed them very heavily, and the people, their answer, and Jeroboam says simply, if you will just take it back a little. Notice what the people say. And then to verse 4, and we will serve thee. They're simply saying. Solomon, please listen to us. We will serve you if you will listen. The people were given. They give Rehoboam an option. If we can almost say an ultimatum, reduce this and we'll serve you. Don't reduce this and find out what happens. So he begins, we'll put quotes around it, seeking for advice. If you're familiar with the story, Solomon goes to two people. He goes to the elders. Verse 6 says, and King Rehoboam took counsel with the old men that had stood before Saul. Solomon his father, while he lived, and said, What counsel give ye to me to return to this people? And they spake unto him, saying, If thou would be kind to this people and please them, and speak good words to them. They will be thy servants, notice, forever. We look at this passage here, and oftentimes we we focus on the count-the contrast of the counsel between the wise men and what's about to come from the young men. There is definitely that in the story. So notice here how the wise men are simply saying they will serve you forever. But just as we saw the seed already sown because of his father Solomon, Ray of Boam comes along and he goes, that's nice advice. And he says he looks to his friends, the young men that had grown up with him in verse 8. He says he forsook the counsel the old men and gave him, and took counsel with the young men that were brought up with him that stood before him. Now, if we were to look at this, I'm gonna call it the foolish counsel of the young men, we typically may think that he was a young man, he was probably 20, maybe around my age of 30, being young. But second but first sorry but Chronicles a little bit later in chapter 12 actually says that Rehoboam was forty-one years old and that these men grew up with him. So we can probably conclude that these men were around his age. We don't really consider young to be 40. Maybe to some I look on this room, maybe you do. As I look to that age, that is now what I consider young. I I hope I can look as good as some of you at 40 though. But we look here that these young men, who they were, we do not know. But they wanted one thing to make their lives better If we can honestly say they were i uh they grew up with Solomon, or sorry, with Rayoboam. They experienced the blessings that Solomon had uh reaped through all of the taxes and the servitude he put on the people that they said we don't want just the same, we want more As the text continues, it says in verse 9, and he said unto them, What advice give ye that we may return to answer to this people? Which ye have spoken to me, saying, Ease somewhat the yoke thy father did upon us. I would like to pause here even for a mention is notice the difference of the accounts between the old men and the young men. The old men were there with Rehoboam during that time. Rehab did not account any of this. But when Rehoboam meets with his friends, he recounts the story, but he also missed the detail. We will serve thee. Rayoboam, I believe, was spinning this in a way that also allows for the men to change the way they were going to answer. Because he didn't want to hear the answer that they were given before. We see that in the way that he's seeking counsel. He forsook before he even heard his friend's advice, he says, let's go to them for a good answer. Verse 10. The young men that were brought up with him spake him, saying, Thus shalt thou answer the people. Thy father made our yoke heavy, but Will make it thou somewhat lighter for us. Thou shalt say unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than thy father's loins. For whereas my father put a heavy yoke upon you, I will put more to your yoke. My father chastise you with whips but I will chastise you as scorpions. He's they're just simply saying, we want more. And you see that same heart problem. That was in Solomon. The greed, the pragmatism wasn't just in his son, Rehabom. But it was also in the other men. If I can just make this a more broad statement, the nation around him. That they wanted more. These men Wanted more, and only led away. Now, if we were to ask here which advice was better or best, I think is the wrong question. I think the question to ask is who's missing? If we look at the story here, one person, if I could say that, is missing. Ray of Boam doesn't even consider or going to God. Now I understand that the Old Testament was definitely a little different than the New Testament, how we can go to God. Solomon was a Rehoboam was expected to go to the Levites and go there, but Shechem is a unique city. It's a city of refuge. Levites would have been there. There would have been some sort of meeting place for people to go there to meet with God because of this situation. So you start to see this as if they're at a unique situation, and Raya Bohm ignores it. He goes to these two and says, that's all I need, and he misses out on any advice from God. Again, we see that heart problem of loving others more than God start appearing in the story. The nation gathers together in verse twelve. So Rehoboam and all the people Sorry, and all so Jeroboam and all the people came to Veriboam on the third day as the king bade, saying, Come again to me on the third day. And the king answered them roughly, and King Rhaboam forsook the counsel of the old men, and answered them after the advice of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add thereto. My father chastised you with whips, and I will chastise you with scorpions. One of the things we look through the story is that he forsook good advice. There was an opportunity, if we could say that, an opportunity for grace here. Rayobohm could have changed his opinion. Could have changed, he could have sought God, but he doesn't. And he begins to cast that dot that's been set before him, and he keeps taking one more step down the wrong path. One of the things about this story, if you were to read through here, is it's not the first type of cycle we've seen this from. If you actually look through the story of the Exodus or the cycle of apostasy, you can see there are things that the people were in bondage. They cry out to God or they cry out for a savior, and a savior comes, and the king adds to their burden. And the people and God judges the king. We kind of see that cycle, and this is another instance that would happen for this cause that he chose here. Everything becomes stripped away. Not this passage, but to be dealt with later, that because of his harshness and his response, his hardness, Ray Boom would lose the kingdom. So we look at the story and we look at verse 15. So the king hearkened not to the people, for the cause was of God, that the Lord might perform his word. We look there and go, why did God c allow this to happen? Why did he cause this? What was going on? Why did this happen? And for that, I would like us to turn back a few chapters, if you would. Look with me at 7, 19. 2 Chronicles 7, 19. The first thing I want us to understand is that God will not be mocked. 719, God is speaking to Solomon. He says, but if ye turn away and forsake my statutes. which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods and worship thee, then I will pluck them out by the roots of my Of my land, which I have given them, and this house which I have sanctified for my name will I cast out my sights, and I will make it to a proverb and a byword among all nations. For this house, which is high, shall be an astonishment to everyone that passes by it, so that he shall say, Why hath the Lord done this unto the land than unto this house? And it shall be answered, because they forsook the Lord their god sorry, the Lord God of their fathers, which brought them out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on other gods, and worshiped them and served them. Therefore he brought all this evil upon them. Ray , sorry, Solomon walked down a path that was speaking directly to him. Verse 19 is, but if yeah This is to all the people, but turn away. I think one of the things we look at this passage sometimes is that we can place all the guilt on Solomon's shoulders. Don't get me wrong, Solomon is guilty. Solomon made some very unwise choices. But the nation, each individual, had a choice. But if ye turn away and forsake my statutes and my command, which will I set before you Shall go serve other gods and worship them, then I will pluck them out by the roots out of my land, which I have given them God will not be mocked. One of the things, the aspects of this is that God has given so many good things and he doesn't want his name dragged through the mud, if I can put it that way. And that this temple, which he said would house his name and house his presence, that this people would be a representation for him in his name. Read through this passage again in seven and just notice how many personal times God references my heart, my name, I will be here. I And these people forsook his name and forsook what he had given them. He would not be mocked. And that they would be drawn out. They forsook the Lord their God, in verse 22, which brought them out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on gods which worshiped them. Each person there was guilty. What happened in the story points to God saying he's fulfilling his word. He promised something, they ignored it. And God had to deal with them. But also Look at, if you would, turn back with me again to 1015. 2 Chronicles 10, verse 15. He reminds us. That for this cause that the Lord might perform his word, which he spake by the hand of Ahija the Shalonite to Jeroboam the son of Nabat. He wanted to make it clear to fulfill his promise to Jeroboam. He said it was going to happen. How this could have worked out differently, I don't know. But I believe there was an opportunity for things to have been handled differently. And if the nation would have split, which it does, and it does rebel, and they will be at odds if you were to jump down to verse 19. It actually says, and Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day. That is about 400 years later after this event, four or five hundred years after the event, Chronicles is being written. Israel and Jerusalem are still at odds with each other. That's not the way God designed it. Because if you remember, Jeroboam was to serve God. If they were to serve God, where would they have to go to make sacrifices to s to worship God? to Jerusalem. They would have to maintain a relationship that even though they would be split, they would still be quote one nation, if I can put words on that. They would still have familial relationships. They would still worship God and point to the God as creator. This is my people. By the way, it's one of the exact reasons that Jeroboam does what he does is to make them not go down to Jerusalem. This wasn't how the story had to end. They're given a choice. Just as each and every one of us are, we're given a choice to serve God or serve ourselves. One of the things that we can look at through the story is that Solomon didn't take God seriously. Just as Galatians says. Galatians 6, 7. Be not deceived, God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he reap. And I look at our lives and our family. We saw Solomon how his seed was reaped in his son, and we look at our families and we could ask the same question. What seeds are we sowing? What in if I can use the word just inconsistencies? How are we inconsistent? We're human. I understand that. Don't it's don't say I'm trying to say we're going to be perfect in raising our children. I know that's not true. But we see the lives, and our lives, how is it differing from how we walk, not just on Sunday, but every other day and what we try and teach our children? Solomon didn't take God seriously. And Rehoboam ended up doing the same thing. He did not fear God. In our lives we can disregard good counsel because we're going to say we know better. Just as Solomon did. Or sorry, Rehoboam did. And because of that, our choices are going to start affecting our families. One thing I'd like to also jump to is how can we see the gospel in this portion here? It's easy to see this the aspect of the sowing and reaping, but there's still so much good that we can take from this passage. We oftentimes can see sowing and reaping negatively, but I would like us to see that it is also positive. That it's we look at today, Christ's death and resurrection, that everything changed. That the cycle of sowing and reaping can be broken through the gospel. That what Christ has done in our lives, I look around this room and I see redeemed people, and how we can look at our history. I can look at my family. I'm sure many of you can look at your family and how the difference of Christ has made the difference of the sowing and reaping in your family. Yes, you're still dealing with some things because of just families will be families. But the choice, the path you're walking down is very different. Galatians 6, 7 through 9. So I read verse 7, let me read 8 and 9. For he that soweth to his flesh shall reap flesh. Shall of the wrest flesh reap corruption, but he that soweth to the spirit shall reap the spirit, life everlasting. Let us not be weary in well-doing, but in due season we shall reap if we faint not One of the things that we look at this passage, and oftentimes we look at our own lives about the sowing and reaping, that we're looking for physical things. But if you notice the passage here, it's like we're gonna if we sow in the flesh. If I could just say we sow in the physical, we're going to reap in the physical. Paul's here's writing, but if you sow in the spirit, things we can't see, and that does make it hard at times. We're gonna reap in the Spirit. And because it's hard and we don't see it, and we're being fleshly people, we expect to see things, God going well and God blessing, that it doesn't always happen that way. We ask God what we're doing wrong. Paul simply writes, let us not be weary in well-doing. Stay the course. Stay faithful. We don't see it. We may not understand, but stay faithful to him. Something that Solomon didn't do. And Raya Bohm didn't either. The second thing as we look through the story is how His word , the gospel, changes the burden. The story here reminds us of a evil king, if I can put it that way simply, that he sought after things and his goal was to make things burdens heavier and heavier. But doesn't Christ say the opposite? In Matthew 11, 29 and 30, that his yoke is easy and his burden is light. When we understand we have freedom and we can grow, we can instinctively space place the weight on ourselves. But he says, I have paid the price. It is finished. We look here. Christ's words, Paul's words. Rahboam failed. But we're reminded the New Testament that we have an opportunity that through Christ, paths can be changed. If we serve him. And we are able to understand this principle that sowing and reaping. And God wants us to truly understand that. Not only to be negative. But to the positive, to serve God, stay faithful, and love Him. And let that love show to our children. and the church and the nation around us that they will see something different just as 722 where they were able to look at the nation and they saw that something was different. That why did this happen? Because they forsook God. But they can look at our lives and say, because he followed God. Let us pray. Father, thank you for today. Thank you for your word. That you take it seriously. That we would take it seriously. That you will not be mocked Father, I just pray that in our lives in this church, let our lives reflect you seriously. As we have families here with broken pasts, and that you are changing the die every day because we are serving you more and more, and that our children will have better lives because of it. But Father, as we look to the future and we may not always see what you're doing, give us the strength and the faith to hold on to you and stay faithful to your word. We love you and thank you for all that you do. We look at today and what you did and how you changed everything. Father, let our lives reflect that, that you changed everything. Praise since preciously name, Amen.