Let's all turn together to the book of Luke. And the text we're looking at is Luke chapter 20, verses 27 through 40. And this is a passage that is Very intriguing. In fact, as we work our way verse by verse through the book of Luke, uh this is one of those passages where you go, what's the question again that these guys are asking Christ? And what in the world is going on? And so Hopefully as we can step into this text of scripture and as we can kind of understand what's going on in that first century setting and some of the contentions that were there between the different religious factions and how Christ dealt with them. We're going to see the tremendous wisdom of Christ and how he deals with these men. We're going to see how he affirms the resurrection, and we're also going to see how he approaches the issue. And I think there's a lot that we can glean from these verses. So let's go ahead and pick up in verse 27. And then we'll read down to verse 40 as we look at the need to reject skepticism and rejoice in the resurrection. God's word says the following, then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there is any resurrection. And they asked him, saying, Master , Moses wrote unto us, if any man's brother die, having a wife, and he died without children, that his brother should take his wife and raise up seed unto his brother. There were therefore seven brethren. The first took a wife and died without children, and the second took her to wife, and he died childless, and the third took her, and in like manner the seven also, and they left no children. Died. Last of all, the woman died also. Therefore, in the resurrection, whose wife of them is she? For seven had her to wife. And Jesus answering said unto them The children of this world marry and are given in marriage, but they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage. Neither can they die any more, for they are equal unto the angels, and are children of God, being the children of the resurrection. Now, that the dead are raised. Even Moses showed at the bush when he called the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob. He is not a God of the dead, but of the living. For all live unto him. Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast well said, after this They durst not ask him any questions at all. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. We ask the Lord to speak to our hearts as we dig into this very important text of Scripture. Our Father in heaven, as we open up your word, I pray that you would speak very richly to our souls. Father, help us to understand why these men came to Christ. Help us to understand why they asked the question and what they presupposed that was built into that question. And how Christ in his wisdom dealt with them, and how we affirmed the resurrection, and how we can take great comfort in the glorious truth that we not only serve a risen Savior, but he is the firstborn of all creation. And that one day we will stand complete in him before you forever in glory And Father, we take so much comfort in the glory of the resurrection. So I pray that this morning, as we dig into this text, you will speak to our hearts. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I'd summarize the text in the following way. With great wisdom, Christ confronted the twisted presuppositions of the Sadducees and proclaimed the blessing of the resurrection. Now there are several pieces that are built into that summary. One is it emphasizes the wisdom of Christ It also emphasizes the fact that there are people who confronted him, and the way they confronted him was to kind of tie into a knot and back him into a corner. And then we see that he affirms with great clarity the resurrection of the dead. Why does he do this? Well, it is because these skeptics needed to hear the truth spoken to them. And in the same way, he desires for us to not be skeptics, to reject a skeptical approach to the Word of God, and to rejoice in the resurrection. And by the way, this principle is something that can go into lots of and lots of different areas of Christian doctrine. Not just the resurrection, but that is what will be highlighted this morning. So in order for us to do that, we want to begin by first of all looking at the tragedy of the teaching of these men. We see that highlighted in verse 27 where it states that these people deny that there is any resurrection. Now, out of all the things that I do as a pastor, the absolutely most comforting thing that I do is when I can stand before a congregation at the death of a believer. And I can say with the utmost of confidence that this brother, this sister, who is now deceased is not done, but they are with the Lord. Absent from the body is present with the Lord. And I love going to passages like the story of Lazarus or going to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 and talking about those glorious truths in relation to the resurrection. These men did not believe in the resurrection. And I think it's important for us to kind of understand a little bit of the dynamics that were going on at the time in which these people were living. Sometimes we lack a little bit of historic understanding. For instance, sometimes we think, well, you know, the way that it is today is the way it's always been. You know, we have all these conflicts in the Christian church, but if you went to the first century, we know that everybody in the first century believed the same things Perfect unity in the church. I wish we had a first century church until we read about the church of Corinth. And then we go, I don't know if I want the church of Corinth to be my first century church. Or we start going to the book of Revelation and we start seeing those letters to those seven churches and we go, I'm glad we aren't that church and I'm glad we aren't that church. And it's important for us to recognize that this has always been the case There have been turmoils and there have been challenges. There have been divisions and conflicts at every time in history. Even if we go back to ancient Israel, they were a theocracy. They had active prophets that were serving there. They had the sacrificial system. All of these feasts and all of these festivals, it's not just the worship of God, but is built into every single aspect of their culture. Yet what do we see throughout most of their history? We see there's just a little remnant of believers. And then we moved through 1500 years of that to the first century. And what do we see? The vast majority of the people did not embrace the Messiah. They rejected the Messiah. And there were these various factions We have the rabbis who are Pharisees, and we have the Sadducees and the Essenes. We're going to talk a little bit about that in just a moment. We even look at the early church with the apostles and their disciples. Yet you have a church like Corinth, one where Paul spent more time at Corinth than any other church, and they questioned whether or not he was even an apostle. He even writes an entire epistle to defend his apostleship because there was so much animosity in the church against him. In fact, even when the Bible talks about the kingdom rule of Christ in the book of Revelation, here is the Lord Jesus Christ for a thousand years ruling and reigning on the earth. And what do you have at the end of that era? You have the greatest rebellion in all of human history. What's the point? The point is that people are people. And there's always a struggle to maintain purity in doctrine and practice. And we see that at this time there was a great contention amongst the rabbis, and Christ was caught in the middle of this contention. Now the point is not to give you a historical lesson, but I think it would be helpful to understand a little bit about these various groups because Christ encounters them. He was very combative with them. They were combative with him. And some of the passages, the way that Christ deals with them, the things that they discuss, If we don't understand the teaching on some level of these people, we're going to misunderstand what's going on. The first group was the Pharisees. In fact, out of all the groups that Christ was confrontational with, this would have been the foremost of all of them. Interestingly, this was the Judaism of the people. These are people who were very theologically conservative. They were the ones who were primarily teaching in the synagogues. These were the basic rabbis of the people. And the common man had very high regard. for these individuals. But one of the great problems that they had was that they took the law and they they didn't say the word of God is not here. They said this is the word of God. But they took the traditions of the elders that had been built over many, many, many, many hundreds of years, and they took the traditions of the elders and their interpretations. And they took the scriptures and they laid them side by side. And guess what happens when you do that? Scripture falls under the authority of man. And that's exactly what these guys did. They had a misplaced religious authority. It was not scripture alone. And they had a deficient view of righteousness. In fact, when we read the Sermon on the Mount, The emphasis of that sermon is that unless you are more righteous than the Pharisees, there's no way you can enter the kingdom of God. And everybody said, There's nobody that can do that then. And he says, exactly save Christ. You must come to terms with the fact your righteousness is a filthy rag. And so we have that group. Second group is the Sadducees, and this is the group that is going to be in conflict with Christ in the text in front of us. This is Judaism of power. These were the people that rejected the rabbinical traditions. They held exclusively to the Torah, and that was a good thing. But they were also very politically aligned with the Romans. They controlled the temple, they controlled the priesthood, and they leveraged that relationship so that they could assume and maintain their power. In fact, we kind of mentioned this a couple of weeks ago and we talked about this issue of authority and they said, what right do you have to come into the temple and overturn these money changers? And Jesus looks at them and he's like, and by the way Are you actually supposed to be a high priest? A politically appointed individual? Well, these Sadducees rejected some very strongly held biblical viewpoints. For instance, the resurrection, how they defined life and death and resurrection. These areas they had taken the scripture and turned them upside down, and now they were holding to doctrines and teaching doctrines that in fact were not true. Then we have the Essenes. These are the Judaism of restraint. They rejected worldly society. They lived in wilderness communes. In fact, when we talk about the Dead Sea Scrolls, the Dead Sea Scrolls were found in an ancient Esteen commune. And these were people that believed if you wanted to live godly, you had to isolate yourself from society and live on a commune. And the last group was the zealots. They were the Judaism of resistance. They were more of a political force than a religious. And they opposed the Roman rule and they longed for the future kingdom of Christ. The kingdom of God. Now here's what's really interesting. If we were to dig into each of these viewpoints, we would see massive, massive contention amongst these people. We would not see theological uniformity amongst them. But one thing we would see that they all had in common was this. They rejected Christ. Isn't that a shocking thing to think about? They were able to lay aside all of their differences for one common enemy to destroy. The Pharisees wanted to kill Jesus. The Sadducees wanted to kill Jesus. All of these groups were working together, laying aside their massive differences because they did not want him. to disrupt the status quo. And their question highlighted the greatest of all the contentions between them and Christ. Verse 27. The Sadducees came which deny there is any resurrection. They were not only biblically wrong, But they were tragically misguided. In fact, when we go to 1 Corinthians 15, 19, it says, if in this life only we have hope, we are of all men most miserable. If a person has a viewpoint that says there's no resurrection, they have nothing. They have no hope. They have no comfort in life, in death, in struggle. They have none of it because the resurrection is where God brings all of these things to bear. Second thing I want you to notice is not only that they had this tragically flawed teaching, but they had a twisted test for Christ. And this twisted test, this challenge, is highlighted in verses 28 through 30. We see in this statement, in the resurrection Whose wife of them is she? Now this is a really interesting piece for us to dig into because what the Sadducees present to Christ is something that is so foreign to the way that we would think. In fact, when we read through this this uh question that they ask Christ, we go, what in the world are these people talking about? So the first thing I want to say is this. The Sadducees rejected the resurrection on what they believed were biblical grounds. Interestingly, these are people who were very devoted teachers. They ruled in the temple. They controlled the sacrificial system. If you were to ask someone who is a Sadducee, why do you reject the resurrection, they would just simply say, well, the law of Moses never teaches it, so it's not there. They'd say, but the Pharisees believe that there is a resurrection and say, well, the Pharisees are wrong. The Pharisees have added to the Word of God. The Pharisees have built their traditions alongside the scriptures. So they're teaching something that's flawed. It's not true. They believed that what they were holding on to was true. You know, false teachers are often very devout, and they often believe that what they hold is true according to Scripture. But that doesn't mean it is. 2 Peter 3, verse 16, it says, They that are unlearned and unstable rest, or they twist the scriptures unto their own destruction. And what's interesting is when we look at the Pharisees, we can see how they twisted the Scriptures to their own destruction. And the Sadducees Twisted the scriptures to their own destruction, and they did it in different ways, but they were ultimately doing the same thing, and they were missing the same thing, and that is salvation through Christ. The Pharisees were blinded by tradition, by performance, and an emphasis on external righteousness and religious practice. They saw the organic influence that they had amongst the people, and in their minds, they were good. God had accepted them. And so they were building all of their hope on their rules and their rituals and their righteousness. You know who's a great example of this? The Apostle Paul. In fact, in Philippians chapter 3, he says, if you want to ask me, was I a righteous person, I'd say, absolutely, concerning this and this and this and this and this, blameless, perfect, you couldn't throw anything at me. But he said this. He says, but what things were gained to me, these I counted lost for Christ. I count them but dung that I might win Christ and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but the righteousness of God by faith. You know what he's basically saying? He's saying when I was a Pharisee, I was convinced I was good. And when I saw the law of God and the Spirit of God work it into my heart, I saw I was Broken, I was miserable, I had nothing, and everything that I built my confidence on was complete waste until I saw the beauties of Christ. Well, the Sadducees were blinded in a different way. Their reaction against the overreach of the Pharisees moved them to this position. Their power and their control over the sacrificial system in the temple gave them comfort in their system, and they were blinded in that system. And their philosophical arguments against the superstitions of the Pharisees blinded them to their arguments. Interestingly, when we look at this question, what you can see see is that the f the the basically the Sadducees are saying it's absolutely laughable that someone could believe such a superstition as the resurrection. That's really what they're saying in their question. Both systems rejected Christ. In fact, listen to what it says in Isaiah 53. It says, when we shall see him , We shall s there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, we esteemed him not. He was despised. We esteemed him not. What a statement. Guess what? Whether you were a Pharisee. who is building your religious credentials, or whether you are a Sadducee who says, we have the sacrificial system, we have the temple, we reject the Pharisee's superstition, whatever side of that equation you are on. You despised the one and only savior. The fact is, in their systems, they didn't need a savior. They were saving themselves. They didn't need a redeemer. They had a sacrificial system that made them acceptable. They didn't need a savior who that system was pointing to. They didn't need someone to bear their sins and be their substitute. They believed they were okay. They believed they could work their way to God through righteousness that comes through law. And they were wrong. This system simulated this very interesting question. Look at what it says in your Bible, verse 26. Master, Moses wrote unto us, if any man's brother die, having a wife, and he die without children, and his brother should take his wife and raise up seed unto his brother, there were therefore seven brethren. The first took a wife and died without children. The second took her to wife, and he died without children. And the third took her, and in like manner the seven also. They left no children and died. Last of all the woman died also. Therefore, the resurrection, whose wife of them is she? For seven had her to wife. Now the first question we should ask is, what are they talking about? And why are they asking such a weird question Well, what's going on here is this is a question that's centered on what we call leverett marriage. In fact, interestingly, just so it happened this week when I was doing my scripture reading through the Old and New Testament, I was actually reading about Leverate marriage as I was studying about this issue. And so there was a system that was built so that when a person got married and then they died without children who would ultimately inherit the land that was given to them, their wife was to marry one of their younger brothers. And when God blessed them with a child, that child would actually be raised in the name of the father, not the father, but the brother of the father who was deceased. And we go, well, why in the world did they do that? Well, they did that ultimately to keep this land in the family. In fact, if we look at the story of Ruth, this issue of love-writ marriage was a part of that. This this question is almost certainly a hypothetical. I find it very hard to believe that there was a woman who had been married to seven different men. They know her name. They know the names of the men, and they're like, Jesus, we'd really like to know. Because people are asking us. Who is this woman going to be married to when it's all over? That's not what's going on. They're basically trying to give Jesus a scenario That is absolutely impossible to make sense of and is going to demonstrate how crazy it is that someone could ever believe in such a thing as the resurrection. That's what they're doing. Their scenario was built on the wrong assumption, and this is important. If, and in their system they said there's not, but if there is a resurrection. then earthy relationships like marriage must continue in the same form. You know what's interesting? This is a logical fallacy that people use all the time. They use it when they're having arguments and debates. Not even we're talking about the Bible. But this is a classic example of someone saying, if this is true here Then this has to be true here because I know for a fact there's a connection. But if there's no basis to make that connection, you can't do it. But they had They believed that their question presented a dilemma that proved the absurdity of belief in bodily resurrection from the dead. They're basically mocking the concept. They're asking this question because they know that Jesus will have no answer. They're rejecting the resurrection on philosophical, not textual grounds. They're not saying Jesus in this passage of scripture it says this and we're concerned about this, we have a no, no, no, no, no. They create this scenario to back them into a corner. But here's what they didn't understand who they're talking to. They didn't understand his wisdom. They didn't understand his handle in the scriptures. They did not understand how flawed their assumptions were. They were coming into this question believing that they were going to be triumphant when in fact their question would be turned on its head. Third thing I want you to notice is the triumphant tenant of Christ. In verses 34 through 36 He affirms the resurrection in the statement , that the dead are raised, even Moses showed at the bush. Now this is the most fascinating way to handle the question in front of him. If I was in the shoes of Christ, there is absolutely no way I would have thought of saying this And to be honest with you, probably everybody in this room, if you would have been put in such a qu uh such a situation, it would have never occurred to you, I think I'm going to go to the story of the burning bush, and I'm going to use that to demonstrate that the resurrection is in fact a biblical doctrine. Why is that? Because in that story there is no explicit objective demonstration of proofs to say, here's how you can know that in fact there's a resurrection. Yet in the natural way that God speaks, it is clear that it is there. First of all, I want you to notice how Christ how he addresses this issue. He begins by correcting their flawed question. And verse 34, Jesus answering said unto them, The children of this world marry and are given in marriage, but they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world and that resurrection from the dead, neither marry nor are given in marriage. Neither can they die anymore, for they are equal unto the angels, and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection. Now I know there's a lot of questions we could dig into here. We'd be here for probably a couple hours. if we were to go into every single little piece of what Jesus is saying here. But I think the big point that I want to emphasize here is that Jesus is showing them that their question begins with the wrong assertion at the very beginning. He's saying your question is biased. Their question was framed to trap. It was flawed in its assumption. It assumed that a hypothetical resurrection must be exactly like life is now. He addressed their flawed presupposition. He simply tells them, your assessment, your assumption is wrong. Just because there is marriage here does not mean there is marriage there. Just because life is the way that it is here does not mean that life is exactly the same way there that it is here. Interestingly, when we go to 1 Corinthians chapter 15 , What does Paul do? He talks about the difference between a corruptible body, a mortal body, and an immortal body, an incorruptible body. And he talks about the glories of the the sun and the moon corruptible and the stars and how they differ in glory. And basically what he says is this. He says, there is a resurrection of the dead. There is a real, glorified, resurrected body that you will have. But it is different in many respects to the body that you have today. Now, does he answer every single question that they could have? Of course not. Does he need to for us to believe it? Of course not. He simply gives us the information, and we are to receive it because it is true. It's God's authority And so that's the first thing. He addresses their flawed assumption. Secondly, he affirmed the resurrection from the scriptures. In verse 7 it says, now that the dead are raised, even Moses showed. Now, Jesus was asked a question with an illustration. He could have very easily said, let me dig into your illustration and break down your illustration and give you another illustration. But it's not what he did. He could have begun laying out philosophical arguments because that's what they were doing. They were laying out philosophical arguments to prove his point. That's not what he did. Where did he go? He went to the one place that has absolute authority. He went to the Word of God He didn't create an illustration and say, let me prove my point this way. He didn't say, let me give you all these arguments so I can prove my point this way. He said, what did Moses say? He's going to Scripture. And whenever we have a question of doctrine, guess where we need to go? Not philosophy, not illustration, scripture. That's exactly where Jesus goes. And he goes directly to Scripture to prove his point. Third thing I want you to notice is this. He used an example. I find this to be very fascinating. He used an example that demonstrated how natural and how fundamental the resurrection is to a correct view of Scripture. In fact, a lot of the things that we believe in the Bible from Scripture, we do not go to the Scripture and find some apologetic series of reasons we should believe that particular issue. That's not the way the Bible is written. The Bible is written with tremendous amounts of narrative. In fact, the majority of the Bible is narrative. Even we go into an epistle, we're reading an epistle, a letter, within a narrative. We look at the teachings of Christ, but we're looking at his teaching within narrative. And the reality is that a lot of our biblical understanding comes down to evaluating what did Jesus say Why did he say it? How did he address this issue? What did Paul say? Why did he say it? How did he approach this issue? In other words, we see really a pastoral theology coming out. and the teachings of Christ and the teachings of the apostles in the way that God talks through the prophets to his people. And in this particular passage we have an example like this. In verse 37 of these verses, it says, At the bush, when he called the Lord the God of Abraham and the God of Isaac and the God of Jacob, he is not the God of the dead, but of the living, for all live unto him. You know what Jesus is saying? If you want to know if the Bible teaches the resurrection, ask yourself the question. Was Abraham alive or dead? Well he was dead. Was Isaac alive or dead? He was dead. Was Jacob alive or dead? He was dead. Then why does he say he is the God of Abraham and of Isaac and Jacob if they're dead and that's it? That's a good point. In other words, death is not the end. That's the whole point that he's making He wasn't in the past Abraham's God, but now Abraham's dead and no more. He wasn't in the past Isaac's God, but now he's dead and he's no more. He wasn't In a past Jacob's God But now he's dead and he is no more. He said he is the God of Abraham, and he is the God of Isaac, and he is the God of Jacob, he is the God of the living What an amazing way to argue this point. He's arguing it based on the way that God naturally speaks of the relationship he has to these people. In other words, it's not let me give you 15 reasons to believe in the resurrection. It's listen to what he's saying and then ask the question why he's saying it in that way. The example was not framed as an argument to prove, but rather an example that reveals how the resurrection is fundamental to biblical thought. Exodus 3:6. I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, Job 19, 25. I know that my Redeemer liveth, and he shall stand in the latter day on the earth. Though after my skin, worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh I'll see God's. Psalm 16, 9, My flesh shall rest in hope. Thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither shalt thou suffer thine only one to see corruption. Thou wilt show me the path of life, and thy presence is fullness of joy. And I love the statement, at thy right hand are pleasures forevermore. Psalm 23, 6, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. You would not make those statements if there was no resurrection. And so what it shows you By the way that these passages just naturally speak of how these people view their relationship to God And how they naturally speak about God's relationship to these people. And how it naturally speaks of how long this relationship is going to be and what the nature of it is today. It tells you that the Bible teaches the resurrection. The fourth thing I notice here is this. His answer silenced his opponents. Verse 39 it says, Master, thou hast well said. And after that, they durst not ask him any question. They got it. They understood he was right. They understood there were no more questions to ask him because if he could take that question And that illustration, even the way that we front-loaded it, and he could take it and just turn it upside down and present it to us in this way, we better not go down that path again with him. And what does it show you, the tremendous wisdom of our Savior? Well, the question I want to ask is this, how do you apply such a passage? Because the truth is that we are not Christ, we are not dealing with Sadducees, we have not presented these kinds of arguments and these kinds of questions. So the question is, what do you learn from it? Well the first thing I would mention is this. This text reminds us that there is a resurrection, and there are some who have not yet embraced the gospel and will not stand in the resurrection of the saints. And there are others who have. In other words, the most pertinent of all the ways we could apply is to say this. You need to be a Christian. You need to turn to Christ. You need to believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and be saved. Acts 16, 31, believe on the Lord Jesus Christ and thou shalt be saved. Don't allow yourself To reason away the gospel. In fact, it's amazing that the ways that people in their own sense can reason away the very clear statements of Scripture. The clear statements of our sinfulness and our brokenness and our separation from God, the fact that we have no ability to bring ourselves into the presence of a holy righteous God. The fact that we must come through the Lord Jesus Christ, who died for our sins, who rose from the dead. We can only be declared righteous in him. There's no other way. There's no way that we can look at this passage and go, maybe I should just ignore it. It calls us to consider the resurrection. Don't allow yourself to turn away from the gospel. There might be somebody here this morning, either in person or on the live stream, or maybe you'll you'll hear this message a year from now on YouTube or something like that if it's still up there. And all of a sudden these truths are confronting you, and you have a question. What am I going to do with the truth? And am I going to embrace it or am I going to reject it? Christ died for your sins. He rose from the dead. He's not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. Place your faith in him and in him alone. That's the first application. Maybe it doesn't apply to anybody here, but I shouldn't ignore this because there might be one who it does. But the second thing I want to mention is we need to be discerning. I go back to that statement that was made earlier from 2 Peter 3. It says, they that are unlearned and unstable rest or twist the scriptures unto their own destruction. Not everyone twists the Bible with the same motivation. Some people twist the Bible because the truth is the way that they approach it is extremely haphazard. It is very dangerous. They just They read a verse and they lift it out of context. They consider nothing about what is being stated. They do not consider how scripture relates to scripture. They don't look at the actual meaning of words. And so the reason they come to such strange and bizarre ideas is because, frankly, they're not approaching it in a very careful manner. But there are others. The problem is not that they lack understanding in that sense. It's that they're unstable. You know what I mean by that? What I mean is they're coming to the Bible with an agenda. They don't like what it says. They don't like what it says about their sin. They don't like what it says about the exclusivity of the gospel. They don't like what it says about the resurrection. They don't like what it says about the cross. They don't like what it says about re generation. They don't like what it says about some area of doctrine. And so because they do not want to see it, they will not see it. It's that simple. But what is the end result? Whether one is coming through a haphazard approach or one is coming with a bias, the bottom line is destruction is the end of those who twist the scriptures and do not embrace them as they are. And so how we approach the Bible matters. We need to rest in the sufficiency of Scripture alone. You know the Pharisees' problem was? They put Scripture and tradition side by side, and tradition was trumping The authority of Scripture over and over and over again. We can't elevate tradition to the level of Scripture without tradition blinding us to truth. And anybody can do this. And by the way, you can be very well-meaning while you do this. I can be very well-meaning while I do it. We have to be so very cautious. The scriptures are the final authority. We cannot allow ourselves to come to Scripture with an agenda to explain away what we don't like or to make it say what we want it to say. This is very dangerous. Sometimes our kids will come to us with a question. The truth is we haven't really thought through the issue very well. You know what we'll do? We'll we'll kinda like pick out this verse that has nothing to do with what we're talking about and we will create this entire narrative or there's this incre entire doctrine or this this entire concept and we'll present it to our kids and say, Well God said this and so this is what it is and they're looking like I don't think I see that. But I don't know if I want to tell you I don't see it. We have to be careful. We don't go with an agenda. These people did not see the resurrection because they didn't want to see the resurrection. Thirdly, we should never build our doctrine on proof texts and illustrations or philosophical arguments that we've created. You know what all those things have in common? My brain's the ultimate authority. Philosophically, what I can reason out, I'm the authority. That illustration that I crafted, I'm the authority That little proof text that is going to prove my point, I'm the authority. That's what the Pharisees did. That's what the Sadducees did. That's not what Christ did We must recognize that sound doctrine runs thoroughly and consistently throughout all of Scripture. Here's what I love about the Bible. What I love about the Bible is that when I look at the core teachings of Scripture, what you need to know to become a Christian, what I need to know to become a Christian. The things that are essential, the things that are the most significant of everything in the Bible, we read to the Bible and we see it all over the place. What happens is if you have a doctrine that you want to teach that is not in the Bible, you have to explain away all kinds of scriptures to prove your point. And so that's exactly what these people were trying to do. And so here Christ goes to this situation that they probably never thought of as a text that they would deal with. in dealing with the resurrection, and it just so naturally says he is the God of Abraham and he is the God of Isaac and he is the God of Jacob. He's not the God of the dead, he's the God of the living. And they go, oh Why is it stated like that? Because the doctrine of the resurrection is everywhere in Scripture. If you want to take that doctrine and remove it from the Bible, you have to cut and cut. and cut and redefine and redefine and re-explain and ignore all over the Bible. And that's true of every single core doctrine. Thirdly, common ground cannot be replaced with full gospel clarity. I think about what Paul said about his brothers. When I say his brothers, I mean his Jewish brethren, who he knew very well, who were part of the of the Sanhedrin, those Pharisees. This is what he says in Romans chapter ten. He says, Brethren, my heart's desire in prayer to God for Israel That they might be saved. I bear them record they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. They being ignorant of God's righteousness, going about to establish their own righteousness. have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God, Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believeth. Now this is a really important principle that I want you to notice here. Paul agreed with the Pharisees on the resurrection. Jesus agreed with the Pharisees on the resurrection. You know where they didn't agree? Righteousness coming through the law or faith alone. And guess what? You could line up every single piece of doctrine, but when you come to that one issue of how a person actually receives the benefits of the gospel by grace alone, Through faith alone, in Christ alone, that one missing piece was enough to completely miss the boat. I give you this illustration. When I was in high school, I used to ride my bike to school. And of course, when you ride your bike to school and you leave it out behind the church or behind the school, Uh if you don't lock that bike, it might not be there when you come after school. So we had these this little bike lock and my little bike lock, I cannot remember the combination. I I guess My mind is slipping on me. But um it had, I think it was five or six numbers, and you had to turn them so that they were all in sequence together. Does any anybody else have one of those kinds of combination locks? Okay It's only people that are like over a certain age here that have these kinds of things. Well, what's really important about those locks is that you have to have every single number right. And you have to have every single number right in the correct sequence. Makes sense, right? So if there's like a five and there's a two and there's a one and there's a three and a four. You don't have to just have those numbers, you have to have all those numbers in the right order. And if just one of them is off, you can't open the lock. It's that simple. Just one piece off, you can't open the lock. The gospel 's that way too. Did you know that? We talk about the core teachings of the gospel. You can have everything right, but one essential. And you don't have it. It's not enough to be a monotheist. I believe in God. I'm not an atheist. I'm a monotheist. Well, that's good. I'm glad, but it's not enough to be a Christian. I believe that there's Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. I'm a Trinitarian. Great. There's more to it than that. I believe in the incarnation, Jesus came and he took on flesh. Goods. You're getting there. You got a five and a four and a three. I believe that he literally came, he literally died, he really rose from the dead. Great. Now the question is why? Why did he do that? Well, he died for my sins. He triumphed over death. Through his death and resurrection, I can be reconciled to God. Great. Is there another way? Is there a way that we set aside beside it? The answer is it's Christ alone. And so the bottom line is when we come to this gospel, it's not just about I've got common ground in all these areas, it's about have I placed my faith alone in the finished work of Christ? That's the gospel. And the reality is that this text of scripture shows us it wasn't just about what Jesus agreed with them on or disagreed, it was the foundation. Jesus and the Pharisees were on the same page on the resurrection, but not on how a person is justified. One final point I want to make is this. We need to rejoice in the resurrection because it's true. This isn't just about analyzing how Jesus answered a dubious question. I mean, that's a big part of it, don't get me wrong. But it's about hearing what he said and considering why it matters. 1 Corinthians 15, 19 says, if in this life only we have hope in Christ Jesus, we're of all men most miserable. But Now is Christ risen from the dead and become the firstfruits of them that slept. Since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead. As in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive, every man in his own order, Christ the first fruits, afterwards they that are Christ at his coming. Folks, I got good news for you. We serve a risen Savior. And we have an eternity that is secured for us through his death and resurrection. Our suffering is not wasted Our labors will not be ignored. Our physical death is not the end. We have a sure hope in life, in death, in suffering, beyond the grave, because we serve a risen Savior. Let's bow before our risen Savior and thank him for it. There might be someone here this morning who's never placed their faith in Christ. If you do not know the Lord as your Savior, I want to invite you to talk to me after the service. Come through those doors, shake my hand, say, hey Pastor, I want to ask you some questions about salvation. I want to go through the Bible and show you how you can be saved. You say, well, I'm not going to talk to you after the service, but I do need to talk to you this week. Okay. Send me an email. Reach out, I will set up a time and I'll talk to you. Whether it's virtually or whether it's in person, do not leave this place without having this issue of your salvation addressed. Let's bow before the Lord and thank him for these truths. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for its clarity and its power. We thank you for the wisdom of Christ that was demonstrated in this passage. We think about how he demonstrated his wisdom in dealing with people who came to him with a bias and assumptions. twisting the scriptures to their own destruction, and he handled them with such wisdom and such passion and clarity. May we have such wisdom ourselves. Father, help us to glory in you. Help us to rejoice in you. you. Father, help us to rejoice and take great comfort in our risen Savior and what he has purchased for us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.