Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to Anchor Baptist Church and hope that you've had a great week, great weekend. We're so thankful for the Lord's travel mercy. as we were able to go down to the wilds of North Carolina and the Lord gave us safety, both going down, coming back. It was uh a great week and so really looking forward to tonight when we have our fellowship uh to be able to tell you a little bit more about that our desire is to have uh some of the pictures and the videos from camp so that you can enjoy a little bit of what we were able to experience while we were there. Just a reminder that tonight our service is going to be to be at five o'clock, not six o'clock. And rather than being a typical Sunday night service here in the auditorium, uh it's a fellowship in the back, it's a hymn sing, so we're gonna have all of our uh hymn books down there. We're going to sing favorites the whole time. We'll have a a time of reflection on the Word of God and then we're going to just eat and fellowship and share testimony. So it's going to be a really good time, looking forward to it, and hope that you'll be able to join us this evening for that. Pastor Chris has a couple more announcements and then we'll open our service. All right, I hope you had a chance to grab a bulletin because we got quite a bit going on just this week. Uh for instance we got our BBS workers meeting today after the service. I believe that's in here, correct? The piano side. Sure. And uh I just gave you a place So um it's BBS workers meeting today and our welcome fellowship tonight as Pastor mentioned is at 5 p. m. And teams we got our anchored in the word study on the 6th at 7 p. m. So please make a note of that and uh make it out if you can. And then door-to-door visitation is on the 8th. That's this upcoming Saturday. It's our last Saturday before Vacation Bible School that we're going to be able to put out things. So please come out and enjoy it, weather permitting. We'll be able to share not only gospel tracks, but also invite folks out to vacation Bible school, which we'll be getting set up for on the 9th. Followed by BBS the 10th through the 14th. So go ahead and pray that the Lord will truly bless our vacation Bible school, all the preparation that's already been happening as well as what remains. And pray that it'll be a wonderful turnout, that children will have a great opportunity to hear the gospel, either get saved, or continue to grow in the gospel, and we'll have a wonderful week that week. Pastor? Okay, well if you have your Bibles, I'd like to ask you to turn with me to the thirty-third Psalm, and this is where we will be focused this morning. Psalm 33, and we will read the first section of the psalm this morning before we open our service, and then we will have the second half during our normal scripture reading time. Psalm thirty-three verse number one says the following. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous. For praise is comely for the upright. Praise the Lord with harp, sing unto him with the psalter and an instrument of ten strings. Sing unto him a new song, play skilfully with a loud noise. For the word of the Lord is right, and all his works are done in truth. He loveth righteousness and judgment The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them, by the breath of his mouth He gather gathereth the waters of the sea together as in heap. He layeth up the depth in storehouses. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him For he spake and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. This morning, as we spend time together in the Word, we're going to be focusing in on God's tender care and how he and his providence works in our lives, and we're going to examine that. And so I want to invite you as we bow together for prayer. to ask the Lord to help us to appreciate this wonderful doctrine that God is in control, He's working in our lives, and He is tenderly caring for us as His people, guiding and working in our lives. Let's bow together for prayer and commit our service to the Lord. Father, we are so grateful for your word. As we've opened it this morning, I pray that you would open our understanding to the significance and the weight of the truths that we will examine. As we read Psalm 33, I pray that we would have a profound understanding of how the great God, who created the heavens and the earth out of nothing, Is personally and actively at work in our lives. Personally and actively at work in history. We recognize if it was not for your tender and compassionate care , our lives would fall and we would have absolutely no hope. Father, we think about this nation. We recognize that just under 250 years ago You and your kind providence allowed this nation to be established. And throughout its history, you have guided, you have preserved, you have been kind, you have been very merciful. Father, we are so thankful that we this morning can gather together as a body of Christians and we can gather openly. We can live stream our services freely. We can invite folks to services. We can present the gospel out in our community without any fear of interference. And we recognize that there are people right now all around the world that do not have such freedoms, do not have such liberties And Father, I pray that you would help us as your people this morning to not take lightly the tremendous responsibility that we have as a free people. To present the gospel to those who are around us. Father, we pray for this land. We recognize that we are living in tumultuous days in our nation We see that the foundations upon which this nation was built, the family structures are being attacked and undermined. And we recognize that if we do not turn to you in these tumultuous days, and we do not see your grace poured out on us as your people and this nation that we live in, we have huge problems. Father, we pray that this morning as we dig into the Scriptures, we would be reminded that you love your people and you preserve them. And we should cry out to you in these moments. where we feel quite vulnerable and we recognize how much is in the balances. We pray for your rich blessing upon this service, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Thank you so much for joining us for worship this morning. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number eighty-one, a mighty fortress. is our God. Hymn number eighty-one, we'll sing all four verses Paster Great singing, just a few pages over to hymn number 84. Hymn number 84, Eternal Father, strong to save. We'll sing all four verses. Amen. Please be seated Let's turn over to hymn number 475. 475, rejoice in the Lord. We'll sing all three verses. Me dije, mira, no, cuando termine la especie muy bien, cuando luego está uno cuando voy a reír, me dije que lo tenía nada más. Great singing this morning. Our scripture reading will be found in the Psalms. We'll be reading Psalm number 33, verses 10 through 22. Psalm number 33. Verses 10 through 22. The scriptures say, the Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effect. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generation. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. The Lord looketh from heaven. He beholdeth all the sons of men. From the place of his habitation, he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth He fashioneth their hearts alike. He considereth all their works. There is no king saved by the multitude of an host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength. A horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall he deliver any by his great strength. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy. to deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine. Our soul waiteth for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. For our hearts shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted In his holy name, let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us according as we hope in thee. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Amen. Thank you. Alright, we're going to continue our singing this morning. Hymn number 577. 577. Be strong in the Lord. We'll sing all three verses. Great singing. Please stand with me once more before our sermon. We'll be in our blue book, number 174. In the blue book, see the Christ. We'll play through it one time since it may be unfamiliar to a lot of you, and then we'll sing all three verses. So we'll do one play. Through And we can know Great singing, please be seated. Oh, I think that's a good You are Light she will shut up and we breathe all We want neighborhood by the better pull all over we And you require me time to have your You will be our God and you are not our We will be our people that will not get all You made it a lot of people. Well it is a little bit more than we're gonna get off the call. We once were not your people, and you were not our God. My God 's with no father. Not knowing we were we hungered for a faction Yet we should away your hand and you chose to water Which children are gone Thank you well, you will be our new. We will be your people kind of what I don't got I We went to my joy people , and you and our Attack it to one horses, they will be paying our mouths. Why stayed in reign as good forever? We worship God reason. We will be our people that will not get all the borders. You will be our God and you are God. You will be our people Okay, our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back. And if you are planning to partake of the Lord's table and you're not able to pick up your elements, please do that during our opening prayer before we get into our text this morning. But if you have your Bible, let's turn together to Psalm 33. And we will read the opening of the Psalm, verses 1 through 11 together, bow for a word of prayer, and then dig into what I feel is an extremely Extremely well-timed psalm for us to look at at a time when we're getting ready to remember uh this nation's independence. And as a group of people today, we are able to gather because we are a free nation. And I pray that my children and my grandchildren and my great grandchildren, if the Lord does not come before then, will have the same liberties that we have today. Psalm 33, verse 1 says this. Rejoice in the Lord, O ye righteous, for praise is comely for the upright. Praise the Lord with harp. Sing unto him with the salt tree and an instrument of ten strings. Sing unto him a new song. Play skillfully with a loud noise. For the word of the Lord is right. All his works are done in truth. He loveth righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. By the word of the Lord were the heavens made, and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. He gathereth the waters of the sea together as in heap. He layeth up the depths and storehouse. Let all the earth fear the Lord, let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spake and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. The Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effect The counsel of the Lord standeth forever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we open up the Word, I pray that the Spirit of God would impress upon our hearts The weight and the significance and the full implications of the scriptures that we read this morning. As I open the word and as I preach it and as I teach it, I pray that you would help me to communicate this this text with clarity. The things that I say be consistent with what the word says. And I pray that you would help us to listen with hearts that are open, that are humble, that are teachable, that are willing to submit to whatever you might show us through the word this morning. Father, I pray that we would be strengthened by the time that we have together this morning. I pray that you would knit our hearts together And that we would be emboldened to walk openly as Christians who are identified with you and recognizing the tremendous blessing of that wonderful position we have in Christ. We ask all of this in Jesus' name. Amen. Psalm 33 is a command. In fact, it commands us to rejoice in the tender care of God. But it doesn't tell us to rejoice without a reason. In fact, it gives us many, many reasons that we should rejoice in the Lord. And we're going to examine some of those this morning. But ultimately it reminds us that we have a God who tenderly cares for us. He is personally involved in our lives. He's a God of infinite power, wisdom. He is kind. He is personally working in this fallen world. And if it was not for God's personal care we would not be preserved as his people. In fact, as we look throughout human history, it's a remarkable thing that here we are thousands and thousands of years. after the Old Testament texts were written, several thousand years after the New Testament texts were written. You think about the dictatorships that have Risen and falled, uh have fallen, and you think about the incredible attacks that have been throughout history on the Christian faith, yet here we are today. A body of believers were gathered together. We're able to sing with great joy in our hearts. We're able to read the word for ourselves. We're going to go back to our homes and we can speak freely of these things. We have vacation Bible school next week and we have the opportunity to be able to pass out invitations, VBS flyers. We can actually publish where we're going to be meeting, what we're going to be doing. We have the freedoms to do those things Yet, as we look back over history, we see many generations that died for their faith. People who suffered tremendously for the faith. People who wanted to crush the Christian faith. They made it their sole end in life to do it. Yet, what are they? Names we don't even know today. Yet here we are with the Word of God before us proclaiming the gospel. And I think about that. Why is that? It's because we have a God that preserves people. That's really what it ultimately comes to. If it wasn't for his intervention in history, we would not be here today. We would not have the opportunities that are before us. And so I want to encourage you as we prepare our hearts to remember what Christ has done for us Let's rejoice in his tender care. And let's examine the many different elements of God's tender care that are laid out before us. in the 33rd Psalm this morning. The first thing I want you to notice from the scripture is that we have endless reasons to rejoice in God's tender care. One of the things that has so harmed us with all of the advances of technology is that we are as a people are losing our ability to sit down quietly and think. And reflect and meditate. I mean, it's really true. If we're sitting down and there's nothing going on We start fidgeting. We want to move our hand and we want to look at something. We want to read something. We want our minds to just kind of go into this blank stare. Why is that? Well, it's because as people living in the twenty-first century, we are really slaves to our own passions in many ways And we need to stop this morning, put away all of the distractions, and just reflect on the many, many different reasons That we should praise God with all of our being, with all of our heart, with all of our soul, with all of our mind, with all of our strength. So let's look at the text before us. First of all, I want you to notice that it is a command, and it is a command that is focused to a particular group of people. And verse number one, he says, Ye righteous. The upright. The recipients of the command are a people who know God. Now, we know that the vast majority of people that live outside of these walls. Do not know God as He is. Many, many people do not know the God of creation, but we know Him personally And it's not just that we know about him, we know him in such a personal way that through the finished work of Christ we are forgiven, we are cleansed, we are declared righteous. We have new life in Christ, and we know him personally in such a way that he is shaping us and conforming us. to the image of the Lord Jesus Christ. When he uses the word righteous and upright, he's talking, I think, primarily of position. But the reality is that that position is something that will be visible as the Spirit of God works in our lives. All of creation Is commanded to praise God. The parts of creation that rebel against him, that want to be their own God, that want to ignore his existence. They want to push away his authority and his commands and his eye and his justice they will one day face. All of creation Is commanded to praise him. Psalm 10150, verse 6. Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord Praise ye the Lord. He's not just talking about Christians there, folks. Everybody that has life and breath and the ability to think and reason is commanded by God. To praise him. Psalm 107, 1 and 2. Oh, give thanks unto the Lord, for he is good, for his mercy endureth forever. Let the redeemed of the Lord say so Now he takes it a step further, not just all of creation, but the redeemed within the creation. Those who are righteous, those who are upright. Psalm 107, 8 and 9. Oh, that men would praise the Lord for his goodness, for his wonderful works to the children of men. He satisfieth the longing soul. He filleth the hungry soul with goodness. That's you and me today. We are forgiven people. We are declared righteous people. We are a blessed people. We're a free people. We have so many reasons to praise our God And this is an interesting text I want to draw your attention to. Psalm 96:1. Oh, sing unto the Lord a new song, sing unto the Lord all the earth. Declare his glory amongst the heathen. His wonderful wonders amongst all people. For the Lord is great and greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all. You know what that statement tells me? God doesn't want just the people in this room to praise him. He wants the people outside these walls. To praise him. And so if they're going to praise him before they bow the knee before the ultimate judge on that final day, they need to hear the good news of Jesus Christ. We as a redeemed people are uniquely fitted to praise him with redemptive appreciation. We are creatures, we have passions, we have intelligence, the ability to reason and to think, but more than all those things, we're redeemed Christ literally died for us. He purchased us as his own possession. And then from that statement, we also see kind of the focus in verses 1 and 2. He says, Rejoice in the Lord, praise the Lord with heart, sing with psaltery, and instruments of ten strings. Sing a louder new song, play skillfully with a loud noise. And I asked this question this morning. How did you sing the hymns? Perhaps they should ask, did you sing the hymns? If you didn't, I asked this question, why? Why would you not sing these wonderful songs? If you just sat there, how can you do that? Do you not think about what the scriptures proclaim about what Jesus did for you? Do you not think about that the flow of the service, all the scriptures that were read, the focus and the intent of everything that was done? How can you sit there and not sing with great joy? And great passion. You say, well, Pastor, you don't want to hear me sing with great passion and joy. Hey, that's why we're a congregation. We all just kind of blend in together. It just sounds like one massive voice. But the fact is that this Psalm says God commands everybody, but especially the redeemed, to proclaim his praises with all of their being. But then he gives us a reason, and I love this. In verses four to five, he gives us the reason, and we see this word, the word for. Here is all the reason that you and I should praise God in such a way. He says, for the word of the Lord is right. All his works are done in truth. He loves righteousness and judgment. The earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. There are several different statements that are supposed to press our hearts so that we sing with great passion and great delight with all of our being to this great God who has redeemed us. The first is the fact that God has communicated. Now listen, God doesn't have to communicate to us. He didn't have to give us his word. He chose to do it. And the question is, why did God do this? Why did he give us his word? Well, it's because he wants us to know him personally He created us with the capacity to know him. He created us with the need to know him. And he gave us a book that tells us who he is and what he's done for us and who we are and what stands between us. So that we can be brought into relationship with him. When he says that the word of the Lord is right, it's telling us this great God who made everything wants you to know him. And what he says is true. But it even goes beyond that. He says, all his works are done in truth. So it's not just that God has communicated to us, but he works actively in our lives. Well, here's the simple fact. If God gave you a book, but then never brought it to you, my question is, would you know it was in it? If God gave you a book and you had no ability to read and there was no one who brought the book to you and explained to you what was in it, my question is, would you know it was in it? The answer is no. So this text tells us that all his works are done in truth. God gives us his word. He brings people into our lives. He has allowed the truth to perpetuate from generation to generation to generation through the preaching of the gospel, through the establishing of churches. He's done this because he loves us. And so we see his word. We see his care. We see his motive. It says, He loveth righteousness. And judgment. Now, folks, God loves what is true, and he loves what is good And he loves what is right. And let me state it this way. If you love what is good, then you hate what is evil. If you love what is true, you hate what is a lie. If you love what is righteous, you hate what is unrighteous. And what's amazing is that the God who gave us his word, who works in our lives, who loves righteousness and judgment, established a basis for us to know. Him. For us to enter into his presence. God did not compromise his justice. He didn't compromise his righteousness when he established this basis for you and I to come into his presence. That's what the gospel is all about. But then he gives us a fourth reason. And that is that the earth is full of the goodness of the Lord. This is a very interesting statement. The earth is full of all the goodness of the Lord. Another way to put that is the fingerprint of God is on everything in the world. It's on everything in the world. And so when we look in the creation, what do we do? We see the evidence of God's wisdom. And his care and his goodness and his truth, we see it all over all of the creation And so what the psalmist is saying is because God has communicated, because he cares, because he's motivated by a love for righteousness and truth, and because all the earth proclaims his goodness. You and I have absolutely no business sitting here quietly and just ignoring the need to express worship to him. And so the command is a logically compelling series of reasons for us to worship God. In fact, it's really building toward a climax. And you say, well, what is the climax of why we should worship God? And it really could be summed up with this statement: God's tender Care. God's tender care. God didn't create the world and just leave it to itself. God didn't create the world and then just walk away and say, well, I hope everything works out for you people. No, what God did was he created a world and he has maintained an active presence and work in this world from the very beginning. Even when Adam sinned and rebelled against God, God didn't say, I walk away, I don't want to deal with you anymore. God went to Adam and he says, Where are you? And then Adam's hiding in the garden. He says, why are you hiding? Why do you feel this thing called guilt and shame? He's asking him all these questions. Why is he doing that? Well, because God pursues people. I mean, God had every right to just leave Adam to himself. But he didn't do that. He pursued him. And folks, God does the exact same thing in your life and in my life. We wouldn't be here today. We wouldn't be here this morning if it wasn't for the tender care of God. And what I love about this psalm is he gives basically three prof profound statements about the way that God tenderly cares for his creation. The first is what we could call his direct creation. Listen to the statements that are made in verses six to nine. He says, By the word of the Lord the heavens were made, all the host of them by the breath of his mouth. He gathered the waters of the sea together as in heap. He lays the depths in stored houses. Let all the earth fear the Lord and all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spake and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast How did God begin his personal work in the creation? It was by speaking it into existence. It's amazing. You say, well, why didn't God make the world out of something? Well, because there wasn't something to make it out of. It was just him, the eternally existing God. He says, let there be light, and there was light. And God God fashions the world and he separates the land from the waters and the sky from the waters and God puts plants and animals and all those things into the creation. He spoke these things into existence. That's the kind of power that our God has. But that's not the only way that he demonstrates his care. In fact, the most prominent way that God demonstrates his care, honestly, is through the mediation of his work in creation. Listen to what it says in verses 10 and 11. This is fascinating. It says, the Lord bringeth the counsels of the heathen to naught. There's a lot of things going on in our society today. That you should be praying will be brought to naught. Very evil things go on our society today. The kinds of things that, frankly, if God does not intervene, we will see the falling apart of Western civilization. That's really where we are as a society And the fact is that I have no idea what the future holds, but I do know this. As you look through human history, you see many, many times when people were on the brink when God stepped in. And he did remarkable things. In fact, even in the history of this nation right here, there are many, many stories. If you love history, you know a lot of these fascinating stories. The only way to explain it is that God said, You know what? I'm going to intervene in history right here, and I'm going to see that this takes place. God has the ability to do it. Listen to it. Let me read it again. It says, The Lord bringeth the counsel of the heathen to naught. He maketh the devices of the people of none effects. The counsel of the Lord standeth forever the thoughts of his heart to all generations. The fact is, people can fight against God. But at best, they're going to get 70, 80, or 90 years to do that, and then it's over for them. Well, actually, it's not over, it's the beginning of eternity. But it's the end of their influence. It's the end of their opportunity to resist and rebel against God. But the fact is, God's going to say, All right, I gave you your time. Someone's going to take your place. What does God do? He thwarts the plans of men. He accomplishes his purposes. And what's so amazing about it is you don't see him do it till it's done. This is a fascinating thing to consider. When it comes to the way that God manages and the way that God works in the world, as we're living through situations, we don't have the perspective of history. I mean, you know, you live through the fifties, the sixties, the seventies, the eighties, and when you were living through them, you weren't thinking in terms of, wow, you know, fifty years from now, somebody's going to study this. And they're going to talk about what this decade was like. And they're going to talk about this movement. They're going to talk about this person. That person didn't seem very influential at the moment. But then 50 years later, you see how their ideas began to filter into society And their influence was effective, and their children and their children's children were used of the Lord in various different ways. That's the way that history is. God 's hands are at work when you and I don't see it at all. God has so many different tools at his disposal. Let me give you some kind of a summary of what I mean by that. God demonstrates his immeasurable restraint as he gives people measures of freedom. I mean, can you imagine If you could put yourself in God's shoes, know everything, know how it's going to play out, know what's in somebody's heart, and you like hold your hand back and you let them walk down this road. God does that. Say, why does he do it the way that he does it? Because in his perfect wisdom, he knows what is best. You and I, if we had such power, we wouldn't know what to do with it. We'd really mess things up. Let's just be very honest about it. We mess things up if we don't have such power. God demonstrates through his restraint. How good he is. You realize even Satan has freedom. God allows it. I love Martin Luther's song, The Mighty Fortresses are God. And one of the reasons I love it is because he says, in all this world with devils filled would threaten to undo us. We'll not fear, for God hath willed his truth to triumph through us. And the idea is that Luther, with many, many problems, understood that Satan is allowed freedom with limits. And if God permits, he has a purpose in it. He'll ultimately use it to accomplish his good purposes. His wisdom and power are so exhaustive that he manages with meticulous care the ways of men to accomplish. his good purposes. Think about Romans 8. 28. We know that all things work together for good to them that love God. To them were the called according to his purpose, whom he foreknew he predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. God literally takes everything going on in our lives. And it's not like God forced us to make those decisions, or God forced people around us to make these decisions. He permitted, he guided, he limited. God does all this To accomplish purposes that are far bigger than we fully understand. And so at this moment in history, that hasn't changed We are still living in God's world. He's still at work in his world. And so I'm reminded of his personal care, Romans 11, 33. Oh, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and the knowledge of God. How unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out. Who hath known the mind of the Lord? Who hath been his counselor? Who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again? Again. For of him and through him and to him are all things, to whom be glory forever and ever. Amen. Basically what what Paul is saying is The only thing that I can do is say, oh, the depth of the riches and wisdom of God. How unsearchable are his judgments and his ways past finding out. Well who exactly was Paul talking about when he wrote those things? He's talking about how God was dealing with the nation, the nation of Israel. And so that moves us to our second point, and that is that Israel's history gives us this vivid example of how God tenderly cares for his people. And we talk about the history of this group of people. We're talking about several thousand years of history. You know, when something happens in a moment, it's it's like one little thing. We don't see how it plays out. But but over a ten-year period, we see how those events play out a little bit more and then a twenty-year and then a hundred years. But how about a couple thousand years? What does several thousand years of perspective allow us to do? It allows us to see the long plans and purposes of God. And how he deals with people. And so notice what he says in verse number 12. This is a fascinating statement. He said, blessed is the nation Whose God is the Lord. What nation is he talking about there? Some say, oh, he's talking about us. Well We weren't a thing a few thousand years ago, folks. He's talking about the people that received this song. Now, don't miss something. I'm going to go somewhere in just a minute. But he's talking about the nation of Israel. He's talking about a group of people that he called unto himself. In fact, in Romans chapter nine it talks about the way that God worked through that group of people. Paul writes, My kinsmen according to the flesh, who are Israelites, to whom pertains The adoption, the glory, the covenants, the giving of the law, the service of God, the promises, whose are the fathers of whom concerning the flesh Christ came. You know what Paul's saying? God used the nation of Israel to give us his word, to give us the covenants, to ultimately bring the Savior into the world. All of those things we read about in the Old Testament, it all pointed to Christ, and God used a nation, a group of people for that purpose. He chose them, he preserved them, he directed them ultimately to accomplish his redemptive purposes. And so that is the most direct application of Psalm 33, 12. I want you to notice something else. That's not the only group of people God cares about. It's not. It's not the only group of people that God desires to save. And that God desires to work in the midst of. The fact is, any group of people who will turn to the Lord and place their faith in the finished work of Christ. He brings them to himself. He calls them his people. It's the states from the nation of Israel. I understand that. But the fact is that God desires a relationship with us. In a general sense, Proverbs 14 says the following: righteousness exalts a nation. Sin is a reproach to any people. That's true anywhere you go in the world. Let me ask you this question and ponder for a few minutes. How much does sin cost America? No, I'm serious. How much does sin cost our court systems? How much does sin cost our prison systems? How much does sin cost our financial markets? How much does sin cost our doctors It'd be stunning. I I I'm sure there's no one out there that's done this, but if there is, please let me know about it. Where someone sits down and says, let's talk about the moral choices of people in this country and ask the question, when people make this choice right here, what is the downstream effect on this issue and this issue and this? Just simple things like, you know, the way people treat their wife. Or the fact that people have children and they don't take care of them. Or the fact that people cheat on their spouses. Or the fact that people are drug addicts. Or the fact that people you just all these different Decisions we can make, moral choices, right and wrong, things that God says, this is right, this is wrong. What is the downstream effect of all the cumulative, sinful choices people make in a society like ours? It's stunning to think about. On the other side, what is the cumulative effect of people making righteous choices? Something as simple as: well, when I become an adult, I go get a job. And then I get a job and I I get married. And then after I get married, not before I get marked, after I get married, I start having children. And then once I have those children, I stay married to my spouse. And then I actually take a personal interest in those kids that God gave me. And I teach them what is right and wrong. I take them to church, I guide them, I restrain them, I discipline them, I love them, I feed them, I clothe them, I make sure they get a good solid education. I prepare them for life and they do the exact same thing that I did Do you know how much that blesses a country? We used to know. We used to know We could know again. In fact, I hope you'll come back tonight because I want to talk about that a little bit. I'm not going to flush it out here this morning to the extent I want to tonight During our hymn sing, I want us to to reflect on how God can use us to impact this nation. But the fact is, in a general sense, Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin destroys peoples. That's why in 1 Timothy 2, Paul says, I exhort you that you pray. Make intercession and giving of thanks for kings and all who are in authority that we might lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness. Why does Paul say pray for those in authority? Because it affects our lives. The choices that people make in this country at the top affect our lives. They affect how much money we have. They affect that the kind of things our children are exposed to, they affect what happens when somebody commits a violent crime and they're dealt with or they're not dealt with. It affects so many different areas. It affects our court systems. It affects a lot of things. It also affects the freedoms that we have and how the power of government is used. He says, pray for those in authority. I'm thinking of Romans 15, 12. It says, Isaiah said, There shall be a root out of Jesse, and he that shall rise to reign over the Gentiles, he shall call, and in him shall the Gentiles trust. You know, God doesn't just deal with the Jewish nation. He deals with Gentile nations as well. Listen to this statement in Isaiah 19 In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrians shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptians into Assyria, and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians. And that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria. Even a blessing in the midst of the land. And the Lord of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, Assyria the work of my hands Israel my inheritance. Could you imagine if you were living in Isaiah's day and you read that? Who are the Egyptians? Well, they're they're Israel's enemies. Who are the Assyrians? Oh, they're the people that are gonna take the northern tribes into captivity. And God says, there's gonna be a day that you're all gonna be my people. Israel is going to be a blessing in the midst of that. Say, why is that? Well, God cares about Gentiles too, folks. If he didn't, most of us wouldn't be here. And then we see in verse 12 he says, the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance. These are a people who belong to God. God has literally brought a people unto himself through the work of Christ. And by the way, it's interesting. He says it's his inheritance. He didn't say we have an inheritance in him, which is true. It does say that in many texts, but it says that they are his inheritance. It sounds very similar to a text that we read last week, Romans 8. 17. If children, then we are heirs, heirs of God, joint heirs with Christ. Ephesians 1. 18. The eyes of your understanding being enlightened that you may know what is the hope of his calling, the riches of the glory of his inheritance and the Say. Amazing statements. Chase that rabbit sometime and ask yourself what he's talking about. The fact is he's saying, these people belong to me, and I rejoice in them. I delight in them. I love them. How would I summarize this? It's simple. God tenderly cares for his people. That's really what it's all about. He watches over us. He personally shapes us. He intervenes on our behalf. In fact, notice what it says here in verse 13. He says, the Lord looked down from heaven. He beholdeth all the sons of man from the place of his habitation. He looked upon all the inhabitants of the earth. God observes his people. Verse 15, he fashioneth their hearts alike. It's very similar to what it says in Psalm 13913. Thou hast possessed my reins, thou hast covered me in the In my mother's womb. I'm fearfully and wonderfully made. Marvelous are thy works, and that thy my soul knoweth well. My substance was not hidden from thee when I was made and secret and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth. Thine eyes did see my substance being unperfect, and all thy book all my members were written, which in c which in continuance were fashioned. When I was yet, there was none of them. How precious also are thy thoughts to me, O God! How great is the sum of them. If I should count them, they are more in number than the sands. Who gave you the mind that you have? Who gave you the strength that you have? Who's the person that gave you the personality that you have? You say, well, are you saying that God made me a sinful person? No, the fall made you a sinful person. But who you're supposed to be in Christ, God is the one who's shaping you and molding you. That's what sanctification is. It's about shaping us into the image of Christ. He sets us apart to himself and then he molds us into his image. God is personally involved in our lives. And he kindly governs for our good. And verses 16 to 19 says, There is no king saved by the multitude of an host. A mighty man is not delivered by much strength. A horse is a vain thing for safety, neither shall be delivered any of his great strength. Behold, the eye of the Lord is upon them that fear him. You say, well, Joel, is this passage saying that God is against having a military? Oh no, no, no. That's not what it's saying. Is this saying that God is against laws and restraint within the government? No, of course not. He's not saying that. But what he's saying is this. You and I are fools. If we think that a strong military is all that we need, that's what he's saying. He's saying, who is it that ultimately determines how things play out? It's God in heaven. He's the one that intervenes in history. If our strength is in the strength of men, that strength will fall short. And that's what he's saying. Ultimately, it is God who governs and intervenes in history to preserve his people. He strengthens, he preserves, he delivers. And so that moves me to a final thought. We've got to walk by faith. Some of us this morning are very concerned about the things that we I say. We're probably all very concerned about the things that we see. But the proper response to concern is not bury your head in the sand, give up, and say life is over and we can't handle these things. The right response is we walk by faith in the God who can do what he chooses. That's really what it's all about. And we see that in verses 20 and 22. He says, Our soul waiteth for the Lord, he is our help. He is our shield. Our hearts shall rejoice in him because we have trusted in his holy name. Let thy mercy, O Lord, be upon us according as we hope and thank The entire psalm is the basis for this statement. He says, I want you to experience my strength. I want you to experience my trustworthiness. I want you to experience my goodness. I want you to experience my deliverance. And so he says, when you're under pressure, verse number 20, our soul. Waiteth for the Lord. Be patient under pressure. Verse 21. Our hearts shall rejoice in him because we've trusted in thy holy name. He says, when everything is fearful and you're in danger Trust God and rejoice in Him. That's what he's saying. Verse number 22. Let thy mercy be upon us according as we hope in thee. God, please give me visible reminders that you care. How do you get those things? It's through test. It's through pressure. It's through difficulty. And so God says, I want you to learn to trust me. I want you to learn to delight in me. I want you to learn to see me work through all those things. In spite of your weaknesses, in spite of your limitations. That's what he's saying. And so stated another way, we see Psalm 34, verse 8. Oh, taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man. Trusted in him. You say, what's the takeaway, Pastor? We need to walk by faith. It starts with knowing him. We need to walk by faith so that we know him personally. We need to walk by faith in such a way that it literally shapes us into the people that we are. And we can learn to trust in his tender care in our lives. But we will not experience the rich blessings that come through the experiential side of our salvation if we hesitate to trust his promises. That's the point. We desperately need to know him personally and submit to him in our lives. We need to remind ourselves of his tender care. He watches us, he shapes us, he governs us, he makes us his own people through the work of Christ. We need to remember what ultimately cost Christ so that we could have such blessings. And so I'd like us to just take a moment before we partake of the Lord's table. And remember that really at the root of this psalm is the redeemed. And why are we a redeemed people? Because of the purchased cost of the cross. That's why. Let's bow together for a moment. Let's reflect on these things. And then let's prepare to partake of the Lord's table together. Father, we think about the psalm in front of us. And we're reminded that you're a God who tenderly cares for us as your people. We really covered a tremendous amount of material. Might even be hard to to digest all of this But I pray that you'd help us to take these truths and reflect on them. Help us to reflect on your power that created the world out of nothing. Help us to reflect on your power that governs in a world where people can make choices that are sinful and rebellious, but will ultimately not thwart your purposes. We're reminded that you're personally involved in our lives. You intervene for our good. And this text calls us to rejoice and to trust. I pray this morning as we partake of the Lord's table as a body of believers who understand what Jesus has done for us on this cross, his body broken, his blood shed, that we will rejoice. And this great salvation that we enjoy in Him. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.