Let's turn together to the book of 1 Chronicles that would not be 1 Corinthians. On Wednesday nights, we're going to the book of 1 Corinthians. And uh it's a very, very different book, uh, 1 Chronicles versus 1 Corinthians. And uh some of you might be saying, hold on a second. Didn't we just talk about David's last words last week? So why are we going now to the book of First Chronicles? And uh seems like we're backtracking, we're uh breaking our chronological focus as we look. at the life of David. And the answer is yes, we are breaking the chronological focus on the the life of David. And what we're going to do over the next couple of weeks as we're kind of coming to the end of our David series is we're going to look at passages that are dealing with the temple and David's relationship to the temple. And the passage we're going to look at tonight I think will be very, very practical and helpful for us to think about. So, 1 Chronicles chapter 17, and we're going to begin reading in verse 1. And tonight we're looking at this theme, rejoicing in God's grace. When our dreams are disappointed. I know it's been kind of a dark day, hasn't it? Psalm forty-four, we're talking about uh this very dark season in our lives, and then first chronicles seventeen, David is told he can't build the temple. But God has better things for David than David realizes. And his grace is going to be demonstrated in this passage. So, with that in mind, let's go ahead and pick up in verse 1. It says, Now, it came to pass as David sat in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet , Lo I dwell in a house of cedars, but the ark of the covenant of the Lord remaineth under curtains. Then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart, for God is with thee. Came to pass that same night that the word of God came to Nathan, saying, Go and tell David my servant, thus saith the Lord. Thou shalt not build me an house to dwell in. For I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I was brought that I brought up Israel out of out Israel unto this day. But have gone from tent to tent, from one tabernacle to another, wheresoever I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word of any of the judges of Israel whom I commanded to feed my people, saying, Why have you not built me in a house of cedars? Now Therefore, thus shalt thou say unto my servant David. Thus saith the Lord of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcoat, even from following the sheep. That thou shouldest be ruler over my people Israel, and I have been with thee whithersoever thou hast walked, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee, and have made thee a name like unto the names of the great men that are in the earth Also I will ordain a place for my people Israel and will plant them, and they shall dwell in their place, and shall be moved no more, neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at the beginning. And since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel. Moreover, I will subdue all thine enemies. Furthermore, I will tell thee that the Lord will build thee in house. And it shall come to pass, when thy days be expired, that thou must go to be with thy fathers, that I will raise up thy seed after thee, which shall be of thy sons. And will establish his kingdom. He shall build me a house, and I will establish his throne forever. I will be his father, he shall be my son. I will not take my mercy away from him as I took it from him that was before thee. But I will settle him in mine house and in my kingdom forever. His throne shall be established forevermore. Let's bow and ask the Lord to really speak to our hearts tonight from his word. Father, as we read this text of Scripture and as we reflect on it tonight, I pray that your Spirit would move in our midst. Father, help us to recognize that there are times in our life that you will forbid us to do things we desire There 'll be times in our life that desires that we purposed to accomplish will not come to fruition. And we're going to have to wrestle with those discouragements and those disappointments. But as we see in this text, your grace remains there for this man, David. And your purposes for him were a lot bigger than building a house for yourself. Father, help us to see how your grace is demonstrated in this passage and how your mercy and your love for David and his family and ultimately your redemptive purposes were all bound up in the story in front of us. And so I pray that you would give us eyes to see, ears to hear, hearts that are tender to your word this evening. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I want to start by saying a couple things that I think are pretty self-evident. We understand that they're true, but they are very pertinent to the topic that we're addressing tonight. Life is not a fairy tale. It's not a story where all of our dreams come true. That's not how life works. In fact, uh when we're young and idealistic, sometimes we get in our minds that this is how things are going to play out. It's not always the way things are. In fact, a lot of times the things that we really think are going to happen don't. And things that we are so convinced this is how it's going to fall out. And this is This is really both for good and for bad, to be very frank about it. It's not just the good dreams that we have, sometimes our fears, they don't come to pass. A lot of times what God does in our lives are things that surprise us. Sometimes they disappoint us, sometimes they frustrate us. And this passage is kind of a blend of those things. Sometimes the things that we purpose to do, they fall apart. And we're disappointed. We've got to learn how to respond humbly to God when that happens. We cannot allow our joy, and this is important, we cannot allow our joy to be bound up in what We think should happen. We can't allow our joy to be bound up in our circumstances. We can't allow our joy to be bound up in the fulfillment of all of our passions and plans. We need to learn to have our joy be bound up in something that is bigger and more stable than the way that life moves as we go through our lives. In fact, sometimes the things that we're so convinced are going to be so good for us, when we get to them, we're like, oh, it's not as good as I thought it was going to be. And this passage of scripture reminds us That in fact sometimes we have to come to terms with how God is going to work in a way that in fact is not what we intended. We've got to learn to submit to him. We've got to learn to delight in what he's doing. We should not get frustrated when God does not follow our expectations. Now, I want to begin before we look at some of the contents here of giving you a couple of thoughts about the book of 1 Chronicles that I think will be very helpful. When we look at the the books of history in the Old Testament, each of these books sometimes they have overlap in their history. So like if we're reading through 1st and 2 Kings And 1 and 2 Samuel and 1 and 2 Chronicles, we'll go to 2 Samuel and we'll see some events that are recorded for us, and then we'll see those same events recorded for us. in 1 Chronicles, or sometimes in 2 Chronicles versus the books of the Kings. And they're not always laid out in chronological order, which is something that's frustrating to us. Because we want to read the Bible and say, okay, and and this year this is what took place, and then the next year this is what took place, and then and the next year this is what took place. And that's not how they're actually ordered in many situations. They're ordered thematically. In fact, when we come to the book of 1 Chronicles, if you want it to be looked at as a chronological story, it starts with Adam and it ends with Cyrus. We're talking about a massive period of time, a massive period of history from the creation of the world to the very first man. And then Cyrus making his decree that the nation who has been in captivity can go back to Jerusalem and not just can, but they must, and he's actually going to fund the project for the rebuilding of the temple. Fascinating story. Well the question is why were the books of 1st 2nd Chronicles, which are actually a book together in the Hebrew Old Testament, why do they cover this massive portion of history? And out of all the stories that are talked about, there is this huge chunk, especially of 1 Chronicles, that is arguably dedicated to one theme, and that theme is the temple. For instance, here in 1 Chronicles 17, we're going to learn as to why not David, but rather Solomon is the one who's going to build this temple. Then we move to 1 Chronicles 21 and we find out why the temple was built on the Temple Mount, which was one of the mountains of Moriah. In fact, the very location where Abraham was told to take his son Isaac whom he loved and offer him as a sacrifice, and God provides a ram in the thicket that takes the place of his son Isaac and is going to be a reminder of a sacrifice that's going to take place thousands of years later in the very same basic location. This is going to tell us why the temple was built there. And then when we go to 1 Chronicles 28 and 29, it tells us the story of how Solomon was able to so quickly and so efficiently build the temple. The reason for this focus on the temple is because 1 and 2 Chronicles were written at a time in Israel's history where they were very unsettled. There was a lot of pain and a lot of struggle going on in the nation. In fact, many believe that it was Ezra the scribe who wrote down these things and if it was written by Ezra the scribe, it was written at a time when the exiles were coming back to Jerusalem, and they were going to rebuild the temple, they were going to rebuild the city of Jerusalem, and they were going to reestablish proper worship of God's people on the land that God had given them. And there were two big questions that the people would have had at this time in their history. The first question is, if God really loves his people. Then how in the world could God have dealt so harshly with them? Well, 1 and 2 Kings answers that question. There is a detailed record of all of these kings from Israel and all these kings from Judah and how God has patiently for hundreds and hundreds of years appealed to his people and they've resisted. And appealed to his people, and they've resisted. And by the end of that reading of 1st, 2nd Kings, you go, Yeah, God had to judge his people. Because they had violated his law and broken his covenant over and over and over again. But 1 2 Chronicles has a totally different purpose. 1 and 2 Chronicles were not written to give justification for why God was judging his people. But it was meant to give encouragement that God's promises that he had given to these people in regard to the Davidic line And in regard to the temple and the worship of God, and even bigger than that, those messianic promise prophecies that he was going to send the Savior into the world, all of those things were now in question for the people. And so if you if you think about this, here are people who they're making arguments about whether or not a person is qualified to be able to be a priest. Why? Because they had to demonstrate that in their lineage they could all go back to being actually qualified to be in that role. Or how do they know who's actually qualified to sit on the throne of David if these people's lives have been disrupted and they've been in exile for over seventy years? That's the purpose of 12 Chronicles is to encourage the people who have been so demoralized and so devastated that God's plan is still intact. God is still going to do his work. And I tell you, there are times that we kind of feel the same way in our lives. We have really, we have done something terrible, we've done something humiliating, we've gotten to a period in our lives where things are just falling apart, and we go, is God done with us? And he says, No, I have purposes for you. And that is the sense of what we see here. So I know that's a little bit of a long runway for an introduction, but let's look at the text here and see some very important and precious truths that I think will be an encouragement to us. The passage in front of us reminds us That we need to rejoice in God's grace even when our dreams are disappointed. God wants us to respond properly like David did in this story. And so In order to do that, I'd like to just kind of tell you the story that we find in the text in front of us. And so when we come to this story, the first thing that we're going to see And verses one and two is that David has in his heart a desire that in fact is a noble desire. It's a good desire. And we should assume with a desire like this that this is something that God would have wanted him to do. Now, let's pick up our text and look in verse number one. It says now it came to pass as David sat in his house that David said to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in a house of cedars. But the ark of the covenant of the Lord remaineth under curtains. But Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart, for God is with thee. Now just step back and put yourself in the shoes of David for just a minute. Here is David at a point in his kingship where everything, all the momentum seems to be moving in a very positive direction. David's enemies are being vanquished. David has been established as a king. He's a fairly young king, but he's coming to that position of power and authority, and God is clearly establishing him. And we know the story of the Ark of the Covenant being taken into the land of the Philistines, and we know the sad story of when David tries to bring the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem on a cart. We we've we've looked at that whole passage. That is now behind David, and he has brought the Ark of the Covenant into Jerusalem the right way, and now the Ark is centered in the tabernacle. And David looks at this situation. He goes, you know, there's a problem here. Here is the God of heaven who created everything. He owns everything. He's an almighty, all-powerful God. And his presence dwells in a temporary tent Something that could be moved around from place to place. That was appropriate and that was right when the nation of Israel was coming out of Egypt. And for 40 years when they're traveling in the wilderness. But but we're not in that situation anymore We're now an established people. I'm a king over God's people. We're living in our land. God's given us peace. And here I am. I'm sitting in my own house A beautiful house that I have built with my hands, by God's grace. There's something really wrong with this picture. Does that make sense? I mean it totally makes sense. David's desire is noble. David's desire is right. And even Nathan the prophet, this is someone who God speaks directly to. He says, David, do what's in your heart. I mean, if I had been in Nathan's shoes, I would have said the same thing. I would say, David, God's with you. God's blessing you. The fact that you desire this is a good thing. Go for it. In fact, there's a very basic principle here. Think of Psalm 37. 4. Delight thyself also in the Lord. He shall give thee the desires of thine heart. When a person walks with God and loves the Lord and is desiring to please him, God plants in his heart good and noble desires, and he should pursue those desires. But there's another proverb that comes to mind here as well. That's Proverbs 20, verse 24. Man's goings are of the Lord. How can a man understand his own way? There was more to this story than David understood. David didn't know the rest of his life. We know the rest of his life because we spent a lot of time talking about it. We know about David Bathsheba We know about Absalom and his rebellion. We know about David's lowest moments. We know about his greatest moments. This is all something that was yet in the future for David at this moment in his life. We knew about them. He did not know about them. God knew about them. And God knew that David should not be the one to build this temple. Interestingly, in the text, it never says why God was forbidding David. But later on, when we look at the passage where David talks about his life and he talks about the privilege that he's had to to build up all of this wealth and present it for his son so that his son could build the tabernacle or build a temple. He says, God forbid this because I was a man of war. Now David says this as an older man looking back. But at this point, God didn't say, Hey David, I know who you are. I know what you're gonna do. You're gonna shed innocent blood. You're gonna commit adultery. You're gonna be a man. who brings great reproach to my name, so no, I can't do it. He doesn't tell him that. He just says, your desire's good, but you can't do it. And I have something different for you. Even godly people don't always have all the answers. And we see this in the text. Nathan tells David, do what's in your heart. That night he goes to sleep and God says, go back and tell him, I said no. What a tough situation to be in. So we see the desire of David, which is good, but then we see the disappointing news in verses 3 through 6. That Nathan has to bring to David. And could you imagine if you'd have been in the situation that Nathan was in? I just told him, do what's in your heart. That's good. God's with you. Oh, actually I need to come back and I need to crack the crack the record here. I gotta tell you, God said no. But when Nathan comes to David, he comes with both good news and bad news. Not just bad news, good news and bad news. First, the disappointing news. And it's not entirely disappointing, but for David in this situation, it would have been disappointing. In verse number four, he says, David, God has told you, you may not build him a house. He says, Thus saith the Lord, thou shalt not build me a house to dwell in. And notice some of the reasons that he gives. In verse 5, He says, I have not dwelt in a house since the day that I brought up Israel unto this day. I have gone from tent to tent, from tabernacle to tent to one another. He's basically saying, David. To properly worship me, we don't need a temple. You don't have to go to a physical house that is permanent. Because those who worship God worship him in spirit and in truth. Think about the story of Jesus talking to the woman at the well. Then in verse number six he says, Wheresoever I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word to any of the judges of Israel whom I commanded to feed my people, saying, Why have ye not built me a house of sears? He says, I'm not taking volunteers. I didn't go to somebody and say, hey, why didn't you come up with this idea? What's wrong with you? Why are you living in a nice house and I am in a tent? What's the point? The point is that God has something bigger in his will than this man David understands. And so that moves us to the second part of what he tells David. We see the disappointment, but we also see God's grace. And this is a powerful testimony to the grace of God. Listen to the details that we find here. First of all, verse 7. Thus saith the Lord of hosts. I took thee from the sheep coats, even from following the sheep, that thou shouldest be the ruler over my people Israel. Does that remind you of another time that God spoke to a ruler and said, Do you remember who you were? And do you remember how I lifted you up and I gave you that power and that authority? Who was that? It was Saul. But in that situation, when God reminded Saul, Saul would resist God's will. He would resist God's purpose He would reject what God said. God did the exact same thing with David, but we see a totally different response. Saul says, no. David says, yes, Lord. He's a man after God's own heart. And verse 8, we see the next statement. He says, I have been with thee whithersoever thou hast walked. I have cut off all thine enemies from before thee. And have made thee a name like the name of the great men that are in the earth. Basically, what God is saying in these verses to David is that the reason that you did the things that you did. is because I'm the one who gave you the power to do it. I'm the one who put it in your hand and put it in your heart and strengthened those hands to do the work that you did. I took you from being a shepherd in the wilderness. I lifted you up. I established you. I made your name great. I have been very, very good to you. Third saying, verse 9. I will ordain a place for my people, Israel, and I will plant them. And they shall dwell in their place, and shall be moved no more, neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more as at the beginning. Now I want us to just step back and I want us to think about what he just said there. Think about how encouraging this would have been for David. David was a man who knew war and conflict. He knew about the enemies that were all around. Yes, it's true that God had established him, but what's also true is that David knew that in every generation there's a need to fight and defend the ground that you're given. Every single generation's gonna have to stand in that place and they're gonna have to do that. And God tells David, he promises him, that there's going to be a day That I will establish this people in this location and there'll be no more, no more movements from those around them. Question. Has that been fulfilled? I mean, think about what's going on in the Middle East right now. Has that been fulfilled? I would go so far as to say, no, it hasn't. Here is David. He hears this message, and it is very encouraging to him, but he doesn't see in his lifetime. And Solomon doesn't see it in his lifetime. And his son doesn't see it in his lifetime. All the way up to the time that this is written in the time of Ezra. And and here are these individuals who have been brought out of captivity, put back into the land of Israel, and they read this promit this this this promise that God has made, and they say, God still has a work that he's going to do in his people. Guess what? Even we today, we look forward to that day. This promise will be fulfilled. But we're still waiting for that day. Fourth thing, God's plan for David is a lot bigger than he realizes. He can't even fully comprehend the greatness of this plan. And notice what he says in verses 10 through 14. He says, I tell thee, the Lord will build thee a house. David, you're not going to build me a house. I'm going to build you a house. Amazing statement. It will come to pass when thy days be expired that thou must go to be with thy fathers. I will raise up thy seed after thee. I will establish he shall be thy son, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build me a house. I will establish his throne forever. I will be his father. He shall be my son. I will not take my mercy away from him as I took it from him that was before thee. He's talking about Saul. I will settle him in mine house and in my kingdom forever. His throne shall be established forevermore. Here is David who has gotten this discouraging news. I can't build the temple. That's what I want to do. But alongside that, no, is a but I have something a lot bigger. And I have something a lot better. And you, David, are going to be a part of a story that is going to lead all the way to the Messiah, who is going to sit upon the throne of his father David. So, David, while I tell you no, I have better news for you than you realize. It's a pretty amazing thing to think about, isn't it? But there's a little bit of a catch here. Is David going to see this fulfilled in his lifetime? No, he's not. Yeah, this kind of reminds me of the story of Moses. And God calls Moses and he says, Moses, I'm going to send you to the Pharaoh. And I want you to go into his court, and I want you to tell the Pharaoh that God, the God of Israel, says, Let my people go that they may worship me. And Moses says, well, well God, how will I know that you're with me? And how will I know that in fact I'm going to be successful in this? He says, well, you know, because you'll come back to this mountain someday with all these people. And he's like, oh really? So I'll know when I take a step of faith. And I take another step of faith, and 40 years later, I'm gonna experience, not the 40 years later, several years later I'm gonna experience the fulfillment of this. Okay, you see it's faith. The same kind of thing is going on here as well. Here David wants to build something that he can actually look at. He can actually see it, and God says, you can't do this. But I have something that's bigger and better. But it's gonna happen after you die. You're gonna have to trust me that you're a part of a story that's bigger than just that moment. I think that's kind of interesting, isn't it? In fact, this is really how we live our lives When we plant our lives in eternal purposes, and we we plant those seeds and we sow those seeds and we labor and we serve the Lord, a lot of the true fruit of what we have done, we won't see it in our lifetime. And that's okay. Someday we'll see those benefits and glory. And so we get a little bit of that in the text in front of us So then the question is, with the disappointment and the promise that is a faith-oriented promise, how does David respond? The answer is David responds the way we should. And there's a couple of ways that I would describe this. The first is the word David understood his unworthiness. Verses 16 and 17. He says, Who am I, O Lord God? What is my house that thou hast brought me hitherto? And yet this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God. Thou hast also spoken of thy servant's house for a great while to come, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, O Lord God. What is David saying? David saying, God, I don't deserve this. I'm not worthy of this. Why in the world would you choose me for such a great and noble thing? Now, if we had been in a situation where something we wanted to do that we believed was good, it was our purpose, our heart was set on it, and we would have been told we could do this, and then God comes back and says, nope, can't do it. That would be our focus, wouldn't it? That's not what David did. David said, I'm unworthy. God, thank you for thinking about me in such a way. The second word is the word awe. Verses 18 and 19. What can David speak more to thee for the honor of thy servant? Thou knowest thy servant. That's an amazing statement. God did know his servant. In fact, we have the, I don't know if you want to call it the privilege, but we have the opportunity to know David in a way that David did not know himself in this moment. Because we know what David did. We know his high points and we know his low points. We know the moments when he was strong and we know the moments when he was a broken man. David says, You know thy servant, for thy servant's sake, according to thine own heart hast thou done all this greatness in making known all these great things. You know what David's saying? God, I recognize that this is your grace. You know me. You know my high points and my low points. You know how unworthy I am, and this is something you have done because you're good. Isn't that an amazing thought to think about? The third word is the word gratitude. He says, O Lord, there is none, verse 20, there is none like thee. Neither is there any God beside thee. What one nation of the earth is like thy people, Israel? Whom God went to redeem to be his own people. He says, Thy people, Israel, didst thou make thine own people forever. O Lord, thou thou became as their God. Therefore now, let the thing that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant and his house be established forever. Do as thou hast said. The way that David responds here is how we should respond when God diverts our courses. Humility, unworthiness, awe, gratitude, submission. This is how we need to respond to God. So that's a story. What can we learn from it? Let me give you a couple of basic observations from this text. The first observation is this God knows us thoroughly, yet he still loves us and is gracious toward us. You think about that. Here as we read this passage of Scripture, we see that God, knowing who David is and knowing what David would do, still deals with him in such a kind way. He does the same thing with us. Have you ever had some sin that you've had to like ask God for forgiveness like a thousand times? And you ever wonder like what is in the mind of God when you come into his presence once again to say, here I am? What I have done again. Please cleanse me from this iniquity. Give me victory over this sin. My life is beset by this anger, this pride, this lust, this bitterness, this anger, whatever it might be. God knows us Yet God is kind to us. He's patient with us. He's merciful to us. He's good to us. We would never be so good to someone. Who we know know so thoroughly as God is good to us. We'd never. Second thing I notice here is this. We're not entitled to anything that we're inclined to Now, I don't get in the in the passage the sense that David is demanding from God, I have to do this. That's not the sense But David was a man of passion. We see that come out when David goes out to fight Goliath. He's a passionate person. How dare you defy the God of Israel? And he's like, I'm going to take your head off. I mean, that's the kind of guy he was He has other situations where he's a bold and passionate individual. The things that we are often very passionate about, we're not entitled to them. David could have very easily said, God, I'm a greater king than my son's ever going to be. I'm wiser, more experienced. Why are you going to let him do something I want to do? That's not what he did. Rejoice with those who rejoice. Weep with those who weep. David rejoiced with his son. Thirdly, when our hearts think correctly about these realities, we will be grateful. And our hearts will be full when we consider God's grace. One of the reasons that a lot of Christians are not joyful people Why a lot of Christians are very disgruntled and frustrated in life is because rather than them seeing that every good and perfect gift comes from above. And I'm not entitled to the things that I want. They're gifts from God. They're God's grace. They're God's mercy. They're his kindness to me. A lot of people say, no, no, I'm entitled to that. And God says, No, you're not. How dare you think that? If we had a different attitude towards God and circumstance, our hearts would be full. We would have so much gratitude, so much joy. Our expectations should be tempered by the reality that we deserve nothing good in this life. But the good we have is of God's grace. Fifth or something, whatever it is. When our heart thinks correctly about these realities, we won't become bitter against God when our desires do not become realities. Lots and lots of Christians as they get older, they look at their lives and they say, you know, when I was this age, I thought I was going to do this. And I had purposed in my life I was going to do this and this is how it ended up and and and they go through this whole list of all these things that didn't work out the way they wanted them to. And you know what they do? They get really frustrated. get very angry and they get very bitter because they say, who is the one who kept me from doing those things? Well it was God. In his providence, he said no. What is the root of that bitterness? Entitlement. Entitlement. How do you deal with that bitterness? You get back to the fact that I don't deserve these things. What God gives me, it's his grace. Lastly, when we experience disappointments, we have to remember He has a plan, and we need to submit to him and what he is doing. What I love about this story, we're not going to really get into this tonight. This is going to be something that's dealt with in a few weeks. Is that rather than David getting all bent out of shape and all frustrated and all discouraged and all disgruntled and just stewing over what he wasn't going to be able to do , David said, you know what? What I can do is I can prepare my son who's going to get this opportunity when his time comes. And that's what he did. By the way, David prepared his son in a lot of ways. One of the ways he prepared his son was he taught him right. We read the book of Proverbs, and what do we see? We see the words that were given from David to Solomon. How was Solomon a man of wisdom? Well it's because his father poured into his life. His mother poured into his life And all of these kids that David raised very poorly, there was one that we know he taught him the ways of wisdom correctly, because the book of Proverbs tells us that. That's one of the ways he prepared his son. When his son was getting to that stage where there was going to be a transfer of power, and David was going to release that that power to his son, and his son was going to stand in the kingdom in his stead. David wasn't been out of shape and upset and go, well, you know, he's not going to be able to be the man I was. He very graciously hands off that authority. And he comes alongside of his son, and he prays for his son, and he encourages his son, and he comes alongside of him and he says, God is going to be with you, and you're going to be successful because of God's grace. That's what he did. And it's not just that he taught him when he was a kid, and shaped him when he was a young man, and prepared him for that moment to pass on the baton when it came to that time. But David accumulated all the stuff that he could so that when Solomon stepped into that role, he was ready to run with it That's really phenomenal, isn't it? The reason that Solomon was able to step in and do all this organization and he was able to build as efficiently and quickly and masterfully as he did. is because David prepared him by bringing all this stuff together in that moment. Let me tell you, this is a really great illustration of how we should think in our lives. There are a lot of, you know, as parents, there are things that we kind of wish we would have had the opportunity to do when we were younger, and we just don't get to do them. And rather than getting frustrated, we should say, you know what, I want to prepare my children to go far beyond me I want them to build on my shoulders. I want them to be wiser than me. I want them to be stronger than me. I want them to have a better work ethic than I had. I want them to love God and know God better than I did. Well, that's not going to happen in a vacuum. It's about investing and pouring in their lives. And you know what? That's exactly what David did. David embraced what God gave him. David poured his life into what was available to him. We learn a lot here. So how can we put it in simple words? Number one, accept his plan. Don't fight it. Accept it. Number two, rejoice in his grace. Don 't look at what you don't have. Rejoice in what you do have. Pour your energy into what He has given you to do. Rather than looking at other people's races and saying, why can't I have that race? Why can't I have that opportunity? Why can't I have those gifts? Why can't I have those skills? This is what's in front of me. Live it well. Live it well. Invest in it properly. Accept the plan. Rejoice in his grace. Pour your energy into what he's given you. May God help us to do that this evening. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we think about the text in front of us, I pray that you would take it and use it in our lives. It's an important lesson for us to remember. Father, help us not to become disillusioned when you say no. Help us not to be bitter when our expectations fall short. Help us not to be covetous by looking at the opportunities. and the skills that others have been given. But Father, help us to be humble and diligent and submissive in your presence. May we prepare our children for the futures that you have given them in the same way that David prepared Solomon. May we submit to your purposes, even those that are a bit disappointing at times, like David did in this moment of his life And Father, may we through the eyes of faith realize that your purposes for our lives are a lot bigger than we realize in this moment. Help us to live for eternity. Help us to invest in things that will last forever. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.