We're going to continue our study in Philippians chapter 3. Just doing a quick survey of the whole book of Philippians. We're halfway through. And we will be Philippians chapter three. And I ki slightly tweaked the uh title for this I've been kind of announcing them as we go. Chapter one, we've looked at how obviously when we look at the Philippians as a whole, we see the rejoice is used a lot. Christ is used I think rejoice and joy is used around 17 times. Christ, I think, is 38, something like that. And there's only 104 verses. But in chapter 1, we looked at how we should rejoice in Christ. Who gives confident purpose, and that was for our life. In chapter two, we looked at how we should rejoice in Christ, who gives us a humble pattern. Tonight we're going to focus on chapter three. We should rejoice in Christ, who is our righteous prize. And I did tweak that slightly. And in chapter 4, we should rejoice in Christ, who is our contented peace So I'm just going to read the first couple of verses here to get started in chapter 3, and then we'll dive right in and just look at a survey of the entire chapter. chapter says finally my brethren rejoice in the Lord to write the same things to you to me indeed is not grievous but for you it is safe Beware of dogs. Beware of evil workers. Beware of the concision. For we are the circumcision. Which worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more, circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as touching the law, a Pharisee Concerning zeal, persecuting the church, touching the righteousness, which is of the law, blameless. But what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Let us pray. Father, as we come before you this evening, we are just thankful that we can gather together, center ourselves around your word, and just look at Philippians chapter 3. and how we can rejoice in Christ as we can see our confidence is not in ourself or our flesh, but we are thankful for Jesus Christ's righteousness. We are thankful for the knowledge that we can have as we learn and grow by studying through your word in our Savior Jesus Christ. And we come to you. through his great and glorious name we pray. Amen. So here in chapter three, we're going to look at how we should rejoice in Christ, who was our righteousness. prize and I find it very interesting as I was thinking about this. We're starting a sermon. I know it's a Baptist pastor and what's he starting with? Finally! I know that's odd. You're like, all right, that's a short message. But our last point, okay, find me, my brethren. Rejoice in the Lord. This is a continuing theme. That's why all of mine uh titles for each chapter is we should rejoice in Christ for different reasons. So finally is just the beginning. We're actually not ending the message already, obviously, but he's kind of concluding, giving him a thought. Finally, my brethren. And he's going to warn them that or continue to rejoice in Christ. He's going to give them some warnings of something that he's told them before. He says, I've said told you these things before, and it's a good thing for you to continue to hear the same thing. And I had someone approach me many years ago about remembering things. And they're like, oh, you know, you're young, you should have a great remember memory and all these things. I was like, yes. And sometimes we tend to be repetitious. And the Bible's repetitious. And it is for reason. Do your kids always obey the first time every time? Do you have ever have to ask someone, can you repeat that or say that again? Well what did you say? We like repetition or just to make sure something is very important. What was the time? What was the date? I want to make sure. I'm going to write that down. We want to be sure that we know it's okay to be reminded and told of things, even something that we already know, but just to get it cemented down. That's kind of what Paul is saying here in verse 1. He says, I'm writing these same things to you. It's nothing new, but I want to remind you, bring it fresh to your memory again. So let's look at this. He starts in verse 2. What are some things that he's reminding them of? He says, beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, and beware of the concision. What is he talking about here? Now, if you're thinking the way I am sometimes , Which can be odd, but beware of dogs. When we think of a dog today, we're thinking of our little pets. I have two little tiny Yorkichua 's. Now they think they're great Danes, but they're not. You can't convince Pee-Wee that. I mean he's the 10-pound, well he's probably about eleven or twelve pounds now. But when it says but where of dogs, we're not thinking in our modern day of beware of a dog. I mean maybe if I bought Doberman or a bulldog or something, okay, a little more caution. But what he's talking about here is not actual literal dogs. He's not talking about the friendly memories we have of, you know, raising puppies and these cute little pets that we may have in our house. He's not referring to man's best friend at all. What is he talking about with dogs? Dog is actually a very negative term, very derogatory towards someone someone else. And to help you get a picture of this, I'm just going to share some passage of scripture because he's talking about really the leadership. He's talking about religious leadership in each of these beware of dogs and evil workers and concision. He's talking about the religious leaders making their own system. And following that instead of Christ. But for him to use the word dogs was very derogatory. In the Sermon on the Mount, Matthew 7, verse 6, it says, Give not that which is holy unto dogs. Dogs, neither cast ye pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet and turn again and wrench you. In Second Peter 2, 22 But it happened unto them according to the true proverb, the dog turneth to his own vomit again, and the sow that was washed in the wallowing of her. Not pretty pictures. What is a dog doing? He's returning to his vomit. The dog is being used as a derogatory term in both Matthew and 2 Peter. And even in Isaiah 56, the term for dogs is not very positive. Starting with verse 10, it says, His watchmen are blind. They are all ignorant. They are all dumb dogs, talking about religious rulers, leaders. He says, they cannot bark. Sleeping, lying down, loving slumber, yea. They are all greedy dogs, which can never have enough. And they are shepherds that cannot understand. He's talking about the religious teachers here. And they look to their own way, everyone for his gang from his quarter. So this term for dogs was a very derogatory term. term. You have those that are trying to take advantage of others. You have those that are returning to things that they shouldn't. Not very positive. And the second Peter passage is quoting Proverbs twenty-six, eleven. So when Paul hears used of the Lord or the Spirit of God and uses the word dogs, he's saying beware, watch out for those who are basically and all three of these could be kind of of put in the same category, if you will. They are taking religious standards and elevating them with the Word of God. They're making their religious standards a part of their own rules of righteousness. And by doing this, what are they accomplishing? One, it makes them look good, at least before their eyes and the eyes of their friends. But remember, we are to rejoice in Christ. And as we're going to see later in his righteousness, watch out for external religion. That's what he's saying. The outward religious systems that man develops, how they dress, how they talk, what they look like, can follow these rules. And they had many rules, the religious leaders of that day, as do many today. You follow these rules, you look like this, you talk like this, you should be good. And what does that do? It just puffs them up. What Paul is encouraging them. What he's warning them is watch out for these. They're working evil. And the concision there is just a reference to their circumcision. It's once again it's another outward appearance. You do this, you're good. If you don't do it, you're not. It's a list of rules that need to be followed. So our confidence, oh in verses 1 through 7, we're going to see our confidence should be in Christ, not outward. Sorry, I should have said that at the beginning. In verses 1 through 7, we're going to see our confidence is in Christ. So what he's developed so far is he's reminding them of some things I've already told you. He's telling them to beware of the externals that religious people put on you and themselves. And we see this further in verse 3. In comparison, he says, For we are the circumcision which worship God how in the Spirit and rejoice in Christ Jesus and have no confidence in the flesh So just as he gave several things in verse 2 to watch out for, in verse 3 he's telling us some things in contrast to that. So when we worship, it's not externals. Look like this, sound like this, say these things, read these prayers. You dress like that. That's not what he's saying. He says, for we, he says, how do we worship? We worship God in the Spirit. And I've be referencing John 4. 24. And it says, rejoice in Christ Jesus. You can't rejoice in Christ Jesus if you're making your own rules in your own way and following them. It's just pointing people to yourself and making you look good. You're going to boast about yourself. Why do I need Christ? I've got my own rules that I can follow. I've got my own religious system. I'd be really good at it. I mean, just look at me. I look like a religious guy. What are you saying? We're different than that. As believers, our confidence is not in self, it is in Christ. So he's drawing the big contrast here. And we have no confidence in the flesh. So he summarizes verse 3 in exact opposition to verse 2. All these externals that they're trying to attack and they're setting up all these rules for this religious leaders. Verse 3, don't take confidence. In yourself, fleshly outward appearances. And then he's going to give himself as an example Paul is going to give his pedigree all the way from verse really 4 through verse 7. Paul is going to give his background. He's like, okay, let's let's argue from the sake of a human perspective, which Paul does this often. I love how Paul does this. He's like, okay, for the sake of argument, let's assume that you're right. So that's kind of what he's doing here and he's using himself as example. He says, okay, if you want to look at externals, if you want to look on the outside and a religious system and see how well it's obeyed and how well it's followed and what it looks like to mankind, he says, all right, I'll use myself as example. And Paul has a great pedigree. He has a wonderful background, and he's going to share that and give his conclusion. So let's look at this. He says in verse 4, Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, that if any man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I the more So this is what he's doing. For the sake of argument, he's going to say, let's just flesh this out, literally. Let's look at this. If you think you can put your confidence in who you are and the things that you do and the things that you've accomplished, okay, compare yourself to me. And he says, I guarantee you I'll probably have a better accomplishment and outward than you. And he's going to now try and prove that. And some of these things go beyond his control, as we're going to see. We're going to see in verses 5, he's talking about his birth and what he does for a living and his job in a sense. Verse 5, circumcise the eighth day. He didn't help that? What's he saying? I had very religious parents They followed the law to the T. The externals are covered. I was raised in a good, godly home. They dotted their I's, they crossed their T's, they were at every church service. They were doing it right. It was a Wednesday night. Thank you for being here. They were doing great. My parents were there every Wednesday. In fact, my mom took me to church in the womb. I've been going to church for nine months longer than some of you. I mean that's what he's saying. He's like, my parents are godly. They followed the law. How were your parents? He continues in verse 5. Of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin. Ooh, that's good. I mean I am the and he even says I'm a Hebrew of Hebrew. I'll just read the whole thing. A Hebrew of Hebrews as touching the law, a Pharisee. He's saying, if you want to look at all this from my birth And before my birth and my parents all the way through, I'm of a great tribe. Benjamin is a great tribe to be from. Kings have come for my tribe. What about yours? Great warriors have come from my tribe. How about yours? I am a Pharisee. Can you say that about yourself? So all the externals are looking really good for Paul, even those that were beyond his control. From his parents and his pedigree all the way up to what he's doing currently. Well, just before his salvation in Acts 9. But he's saying here, let's compare And then he goes beyond that. So in verse 5, he's looking at his birth, things outside his control to even what he was doing, the point of conversion. Then in verse 6, you have some of the things that are harder to measure. But he's talking about his passion. And his testimony before man. What does he desire? What did he do? He was a passionate man. When I think of Paul, I think of a passionate like type A personality, man. He's going. He's going to do it. So let's look at that in verse 6. Keep in mind he's comparing himself. He's setting himself up. You want to compare religions? You want to compare who should be righteous? If you can put your confidence in a person or in the flesh or externals, I am the man and I would be better than all of you. And he continues in verse 6. Concerning zeal, I persecuted the church as touching the righteousness which is the law, blameless. I followed the law, every small part of it. In fact, I follow it so tightly. I oppose those. I was willing to kill and to persecute those that stood against me. Can you say that? I was passionate. I was driven. So not only did he have great parents and all the way to a Pharisee, he was a passionate Pharisee. He just wasn't, okay, I've got the name, I've got the clout, that's nice. Oh no, no, no. He was leading the charge. He was passionate about what he was doing. And he was blameless. No one, even those closest to him, you can't find anything in me. I follow the law exactly. What is Paul doing? He's setting himself up as an example. If you could be confident in a religious system, if you could be confident in the flesh and who you are and where you're born, where you came from, you could compare all these things as far as religion. I am a great candidate. But then it changes. It changes here in verse 7. He gives his own conclusion. He says, but what things were gain to me? I want to pause there just for a quick second here. When you have your own system, and we've been hinting at it, It's making you look good. It's gain and beneficial to me. What I want, my priorities, what makes me look good, what do I want to accomplish? What do I desire? So what Paul is saying is, what things were gained to me. After all those accomplishments and the comparison, I am second to none. But what he says is they were gained to me, and he concludes that those I counted lost for Christ. He says, but I realize how much an error I was. None of those things counted. My confidence was in the wrong things. I was living for self, for some system. He says, I counted when I looked at, when I examined, when I considered, when I thought through these things. And we'd say this started with him in Acts chapter 9, when he was confronted with the light there and Jesus Christ, and he was blinded. And he continues in verse 8. He says, Yea, doubtless, I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus. My Lord, not just a Lord, my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them as but dung. And yes, that is what it means. That I may win Christ. And the idea of win is to gain, to benefit from. So really in verses 8 now through 11, we're going to focus on how in his knowledge of Christ I thought I was doing the right thing. I thought having great parents and I thought about being a Pharisee and my passion and drive to do what I thought was right. I found out it was about me. It was not about Christ. But when Christ confronted me, literally when I saw the light, and therefore shortly after was blinded, and he recognized the truth of what he was doing. He recognized it was all wrong. Now you and I can point this out to Paul, but we have the same thing that Paul does here. We love ourselves. We have a sin nature. We tend to think of ourselves more highly than we ought, as the Bible says Other people will do something, oh that's not good. We do it, we give ourselves a pass. We create our own rules of righteousness. Yeah, but but God knows my heart. He does. He does know your heart. And he also knows it's desperately wicked. He does know it. Yeah, but I but but you what? Putting confidence in something outside of Christ? What's your system of righteousness? So we can pick on Paul, and he's using him as an example to drive the point. I could be confident. If there's anyone that could be confident in the flesh, anyone that'd be confident in their accomplishments. It's me, Paul. And his conclusion is, when I understood who Christ is, it's worthless. It was all worthless Then we continue on here in verse nine. And be found in him Having mine own righteousness, I'm sorry, not having my own righteousness, which is of the law. See how he's drawing a comparison here? But that which is through faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. What Paul recognized as he learned Of the word of God he learned from Christ, what he recognized is all those things for me, I was adding my own righteousness. It's nothing He may have thought of several verses that talks about his own righteousness being instilled. He may have read a couple of psalms that talk about there is none righteous, no, not one. And maybe he started looking at these things in another way. God used Paul to say things later about humility, about not thinking the way that you should He says, having not mine own righteousness, which is the law, but that which is through, and here's the big difference, faith of Christ. Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. He's emphasizing it's not externals, it's not my own righteousness, my own system. It is only through my faith in what Christ You can do all the things that you want, and you can try and be as religious as possible. And when you look at the world today, there's a lot of religious systems. There are very devout followers to these systems that would put Christians to shame. What he's saying is, I missed it. Others are missing it. It's faith in Christ. My righteousness, all the things that we can do, it's no good. It's worthless. And then he continues on in verse ten, that I may know him. And the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death. Paul said it this way In Romans 1, verses 4, and declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness. By the resurrection of Christ from the dead. He's recognizing the power of Christ. When it says the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death, what he's recognizing is I recognize who Christ is and what he did for me. His righteousness is what I needed. I needed to recognize what he did through his death and his sufferings. And I can now relate with that. He says later in Romans 6. 5. For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall also in the likeness of his resurrection. Why did he die? For me, for my sin. I needed his righteousness because my righteousness isn't going to accomplish anything before God. On our best day, we are still a dirty, rotten sinner before a holy God. That's why Paul used himself as a comparison. He was way up there, humanly speaking. But before Christ, compared to Christ, we are nothing. And I've shared this with teenagers many times and probably with the church too. When we want to feel good about ourselves, we compare ourselves with those lowly people, in our opinion, because that makes us look good. When we're having a bad day, oh, we compare ourselves that person that we know is better than us, so just continue to soak in our own sorrows You know both of those are wrong. We want to compare ourselves to the great, we want to compare ourselves that are weak, and it's all from our perspective, to make ourselves feel good, or to make ourselves feel bad, or or sometimes just by default in one or the other. both are wrong. What Paul's recognizing through the knowledge of Scripture, and as he thinks it through, and he's considering it, and he compares himself to Christ. What he recognizes is all my good, my righteousness is not really righteous. It is Christ alone. I need to understand this through his death, through his resurrection, through what he has done for me. Then we continue on, verse eleven. He says, If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead, not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect, but follow after. That if I may apprehend that which I also am apprehended of Christ. So here he starts transitioning by verse 12. So verses 1 through 7, we have confidence in Christ, not the flesh. We've seen 8 through 11 and into 12, we've seen how he's getting a knowledge of Christ and seeing Christ's righteousness. Then in verses 12 through the rest of the chapter. We're going to see that he's apprehending, he's understanding who Christ is, and he's gaining Christ. And we're going to see this word attained several times here. What does it mean? It means to take hold of, to comprehend, to receive. And we see this in verse 12. Not as though I had already attained, neither were already perfect. But I follow after, if that I may apprehend that which for I also am apprehended of Christ. He's saying, look, you can try, but we are not perfect. We are not complete. We are not finished mature, is what he's saying. I cannot take hold of this perfection that's demanded. I am not there. And he has tried. And as he reflects, he's like, I I've tried. If anyone can get close, it was me. And it's worthless. He says, that we may apprehend for that which I am also apprehended of Christ Jesus. He recognized, as it said in Psalm, I referred to it, but Psalm 14. 1 says, says, the fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt. They have done abominable works. There is none that doeth Good. So the fool doesn't think he needs God. And what's interesting here is he's talking from his background as a Pharisee. He thought he knew God. He thought he loved God. He thought he was doing the right thing. He thought he had the right stuff, the right parents. He was accomplishing by killing Christians. He thought he was doing a good thing. But what he's recognized is, hey, what I thought was right is not what Christ said was. was right. It's not what the Word of God teaches. In a sense, he was calling God a fool because I know better. I have my own righteousness. Now I don't think any of us here tonight are going to outwardly say, yeah, I'm a fool. I don't believe in God. But sometimes in our thoughts, which is where Psalm fourteen says, the fool hath said in his heart, not outwardly, not audibly, so it could be heard. But sometimes in our thinking, the way that we process these things things, are we inviting God into our decisions? What Paul is saying is, I wasn't. It was about me and what I could accomplish, what I can take hold of, what I can understand. And the passage I referred to earlier is Isaiah 64. 6. It says, but we are all as unclean thing, and our righteousness are as filthy rags at the beginning of Isaiah 64. 6. And then he continues on in verse 13. And I think this could be important for a lot of us to get where we can get caught up in this in the past. He says in verse 13, he says, brethren, reminding us we're believers. We're believers in Christ, and through him we are the children of God. And what's he say to these people? Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended But this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before. Now I have known people, I think there's this important concept here that we can take practically for each one of us. When it says forgetting those things which are behind, you know what slows us down from reaching forth? Is we can't can't get out of the past. We keep trying to relive the past. But do you know what happened to me? Do you know what was done? Do you know what was said? Do you know how it was treated? No, I don't. What he's saying here is he's saying forgetting those things which are behind. What he's saying is sometimes we get caught living in the past, and we're making present decisions based off past mistakes or past understandings. That's going to be changing our future. And we get caught and we get stuck in that. Yeah, but this happened, you know, five, ten years ago. Okay, so are you going to continue using that, their entire excuse? You know how many people I've met at their door that presently they're not going to church because of something that happened 10, 20, 30 years ago in some church with someone that they didn't like. And so now, currently, and if I confront them, well, where are you going to church now? Well, I don't go to church. Oh, you don't. But they're treating themselves and they're talking to me like they're a religious, kind person, and God loves them just the way they are. It's like, but you're not going to church. Christ died for the church. He gave himself for it. What are they doing? They're establishing own righteousness. They're living in the past. They cannot get back to the present. They keep living. And you talk to people and you listen. They are still making present decisions based off something that happened yesteryear. That someone said that someone did, and I'm holding on to that. And it's really an excuse to, I want to cling to my own righteousness. I don't want to do what God has commanded me to do. So what he's saying is there, and when it says forgetting those things which are behind, he's not saying I'm going to work in my mind to forget that that ever happened. You know, there's some things you'll just never forget. I think it more is an idea that I've already hinted at, and I've been saying it's living, continuing to relive what happened in the past in the present. People, uh, this is true when it comes to forgiveness. People think forgiving is forgetting. That is false. It's false. There are things that have happened that you will not forget That's not forgiving. Forgiving is choosing not to bring it up in a negative way again. I forgive you. What that means Jesus, if they do it again, you forgive them again. You'll say, now this is the fifth time since yesterday that you've done this. And we tie that in with forgiving. Forgetting is not forgetting. I'm sorry, forgiving is not forgetting. What true forgiveness is. I mean, I mean think of God and the good he's does God forget everything that we do? He knows we're sin. There's nothing that God does not know. He knows every sin we've ever done, he knows every sin we're going to do, but yet he forgives us. But does he hang it over our head? No, but Satan does. Sometimes we don't want to live for God presently. We can't see ourselves for God in the future because Satan brings up our past and he brings up, well, see, you remember this. You can't serve God. Okay, so if it's according to my righteousness and what I can accomplish, yeah, then maybe I can't serve God. But you know what Paul's understanding here? It's not my righteousness. My confidence is not in self. It's not in what I've accomplished or what I can do. It's Christ. He's my confidence. He's the one that we need to live for. It's his righteousness, not mine. I'm not living for me, and it's not look at me, it's look at Christ. It's look what he has done in me and through me. It's him that makes a difference. So what he's saying here, he says, but I follow after if that I may have. Oh, I'm sorry, verse 13. Forgetting those things which are behind and reaching forth unto those things which are before. But some of us are so afraid to reach forth because we're still living in the past. Maybe we don't understand forgiveness. Maybe we want to keep repeating the past because it's a safe place in a sense because then we don't have to reach forth and stretch ourselves and get outside of our comfort zone to live for Christ. We're allowing our past to hold us back from our future. Satan loves that. The world loves that. They don't want you to live for Christ. That's what he's talking about at the very beginning. Beware of these people. They're working evil. They're trying to make a system that makes you feel like you can't handle what they say is righteous or good. Or the right thing to do. The world is in opposition to us. And what do you say? And in the beginning, it's more religious leaders even They need to use the word of God. That's what Christ is saying. And he said, that's where my confidence is. It's in him and his righteousness. We must continue. You here. But if we don't understand the forgetting, it's not the actual literally, I forget those things. It's I'm not going to let that stop me from living for Christ. I've asked God to forgive me And just let me say this one final thought with the forgiving. If you have asked if you've asked God to forgive you for something, guess what he does? He forgives you Forgives you. So what you don't do is ask him another hundred times to keep forgiving you for the same exact thing. I mean the same exact occurrence of the same exact thing. You don't keep saying, God forgive me, God forgive me. He did it the first time. Do you know what you do? You thank him for forgiving you. Don't let that weigh you down. Don't live in the past. You thank God for his forgiveness, and your confidence is in him, and his righteousness is not your own. Then we might be able to get to verse 14. In verse 14, we're going to press towards the mark for perfection in verse 14 and 15. He says, I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded, and if anything be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. Now wait a minute, he's saying press towards the mark for the prize of the high calling of Christ. And he says be perfect. Wait a minute. We just said we're not perfect. I know. We're going to get there. But he says, I press towards the mark. What's he talking about? The word press here has the idea of to follow. It really sometimes carries with the idea of to persecute, actually, believe it or not. And as I thought about and meditated on that, I was like, that kind of state makes a little bit of sense. If you're to press towards something, I'll read a couple verses and we'll work our way through it very quickly In 2 Timothy 2. 22, I like that because it's all twos. 2 Timothy 2. 22. It's a good one for young people to remember. And if all those twos. Some people mention other numbers that are popular, but I think two is a good one for right now. 2 Timothy 2, 22, flee also youthful lusts, but follow righteousness. That word follow there is the same word for press. You're following after something with some sort of pressure. Flee also youthful lust, but follow righteousness. Faith, charity, peace, with them the call out of the Lord, out of a pure heart. So that word follow is the same word for press. Another one, here's the example of persecute. This is in the Sermon Mount, Matthew 5. 11. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you. And here it is. And persecute you. Persecute you. That's the same word for press. So it means to follow. It means to persecute. And then the rest of let me read the rest of Matthew 5. 11. Blessed are you and men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. So even the Sermon on the Mount. You should be living for Christ's sake and to point people to Him and His righteousness, not your own. So here, even with this word to persecute you, when you're persecuted, Are you doing things that you want to do? Or are you being forced to follow something that you'd rather not? When Paul is using this word to press towards the mark, this idea of I am going to follow after, I almost feel a pressure as if I must do this. Because when you recognize, excuse me, it's Christ's righteousness, not mine, and you recognize that he has forgiven us of I cannot live there and I need to move forward. I need to look forward to living for Christ. My confidence is in him. I need Christ's righteousness, not my own. Once we understand these principles, then I could press towards the mark. For the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus. Christ is the righteous prize that we need to press for And then he says in verse fifteen, Let us therefore as many be perfect, be thus minded, that if anything in any other wise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you. And once again, how if if if we are to be perfect, which we We cannot. We covered that. We're sinners. None of us have done good. Our righteousness is filthy rags. But how can we be perfect or complete? The only way that makes that possible is through Christ. As many as be perfect. The only thing our righteousness could be perfect. It's not in self. It's in Christ. It's in what he has done. Then we're complete. And that's what we need to be thinking that way. It's not self- and this is so hard. It is so challenging because by default Since we were little babies crying every time we wanted something, and our first words were mine and no, we think about self. And it takes the rest of our life to train and to think about others, to recognize who Christ is. And we need to move on. Verses 16 through 19, we're going to see how we are complete in Christ. He says, nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained. Let us walk by the same rule. Let us mind the same thing. Here's what's interesting about the word attained here in verse 16. The word attain and the word apprehend in all the verses prior to this from like 11 through whatever it is, 13, 14. those are the same route. This word for attain is slightly different. This word for attain means to come before, has the idea of arriving. So what he's saying here is he's saying, Nevertheless, whereunto we have already attained, we've already come here before, we've seen this, let us walk in the same rule, let us mind the same thing. He said, brethren, be followers together of me, and mark them which walk so as ye have for an example. What he's saying is, mark those that are living a Christ-like life, mark those, follow them. Set yourself before those who are following Christ as their righteousness. And we get caught, because we as mankind, we get caught when we get to physical and we idolize certain people. Oh, I wish I could do what they're doing. I wish I can accomplish what they've accomplished. And when we start looking at externals, what he's saying here is when you you need to mark and you need to follow others that have Christ as their confidence, that are not trusting in their own righteousness. He says to mark them. He says, be followers together. He says, use them as an example. And then he has a little note by way of reminder. He says in verses 18 through 19, he says, for many walk. Of whom I have told you often, and now tell you, even weeping. So this is Paul referring back to you, remember, I've told you some of these same things. I'm calling them to your remembrance. I'm telling you again to remind you of these truths that you already know. But sometimes knowing the truth is different than understanding it and living it out. So now Paul's getting the point is you know these things. Now we need to understand them and put them forth to change the way that we think and to change the way that we live. He says, For many walk, of whom what I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping. So he's not this is not a joyous time when you see others not living well. That they are enemies of the cross of Christ. It probably hurts because they probably once followed you. He probably fellowship and talk to some of these people. Or he knows them and wishes if they would. Whose end is destruction. Paul is not excited about this. He's not wishing his enemies ill. Whose God is their belly. They're still living for self, their own wants, their own desires. Don't walk after those. And whose glory is their shame and who mind earthly things. They can't get to their mind and their knowledge that things are beyond themselves. themselves. Watch out for those. They are out there. He reminded them at the beginning in verse 2. He's reminding them again. Yeah, there's gonna be many walking. Which way are they walking? Where does their walk go? What does their walk say? A lot of times we see the word communication in the New Testament. The word communication is often what does your life say, not what do your words say? What does it mean when you use audible words? It's what does your life say. And then he compares them. He compares our conversation, our way of life, just as I said in Christ in the last couple verses. He says, for our conversation is in heaven. Be reminded who we're to live after, not self. It's beyond. It should be eternal. From whence we look for the Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We need to think heavenly thoughts. We need to think about Christ And this is kind of great. He says he gives them a great practical truth here at the end. Who shall change our vile body? And And I just want to put a little note in here in yourself too. Our body, our physical body in itself is not sinful. A lot of times we associate Oh, our sinful flesh, and we think this body that I dwell in is sinful. And I have a question for you. If this body that we dwell in, if this body in itself is sinful, Then, by conclusion, to use Paul's way of arguing, wouldn't Christ then have been a sinner? He had a physical body It's what we do with our body, it's what we do with our minds that makes it sinful. Didn't God create Adam and Eve and say it was very good? Yes, it was. It was sin that corrupted it. So I'm just putting that little thought in here as we read this. So who shall change our vile body? We're saying but These bodies have been corrupted. We do sin with these bodies. We lean on our own righteousness within these bodies and with how we think. And what is he saying? Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the work whereby he is able even to subdue all things to himself. Here's what's interesting. The great thing is people emphasize the here, the now, the physical so much. They come with their own rules, their own righteousness, and look at me, and look at self, and look what I can accomplish, and look at my pedigree and look at me. Everything that distracts us from Christ. But he's saying at the end of the day, this body that we try and point people to or we think is so great and glorious sometimes, he says, it's vile. It's no good. And you know what? It's going to change And it reminds me of the passage in 1 Corinthians 15. I'll read these couple verses and hopefully point something out. Maybe you've seen this before. But 1 Corinthians 15 and verse 52 through 54, we read, In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye at the last trump. For the trump shall sound, and the dead in Christ shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. For this corruption must put on incorruption, this mortal must put on immortality. So when this corruption shall have put on incorruption, this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying which is written death is swallowed up in victory. So other than we shall all be changed and not sleep, that's a great nursery verse. But it says this corruption was one incorruption. When we think of the twinkling of an eye and at the sound of the trumpet. It's what happened. The dead, there's two things gonna happen. The dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. You know what we think often We think sometimes, oh in the twinkling of an eye, it's like we're gone in the twinkle of an eye. Do you know fast a twinkle of an eye is and they tried to measure a twinkle of an eye? It's fast. Okay, it's fast. How fast is that? I don't know. Fast. Faster than fast. It's really fast. We think, oh we're gone. What happens fast? The change. What's being emphasized in 1 Corinthians 15? The change We get a new body. That's what happens quickly. It's not this all of a sudden we're gone in a moment. Now, could it happen fast? Yes, but I think the context is here is it's talking about the change. Listen to it again with this thought in mind of what happens quickly. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed. Now what's he going to explain in the next couple of verses? For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality. What's he describing? The disappearing or a change. He's talking about the change. So when this corruption shall have front encorruption, this mortal shall follow in immortality, then it shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, death is swallowed up in victory And the understanding, the bigger picture is here, we are living for more than just a physical world. And I sell that to say Paul here in verse 21, when When we, he says, who shall change our vile body that it may be fashioned like unto the glorious body? Let's not just think here, present really now. No, it's future. It's we need to live for Christ now, yes, and it's all going to change in the future. We're going to get a different body, we're going to get better one, we're going to get a heavenly one, a glorious one. Not in comparison, this vile one that we're stuck with And he's able to do all things himself. We're just going to place ourselves under him. We can live for Christ each and every day. So as we look at this chapter, hopefully we've seen that we can rejoice in Christ. Why? Because Jesus Christ is our righteous prize. It's his righteousness, not ours. We get caught up in these religious systems. We get caught up at looking at self But at the end of the day, it's all Jesus Christ and his righteousness. What are we living for? And for some of us, maybe we're still stuck living in the past. So we have a hard time living for God now and pushing towards God. Him and his righteousness and towards living for Christ each and every day into the future. Let us pray, Father. I am thankful for this chapter as we just Spent this evening in Philippians chapter 3. We are so thankful that we can hopefully ponder these truths. We can spend time continue to chew on them as individuals. That the Spirit of God will do his work in each life here today. And those may have been watching by wave stream. Father, could we just recognize it's about your son Jesus Christ and his righteousness? We get so caught up with our own rules. our own standards and things that are pushed in this world. Could we look beyond that? Could we see things from a heavenly, biblical, eternal perspective that we need Christ in his righteousness? In order to receive. We thank you for these wonderful truths, and we continue to work in us and through us for Christ's sake, and we come to you through his righteousness. Amen.