Please take your Bibles and let's turn to Ephesians chapter 4 this morning. And we're going to look at verses 7 through 13. I know that we already read all the way to verse 16 , but this is a lengthy passage. We're actually going to look at this text in two different weeks. And so the focus today will be up to verse 13. Here's what the Word of God says. But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto man. Now that he ascended, what is it, but he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth. He that descended in is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill all things And he gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Till we all come into the unity of the faith, of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature, of the fullness of Christ. This morning, I'd like us to bow for a moment, ask the Lord to really stir up our hearts, help us to think on his word as we focus on the need to rejoice in Christ's triumph on the cross. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you so much for this passage. It is so rich. There are so many truths that will be laid before us this morning, and they are truths that should make us very, very thankful. And so I pray that as we look at this passage, the Spirit of God will take the word and just cause it to really resonate in our hearts. I pray that if someone is weary this morning, As the Word of God is laid before them that you would lift them up and strengthen them through the Word of God. If someone is discouraged, anxious, troubled in heart, I pray that you would minister to those very specific needs. If there's someone here this morning or or listening on the live stream, That does not have the assurance that in fact they are your child, that they have placed their faith in Christ and been born again. I pray that as this text is laid before them, they would recognize what Christ has done for them. And they would humbly turn to you and place their faith in his finished work. I pray that the Word of God would minister richly to us this morning. And we ask this in Christ's name. Amen. Text in front of us is a very rich passage. We're going to look at it in four parts this morning. The first part is an emphasis on the grace of God. And when we say the emphasis on the grace of God, we see this in verse number 7, and this is what it says. Unto every one of us is given grace, according to the measure of the gift Now you may ask the question, what is the purpose of this grace, or what is this grace that is talked about in these verses? And this grace is God giving specific gifts to the church. And when we say the church, we mean the body of believers, those who are redeemed, those who know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. And there are a couple of things I want you to note here. Three of them. Each of them is in a different phrase or statement. The first phrase is the phrase, unto every one of us. And you say, well, why does that matter? Well it matters because it's saying that every single person that's a part of the body is important. Sometimes we get into our minds that the church is run by pastor Deacons, those who are on the staff, those who are Sunday school teachers. And so there's sort of like these various levels of importance in the church. That's not true. Every single individual has a role to play. It's important to the proper and healthy functioning of the body. I would even go so far as to say that if we as members in some way do not serve and do not grow and do not edify one another as we should, then there is a sense in which the body will actually suffer on some level. And so these these words tell us that every member of the body is important. The second thing that it tells us is that these individuals are gifted to contribute to the body's well-being. The reason that God gifts people is not so that they can lift themselves up in pride and promote themselves, but it is individuals giving gifts so that we serve together and we build up this body. And then the third thing is that these gifts are not limited only to those who are leading. Everybody in the church is gifted in some way. Second word that I want to draw your attention to is the word grace, and this is a very, very important part of this text in front of us. This is an enabling that comes entirely from God's grace. And that word grace means undeserved or unmerited favor. So when we talk about the gifts that God has given us that we are supposed to serve the church with These are not things that we earn. It's not like we deserve it. Okay, once I become a Christian and I get baptized and I start growing as a Christian, once I prove to God that I should have certain giftedness, Then he's going to be like, all right, I'll give it to you. That's not what we're talking about at all. We're saying that every single member of the body, the moment that they place their faith in Christ, that they are born again God gives them enabling by grace. Very, very interesting. And it's given to individuals so that we will be equipped to serve and help others It's being you we are literally being used as channels of God's work in the world. If you want to know where God's hands are, they're through our hands. His feet, they're through our feet. In other words, he's using us. I don't mean that that we somehow, I don't mean that in some weird mystical way, but what I'm saying is the way that God does his work in the world is through human instruments. The way he does his work in the church is through human instruments. He could use all kinds of different things. But he uses us in a very particular way. And it's all a result of the grace of God. We don't deserve to be a part of this. We don't deserve to be a part of the work that God's doing in the world. We have the privilege to be able to do that. And then the third phrase I want you to notice is the phrase according to the measure of the gift of Christ. Not all gifts are manifested equally within the body. Not everyone is equally gifted in the same capacity that maybe two or three different individuals are given. And it is God who determines which gifts are given, and it is God who determines the measure with which he gives those gifts. And I would even add to this That these gifts actually grow over the course of our experience. In other words, God will give you the grace needed to meet the challenges you face You may have a situation where you look at somebody and a thing that they're going through and you're like, I know for a fact I could never be able to face that issue. And the truth is that's just not true. You can't in your own strength. But there comes a day when God calls you to walk through certain waters or he plants you in a situation where he gives you an opportunity. And if he has given you that opportunity, if he has planted you in that series of circumstances, if he has given you that stewardship opportunity, he will give you the tools that you need at that moment. Such a very, very important principle for us to stand, understand. So the first thing that's emphasized here is the grace of God and how he gifts individuals to edify the body. There's a second thing I want you to notice in these verses. And that is that these verses aren't just all about God's grace, but they're all about a triumph, and that triumph is the triumph of Christ. And I don't know if you thought about this as we looked at the songs that we sang this morning. But they were all, they were all focused on the cross of Christ. And not just on the cross of Christ, but they were focused on the cross of Christ and how there is a triumphant element to the cross of Christ. And can it be? I mean that is a awesome song. A mighty fortress is our God. My absolute favorite refrain there or part of that song is, and though this world with devils filled We will not fear, for thou hast worked through us. It's an amazing little phrase where he talks about how how Satan is so powerful and he works in the world, but but we triumph over him because we're in Christ. Or soldiers of Christ arise. That's a really good one. Put your armor on. And by the way, by the end of the book of Ephesians, we're going to be at the armor of God. And this is driving at that. These songs emphasize the cross and the victory of the cross and how we can take great comfort in the fact that we are able to Enjoy what God has done for us. Be strong in the Lord. See the Christ. All of these songs are so rich in pointing us to these truths. And so the second thing we see in this passage is the emphasis on triumph. He did this through the cross. Notice what it says in verses 8, 9, and 10. He says, Wherefore he saith, when he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive. And he gave gifts unto men. Now what's very interesting about verses 8, 9, and 10 is that as Paul is writing these words, he gives us a picture of three distinct scenes. And each of these scenes are all connected to the same ultimate event, and that is to the cross. The first scene we see is one of a triumphing. triumphing warrior. And that's what we see in the phrase where he says, he ascended on high, he led captivity captive, and he gave gifts unto man. Now there are two things that he's saying in that phrase. The first is that he led captives, and the second is that he gave gifts. And we do not live in a time where we understand this the way that Paul would have. But in the ancient Roman world, warfare was a big-time way of life. Okay? And one of the things that these people would have thought when Paul writes these words is they would have thought of two things. One is if they had an Old Testament context, they would have thought of Psalm 68, which we're going to look at in just a second. But if they didn't have that Old Testament context, and even if they did, the very first thing that would have probably popped into their mind is something they would have seen. When a mighty general who had gone out to battle, had gone and he had conquered his foe, as he is coming into the city, there is this processional And in this processional here is the general, and all these people are lined up along the streets, and they are shouting triumph to the general And behind him are all the spoils of victory. Some of those spoils of victory are humans who had been conquered in battle. These are the generals that had led the army that had been conquered. These are the most important of the soldiers. And he's leading this massive processional. And then there's all kinds of stuff. And you're like, Well that's kinda weird. That's the way people have lived throughout most of human history. They would have been having this in their mind And as they're coming into the city, you know what he does? He takes the spoils of victory and he gives them to people. And he's giving them to people because he's establishing and maintaining relationships. He wants his soldiers to be motivated in battle. It's a moment of triumph. That's the picture that he's giving. It's an interesting picture. But to really appreciate this picture in its biblical context, we have to go to Psalm 68. Because in Psalm 68, we see this picture being talked about in relation to God. Here's what it says. Psalm 68 verse 17. And all of the details are so important here. It says, the chariots of God are 20,000, even thousands of angels. Thou hast ascended on high. Thou hast led captivity captive, thou hast received gifts from men, yea, from the rebellious also, yea, for the rebellious also, that the Lord God might dwell among them. Blessed be the Lord. who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. I want to give you some some important observations from Psalm 68, and I want you to see how it harmonizes so beautifully. with what Paul says in Ephesians chapter 4. The first thing is that this quote affirms that Christ is God. When he says in Psalm 68, the chariots of God, thou hast ascended on high, when he quotes it in Ephesians chapter 4, who is the one who's ascending? It's Christ, he's God. It's connecting the events that he's talking about to God's desire to dwell amongst people. Pretty amazing. He states that God is the God of salvation. And if you notice in those verses that this salvation is for a certain kind of person, it says it's for the Rebellious also. Now that detail is very, very important. He is stating that God's salvation is for rebellious people who are now the object of his grace. And are receiving blessings from him every day. Do you know who he's talking about? He's talking about you and me We're the rebellious people that have received blessing because of the triumph of the cross. And if you go back into the context of Ephesians, you will see this laid out very beautifully. For instance, in verses 1 and 2, he talks about how we were slaves to our flesh and this world system. Verse number 1, we were dead in trespasses and sins. That's all of us. Paul includes himself in that. Verse number two, we walked according to the courts of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air. Who is he talking about? He's talking about Satan in the kingdom of darkness. So we were spiritually dead and separated from God. We were walking according to a path that is set in rebellion against God. In verse number three, he says, our conversation or the way that we lived our life was fulfilling the lust of the flesh and of our minds. We were slaves to our passions. And in verse number three, we were by nature children of wrath. I don't think you could describe rebellion better than that. Dead in trespasses and sins, walking according to the course of this world, fulfilling the lust of our flesh, by nature of children of wrath, that's you and that's me, that's all of us. And that's who he gave gifts to. The rebellious. And here's the part that is so beautiful here. We have been rescued from this miserable enslavement by Christ's triumph on the cross. That's what he's saying. Verse number four of chapter two, but God who is rich in mercy for his great lover with he loved us, verse 13. But now in Christ Jesus, you who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. We who were slaves to our flesh, dominated by it, walking according to the course of this world, estranged from God, we are the recipients of his riches. And mercy and grace, and we are reconciled to God through the cross. I'm going to put it the simplest way I can. Christ conquered this kingdom of darkness that enslaved us. And he rescued us to participate in the spoils of victory. That's what it's all about. That's the first scene. The second scene is one of suffering. The suffering savior. And he makes this statement. And the next verse he says, He ascended. What is it but that he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth? Now this statement is emphasizing the nature of the victory. This victory and this triumph came through a humiliating season of life. And that humiliation was what Jesus did when he came from the throne rooms of heaven. He took on flesh, and he humbled himself, and he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Now when we see this phrase the lower part of the earth, I want you to realize that's a very interpretably challenging statement. And if you were look to look at commentators, you will get a lot of discussion about that particular statement. But I want to give you what I think, first of all, it's not saying and then tell you what I think it is saying. What it is not saying, what it is not teaching is that Christ went to hell and paid for your sins. It does not teach that. You say, well, how do you know that? Well, first of all, the Lord Parts of the Earth doesn't necessarily have to be talking about hell, okay? There are a lot of examples where that exact phrase is used in Scripture that are clearly not referencing that location But the reason I say this is because our sins weren't paid for in hell. They were paid for on the cross. That's what the cross was all about. The price that was paid for our sins. Was not to death or to Satan or to hell. It was to God That song that we just sang, His Robes for Mine, a wonderful exchange, clothed in my sin, Christ suffered in my stead. That is why we have a cross. When Jesus understood that all things were accomplished and he says it's finished, that means the payment for sin was done, paid in full. Listen to Isaiah 53 verse 10. It pleased the Lord to bruise him. When did that take place? On the cross. He put him to grief. Who did this? The Father did it to the Son. Thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin. Who is this sin offering given to? It's to the Father. He will prolong his days and the pleasure of the Lord will prosper in his hand. So when we see this phrase, it's not saying, well, you know, he went to hell for three days and And he suffered in hell, and that's how we have salvation. No. Christ's suffering was on the cross. When our sin was laid on his shoulders and he died in our place And all of the wrath of God against our sin was poured out on him. Propitiation. It's done. Satisfaction. Don't forget what he said to the thief on the cross in Luke 23, verse 43. Verily I say unto you, today thou shalt be with me in paradise. Well, that man was with the Lord when he died. Not just in death, but he was there in the grave. The reality is that Christ did not go into hell and pay for sin. Christ suffered on the cross for us. It literally means that he came in the flesh. He died for our sins. He was buried. He rose again and ascended to the Father. And the truth is that when we think about this phrase, he says he doesn't ascend until he first goes down. And when he comes down, he has a mission, and that mission is to go to the cross. And victory comes through the cross and Christ's death on that cross. Listen to some of these passages that emphasize John chapter 12, verse 31. Now is judgment of this world. Now the prince of this world will be cast out. If I be lifted up from the earth, I will draw all men unto me. And he said this, signifying what death he should die. That kind of encapsulates it pretty well there. Hebrews chapter 2 verse 14, the children are partakers of flesh and blood. He also himself likewise took part of the same. That means he literally took on flesh. And he did this that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is even the devil And so these verses emphasize that the cross was a triumph over sin and death and Satan. Ephesians 2, 13. Now in Christ Jesus, you who sometime were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. Peace between who? Us and God. He's our peace. He's reconciled both to God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby. In Colossians 2 verse 13, he blotted out the handwriting of ordinances that were against us. He nailed it to this cross. He spoiled principalities and powers. He made a show of them openly, triumphing over them in it. That is what this text is talking about. We see a third scene, and that is the exaltation of a king. He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens that he might fill all things. Philippians 2, 7. He made himself of no reputation. He took upon himself the form of a servant. He was made in the likeness of men. He humbled himself. He became obedient unto the unto death, even the death of the cross Wherefore God also highly exalted him and has given him a name above every name that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow. There is the cross and the exaltation talked about right there in Philippians chapter 2. We have the ascent or the descent and we have the ascent. Hebrews chapter 1 verse 3, he being the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person. upholding all things by the word of his power when he had himself purged our sins, sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on High. That's triumph. But there is no text in all scripture that I think better grips the heart than Revelation chapter 5, verse 2. Listen to these words. This is really powerful. John writes, who is worthy to open the book and to loose the seals? And no man in heaven or on earth could look Neither under the earth was able to open the book, neither to look thereon. And I wept much because no man was worthy. to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon. And one of the elders said unto me, Weep not. Behold, the lion of the tribe of Judah, the root of David, has prevailed To open the book and loose the seven seals. Isn't that awesome? Why does he have the right to do that? Because he went to the cross and he conquered death. The second thing that we see is this wonderful triumph. Third thing that we see is authority. These gifts that were secured at the cross That are given to the church and individuals within the body, these gifts have a purpose. And that purpose is to ground people in truth. Chapter 4, verse 11. He gave some apostles and some prophets and some evangelists and some pastors and teachers. Now, in order to appreciate why he puts this together the way that he does, I think it's important for us to recognize that there's a clear progression in the way that Paul is laying out these gifts that are given to the church. For instance, we all need a standard. What I mean by that is something that is timeless. It's outside of us. It's not on our emotions. It's not based on our whims. It's not how we feel. We need a standard that's outside of us, that's consistent. It's true. It's absolutely certain. You do not have a strong Christian faith without the right standard. We all need to be reconciled to God. We need the law to show us how we fall short. We need the gospel to be explained so we understand there's hope in Christ. We need somebody to preach the word to call us to repent and believe in the gospel. We need to grow in Christ when we're saved. We need people to teach us who we are in Him. We need to be taught how to grow. We need to be shepherded by people who feel the weight of responsibility before God to care for souls. And you know what's amazing about those three needs? They're all met by God 's wisdom. And that's what it means when he says he gave prophets and apostles and pastors and teachers and evangelists. Those are the gifts that he gave to the church to meet those three very important needs. So we see the standard, apostles and prophets. What was the role that these men played? Well, in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 20, just a chapter and a half earlier, he says that we are built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief cornerstone. So God established that this group of individuals, the apostles and the prophets, would be used by Christ to point people to who he is. What he did and why it matters, he's going to use them to give us the standard of Scripture. We have the ministry of reconciliation, and that's why he mentions evangelists. The evangelist is one who heralds the good news of the gospel. That's what gospel means. It means the good news. So these are people who go out and they say, you need to be reconciled to God. 2 Corinthians 4, 5. Paul writes, we do not preach ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord. And our self-servants for Jesus' sake, God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, has shined in our hearts. To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Man, what an amazing statement. That's an evangelist right there. 2 Corinthians 5. 18, all things are of God who has reconciled us to himself by Jesus Christ and has given to us the ministry of reconciliation. He has committed unto us the word of reconciliation. Now there were no now that then we are ambassadors for Christ, as though God did beseech you by us, we pray you in Christ's head be ye reconciled to God. That's an evangelist. God has brought the gospel to me. He's opened my eyes. And I see it And I've embraced it. And now he's put into my heart the burden and the passion to take it to others. And you know what he does? He beseeches you through us. That's what an evangelist does. God uses the evangelist as an instrument to call people to repent and believe. The human that is used is just the tool. He's the conduit. He's the channel. The power is in Christ. And through the work of the Spirit through the Word of God. And so we see that second layer. We have a standard that our feet are planted on, and we have somebody calling us to embrace the gospel and be saved. And then thirdly, he has the shepherding of souls, pastors and teachers. And by the way, a pastor needs to be a teacher. He has to be apt to teach. It's one of the qualifications. There are some teachers who are not pastors, but God has gifted them and they minister in the church and they're able to build up and strengthen. And by the way A teacher doesn't necessarily have to get up in front of a large group. A teacher could be somebody sitting in a living room and talking to a new believer. And teaching them the word of God and answering their questions and just being a blessing, discipleship, the gift of teaching in the smaller context. That is a gift of teaching as well. Listen to some of these verses. 1 Peter 5. He says to, Peter writes to the to the to pastors, to elders, feed the flock of God. Which is among you taking the oversight, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind, neither as being lords or domineering over God's heritage, but being examples to the flock. Three words, feed, oversee, and be an example. That's what shepherding is. We need that in our lives. We need people who are gonna look out for us. They're gonna call us to the truth. They're gonna come alongside of us when we are discouraged. They may actually tell us we're doing the wrong thing. They're gonna pray for us. They're gonna love us. They're gonna minister to us in this way. We need that. God gifts the church so that people have that very important need. 2 Timothy 2. 24. The servant of the Lord must not strive but be gentle. Apt to teach, patient, and meekness instructing those who oppose themselves. If perventure God will give repentance to the acknowledging of the truth, that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil who are taken captive. By him at his will. How does the devil enslave people? Well, the simplest way he does it is he keeps them from placing their faith in Christ. He convinces them that they're not savable. He convinces them that they don't need salvation. He tries to convince them that there's something in their past that makes it impossible for them to be born again. And as long as Satan can deceive the person to be too proud , to be disillusioned, and think that there's no possibility, he holds them captive. But what does he hold them captive with? One word, lies. It's lies. And the preaching of the gospel exposes the lies. The light shines into the darkness, and God does that through the preaching of the gospel. And when you're trying to give a person the gospel, you're reasoning with them from the Word of God. You're pointing out what it says. You're showing them the standard of God's righteousness and what the Bible says that we all fall short of his glory. And you're constantly pointing them back to the truth. And you have to do it patiently and mercifully and meekly. But when a person becomes a Christian, can Satan still capture them? Well, he can capture their heart. He can capture their minds. He can convince them to believe lies. Though he has no right to their soul, he's convinced them in their head that in fact he does. And so that same devil that says you don't need salvation, when you get it, he says, he didn't really give it to you. He didn't mean it when he said that. You're an exception to the rule. You fell short too far, and it's impossible that you could be saved. And what does he do? He holds people captive in the mind through lives. And you know what God does? He sends people to teach the word patiently. aptly. We need that. The fourth part of this passage is all about edification. These gifts were given to build up the church of God. And we see this in verses 12 through 13. He says that this is for the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ. Till we all come into the unity of the faith, of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, and to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ. How does this edification come to the church? He mentions four things. One would be that this edification builds people up into spiritual maturity. That's what he means in verse 12 when he says it's for the perfecting of the saints. The idea is that that believer comes to maturity, completeness. That's the idea of the term. Not that this is a sinless individual, by the way. However much we fall short in Christ, we're perfect in him. We're robed in the righteousness of Christ. accepted in the beloved. But when it comes to our growth and our maturing, we are growing to completeness. And that's what the word telios means. Last week we talked about marks of maturity, theological depth, godly affection, actively serving, engaging in the body. These are the things that God works in us. He grows our knowledge in him. He worms our soul. He strengthens us to serve. He gives us an affection for the body of Christ. How do you know a person's a Christian? Jesus says, by the love you have for others who are believers. That's powerful. Because God puts in our heart a love for his people. Earlier in the book, we saw in verse 10, chapter 2, we're his workmanship. Chapter 3, verse 17, he said that he's praying that Christ would dwell in our hearts by faith and we would be rooted and grounded in love. Verse 19, that we will be filled with the fullness of God. What is all that talking about? Spiritual maturity. Second thing that we see here is that he's going to develop tools to minister. Verse number 12, it's for the work of ministry. God doesn't build us and mature us so that we just sit on our hands. He builds us and matures us so that we are better equipped to serve the body than we were before. And by the way, over the course of our entire lives, we will constantly be continuing to grow in these areas. God gives us children before we're fully matured. He gives us people to disciple while we're still growing in the faith. He allows us to lead people to the Lord while we ourselves have so many more things that we need to learn about the depths of the gospel. God gives us opportunity and we grow through those opportunities. He gives us grace to rise up to those opportunities. But the reason that he gives the church is so that we will grow and serve and do the work of ministry. Serving the body is something that should be spread around throughout the whole congregation, not just amongst one or two individuals. Galatians 6, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one. Bear ye one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. Did you notice he didn't say, you pastors? If someone's overtaken, you restore them? I mean, hopefully a pastor's spiritually mature, he can do it. But he said, you who are spiritual. Why do you do that? Well, because it's available to anybody who's growing in the church. The truth is that when someone is struggling, every single member of the body who has been a believer for some time should have the tools and the equipping to be able to come alongside that brother or sister And encourage them and uplift them and point them to the Word of God and challenge them and pray with them. Every member of the body should be able to do that. The question is, why don't they? Two possibilities. Either one, I'm not doing my job, or number two, you're not receiving the ministry that's being done to you. It's one of those two things. And so the reality is all of us should be growing up together so that we can serve one another. What does this do? It provides growth in the body. Verse number 12, it's for the edifying of the body of Christ. Growth comes to the parts and to the whole Hebrews 10. Consider one another to provoke unto love and good works, not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together. Why do we gather? Because that's where we rub shoulders with one another. That's where we're fed, and that's where we're taught. That's where we worship together. In this setting, there's something very special that God does in our lives and allows us to do in the lives of others who are part of this body. What's the result? It's the growth of a body. The fourth thing is the word endurance. He says, till we meet the Lord. Verse 13, till we come into the unity of the faith, of the knowledge of the Son of God. God has given all of us a race to run. And some of us are at the beginning of that race, some of us are in the middle of that race, and some of us are in the final stretch. You really don't know where you are. Now some of you you're like, I know I'm at the end of my race. And some of you know I just got saved, so I know that I'm in the beginning of my race. Some of you in the middle you don't really know where you stand on that. But that race that you are given is not something necessarily you choose. You choose some of it, but not all of it. God determines the race that we will run. He's the one who puts the people in our lives. I mean, some of the people in our lives we choose them. But there's a lot that we don't. Some of the experiences that we go through in our lives, we can look at the decisions we've made and we say that's why we're we're in the middle of what we're in. And others, you know what, I didn't do anything to deserve this, control this. It's entirely circumstanced that are governed by the hands of God. And Hebrews chapter 12, verse 1, he says, let us lay aside every weight. The sin which so easily besets us, and let's run with patience the race that is set before us. One of the things that God has given these blessings to the church to do is to help you Be faithful until your final breath on this earth. And if you've been at the bedside or in the final seasons of a dear saint, you know that sometimes those seasons are really, really hard. People experience pain, discouragement, isolation, embarrassment. And how does one endure the tools that God gave to the church, all of the teaching that they've heard over the course of their entire lives? All of those individuals that God brought into their life, some for decades, some for months, all of those tools that God has been working on their lives, and they are building them so that in those final days They will be strong. Endurance. Second Timothy 4. 6, Paul writes, I am now ready to be offered. The time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I have kept the faith. He says, I've run my race. I've gone into the arena. I'm carrying the scars. But I've done my job well. And that's what we should all desire. Because every single one of us at some point in our lives are going to come to the end of our race. And when we come to that end, may God find us faithful. How does that happen? It's through the gifts that he gives to the church who minister to us. Over the course of our lives. And when we neglect those gifts, you know what we do? We neglect what God uses to prepare us for that. Time. It's a very dangerous thing to do. So how do we apply these verses? Let me give you some simple thoughts to close. First of all, to the unbeliever. We may have someone here this morning or somebody on the live stream that doesn't know the Lord is their Savior. Every person in this room was born into this world dead in trespasses and sins. Spiritually dead, separated from God. We lived our lives as slaves to our passions in this world system. Satan's right to us was visibly crushed on the cross. No matter where we've been, what we've done, what we've said, salvation is available to us. Don't miss that. Paul blasphemed the name that he died for. He persecuted the church that he wept over God can save anybody. No matter where you've been, what you've said, what you've done, that cross dealt with your sin. Satan was crushed, and you can be saved. And so the simple truth is you need to turn to Christ and place your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ alone. He calls you through the preaching of the word to repent and believe. Don't don't ignore that call. To the believer, we need to ponder the cross. It was Christ's greatest moment of weakness, yet it was his greatest triumph. Isn't that incredible? Think about. There was no time in the ministry of Christ where he was more weak. Yet as he hung on the cross, he was triumphing. He laid down his life. It wasn't taken from him. He laid it down. He knew everything that was going on and how it applied to our salvation. And he said, Knowing all things were accomplished, he said, It is finished. And he gave up the ghost. That's awesome to think about. We were slaves and enemies. Now we are the beneficiaries of this triumph. God's grace started at the cross, but it didn't end there. The same grace that gives us our position in Christ is the grace that will sustain us till the end of the race. We stand before Him in glory. We need to ponder the blessings of the cross of the church. This body is filled with redeemed sinners, uniquely fitted to serve one another. He has given us one another for our mutual edification. We should never neglect it. Thirdly, we need to ponder his role for us in it. It's very easy for me to leave this and kind of like, here's a principle we need to think about. It needs to be personalized. Every part of the body is important. Every part should serve a distinct function. And so I want to ask this question. In what way is this church lacking because you are not embracing the purpose he has for you in it? That's very pointed, but it's very appropriate. In what way have you allowed complacency to blunt? the cultivation of the gifts he's given you for the benefit of others. That's true for me too There are times that I look at the amount of time and the energy and the prayer, and I say, you know what? There may be deficiencies because I'm distracted. Because I'm in other things. And that's true of all of us. We need to personalize this. This isn't just something like, oh, it's a nice little idea to think about. No, it's about it's about us sitting here today. It's about this body, the people sitting in here right now. Your life needs to touch theirs. Their life needs to touch yours. That's what this text is all about. So, what's the point of the passage? At the cross, Christ triumphed over the kingdom of darkness. Through that triumph, he has graciously blessed us, though we were rebels and slaves. That's what the passage is all about. So my prayer is that God will help us to channel the joy of these truths into practical service. May we do that. Let's bow for prayer. Father, you know the burdens and the challenges that we encounter in our lives. And as we run this race, there are days that we need to be lifted up, and there are days we need to be confronted, and there are days that we need to be reasoned with, and there are days we need to be prayed for. There are days we need to be carried. There are days we simply need to be ministered to. And you know what each person in this room needs. needs. So minister in that way. May we be overwhelmed with gratitude for what we have through Christ. We ask it in Christ's name, amen.