And we'll be in Philippians 1. And while you're turning there, just by way of introduction, obviously it is Paul. Paul is the author, we'll see that in verse 1. And he wrote this around his first Roman imprisonment. And some background to this here in Philippians actually starts back in Acts 16. I'm just going to briefly go over some of the background. that will help lead us into the first chapter and really the book as a whole as we look at Philippians. But some just general guidelines before we go to the book of Acts and 16 is Philippians is one of the prison epistles, but he wrote it while in prison, and yet it's interesting because the church that we're going to see in Acts 16 actually kind of started in part because Paul was in prison. And we'll see how that plays out later into the book. But just as the very general truth there, this tends to be more personal of the book of Philippians. does not really strictly follow the general guidelines that Paul does. Typically Paul was used of God to pen a very doctrinally heavy beginning. And then a practical portion at the end. We see this in Romans. It's pretty doctrinally heavy, 1 through 11, and then 12 through 16 tends to be more practical. We see this in the book of Ephesians, as God used Paul, to be very doctrinally heavy in the first three chapters, and then four through six tends to be more practical. But here in Philippians, it doesn't quite have that same a feel to it for Paul. And so there's many different ways of looking at it. And so here in a little bit I'm going to summarize each chapter and focus on chapter one. But before we do that, we're going to kind of go back to see the birth of the church and the background at this church in Philippi in Acts 16. So if you're there in Acts 16, I'll read the verses. You don't necessarily have to turn there. But in Acts 16, 12, just pulled some highlights from the chapter. It says, From thence to Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and a colony And we were in the city abiding certain days. So this is Paul on his travels, and he going through all the background, sparing all that, but he ends up in Philippi to the Macedonian call and God directing him to go there. And it's very unique that Philippi was just not some random little city. He was directed of God to be there. And it was the chief city of this part. of uh the region there. So it's a chief city according to Acts 16. And in Acts 16, 14, as Paul did, he would often go to the synagogues. What makes it interesting here as is he is in this area of Philippi, there was no synagogue for synagogue for Paul to go to. So what does he do? He goes to a secondary place. And they would meet by water, and this is what we see in the background of Acts 16, verse 14. So Paul is going there, and he sees a certain woman named Lydia, a cell of purple in the city of Thyatira, which worshipped God. Heard us, whose heart the Lord opened, and she attended unto the things which were spoken of by of Paul. And when she was baptized, and her household She besought us, saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house and abide there. And she constrained us. So there Paul meets Lydia, she gets saved, those in her house. So he goes to the city that does not have a synagogue. He's preaching the gospel there and is in the chief city. that did not have one. And Lydia ends up getting saved and kind of supports Paul in his ministry, allowing her to stay, him to stay at her house. And then later in Acts 16, as we skip down to verses 23 through 25, it says And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailer to keep them safely. So Paul continues to preach in the gospel. He basically gets in trouble for preaching the gospel. They throw him in prison. They're in the prison. Can you imagine being in prison with Paul? And here he is being basically chained or hearing him, always sharing the gospel. He always had that there. And so there he is, he's preaching the gospel. Keep him safe. And then in verse 24 it says, who, having received such a charge, thrust them into the interprison like some hardened criminal criminal? and made their feet fast in the stalks. And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sang praise unto God and the prisoners heard them. So the background to Philippi, here, he gets thrown in prison. He keeps preaching the gospel. Midnight he sings. Now most people if you're wrongfully accused and something happens to you, you get upset. You would get angry. You probably don't feel like singing. Paul and Silas are thrown into a inner prison like they were some hardened criminal. And what do they do? They're preaching the gospel, they're looking at that, hey, you know what? We didn't want this, we're here wrongfully, and they just start singing and praising God. And I think this is especially important with this background, with how Paul is seeing his circumstances and what he's doing. He's still finding joy. He is still And this is in part leading to the birth of the church at Philippi. And then, so they're seeing at midnight. Prisoners are hearing this. What is this? guy talking about and they listen to what he's singing, they 're either weird or he must really love God. Because a normal person in these circumstances is going to get mad, angry, and upset. That's what happens when things don't go our way. Another verse that helps us with some background to the birth of the church in Philippi is we skip down to verse 34 of Acts 16. And when they had brought them into his house, he set meat before them. This is one of the prison guards. Is now bringing into his house and rejoice believing in God in all his house. So one of the other prisoners are hearing, this guy that was going to kill himself, the long story made short, he hears what Paul is saying. He ends up believing in God and his house. So you have Lydia and her house. You've got the jailer and his house. You've got other prisoners that are hearing this in this area. They hear what Paul's saying. He's taking bad circumstances He's rejoicing, he's singing the Lord, he's turning around for the sake of the gospel. And here a little church is birthed in this area here in Philippi. Now that's the background. Now we go to Philippians chapter 1 Where we're going to start seeing this unfold. But just a big picture, the book of Philippians, there's many different ways you can look at different themes. I tried to summarize them a little bit by chapter. But just some interesting things to note. There's many different themes that you can pick, a humility, self-sacrifice, unity, Christian living, and joy and rejoicing. What's interesting in the book of Philippians, it's 104 verses. 37 times Christ is used. That's where I'm going to get my themes for each chapter. Joy and rejoicing is used about 17 times between the two. So in 104 verses, 37 times Christ is mentioned. 17 times joy and rejoicing. So with those thoughts in mind, knowing the background, and just looking at the big picture, just off simple word count, I am going with these themes for each chapter. In chapter 1, we should rejoice in Christ. All of them are going to be rejoicing in Christ, who gives confident purpose. And we see this in verse 21. For me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. In chapter 2, we're going to see that we should rejoice in Christ, who gives us a humble pattern. We see this in Philippians 2, verse 3. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in loneliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves. In chapter 3, we're going to see that we should rejoice in Christ. Not all this is going to be tonight, by the way. These are messages to come. I'm just giving the big picture here. Chapter 3. We should rejoice in Christ, who is our knowledge and prize. And we see this. In Philippians 3, verse 8, yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ. Christ, Jesus my Lord, for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dumb that I might win Christ. Chapter 4, we're going to see that we should rejoice in Christ, who is our contented peace. And we can get this from the ninth verse of the chapter. Those things. which ye have both learned and received, and heard and seen in me do, the God of peace shall be with you. So because we don't have the typical pattern of Paul with doctrinal heavy at the beginning of the book and then practically heavy at the end, I've kind of looked at the big picture and have tried to put each chapter in a kind of in a category of itself, looking at the bigger picture of definitely rejoicing because of Christ. And many different reasons why. We should rejoice. And this is why I think it's important to go through the background that we just did. Because in the book of Philippians, we're going to see Christ as a center theme. We're going to see joy and rejoicing repeated throughout. And we're going to see that Paul is doing this writing from prison, which wouldn't have bothered the people as much as it would have others, because they were familiar with Paul and them starting the church by him being put in prison. Because if you heard someone that you supported that was preaching the gospel or doing whatever they were doing and they get thrown in prison, it would cause you to think twice. It may cause you to hesitate. Do I want to keep doing that to be associated with this person? They don't even have to be prison. It could just be bad circumstances. Do I want to associate myself with that person? But if you flip it around and these people, because of his circumstances to begin with, wait, Paul was reaching out to us and we saw him get thrown in prison. They know the background. So now later when he's in prison again, they're thinking, oh, Paul's continuing to do the same thing. That makes sense. I'm not as afraid because I came to know Christ through Paul So the circumstances are different. It's not like, okay, I heard of Paul, then I heard he got thrown in prison. I don't know about that Paul guy. The church at Philippi, it's the opposite. They were saved in part, some of them, because of Paul's prison ministry. So they would view it differently than most other people would Oh, Paul's continuing he doesn't he does not fear of circumstance or challenges. He even preached to me while in prison. So now later, because of his bonds and being in prison, they're not going to be as scared. They're not going to be as hesitant. Because that's how they came to know Christ. And he was rejoicing and he was singing through the circumstances, through being mistreated. And so now to the Philippians, Paul is continuing to be consistent. Paul is who he is. So to them, it wouldn't be as offsetting. It would not be as concerning. They would not hesitate as much as a normal person is, okay, I heard of Paul and he got thrown in prison. It's entirely different of how they would have viewed it. And I think that's why Paul, even as he pens this in the beginning, as we start looking at chapter one more specifically in his greeting. Paul doesn't start out by saying, oh, Paul, an apostle. He's just saying, hey, this is I'm Paul, and this is Timothy, and we're writing to all of you, to all the saints. and to the leadership with the bishops and deacons. He's not coming at them of trying to defend his apostles ministry. He's just assuming these people love me, I love them, I know their background, they know my background, so it tends to be a little bit more on the personal side a little bit as he's penning this and that's I think why it's not so strict with the structure of doctrine and then practical. It's more kind of woven throughout here in the book of Philippians. So with Christ being used 37 times, join rejoicing 17 times, in chapter 1, we're going to really start looking at we should rejoice in Christ who gives confident purpose. Having purpose in life is very helpful. It helps keep us steady. And as we were sharing in the Freedom Net Last class last night, If you don't have any goals in life, and let's say you're an archer. And you're just shooting arrows. And you're going to tell some messenger, just run farther. But you don't really have a target. You're just shooting. If you don't have a target in life, you know what's going to happen? You're going to hit it every time. What are you shooting at? I don't know, it doesn't matter. But you're gonna hit something every time. But if you have a target, if you have a focus, you have something to keep you in line, if you have a central thing that you're trying to focus on, that you're aiming at, that you're targeting yourself around. As Christians, it ought to be Christ. That is what Paul is going to start focusing in on. And as we see that we can have this confident purpose in Christ, if we take Christ away from our purpose in life, When challenges come and when difficulties come, we will be all over the place. We 're just going to be shooting arrows and hitting everything. And you will hit something. The arrow will come down. But if you have a target, something you're aiming for, that's what he's trying to do in this first chapter. He's trying to give us a confident purpose. Through any circumstances in life and through challenges, we're going to see this. So we see he's including everyone in his greeting in verses 1 and 2. And in verses 3 through 11, we're really going to look at Paul's prayer life. And this is an I feel very convicted. When you read through Paul's. uh prayers and as he pens he must have spent all kinds of time in prayer specific churches specific names the burdens that he would carry it's impressive so let's just look at this In verses 3 through 11, as we look at Paul's prayer life, in verse 3, one he says, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. So he's thanking them. He remembers them as he thinks about them, all the jailer, instead of saying, They wrongfully accused me. He's thinking Hey, wasn't that great? I got thrown in prison and you got to hear the gospel. There wasn't a synagogue, and we could complain about that, but then I got to meet Lydia and her family got saved. So as he thinks about these different people, he has great joy in remembering. And he says then in verse 3, I thank my God upon every remembrance of you. This verse I became very familiar with because Becky and I, now my wife, when we were getting to know each other, I know this is going to sound very ancient, but we used to write Letters. Yes. Paper, pen, writing, letters. Not with our thumbs. It's incredible. I know it's odd now, but we would actually write and in one verse 'cause you gotta be spiritual, right? You're trying to get this Trying to swoo this young lady and think I'm really a nice guy and I I I'm not just spiritual on the outside. I really love the Lord and so sometimes you know you want to put a verse but yet you want to learn what you're thinking about her So as my teams over here, they close their ears, but we would use this first all the time. This is like a go-to when you put on your letter to Becky. Because why? If you put Philippians 1 3 and she goes, Oh god, you don't even have to look at it anymore, you know what that is. Oh, she's thinking about me. She's thankful for every remembrance of me. Aw, isn't that sweet? And she knows that I'm thinking about her. Isn't that what Philippians 1 3 Well, I don't think it's necessarily a love letter, but Paul was thankful as he remembered the people, the individuals at this church. So he's thankful for them. And when he thinks about them, look at his prayer life there in verse 4. And always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy. So he's thanking God for them, and he's joyful. He's making his request. It puts a smile on his face when he prays about them. And he prays about them every time he prays in every prayer of mine for you. So when he prays about them. Not only is he thankful, but he has great joy when he thinks about them in his prayer life. Sometimes when we see prayer, sometimes I mean and there's different prayers for different things, different circumstances, I understand, but sometimes our prayers are going to be intense. Sometimes we're confused. Lord, I don't know what to do. But other times, you're excited. It brings a smile to your face when you're talking Talking to the Lord about the circumstances of life. God, that it was so great. Paul here, he's thankful. He is making requests with joy. It's a great joy for him to pray for these people. This is a Wednesday night midweek service. We're going to spend time in prayer at the end. Do we see prayer as this is what I have to do or this is what I get to do? I enjoy it. And I enjoy lifting up other people, both in the good and the not so great. But he's making requests with joy. What else does he do in his prayer? He says, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. He has great fellowship. I mean unity could be another great thing here throughout the book of Philippians, but your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. As he thinks about them and he remembers them and he puts a smile on his face, he has great joy in that. And then he enjoys time one with another in their fellowship in the gospel. You know what that's what brings us here tonight in every service? It's not that we have everything always in common. I have something that's not as uncommon in this area. I mean, I I will root for the home team But it doesn't hurt me as bad as other people in this area that the Ravens aren't in the playoffs anymore. Now I'll root for them because they're in the home team. I know I'm already making people not happy with me. But I'm a Seahawks fan. I've always been a Seahawks fan. And they're doing great. First in the conference. First round bye. But we're not here because we're all Seahawks fans. We're not here because we're Ravens fans. We're not even here. Some of you don't even like sports. And you know what? That's okay. What is our fellowship? Our fellowship is not around a team, a sport. Our fellowship here is because of the gospel. Our fellowship here is because of Jesus Christ. The center focus of all of our lives should be Christ. That's what brings all these differences together. We came here tonight. There's many other things we could have done on Wednesday night. Some of us just could have stayed home and went to bed early if we wanted to. And be crying that we're running out of eggnog. But it's the gospel. He says, for your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now. And then look at this. This is where some of the confidence comes in. We have a confident purpose in verse. 6 here. He says, being confident of this very thing, that he which begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ. Even it is meant for you to think that this of you all, because I have you in my heart, insomuch as both in my bonds and the defense, the confirmation of the gospel. You're all partakers of my grace. So he's confident that Jesus is going to keep using and working in and through them. Some of them are younger believers. They're trying to get things in this Christian life sorted out. But Paul is saying, But I'm confident. That God is going to be with you and He's continued to grow you together as a group and as a church body, focusing upon Christ. From his fellowship and him will continue to work in you and through you. And then he says in verse 7, this is where we get one of those hints where he says, both in my bonds and in defense of the confirmation of the gospel, ye are partakers of my grace. You understand more than others what's taking place with me right now. You're not as scared. You're not as concerned. You're almost a see it as a part of that happened to Paul, and they feel like they're a part of Paul's ministry. Because some of them came to know Christ through Paul. Then we continue on, and we're going to see in verses 7 through 11 here. It says, For God is my record, how greatly I longed after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ. And this I pray that your love may abound yet more and more in the knowledge and in all judgment. They have a better understanding. They know Paul and his intention. And that their love may abound even more because they understand the gospel and why he's doing what he's doing. They're not as scared of the gospel. They're not as scared of the consequence of what's happening to Paul. Because we're going to see later in the book that some people are going to take advantage of Paul in prison for different reasons. And he wants them to be filled with fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God. So this is kind of as Paul thinks about them, as he remembers them, as he prays for them. For to me it's very convicting, the things that he prays about, and the things that he thinks about when he considers these people and what they're going through, and how you need to keep doing this until Christ comes. And then we verses 12 through 21. So we've seen Paul's prayer life in 3 through 11. Now we're going to look at the furtherance of the gospel in 12 through 21. In verses 12 through 21, we're going to see how the gospel just continues to spread despite the circumstances, despite imprisonment and the wrongdoings. But I would, in verse twelve, that you should understand, brethren, that things which happened unto me have fallen out, rather, unto the furtherance of the gospel, so that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace and in all other places. So Paul, once again, they have seen firsthand. Paul, when bad circumstances come your way, you need to turn around and look, how can God use me for the gospel in this current situation? Because if our life and our purpose is about my circumstances and about life going well for me and everything going the way that I want, Our purpose in life is not going to be as confident. We're going to get distracted by the circumstances. We're going to be like Peter that takes his eyes off of Christ and looks at the waves and begins to sink. Our purpose, we can be confident that Christ is the focal point of our life. And to remove our eyes away from that, to remove our heart and our thinking and our prayers away from that. It can be distracting. But here he's saying it's for the furthest of the gospel. My bonds and my imprisonment is helping other people to know Christ from the palace and in other places. And he's saying, you have understood this more than others. Because once again, many of these people would have understood this because there really is, yeah, Paul preached to me in prison. But then let's look how others handle this in verses 14 and following. And many of the brethren of the Lord, waxing confident in my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear. Some people get scared. Some people are like, oh, they're gonna throw him in prison. It just fired. It's like if if you want to motivate a guy to do something, tell him he can't do it. Oh ho ho you say I can't do that you watch this and the sleeves get rolled up and the shirt gets untucked and he's gonna show you that he's gonna do exactly what you said he couldn't do. So some people through trials and difficulties they can get more emboldened And that's what's taking place here. Paul gets thrown in prison, and some of them are to wax more confident. You're gonna throw Paul in, I know Paul. And Paul's a good honest man. And if you're gonna if you're gonna do that to Paul, that just emboldens me. I'm gonna identify with Paul and I'm gonna keep preaching the gospel. You can't do that. You can't throw us all in prison. There's only so much room. So let's all preach Christ. So people will be emboldened. And that's what's taking place. And then in verse 15 it says, some indeed preach Christ, even of envy and strife, and some also of goodwill. And one preached Christ of contention and not sincerely supposing to add affliction to my bonds. So some are being emboldened. Now the boldness, he's going to give two different reasons for his boldness. Some are getting bold, like, oh, Paul's in prison. Oh, this is my time to shine. They can't hear Paul, so guess what? Now they have to listen to me. And they're getting more bold in their own selfish purposes. Their confidence and their purpose in life is not Christ. It's promotion of self. They're preaching Christ of contention. And they're not even doing it sincerely. And they're actually thankful this happened to Paul, because now it's their opportunity to preach the gospel. And then in verse 17, there's a second part of this, but other of love, knowing that I am set for the defense Others do it out of love for the gospel. Their purpose in life is Jesus Christ and the spreading of his gospel and what he has done for them. And others do it for selfish purposes. Others do it because they love Paul. And more importantly, they love the gospel of Jesus Christ, the center, their confidence. Their purpose in life is Christ. That's why they can rejoice. That's why they can do what they do. Their motivation is centered around the gospel. And then, regardless of what happens, look at verse 18. Hiss 's little conclusion from these two different, from those that are taking advantage of Paul in prison. And they're getting bold to do it maybe for selfish reasons. They're thankful Paul's in prison. But others are like, they can't do that to Paul. Someone has to step up and take his place. So other people are stepping up and sharing the gospel. When someone gets taken down, in this case prison, other people step up. What then? Here's his conclusion, verse 18. Notwithstanding every way, whether in pretense or in truth, Christ is preached, and therein do I rejoice, yea, I will rejoice. So even though some of these are taking advantage of Paul in prison and they're thankful he's in prison, they're still preaching Christ, even though it might be for wrong purposes. Others are doing it because they love the gospel and they love Paul and that's their motivation motivation. But Paul, while in prison, sees both of these, and you know what the conclusion is? You know what? I can rejoice. Why? Why can he rejoice in prison? Because others are stepping up and preaching the gospel and others are hearing about Jesus Christ. He says, I can rejoice because the gospel is continuing So now I'm preaching in prison. They can't, well they could be in prison right now, I suppose, but they're not. Right now I'm in prison. I'm gonna keep preaching the gospel. They're outside prison. They're preaching the gospel out there, and some are emboldened to do it, even more so than normal. And Paul's conclusion of both for wrong reasons, right, right reasons, wrong motives Or right motives, Paul's conclusion is I can rejoice because the gospel is still being spread. The gospel is still being preached. In fact, they're doing it out there where I was. Now I can do it in here where they're not, and people in the palace are hearing and other prisoners, and so the gospel is being spread everywhere simultaneously. And when Paul, because his purpose, his confidence is in Christ and taking advantage of the situation, but if our life gets shifted to circumstance, To I judge my life and how good God is by what happens to me. And you're not confident rejoicing in Christ because Christ is your purpose. That is your focus in life. We can look at things as circumstances, oh man, I must not be doing something right. Our purpose in life gets shaken. And Paul is looking at it and saying, no, now I just have a different opportunity, a different setting, a different audience, a captive audience. To share the gospel because Christ is his focus. He's confident that everyone needs to know Christ. So this goes beyond circumstance. This is bigger than the challenges that we're facing as an individual. Because it's not ultimately The circumstances of my life that dictates where and how I share the gospel. We need to take advantage of where you are placed. We work in many different places in this church. What we need to do as individuals is love Christ and have confidence to know that everyone needs to know Christ. And so whether it's challenging circumstances, whether it's good circumstances, whether we're emboldened, whether we're not, we need to take opportunity. Hey, my goal in life, I need to be encouraged. I can rejoice that others hear about Jesus Christ, that others are hearing the gospel. That's what Paul is rejoicing about. It's not his circumstance. And I know this is challenging because when things don't go our way, he was in prison originally. At the beginning of the birth of this church in part. Now he's in prison again. They identify with that. They are now preaching the gospel. And Paul is looking at this and this is great. Why is it great? Paul, you're in the inner prison. You're where the really bad guys are kept. Back there in Philippi. Now, here, he's in prison again. Now we've got a repeat offender. And Paul just keeps on rejoicing. He just keeps on singing. You can't keep this, you can't pin him down. Why? Because he's not basing life off all these challenges and trials that keep coming away. It's overbearing. He looks at it as wherever I am, and regardless of circumstances that are beyond my control. Christ is my purpose. And I can rejoice and be confident because I know this is a part of my purpose in life, is to share Christ and to live out Christ. That's what he's doing. And so we continue. He says in verse 19, For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer and to the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ, according to my earnest expectation and my hope. That of nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life or by death. So Paul here when he says turn to my salvation, he's not saying, oh, I'm thinking about trusting in Christ as my savior. He's talking about being delivered from prison. Hey, God has got me out before. He can do it again. That doesn't he's not concerned how long they're there or what the the difficulties there. He said, but I believe that God can get me out of here And then he says his expectation, he's not ashamed. Just because he gets a repeat offender in prison, he's not thinking, you know, I'm doing the wrong thing. Every time I preach the gospel, people don't like it, I get thrown in prison. That doesn't stop him. And he's praying for boldness. With all boldness, I said, yeah, if I kept going and throwing prison, that would either embolden me or make me hesitate. Either one. He says, but that with all boldness as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body. He says, you know what? My purpose in life is not to have happy, joyful experiences and great circumstances. He says, part of my purpose in life is to magnify and to point people to Christ. If I have to do that physically with my body from prison, great Whether I live for Christ or whether I die. And that's what we see in verse 21. He says, for to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain. Do you know part why he can rejoice? Because the gospel is being furthered. And he's saying, if I get a chance to live, I'm living for Christ. And you know what? The worst thing they're gonna do, they can beat me, they can stone me, they can kill me, but if they take my life, then I'm with Christ So whether uh if I live, it's for Christ. If I die, I'm with Christ. You can't keep this guy down. You say, great, you want to kill me? You want to stop me from preaching the gospel? Well, if you kill me, I'm just going to see my Savior. You're not going to stop me. I mean, the confidence that Paul has with a part of his purpose in life is incredible. And that's what caused him to rejoice. It's not based off circumstance. And how happy in my feelings. How do you feel today? Horrible. But Paul is going to take the horrible circumstances and turn them around. And then we're going to see that he's in a straight betwixt two and verses 22 through the end. He's going to explain this challenge that he finds himself in Because Paul is so focused on Christ and the gospel and furthering that, and he's praying for these people and many others that he's going to say, look at this in verse 22. But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labor, yet I shall choose I want not, for I am in a straight between And that phrase in a straight betwixt two really means, we would say probably today is I'm between a rock and a hard spot. I don't know what to do. When I think that I like I I say that from time to time, I'm in a straight betwixt two. And some people will look at you like what? Between a rock and a hard place Okay, do I choose the hard place or I choose the rock? Uh it's about the same, genius. Thank you. Okay. That's how Paul feels right now. He says, and here's why he's in a straight, here's why he's between a rock and a hard place, verse 23. Having a desire to depart to be with Christ, as I'd already mentioned. Which is far better. So if you kill me, I'm gonna be with my savior. That's not so bad. No more sin, no more suffering, no more cold dark prisons, you know, in the inner chamber. Okay, no more lack of meals, all those things. He says, that's far better, but here's what's important in verse 24. Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. What motivates Paul to stay and to endure challenges? It's not getting mopey and eeering about the circumstances of life and looking at things in such a pessimistic way. Because Christ is his focus. He's confident in his purpose of life, living for Christ. or dying for Christ. To him it's the same. But in his mind, this is how Paul is doing it. If I'm going to live, it's for Christ. If you kill me, I'm with Christ. But he struggles as a human for both. Because to be with Christ obviously is far better. He says that it is far better. But here's what I think is extremely important. It's more needful, more needful that I'm here with you. You know what this is telling us about Paul? Paul understands that part of his purpose is not for himself. He is here for others. to be selfless serving his savior. And I want to say something that I've known people that have struggled with doubt and depression and people that have uh you know can considered suicide and things like that. It's really sometimes we get caught in our own selfishness. And we think about ourself and the struggles that we have and everything I'm going through that makes us want to do things to ourself, to harm ourselves, to some, to take their own life. And ultimately, I think in part, not in satiety, but in part, it's because we think about self and we're only thinking about ourselves. To take your own life or to do something to yourself, you're not thinking about others. Especially if you're going to take your own life. You are only thinking about yourself. You're taking yourself out of the situation, the circumstance. But it's going to hurt all those that love you around you. You're not thinking about them. They're thinking, but oh, it doesn't matter. I have no part of the life. They still love you. They still care for you. And I've this is a passage I would go to if someone is struggling with these thoughts, especially dealing with suicide specifically. It is more needful that I'm here with you. If my purpose is about self and my purpose is about how I feel and what I want and what I get, you can get down and out And you will, because we are sinners who are bent toward sin and we tend to be selfish. Paul is saying it's more needful that I'm here. For you. A part of our life and our confidence of purpose, if Christ wants us to share about Him, we can only do that while we're here. We need to think about others and not ourself. So he continues, he says, for he's in the strait betwixt two. It's better to be with Christ. But to abide in a flesh, verse 24, it's more needful For you. Because Paul is saying, I'd rather just die here in prison. You know what? That wouldn't be so bad. Then I'm with my Savior. But then Paul's next thought, the hard place is. But then I couldn't be here to help you. So look at his thoughts now as he's selflessly thinking, as he prayed before, when he thinks about and he remembers these people and he's thankful for them. He loves them and they love him. Now he's thinking, God is allowing me to endure these things, and now I understand that as long as I am here, I want to be here to benefit you as much as I am. I need to think of stop thinking so much about my own selfish desires, my own wants, and my own pity party and my own things, he says I need to think about others. So this is what he begins to explain. So it's more needful that I abide with you, verse 25. And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith. I am here to continue to encourage you to be joyful. And if Paul can encourage anyone to be joyful, say, you throw this guy in prison, you beat him, you stone him, the guy keeps coming back with a smile on your face and sharing the gospel. If that's not encouraging to someone else, I don't know whether this guy just keeps on going. And he does it in such a lime-coving kind way. He can be very bold, but he keeps on going. So he understands that your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by coming to you again. Listen, it is always better to be with our Savior in heaven. But God has us here for a reason. Our purpose is to live like Christ and appoint others to do the same. And we can be rejoicing because of who we are in Christ. That's what Paul is saying. And that's why it gets more practical here too. Only let your conversation become with the gospel of Christ. your way of life, not just your words, but what does your life say? Does it point people to the gospel of Christ? That he says, whether I come and see you, or else be absent, that I may hear of your affairs. And you shall stand fast in one spirit with one mind, striving together for the faith of the gospel. We are here together as a church body in unity because of Christ. We can rejoice together and we can serve one with another together, one spirit, in one mind. We need to think biblically. What brings us together? Christ. How do we know who Christ is? Through the Word of God. It is Christ and His Word that brings us together. We need to strive together by faith in the gospel that unites us even through challenging times as a church, as families, or as individuals, see Christ as the goal. We can rejoice in who Christ is. Stop focusing on self. Think about others and their joy and the blessing that you can be to others. And then he says in the following verses twenty-eight, and let nothing terrifying by your adversaries which are in them, and the evident token of perdition but to your salvation and that of God. For unto you it is given on behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake. The reason why trials and difficulties can seem all greater is because if you're doing it on your own and your own strength and your purpose is not Christ, it may be selfish. It can seem heavier. It can seem challenging. But if you know your suffering is for the purpose and for the cause of the Word of God, our challenges and trials in life are because of the sake of furthering the gospel of Jesus Christ. It makes us endure. That's why we often think of missionaries. Oh, I don't want to be a missionary because they'll call me to some nowhere place in the middle of Africa. Well so what if he does Is that such a bad thing? You're sharing the gospel with other people because Christ is your goal. You can be confident and rejoice in sharing the gospel, even if it's some hut somewhere that probably still has cell phone service. Okay But it's okay because the circumstances, it's not about you and your current circumstances, your surroundings. I'm here for them. And the challenges and the difficulties and those that are purposefully against you. It's okay if you're doing it for Christ, if you're doing it according to the Word of God, if you're furthering the gospel. And Paul is saying this, I remind you, while in prison. Not happy times for Paul right now if you look at his circumstances. But what is it? He's rejoicing. He's thanking God for them. And he's challenging them that hey when difficulties come, hey, you can continue to believe in Christ. And there will people that will be after you purposefully. to harm you, to go against you, these adversaries, and they're getting after you, but you can keep Christ as your focus. And if you are suffering for his sake, you can endure. He says, having the same conflict which you have saw in me and now here to be in me. He's saying, listen, Paul is saying this from prison. They know this. They got saved, some of them, while he was in prison. And so Paul's encouraging them. And in some ways he's saying, if I can rejoice and have joy while in these circumstances, so can you. And your circumstances, humanly speaking, are probably better right now. But there are others that are being selfish and are doing things for not the right purposes. But you can stay focused. So as we look at Philippians chapter one, just a quick run-through survey, we look at this first chapter of Philippians, and we can see how we should rejoice in Christ. Who gives us confident purpose? Our purpose in life is Christ, not self. Not my own ambitions, but what Christ desires for us. We know these things through the word of God. What does God desire? What does God have for us? Are we living for him or are we living for self? Because when trials come, it could be a little litmus test. Do we get angry and upset and oh everything's going wrong and bad? And in a moment we could think it's about me. But if we could be confident in our life's purpose being about Christ and pointing people to Him, that's exactly what Paul is doing through good times and through bad times. So we can rejoice in Christ who gives us a confident purpose. Let us pray. Father, we are so thankful for how you used Paul. I'm sure he did not enjoy being in prison. But every time he went, he turned the circumstances around. Because his purpose was Christ. His rejoicing. was in you through Christ. And he couldn't help but share the gospel regardless of circumstance by which you placed Father, would you help us to be as Paul, not to be selfish and determine things by our current circumstances? Oh, humanly, that could sway us one way or another. But we get realigned. Have Christ be the focus, the target of our life. That could help us to rejoice. Because if we live, we want to live for Christ. And when we die, which we will someday, we are going to be with him, which is all the better. But as long as you give us breath, would we live for you, pointing people to Christ to bring a smile and joy to them and to their friends faces because we are centering all of our life as individuals, as a family, as a church around the gospel of the Savior Jesus Christ. In whose name we pray, Amen