We are going to pick it up in our study of Philippians. And we started this on Wednesday night and we'll probably finish it on Wednesday night. It was originally going to be a four-parter, but shrunk down to three, but that's okay. And so we're going to pick up in Philippians. And just by way of review, we started last Wednesday, and I just want to do a quick overall study of just the book of Philippians, like I was saying I originally was thinking it would be for. And that's why I thought it would work out well, one for each chapter. So my goal was to kind of summarize the whole book and kind of just summary style, go through highlights of each chapter. And as we started last Wednesday. I gave kind of a general outline or a theme for each of the chapters. But as I've studied the book in the past and in preparation for this, The theme of Christ and joy and rejoicing is prominent in the book of Philippians. And unlike other of Paul's writings, this one is It's not quite as doctrinal in the first part or the first section and then practical in the second. It's a little bit more woven throughout. It's a little bit different style for Paul. But he still likes his own his long sentences. But all that being said, so that was the big picture. Chapter 1, which we looked at, was we should rejoice in Christ, who gives confident purpose. Tonight we're going to look at, in chapter 2, how we should rejoice in Christ, who gives us a humble pattern. And in chapter three on Wednesday, we'll look at that we should rejoice in Christ, who is our knowledgeable prize. And in chapter four, which is we should rejoice in Christ, who is our contented peace. So tonight we're going to look at Rejoicing in Christ, who gives us a humble pattern. And I'm going to start just by reading the first eight verses. I'm not going to read the whole chapter, but I will read the first eight verses So together in Philippians chapter 2, beginning in verse 1. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, If any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies, fulfill ye my joy, that ye be like-minded Having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory, but in lowliness of mind, let each esteem other better than themselves Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Father, as we study this chapter, just doing a brief overview, hitting highlights throughout it, wouldn't it be an encouragement to your people? As certainly this book is used as a whole to joy and rejoice of who we are, of who you are, and really who we can be through Christ. And tonight we can look at a humble pattern of service that started with Christ and other godly examples by which we can follow. And by doing this, we can recognize who we can be to you. Dear Son Jesus Christ. Be with your people, encourage them, convict where necessary. And Father, we thank you for the privilege of gathering together this evening and setting ourselves on your word. And we do this for Christ's honor and glory. Amen. So here, chapter 2, we're going to start in the first couple verses focusing on the mind of unity, the mind of unity. And there we just read through them, but there's a list here. I wasn't going to go through each of them, but here it says if there are any if there's any consolation in Christ, and it lists several other things. That word consolation, uh, for me, uh not growing up in church, it's not a word I used very often, but uh a lot of my background, when I was nine years old, I started wrestling. And one thing I learned in wrestling is you want to stay on the winner's side of the bracket and not go to the consolation side What is that? The consolation side of the bracket is after you lose, you would get kind of transferred, if you will, from the winning side. to the losing side. It was usually double elimination. And on the consolation side, it's kind of like the playoffs right now. If you lose, you're done. You go home. So you don't like to be on the consolation side. But if you lose your first one, that's when you get put on that side. So it's kind of a hope, it's a comfort that you're not out yet. You're just not on the winning bracket anymore. You're just still kind of hanging out here. uh hoping to continue winning and maybe get third place. So it's kind of a place of comfort, if you will, of consolation. So that's what I think of when I hear a consolation in Christ. And it carries, does carry with it the idea of comfort. to be comforted. And it also can carry with it the idea of to call beside or to be alongside of. So what it's saying here is if there is any consolation in Christ, if there's any comfort in Christ, if we can Bring him aside or us to be beside him really. And that's where the comfort of love and any fellowship of the Spirit, you can kind of see where the consolation that we have in Christ is our kind of our relationship, being kind one with him, agreeing with him. That we have hope and comfort in our Savior Jesus Christ. And we see this as Paul is used to encourage those in 2 Corinthians in chapter 1. He says, For the sufferings of Christ abound in us. So our consolation also abounded by Christ. So our hope, our comfort, is all that more abundant in Christ. And we know that without Christ, and certainly his resurrection, we would be of all men most miserable, and there would not be much comfort. So as we start this off, we're looking at a unity of mind and our consolation in Christ. We have comfort in love. We have any fellowship in the Spirit, and if any bowels of mercies. Now I want you guys, but that bowels of mercies is not something I use every day. What is he talking about? Well, if you look up that word bowels, what you'll find a lot is it's your guts, your intestines, your insides. But what it really has the idea of, it was their way of saying your innermost person. It's like the heart and feet. of your emotions of who you are. So it's talking about hope and comfort. It's talking about emotionally how Christ can be with you and help you and you can have fellowship. And this takes place, if any, bowels and mercies. So in your innermost being. And we see in Luke 1, 78, how it says, through the tender mercy. of our God. So God is merciful towards us. He is kind towards us and he wants us to be with him. And as we think about these things, he draws us to verse two. And in verse 2 We see where Paul is used of the Holy Spirit to say, fulfill ye my joy that ye be like -minded. Having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. There's obviously a great unity here. We have a comfort in Christ. All of us can find comfort in Christ. Sometimes we find it in other things or stuff or stuff. So we try and it doesn't really work. But Paul here is saying, fulfill my joy that you be like-minded. How do we like -minded? How do you take a bunch of people from different backgrounds? From all over the place, how do we come like-minded? Who says having the same love? And if we think of the same love as Christians, who or what are we to love most? It's not a trick question, but who are we to love the most? It 'd obviously be God. And then who are we to love second? Our neighbor, so we're supposed to love God, love our neighbors, even these basic principles that would have been taught from the Old Testament. We have the same love being of one accord. Now I knew that the car I have must have been of the Lord, because I drive an accord. And it's been very faithful for many, many years, and I love it. The problem is, I think the body's gonna wear out before the engine. But it is one accord. We drive, my family used to drive in one accord all the time. Still do from time to time. Then we'd upgrade to Odyssey. But you know But all of that to say it's the idea of together in unity, the same love, being of one accord, of one mind. We're thinking the same. We're heading in the same direction because we love God. We love his word. That's what helps bring differences together. So we're comforted in Christ, we're comforted in his love, and we can't fellowship one with another, and this creates a great unity that we can enjoy one with another. And then he goes on to say, and and verse 3 I think happens is because the reality of the situation is we don't always we're not always in one accord. We are not always loving the Lord the way that we should. And sometimes we allow our love for self to be greater than our love for God and others. That's just who we are. We're bent. We lean that direction. So in verse 3, what he says here, he says, let nothing be do be done through strife or vainglory. The reason why he says that is because that's what happens from time to time. From once in a while we do things in strife or for vainglory, emptiness, worthless. He says, but in lowliness of mind esteem each other better than themselves. So what do you think that contrary to that? We need to humble our thinking. If we're going to have unity and oneness, what we need to do is think less of yourself and lift up others. Now this is very difficult and very challenging. We really have to change our thinking to be more Christ-like, which we're going to get to in a little bit, because we default. Our setting is me. And we have two other options that we like too, myself and I. We like those three options. That is who we are. And so what he's encouraging us is, this is what we have in Christ. Don't do things in strife, pride, doing it yourself. But what can help us to get through this is think esteem. Help others out better than themselves. So what that means is you have to treat other people better than the way you would want to be treated. That's what he's saying. And he continues with this same thought as we look at this thought of unity, having a mind of unity in Christ. Is verse 4. He says, Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others. Do you know when we're tempted to look on things of others the most? There's a couple different times I can think of. We look on the things of others when they have something that we want. So we're looking at what they have, and we can covet. Another time we looked on the things of others. I don't know why this is, but in school and growing up, why is it that you always think the other person has the right answers? And you're trying to look on the things of others. I've hired this verse to, well, you know, I've been told in the Bible to look on the things of others. Yeah, but you're not supposed to look at their wrong answers. Okay, how do you know that they're right? The problem is you don't think you're right, so you're trying to cheat, you're trying to help yourself, and really it's a form it hit me one day that's actually stealing. You're stealing their wrong answer so you can get the same wrong answer that they have. And you're stealing anyways, regardless if it's right or wrong. That is not the idea here. We're not looking for others to take from them for my own benefit. When it says, look not every man on his own things, it says, but every man on the things of others, you are looking to how to benefit others. You're looking at how you can be a blessing and encouragement to others. Not take from them for your own benefit or covet what they have or what you think you want. We're looking on the things of others and not just to get what they want. I need to make a distinction. Sometimes people want Oftentimes, people want a lot of things. When we look on the things of others, where maturity and start looking at others really comes into play is what they need. Not what they want. And we're going to see this as we're looking, this whole chapter really I'm trying to summarize of rejoicing in Christ, who gives us a humble pattern. What we're going to see is Christ looked at us to meet a need that we had, not necessarily want, but a need that we had that only he can fulfill He was not thinking about himself. He was very selfless. He was looking on the needs and the things of others. This is the mind that we ought to have, this mind of unity that's not centered on self. And it is so easy for us to just sit back and think about me, to think about self. Anyone can do that. And most people do. The challenge that we have as Christians is to try and think like Christ and to think about others. And this is what we're going to see in the mind of Christ in verses 5 through 8. In verses 5 through 8, we're going to see the mind of Christ. It says, Let this mind be in you, which is also in Christ Jesus. If you ever, what does God think? What what was Jesus ever thinking? What we're gonna do here is we're gonna get a direct line of thought here, as if the word of God is how God thinks and how he works and how he's made itself manifest to man that we can know him. But he's going to give us a piece of what he is thinking. What is it like to think like God? What is it to have the mind of the Savior? So that's what we're going to look at right here. Having the mind of Christ. What is it? Well First off, I want to remind us, in verse 6, it says, who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God. Just saying it simply and easily, Jesus is God. Period. He made this claim many times. We can go to many different person passages to show this. One of my favorite is John , the end of John 8, but there There's so much passages that we could turn to, but we're not going to. For the sake of argument, let this mind view, how does Christ think, and Jesus Christ is God. So if we want to know what God's thinking, let's look at this. Who being in the form of God Thought it not robbery to be equal with God. Now, I was hoping a little kid would be up here close, but if I was to give Hmm. Actually Joshua, can you just come up here just real quick? I know he won't want to, but it's okay. Okay, this is my set of keys. Okay, it has things, keys to the church and various other little places. And so I'm gonna give these to you. So I gave this to Joshua, okay Good. Now, if I go to Joshua and I say, I want my keys, what he cannot do is say, you just stole that from me. You can say, you can't steal that from me. Yeah. I uh am I stealing my keys? No, I took my keys and I gave them to Joshua and he did nothing with them because he doesn't know what to do, and then I take them back. And he didn't want me to take them back this time, so now I'm I'm taking it from him. Did I steal that which I gave him that belonged to me? Is that stealing? Can I steal that which I already own? No. Okay, thank you. Thank you for that. You cannot steal from yourself. You can't do it. Because by definition, if you own it, it's yours. So therefore, to steal from yourself, it's kind of hard to do. I like this passage in verse 6, because who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God By Jesus Christ making the claim that he is God, he is not taking away anything from God because that's who he is. Jesus Christ is God. He cannot take from himself. We're going to get a little bit more of this in verse 7, but it's important for us to understand in verse 6. What is Christ thinking? Well, Christ is God, and here in verse 6 he's saying, in the form of God. And I just want to say We're not just talking about a physical body here. In John 4. 24 it says God is a spirit, and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth. So God does not have a physical body. He doesn't have eyes and ears and hands and arms. But the Bible will use these things to describe God, the Father, because how else can we comprehend who God is? We have this all-knowing, all-powerful, all-present God who has no physical body that what we can try and imagine with our limited sin-cursed minds. So the Bible will often give God human characteristics, if you will, just so we can try and comprehend pieces of who he is. So here Jesus Christ is God, who says being in the form of God thought not Robert to be equal with God. So Jesus, who is God, now God doesn't have a body, but what we're getting at here is if you were to make God and make him a man, guess what you would have? Jesus Christ. That's as close to God as you're going to get because that's his God putting on flesh to live among men, ultimately to die and to be raised again. So God, Jesus is God. He can't steal from himself. And it's not the form of God that, oh, this is what God looks like. Well, no, that's what man looks like, and he had to take on that so we can relate with God. God already knows who we are. And one verse I put on there is John 4. 24, God is the Spirit. And then we get to verse 7. And this is equally important. But made himself of no reputation, but took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. Now here's what's amazing. It said, but made himself of no reputation. So Jesus Christ is God. God does not have a body, but he becomes a man. Jesus Christ becomes a man, and what he does is he doesn't cease to be God. He still remains God, but he is choosing Jesus Christ to limit himself. Because if we have a God who is omnipresent, all-knowing, all-powerful. The fact that he puts on flesh is automatically limiting him in who he is. Can a man be everywhere at all times? And every mother said, no, I have tried. I have one soccer mom band, and that is it. And I have multiple kids that have me outnumbered. I can't be multiple places at once. Doesn't work. So the fact that Jesus Christ, who is God, puts on flesh, he's automatically, just by our own thoughts, we know he is limiting himself. Of being omnipresent. And he's limiting himself in these ways. That's just one good example. So Jesus is still God But he has his limitations, certainly physically. So that's why it says he made himself of no reputation. And by this, he made himself of no reputation. One thing I want to point out here in dealing with what Christ and what he did is I have an illustration and it comes fresh in my mind because we've been studying Genesis for the teens in Sunday school. I'm going to compare the Tower of Babel and Abraham, just to help us see this illustrated for a moment. With the Tower of Babel, and you see this in Genesis 11, verse 4 in particular, it says, and they said Now go or go to. Let us build us a city and a tower whose top may reach the heaven. And let us make us a name, lest we be scattered brown the face of the whole earth. So they said, let us build a city, let us build a tower, let us build a name, let us do this. Who are they leaving out of this whole equation? They're leaving God out. They're doing this about me, myself, and I and it's us and it's all about us. And we are gonna shake our fist to God. In fact, we're gonna build a tower so big it's gonna go right up to God. We don't even we can just walk right up there And I want to contrast that in the very next chapter, just a couple verses later, in Genesis 12. In Genesis 12, verses 1 and 2, we see this. Now the Lord had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country and from thy kindred and from thy father's house. Now whose idea was this to leave everything he knows? This was God's idea for Abram. Abram just wake up on the wrong side of the bed one day and decide, you know what, I'm going to take everything I have and I'm going to move as far away as I can. That sounds like a good idea today. That's not what happened. God goes to Abram and says, I want you to leave your country, I want to leave your kindred, and I want you to go. And he did. And here's what God said he would do. He said, I will unto a land that I will show thee. You're just gonna pack up your bags, I'll tell you where to go, and as you go, I'll get more specific with you Now in some respect, as I shared even with the teens this morning, that is often how God works in our lives. Sometimes God just gives us the next step, and if we lovingly, obediently follow him in that step, he reveals the next one. And here's why I think he does he's done that with me on multiple different things, especially in college and with marriage and those things. But if God were to reveal you everything all at once, it'd probably be like us trying to drink from a fire hydrant. We 'd be like, God, that 's too much. I can't handle that. I mean, even the fact that I am a a youth pastor and I've been in front of people, that used to drive me Very nervous, very scared when I was a child. I wasn't the most uh outgoing, talkative, everyone look at me type of kid. It was not me I would not have chosen that path. But one step at a time and one step at a time, God would I would take that step and he would show me where to go. That's what he's doing with Abraham. God doesn't want us to drink from a fire hydrant. He wants us one step at a time to follow him. So you start going, you obey, and then as you obey, I'll give you the next step. So that's what he's doing. But what also does he do? And this is a great contrast with Genesis 11. Because now he's saying in verse 2, he says, I will make thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great, and thou shalt be a blessing. Here's what's interesting. So who is doing the blessing and who's going to make who great? God is doing the work to make Agubrahim great. He wasn't a great guy necessarily in himself, especially right here. God is going to do the work. God is going to exalt him and bless him and help him. He is going to make his name great. What is it that the people of the Tower of Babel were going to do? They want to do it on their own, their own way, and we don't need God. We can do it ourselves. Meanwhile, right after that, God contrasts that in Genesis 12 by saying, you see this man right here that no one knows? I'm gonna have a move. I'm gonna give him some instructions, and I'm gonna make him great. You know who makes people great? It's not you It's God's grace and it's his mercy that any of us get to be used of the Lord. And God is the one that's working in him and through him. Why do I give us this illustration? One, it's fresh in my mind from Sunday school. But two. We do not need to make ourselves of a reputation, but a servant. Look in verse 7. But he made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of the servant, and was made in the likeness of men. Jesus Christ didn't come here to make himself and exalt himself as the King of Kings and Lord of Lords that He is. He didn't come here to wave it in our face and say, I am the creator. Although he did many miracles. He was coming as a servant. He was coming to humble himself. You want to know what God thinks? And Jesus Christ is God. And if Jesus Christ is thinking, I can humbly serve the ones I created. That is a great mind of humility of Christ. And that is who we are to be patterned after, to pattern our life to be a servant. And he was made in the likeness of men. If Jesus Christ is good upon flesh and do this, so can we. Then you look at verse 8. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Now we know that as God, he did not sin. And we know that the wages of sin is death. He didn't have to die because he sinned. He chose to give of himself for us. He was obedient unto death for our benefit. He was not thinking of himself. He was thinking of us. We had a need. We had a sin that had to be paid for, that had to be covered. And you and I, as a sinner, cannot do it. We cannot do it. So we become obedient to death, even the death of the cross, even the cruel the punishment. The point of the cross was to kill someone in a very gruesome painful way and make them die as slow as possible. And to make you an example of other people you will not mess with Rome. That's how the Creator allowed himself and gave himself to die. To humble himself and die one of those gruesome, slow deaths that man can imagine. Certainly at that time. That's what the mind of Christ is. The mind of Christ is thinking about others. Not thinking about himself, he is meeting our need. Our need for our sin debt to be paid. That's what God thinks about. Do we think about the sin debt that others have, that you and I have? Do we stop to think of eternity in the big picture? And I know sometimes we get caught up in the here and the now and the material things. I understand that. But we ought to take time, slow down, think like God would have to think the word of God. This is going to help us can rejoice in Christ, recognizing that we have the truth and we can share these things. And Christ, who is the pattern, the one we're to mimic ourselves after. We are to have a unity in him, and we can have the mind of Christ. So we've seen those things, and now we're going to look as we speed up here, a mouth of confession in verses 9 through 11. It says, wherefore God hath all highly exalted him and given him a name which is above every name. So he humbled himself, and God raised him up. Kind of reminds me of Abraham. Abraham just obeyed, he just followed. He messed up from time to time, yes. But God exalted him. He's doing the same thing here with Christ. Exalted him and gave him the name which is above every name. That the name of Jesus every knee should bow of things in heaven and things in earth and things under the earth. So here, God is the one who exalts and lifts people up. And then we look at verse 11. It says, and that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Here's what's interesting between verses 10 and 11, just to point this out really quick. It says, we're to confess who Jesus Christ is, but in verse 10, it says that we should do what? Just look with your eyeballs. That the name of Jesus, every knee should bow. We should bow. Of our own choosing in our own recognizing of who God is and our own humility of Him as the Creator and as the Savior and as our Redeemer, we should bow. And things of heaven and things of earth. And every tongue should what? Confess. Confess. To admit who he says he is. So we should bow and we should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord. And what does this do? It's to the glory of God the Father. So to confess who Jesus Christ is, that points us to God. To God the Father. Because Jesus Christ is who he says he is, and that's who we should confess he is. If he's anything less than that, we are wrong. Jesus Christ, Jesus is the Messiah, the Christ, and he is the Lord. He is the Savior. That is who we should say who he is. He's not just a man. Although he is a man because he had to die, but he is also God. He's also the Lamb of God. He is the Savior, the Redeemer, and He is many other things. Jesus Christ is who we need to confess. So with our mouth, we should confess who he is. Not just at church on Sundays. Not just on a Wednesday night or when we gather together at fellowships. But outside of these walls and out in the world we should confess and tell people who Jesus Christ is. We hear about him all the time. Do you realize that? People talk about our Savior all the time. They just use his name with not knowing who he is. They use his name when they hit their thumb with a hammer. They use his name when something doesn't go their way. And maybe this is the weird observation. But I have never, I grew up a little bit in construction growing up. My dad was a painting contractor, so I kind of was in that world a little bit. I have never heard anyone get mad and upset go, oh Buddha. Have you? I have not. Or they go, oh Muhammad. They get mad, they get upset, and they go, oh, Joseph Smith. I have yet to hear those names. But what we could do is when they hear them use our Savior's name in vain, oh, do you know who he is? Who is Jesus to you? And you might be able to share who he really is because they're just using it like everyone else does because when they get mad upset, that's the name that they use Not Bahmad or Muhammad or Buddha or anything to say. Doesn't happen. Why? Satan doesn't care as much about those names. They're distracting enough as they are. But are we confessing who he is with our mouth of confession? So we've looked at the mind of unity, the mind of Christ, the mouth of confession. We're going to be picking up the speed here. Motivated to please God in verses 12 through 18. Motivated to please God. What we're going to see here in verses 12 and 13, let's look at it. Wherefore, my beloved. As ye have always obeyed, not in my presence only, but now much more in my absence. Work out your own salvation with fear and trembling, for it is God that worketh in you both to will and to do his good pleasure. So what's great about this verse is it's showing us a little bit of integrity and character that a Christian should have. We just don't want to obey when the boss is looking. We want to obey all the time because ultimately, if you want to say our boss, the one that we serve, is God Himself. That's why we i even if you don't work in the church, I have the blessing of serving here at the church and I've got a great boss. A great pastor. We all we do have a great pastor and he's wonderful to work with and to serve with I enjoy him and his family very much. So I have that blessing and that privilege. But not all of us have that. We ought to be the best employees even if we don't serve a believing employer. We should be the best employee. We ought to have character. We have integrity. We don't have to agree with everything they do But ultimately, in the secular world, you're doing a job for them you should do to the best of your ability. Not only when the boss is there, but when he's not. And here we say, therefore, my beloved brother to the church of Philippi, you've always obeyed, not in my presence only. So you've obeyed when I was there, which Paul would expect. But he says, but now much more in my absence. And then he says, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling. So that last phrase in your own thinking, wait a minute, wait a minute. So you're you're supposed to be working all the time and having good character and integrity, and then you're supposed to figure out your own salvation? What's he mean by that? This word work out here, okay, to work out, to put forth energy, okay, it's not saying now figure out if you're saved. What Paul is encouraging the church at Philippi is he's saying, whether I'm there or not, continue to live out who you say you are in Christ. He's not saying this is how you get saved. He's saying act like you're saved to put forth energy. That word work out means to do, to accomplish, to produce. We could really say just to live out your Christianity, your biblical principles, and obey them. We see this same word used in Romans 7. 15. It says, for that which I do. That's the word there for work out. That which I do, I allow not, for it I would that I do not. But what I hate that I do, and the greatest verbal gymnastics we've seen is continued on there in Romans 7. But the thinking there is to work out, to do, to accomplish, to produce. Christianity from the inside out so it could be seen by others. We don't need Secret Service Christians. We need Christians when it means to work out, to put energy to live out who you say you are. That's what they're doing. They're obeying not just when Paul's there, they're obeying when he's not there. And so when you think of it that way, it this verse kind of seems to make a little bit more sense. He says, work out your own salvation and why it be with fear and trembling. Because God is everywhere all the time, knows your thoughts, knows your intents, and knows what you're doing. To work out, to live in the audience of one, to please and to serve God. Because he is there whether Paul is not. He's there when Paul is. They need to continue to live out that way, recognizing that we are to fear God and to serve him It's not saying, okay, now you've got to do these works so you can get saved. No, he's writing to believers. He's saying, live out your Christianity is what he's telling them to do. And this continues. We see this in verse 13, for God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure. God energizes you and He can help you as you are doing your best to please Him and to accomplish His will. God will help you if you're trying to obey Him. He's not going to abandon you and leave you. He will not do it. And then he goes on to give us this reminder in verse 14. He says, do all things without murmurings and disputings. Why? Because that's what we tend to do. I don't like this job. You want to have a conversation with an employee? Talk about how bad your boss is. Well, you'll fit right in. But do all things without murmurings and disputings. What are we to be? That we may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God. We need to be living here, living as lights for God in this dark, perverted world. That's what we see in these verses 14-15. Living as lights. And I'm reminded of Matthew 5. 16, let your lights so shine before men that they may see your good works and glorify your Father which is in heaven. So why do we do good works? It 's not to get saved. It's to give evidence that we are saved. That's why we do what we do. Because that's ultimately what God desires for us to do is he wants to live out who we should be. We're trying to follow the pattern of Christ. We're thinking about others. We're trying to meet others' needs. Ultimately, what does everyone need? They need the gospel. They need Jesus Christ. They need to know that their sins are forgiven. We need to give evidence of that by being driven and motivated by a fear of God and knowing that we serve Him to share Christ and how He has loved them and He can comfort them and He can come alongside them and He is always present to help them So we be blameless and harmless, as the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights of the world. And as is holding forth the word of life, that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, and have not run in vain, neither labored in vain. Our laboring and our working for Christ is not empty. If you take a balloon and you blow it up and you pop it, it's of no more value. It's worthless. There was nothing there. Whether it was helium or your own breath, you take that balloon, you pop it, it's worthless. It's done. You put it in the trash. That's here. Your life in service for Christ is not empty. It has value And we must uh move on here. He says in verses 17-18, yea, and if I offered upon the sacrifice of service for your faith, I joy and rejoice with you all for the same cause. Also do ye joy and rejoice with me. You know what Paul is saying here? Paul rejoices in his life of service to his Savior. He's rejoicing that. We should not be Christians, though. He already said without murmurings and disputings, but Christians should not be Everything the world is falling apart and nothing's going right. And I understand we get frustrated with things. But in our person, we ought to be driven by understanding the depths of who we have with our heritage in Christ as we covered with the blessings of Christ and knowing the truth and that we ought to be a little bit more Encouraging. We gotta have a little pep in our step, then the world. The world really has nothing to live for but themselves. And we see where that takes them. Lies, deception, trampling over each other. We have a greater purpose. Our purpose is Christ. And we can rejoice, a lot of Philippians, is rejoicing for who we are in Christ. And we have a great pattern, we have a great example of Christ with excellent humility to show us that, you know what, anyone can live for themselves. But as Christians, we're not to live like that. We're to live like Christ and we're to think about others and help meet others' needs. And then very quickly, we're going to look at, very quickly, basically the rest of the chapter is going to focus on two things. We're going to look at messengers of the work of Christ. I really love how this chapter is laid out because it starts with the humility of Christ. And it says some things that we should do. And then it ends with two more human examples. Because when we're thinking about Christ, we're like, yeah, but I'm not God. I can't do those things. Okay, I understand that. But here are two human examples that he gives. And very quickly you have Timothy. Timothy is first one. In verses 19 through 24, we see how Paul is going to send his faithful man, Timothy, here. He's an example of a faithful, like-minded servant. Paul's like, I have this man named Timothy. He's faithful. He no one will care for you like he would. I mean he would care for you as if I was there. So in my absence, Timothy is very like-minded. Talk about unity and on being one of chord. This is a great illustration. So this is the first man 's illustration of Christ-like humility and service with joy and excitement, and it's okay to live for God. And Timothy is very like-minded like Paul And so much so that in verses 23 or 22 and 23, Paul basically calls him his spiritual son. It's not his physical son But he has probably shared the gospel with him and trusted in Christ as a Savior, and he's clearly discipling him and working. He is a son in the faith, his spiritual son. And who better that Paul can send than Timothy? He is an example of a man who is humbly serving with joy our Savior and giving that example. And Paul says, I'm sending him to you. He's like-minded, kind of fulfilling the first part of this first part of this chapter even. Paul says, it's going to be a comfort to me to send him unto you, because I know he'll be honest. And he thinks like I do. I've trained him so we think a lot alike. And that's gonna be a comfort to me. He's gonna be honest and kind Our second example that we're going to see is Aphroditis. And this is the rest of the chapter from verses 25 through 30. And we see a great description of his character. And I would use the word reputation. We're not supposed to build reputation for ourselves. But we all have a reputation. And we see this in verse 25, a great description of him. And then so much so that the description we can see of who he is in verse 25 is played out in verse 25. 26 and 27 because he was trying to serve them by carrying messages to Paul and then back to them, and he got sick. And really, he was close to dying. And it reminds me of chapter 1, verse 24. Aphrodite this year, he could have said, you know what, it's not worth it. It's not worth the fight. I'm just gonna die. You know, it's not but what he decided to do is I need to keep going. I need to encourage Paul. I need to get back to these people. I'm sure there was a motivation there. with his sickness to stay alive and to help others. So it reminds me of verse 24 of chapter 1, where it says, Nevertheless, to abide in the flesh is more needful for you. So even this man that we don't know much about, he's a great example of someone that we can pattern after. Another example, you have Timothy and you have Aphroditus. He is thinking of others to meet their needs to be an encouragement to Paul and to the Church of Philippi. And he is rejoicing. And excited about this, and he wants the church to receive him well too. If you look at verses 28 through 30 here, basically he's going to rejoice when receive God's messengers. He says, Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness, and hold such in reputation, because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not regarding his life, to supply your lack of service. towards me. He did this for others. He was giving of his life, humbly serving others for the cause of Christ and Savior. So we have two examples. human examples, not just Christ at the beginning, who made it all possible with dying on the cross. God putting on flesh. He gives two more examples of other men. that we can pattern ourselves after. So in this chapter two, we as God's people, as believers, we can rejoice in Christ Who gives us a humble pattern? Will we choose to think about others more than we think about ourselves, especially when it comes to meeting their need with the gospel and help and encourage them in the Lord? Father, we are so thankful and privileged to come before you to just look through this chapter. We could have spent more time in different places But for the purpose of this message, we just want to get through the chapter. Lord, we are so thankful that Jesus Christ is God in the flesh, that we Can have fine comfort and love and fellowship in him. We can rejoice and have joy in our service for him. We shouldn't be sad and discouraged as Christians I know that happens from time to time because we are human. But Father, could we pause and recognize that you have a pattern that we could humble ourselves before you and do our best to serve you by meeting the needs of others, particularly when it comes to comes to the gospel. Father, help us be with us and that we can praise you and rejoice in who you are and what you've done on our behalf And we just do this all to the name to bring glory to you of our precious Savior Jesus Christ. Amen