And let's all turn together to the book of Luke. And we are looking at Luke chapter 21 again today. And we're looking at verses 29 through 38. Luke. 21 verses 29 through 38. And we have been looking at a very uh complicated yet also very important topic, and that is the return of Christ. In fact, it's interesting. I did a study on the book of Revelation back in 2019. I didn't know at the time that I was uh going to bring that into 2020. But um if you're interested in um a breakdown of the book of Revelation, we actually studied that for about a year in 2019 going into 2020. And so the topic that we're addressing is something that is flushed out in a lot more detail in other passages. But today we're going to look at the importance of responding appropriately to God's word. How does Jesus finish this Olivet discourse and how it's recorded for us here in Luke 21? He finishes it with this reminder that God's word is absolutely certain. And so let's look at the text together. We'll pray and then dig into its details. It says the following. And he spake to them a parable, Behold, the fig tree, and all the trees. When they now shoot forth, you see and know of your own selves that summer is now at hand. So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand. Verily I say unto you, this generation shall not pass away till all be fulfilled. Heaven and earth shall not pass away, but my heaven and earth shall pass away, but my word shall not pass away. Take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting and drunkenness and the cares of this life. So that the day come upon you unawares. For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the earth. Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass And to stand before the Son of Man. And in the daytime he was teaching in the temple, and at night he went out and abode in the mountain that is called the Mount of Olives. And all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple to hear him. Let's bow together for prayer. Lord, as we dig into this passage one more time this morning, I pray that you'll speak to our hearts. Help me to communicate the text carefully, precisely, accurately. And I pray that we would not miss the ultimate intent that is being communicated in this final portion of the Olivet Discourse The fact that your word is certain, it is sure, and what you have said will absolutely come to pass. No exceptions, you will do it. And so, Father, I pray that as we think about that reality, we would respond properly to it. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. As Christ is concluding this appeal , He appeals in one very simple way, trust what God has said. In fact, when we talk about the Word of God, it's important to realize that we come to God's Word. God has communicated in a lot of different ways throughout human history. During the time that the Word of God was being written, God spoke through prophets. In fact, when we go to Hebrews chapter 1, this is how he opens the book, it says that God spoke in times past. unto the fathers by the prophets. And he hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son. When a prophet spoke, The word that they spoke was from God, and it was to be taken with absolute certainty that what they said was true. And in fact, It's not just that they would say this is from the Lord, but there would be signs that would validate that in fact this wasn't just a person going rogue and saying, I'm speaking on behalf of the Lord, and then it doesn't come to pass. It was a very, very serious thing when someone says, I am speaking on the Lord's behalf if it did not come to pass. In fact, that person was called a false prophet. not just a false prophet, they were even to be put to death under the Old Testament system because it was such a serious thing to say, God has spoken, and in fact he had not. We then go to Isaiah 55. 11, where the scriptures say, So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish. that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereunto I sent it. When God sends his word, not only is it true and reliable, But his intention for sending it, in fact, that is absolutely guaranteed as well. God's word is not going to fall short of its intent. If he has spoken, he has a reason for it. And so we can trust it, and we can trust his intent. And then in Isaiah 40, verse 8, it says that the grass withereth. And the flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. So what do you see here? You see that even in those days when God was speaking through the prophets, what he said was absolutely certain. The reason that he sent it was going to come to pass, and that though all the things of this world are going to fade, and even the beauty that we hold in our hands, if you pick a flower and you examine it, it's already dying What God has said is going to stand forever. No exceptions. But then we go to an even fuller concept, and that is not just what God has spoken, but what God has spoken and commanded people to write. We're talking about the scriptures. So we know throughout a lot of history, God was not only right having his word written by prophets, but he was also speaking through prophets. But now we come to the time where God's word has been given in its fullness, and we have the written word. What does God say about the written word? Well in Matthew 5 it says Verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled. So every single detail, every minuscule detail, even the dots of the eye, though they did not have them written in English, okay But our version of a dotting of the I or a crossing of the T, the difference between an L and a T or an L and an I, that little distinction of the crossing and the dotting Those words matter. What God has said, He will absolutely 100% fulfill what He has said. You say, well, what if it takes a long time? Doesn't mean anything. A long time doesn't change the fact that God is going to fulfill what he has said he will fulfill. And so listen to how the written word is described in Psalm 19 and in 2 Peter 1. The law of the Lord is perfect. Converting the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. And in 2 Peter 1, he says, we have not followed cunningly defies fables. when we made known unto you the power and the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. No prophecy of Scripture is of any private interpretation. The prophecy came not in old time by the will of man, but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost. So what do we see here? When God is speaking his word, it is sure. When God has written his word, it is sure. And there's a third saying. It's unbreakable. That means when God says he's going to do a thing, he does it. Because his character's on the line. Titus 1. 2 says. That God who cannot lie has promised before the world began, and that is why we have confidence that God will complete everything He has promised to do as it relates to our salvation. So what is the point of the text in front of us this morning? Well, the point of the text in front of us this morning is to drive home that simple concept that when God says a thing, he does it. And even if there is a delay, that does not mean that somehow God's word has or will fall short Or to put it in another way, Christ is coming again and we should be living with a healthy anticipation of his promised return because he said he would do it. That's the point. We've got to live with a consistency with what we affirm to be true, what we affirm to say is true about us as Christians. And so this morning we're going to see that from the text. So how do we see that? First of all, I want to remind you this is going to kind of bridge a gap between what has been said over several different weeks and what we see in the text this morning. And that is that the day of the Lord is something that is imminent. This is a term that has the idea that there is nothing stopping God from doing this at any time. That means there's not some sign that we should be looking for and it's like, oh, when that happens, then I'll know now God's going to do this thing. We talk about The day of the Lord, that period of time that is really the central focus of these verses, that is something that could happen at any time. In verse 31, he says, see and know for yourselves that summer is now nigh at hand. So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know that the kingdom of God is at hand. Now what he is describing in that statement is something that is happening within this period of time known as the day of the Lord. And there are three very similar concepts that Scripture talks about that we have to keep distinct in our minds. The first is what we call the rapture of the church. First Corinthians chapter 15, verse 50 says this. I show you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. Not talking about the kids in the nursery. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump, the trumpet shall sound, the dead shall be raised into corruptible, and we shall be changed. Now notice that in these verses he says nothing about things you're looking for before this happens. It just happens in a moment. Well then we go to 1 Thessalonians 4. 13. I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep. That you sorrow not as others which have no hope. We are we all which are alive and remain until the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep. For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ shall rise first. And we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. So shall we ever be with the Lord. Wherefore comfort one another with these words. Again, I want you to notice he gives no indications of things we're looking for before this happens. It happens in a moment. It catches people off guard. But there's a second thing we're talking about in Scripture, and that is the day of the Lord. That is referred to in a very similar way. For instance. 1 Thessalonians 5. 1. Of the times and the seasons, brethren, you have no need that I write unto you, for you yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. Now what does that mean? What that means is it's going to catch people off guard because there aren't all these things that are pointing to it. It just happens it's going to catch them off guard. He says, then there will be sudden destruction that comes upon them, and they shall not escape. But ye brethren are not in darkness that that day should overtake you. It's kind of interesting how he talks about this. It's something that's going to happen in a moment and he's indicating that the church, the believer is going to be preserved from that event. It's something that they will not escape, but you, brethren, will not be overtaken as a thief. Why is that? Because you're ready. Then we go to 2 Peter 3 verse 8. It says, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness, but his long-suffering to us were. Not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance. But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night. To put it very simply, when the scripture talks about the rapture, the catching away of God's people, and he talks about the day of the Lord. Both of those concepts are described as things that have no signs indicating they're going to come. They're going to catch people off guard. But the second coming of Christ is described differently. It is not described as something that catches people off guard, but rather something that as people live through history, they're going to see certain things taking place within that period of time. And those are going to be things that warn them if they're unbelievers, Christ is coming very soon. Or secondly, it's going to comfort them. that as believers who have been persecuted during that period of time, that in fact Christ is coming to rescue them very soon. And so you see this distinction of the day of the Lord, the rapture being imminent, and the second coming of Christ having signs pointing to it. By the way, the reason that I believe in a pre-trib rapture basically comes down to that one simple thought. That the rapture and the day of the Lord are imminent, the second coming is not. That one distinction is really all that I have to hang my hat on for that one issue. So I say it very gently. But what does the scripture say about the second coming of Christ? Luke 21. The fig tree and all the trees, look at them. When they now shoot forth, ye see and know for yourselves that summer is now at hand. So likewise when you see these things come to pass, know that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand. Who is he talking to? He's talking to the people that will live in that time. When they will see those signs. Or 2 Timothy chapter, or 2 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 1, Be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled by spirit or word or letter, as that the day of Christ is at hand. Let no man deceive you by any means. That day shall not come except there first come a falling away, and the man of sin be revealed, and the son of perdition, who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God. Remember ye not that when I was yet with you I told you these things? Now what is he saying? He's comforting the church of Thessalonica that they're not living in that time because those events haven't taken place yet. And those events, when they do take place, are going to point people to the fact that Christ is coming immediately and very soon. And so I wanted to begin with that. Again, that is a topic that we could spend a lot of time on if we wanted to get into it academically. There'd be lots and lots of discussion, lots and lots of questions. But the bottom line is the scripture talks about those three different things in two different ways, one being imminent and one being filled with signs, and that is the distinction. But now I'd like to focus our attention on what is the heart of what Christ is saying here. The heart of what Christ is saying is not to get them to help to help them understand their timeline and figure it all out. It's to help them to realize that what he has said, whether they get it or not, it's going to happen. And the reason it's going to happen is because he promised. And even if there's a delay, it doesn't change the fact that God's going to do what he said he would do. And so that moves us to verse number 32. Where it says that God's word is in fact completely 100% reliable, whether we get it all or not, whether we can figure it all out or not, it's going to happen, as he said. Verse 32. This generation Shall not pass away till all be fulfilled. You say, well, what group of people is he talking about? That would be an interpretive discussion that a lot of people have had over the years. But what I believe he's talking about is the people who will see those events take place. You say, well, what is the point of that? The point is this. When these events begin to fall in place one by one, signs pointing to the second coming of Christ, the people who see those events It's going to happen quickly. And let me let me kind of contrast that with what we see today. For instance, over the last couple of weeks, we've looked at things like the the the destruction of Jerusalem in AD 70 and the dispersion of the nation of Israel all throughout the wor all throughout the world. And the fact that that's not going to be a permanent thing, but there's going to be a day when God's going to bring them back to the land. And he talks about the t the fact that that land is going to be trampled by the Gentiles for a season. The question that should pop into our mind is, well, how long is that season? And the answer is we don't know. Because there's a sense in which that is still not entirely fulfilled. And someone says, well, I know in 48 the Jewish people came back to their homeland of Israel. That's true. But do they rule over Jerusalem like they will, as it's described in these passages? The answer is no. They do not. And so there's still a sense in which we do not know how long this period of time will be. We know at a minimum it's 2,000 years. But when we talk about the events that are described in this text, They're not going to take place over a 2,000-year period. They're going to take place in a very short period of time, and the people who live those through those events They're going to see the whole thing because what God has promised is going to happen very quickly. That is the sense of what he means when he says, this generation shall not pass away till all be fulfilled. And so notice how many different ways he talks about the reliability of what God has said. First of all, verses 29 and 30, he says this: Behold the fig tree and all the trees. When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of yourselves that summer is nigh at hand. Does anybody in here have a fig tree in their yard? Does anybody have a fig tree that they want to cut down because there's no figs on it? I see a couple of hands. Well I have a fig tree. Actually I have a lot of fig trees because I've Been cutting and grafting and planting and all that kind of stuff. But I have this one fig tree that it started out like a little stick And then that little stick that looked like it was dead over the winter got all these little leaves and shoots, and all of a sudden that this stick becomes a tree. And I mean it happens really, really fast. In fact this morning there was a there was a fig way up in the top, actually a cluster of them, and I had to like reach and pull the thing down and I pulled some figures about the size of a golf ball. That 's pretty neat. Ate it in my breakfast Now you're like, don't tell us about your fig tree. Well, it's in the text, so I can do that. Come on now. But here is the point that he's making. You go through the winter and you look at a fig tree, you know what it looks like? It looks like a stick in the ground. I mean it looks like it's dead. There's there's nothing green about it. There's no fruit on it. It's just a stick or a couple of sticks all set together In fact, if you have a fig tree, you may even wonder after a hard winter if it survived. Because it looks like it died. But then as the weather starts getting a little bit warmer. When the days start getting a little bit longer, you walk out there one day and you see these little this little green cluster starting to come and you're like, it's not dead. It's still alive And then you come out another day and it's it's a little bit bigger, and then you see a little shoot here and a little shoot there, and all of a sudden you see all these shoots coming up. And then you start seeing these figs start developing on it, and then You get a couple at the beginning and then there's a pause and you get a whole bunch at the end. But the whole point is this. When you see that the sticks get in leaves, you know that something's about to happen. You're going to get summer. And you hope you get figs. And he says, when you see these events, that's what you should take away. You've had all this time go on and everything's been so quiet and the world has continued as it has for all these thousands of years, and all of a sudden certain things are starting to happen and the people living that during that time are gonna go, hold on a second. What God said is about to take place. That's the sense of it. God isn't done with his work He's going to continue his work. What is that all about? It's about saying, God's word is sure. Secondly, in verse 30, it says, When you see these things come to pass, know that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand. This promise is absolutely certain. God isn't going to fail in his promise. Verse 32, verily I say unto you, that word verily means it's absolutely true. It's certain. In fact, sometimes When Jesus was teaching, he would say, verily, verily, or truly, truly, I'm telling you this. This is certain. Listen up. The idea is when it that this promise is something that you don't have to doubt in any way. Verse 32, this generation shall not pass away till all be fulfilled. When it comes to pass, it's going to happen very quickly. And you know, when you look at history, it's it's kind of amazing how this works. You can watch things that are going on and you really don't know where this is going, and then all of a sudden things just start snowballing very quickly and things move in a direction you're like, where did that come from? Isn't that how history works sometimes? That's how wars start. There's like something boiling under the surface for a generation or two, and then all of a sudden This guy makes a decision and that guy makes a counter decision and that guy makes a counter decision and all of a sudden you have people at war. And people are dying, and it's a horrible mess. That's how wars start. I mean that's how people get into conflicts with one another. There's something boiling under the surface for a while, and then one person makes a little comment and the other person makes a little comment, and pretty soon you might as well say it's uh it's war of relationship And the point that he's making is this. When you see these signs for that generation living at this time , Do not doubt them. God is about to quickly do what he said he would do. All of this time where people have been lulled into complacency, they better wake up. That's the sense of it. He then goes on to say, heaven and earth shall pass away, my word shall not pass away. Nothing can stop what God has promised. A snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the earth. Those who ignore his word will be taken by surprise. Watch and pray always that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass. Believers will escape what he's talking about. But the whole point of everything that is stated here is that it is about saying what God said is going to take place. That moves us to a third truth. We need to take personal inventory of how we respond to this. Now notice what he says in verse 34. He says, Take heed to yourselves lest at any time your heart be overcharged. With surfiting, nobody in here knows what that word means, and drunkenness, people know what that one means, and the cares of this life, so that the day comes upon you unaware, for as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell in the face of the whole earth. Now let me kind of walk through what is being stated here so that we don't miss some some very careful nuance that's stated. The first thing that I want you to notice is that he makes a distinction in these verses between two groups. Like a lot of times when Christ taught in parables, he would be teaching in parables, and there would be a group of people in that audience who were believers, and a group of people in the audience who were not believers. And so as he's teaching this parable, he's giving something, and he won't he won't necessarily say something like, Hey, I'm talking to all the believers right now. Listen up, here's what you need to hear. Now I'm talking to you unbelievers. Not suggesting anything by that, okay. But and now I'm talking to you guys. He doesn't do that. He just gives the teaching and a parable was given in a way that sometimes would hit both audiences And what would often happen is the person who had an ear to hear wouldn't understand what was being said because there would be an aspect to it that was veiled. And so they would come to Jesus and they would say Can you explain what you mean there and say, This is what I explain? This is what I mean And they go, Oh. And they would hit 'em It's almost like the Proverbs. Many of the Proverbs are written in this way. Where you give this statement, and when you give the statement, then people, they don't quite understand it, but when they ask the question and they work through it in their minds, then it becomes clear He's got that sense because he's just given this parable, but you do see in his statement a distinction between two groups of people. He says, take heed to yourselves. That's you. A snare shall come on all them. There's a difference between his audience. So what that's telling you is that Jesus is saying that some of the people that are going to hear this teaching, it's going to affect them personally, and some of them it's not, but they still need to heed it. That is the sense of what is there. The question is, well, why the distinction? Well, because the warning is given within the context of security. In fact, a lot of scripture is given this way. Warning, but security. For instance, warning. It is possible to live inconsistent with what you know. You could be told that these things are true, and you could just ignore that. You can be told that these things are true and you believe them intellectually, but you become complacent, you become distracted, and you don't think in terms of those things. In fact, that's where a lot of Christians live, if we're to just totally be honest. We know what the Word of God says. We believe it's true. We affirm it. But we we drift and then God draws us back and we drift and God draws us back. And so we know it, we believe it, but we don't always live fully consistent with it. That's where a lot of people live. Or there's the warning that there are real life consequences for this inconsistency. But then there's the security. These things will not come upon them. These things will come upon them, but not upon you. You say, well, why that distinction? If we look at a couple of other passages, then I think we can see it a little clearer in these other texts. For instance, 1 Thessalonians 5. You're going to see this distinction very, very clearly. in 1 Thessalonians 5, which I believe is actually Paul expounding a lot of what Jesus is saying here. He says, of the times of the seasons, brethren, believers You have no need that I write unto you, believers. You yourselves know perfectly the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night. You understand this? He says, then sudden destruction cometh upon, what's the next word? Them, not you. Why does he say that? Well, because the believer ain't going to be there. That's what he's saying. Or then he says, They shall not escape, but ye brethren are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief. Do you see the distinction between the them and the you? He makes that distinction. We see the same kind of thing in 2 Peter 2 verses 4 to 9. This one is very interesting because he gives an illustration that kind of, we could say, flushes out the point that he's making. So listen to what he says in 2 Peter 2, 4. If God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell and delivered them into chains of darkness to be reserved unto judgment, and spared not the old world, but saved Noah. Bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly, and turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrah into ashes, condemned them with an overthrow, making them an example unto those that should live ungodly. And he delivered just Lot, and this is an amazing statement, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked. That righteous man dwelling among them and seeing and hearing vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds. The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished. Now, why does he give this example here? What he's basically saying is this. When God judges the world, he puts a distinction between those who belong to him and those who don't. That's basically what he's saying. A great example of this is the Passover. He put a distinction between those who believed the truth about the Passover limb. They put the blood on the doorpost. and those who did not. He put a distinction between them. Or you see the example of the fact that you have in the days of Noah all those who got into the ark. They were not judged, but the rest of the world was. And then the most interesting example would be that of Lot and Sodom and Gomorrah. So God goes down to the city, and he basically says, I'm going to judge the city. He comes and he talks to Abraham first. And Abraham knows that Lot's in the city. He says, well, if there's just 50 righteous, would you spare the city? He said, sure. I'll do it for 50. He's like, let me try another one. And he moves all the way down, all the way to 10. And he stopped. Maybe he should have gone with two. It's not what he did. Ten. You know what's amazing? God, it shows you, it shows you. And one of the most severe judgments in all the Old Testament, it shows you the mercy and the patience and the incredible restraint of God. That's what that shows you. But for ten righteous, he says, I'll spare the city. Then he goes down to the city to see what's there. But what do you see in that text? You see that God doesn't just say to Lot, I'm going to destroy the city, so come and follow me. He literally has to grab him and take him out. And he has to take his wife and his two daughters. So God literally by force removes these people from the city before he judges it. Now why do you think that Peter why do you think Peter would use such an example? It's basically to say this. If God would show that kind of care in such a situation, don't you dare for a moment think he wouldn't show that kind of care when we talk about these particular topics. God preserves and protects his people. But there's another side. Why the example of Lot really matters? He's called just. If God didn't say it, maybe you wouldn't know it. That would be one thing I'll say. He was constantly vexed by his personal choices. He's there in that city. He saw, he heard. When I think about the way that Lot spoke and related to the people of the city, it's completely shocking to see what he says and does. He was physically removed from the city before its destruction, but he lost everything but his life. Everything but his life, including his wife. His choices and the end are a warning to compromise believers. So the specific warning is this, do not be like a person. In fact, that word surfiting is the idea of an over a person who has a hangover. It's like a person who has been partying all night and they've drunk themselves into a stupor and they've acted foolishly and they wake up the next morning their head is pounding and their body is aching and they don't even remember what's taken place the night before. He says don't be like that. Or don't be like a drunken person, someone who's intoxicated, and they have no clear judgments. But then there's another one. Don't be like a person who's anxious. The cares of life have choked out the truth. Do not be like a person who is unprepared so that the day overtakes you unaware. So what is his point? His point is be ready and act on what God has said. That moves us to a fourth truth. Our lives should reflect who we are as believers in Christ In verse 36 he says, Watch ye therefore and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass. and to stand before the Son of Man. Now you know what's really interesting about that statement? When he makes that statement, he has already said a lot of things about the distinction between the believer and the unbeliever living through those events. He talks about the believer as someone who is persecuted for righteousness' sake. He talks about the believer as someone who shouldn't be concerned that when they're put in a tough situation, God is going to He's going to protect them and he's going to give them the words to say, and they're going to be able to stand in that day. He talks about the fact that these are people that even their own family might abuse them and malign them and persecute them. And so it's really clear when we look at the Olivet discourse that there are people who are believers and there are people who are not believers and there's a distinction between the two. Why would the believer be watching? Because he wants to be delivered. Why would the believer be praying? It's because he's being oppressed and persecuted in those events. Why is he looking forward to that day? It's because Jesus is deliverer. You might say, well, hold on a second. I thought you said that the church won't experience that, but now you're talking about believers. Well, there are going to be many people converted during this time period. And so while that a period of time will begin without any believers, simply God working with a fallen, broken world, there'll be many people who will be converted in that time. And many people who will turn to the Lord and they will be persecuted in that day. Read through the book of Revelation. What will you see? One of the greatest movements of the Spirit of God in all of history is going to take place during the time that is being described in these days. And so you could say that there's kind of a dual side to this for the unbeliever when these signs come, it's their warning. You've been playing. With eternity. You better stop it. And for the believer, it's you have been persecuted incessantly, but your deliverer is coming. You see the difference between those two things? And so what does he mean when he says be accounted worthy? I want to state something about this. I think it's very important. We talk about being accounted worthy. Our acceptance before God is entirely rooted in our union with Christ. We should not look at this passage and be like, okay, the way that a person becomes a Christian is they pray and they look for Jesus. And they and they they suffer persecution. That is not the intent of what this text is trying to communicate. The way that a person is reconciled to God, the way the person is accepted in the presence of a holy God Is through the work of Christ alone. How do we know that? Well the scriptures filled with teaching on this, but one passage really hammers this out Philippians chapter three verse eight, Paul writes, I count all things, meaning the things that he trusted in before his conversion. I count all things but lost for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. And I count them all but dung that I might win Christ. And here's the key to how he was accepted before God. And the same is true for you and me. And that I might be found in him not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ. The righteousness which is of God by faith. So when we talk about the statement of acceptable, we're not talking about a person being accepted before God and forgiven and cleansed and made righteous because they are righteous practically. That is a totally different matter. That issue of our standing before God is entirely rooted in Christ. His death on our behalf, his righteousness imputed to us, his sacrifice, that's it. But there's a second fact. Our choices should reflect who we are in Christ. Should. Important word. A lot of the New Testament is written in this way. Let me give you just two examples. Romans chapter 6, verse 5. If we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection. Knowing this, our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed. Henceforth we should not serve sin. Reckon you also yourselves to be dead to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. Now what is he saying there? Because this is true, this is how you're supposed to live. Not if you want this to be true, then this is how you're supposed to live. Those are two very different things. Because then you should reckon. Or we see another example in Ephesians chapter 4, verse 1. I, therefore, the prisoner of the Lord beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith you are called. Or you could say it like this, worthy of the calling that you've been called to. You are a child of God. You belong to Him. You should live like it. You should walk in a way that is consistent with your position. Lots and lots of scripture is directed in such a way. There's a third fact. When our actions are consistent with our position, we are walking in a manner worthy of who we are in Christ. You catch that? When our actions are consistent with position, we are walking in a manner worthy of who we are in Christ. I could say it like this. I give you this example. Let's say that I'm sending my kids off to camp, which I've done a couple of times, and I sit down with my boys and I say, hey guys, when you go to camp, there might be some guys in your cabin that do some things that you know aren't right There might be some guys that say some things that aren't right, and you know what you better not join in with that. Don't laugh with their jokes. Don't contribute to their folly. You are a Porsche. Don't you dare not act like one. You know what I'm talking about? They might say, well, were were you always uh a great example when you were a young porse? Well, let's not go there. My dad had those conversations with me Now, am I suggesting that if my kids do something that they shouldn't, that they're not my child? No, actually that connection is something I might be embarrassed about at that moment. No, that relationship is established in stone because that is a biological connection. They are my children whether they're living like it or not. And I'm their father whether I act like it or not. But when they act consistent with the way that I've taught them, then I would say, you're living like my son. That's what I'm saying. I'm not saying you became my son. I'm saying you're living like my son. You're living like the person that you are. And as believers, sometimes we need that reminder. Second Thessalonians 1. We ourselves glory in you and the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure, that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God for which you also suffer, seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation on them that trouble you, and to you who are troubled rest with us. What's interesting is when Paul talks about the church of Thessalonica, he says, we give thanks to God always because of the way that you responded to the gospel, and not just how you responded to the gospel, but how we can see that your response to the gospel in fact has radically changed your life. And that's what he's indicating on it. That's what he's emphasizing. The fact that they are, as we all should, living consistent with the position that we have in Christ. And so that is really the sense, I believe, of what he's saying there. You say, well, what are the causes for the wrong response to Christ's return? There's really two possible ones. Either one, a person doesn't believe it and that's why they don't respond to it, or two, they live inconsistent with who they are in Christ. Those are only two options. Either I don't believe it, and that's why I'm not responding properly to it, or I do believe it, but I'm not living consistent. You say, well, what are the potential outcomes? Well, one would be an eternal destruction outcome. If someone's not a believer, what is the result of that? Whoever was not found written in the book of life cast in the lake of fire. One of the reasons that people can be hardened and callous towards these truths is because they just they don't believe him at all. And the indication is they aren't concerned about the return of Christ. All they're concerned about is living for the moment That's all they care about. But there's another potential outcome, a loss and shame when people stand before Christ. Now, these are people who are truly saved, but not living like it. First Corinthians 3 15 says, If a man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss, but he himself shall be saved yet so as by fire. You know who I think about when I read that verse? I think of Lot. Was Lot delivered from Sodom and its destruction? Yes. What was Lot left with when God pulled him out? Not a whole lot. If God hadn't told us that Lot was a just man, we wouldn't even know it. But obviously he was. And the third outcome is commendation. and reward at the judgment seat. Jesus says in Matthew 25, Well done, good and faithful servant. Thou hast been faithful over few things. I will make thee ruler over many things. Enter into the joy of the Lord. What is ultimately going to determine how you respond to this truth? Do you believe it's true? That's really what it comes down to. Do you believe it's true? Do you believe that Jesus came and died for your sins? Do you believe that he rose from the dead? Do you believe that he is the one and only way of salvation? If you believe that, you'll trust in it and you'll stand in it, and it's going to change the absolute trajectory of your life. If you hear those things and you say, I don't believe them, guess what? That determines where you're spending turning, and it also shapes how you'll live today for the rest of your life. If a person says, I believe that these things are true, but they get distracted, guess what? God's got to constantly bring things back into their life to point them back to the truth that they affirm they know it's true. That's why we need to read the Word of God. That's why we need to be under the preaching ministry. That's why we need to interact with other believers. Because God uses those things to draw us back to reflect on what we actually believe to be true. So how do we apply this? I give you some final very simple thoughts. Number one is this. Take God's word literally Do not walk out of the service going, well, it's been 2,000 years. I wonder if it's really going to happen. Say, I don't know when it's going to happen. I don't know how it's going to happen, but God's going to do it. He said it. Take him literally. Two. Do not allow the delay of fulfillment to make you become complacent. In fact, that delay should probably heighten our anticipation. Because we're closer today than we were yesterday. God is going to fulfill these things. Third, we must live with an anticipation of this return The truth is there'll be times in life that we go through a lot of heartache and a lot of struggle, and it's very tiring and it's very wearying, and we say , I sure like to not live in a broken, fallen body, and I'd like to not have all the misery of this fallen world, even so come Lord Jesus. Now, if he's left you here, he's got a purpose. So fulfill it. But live with that anticipation of his return. And lastly, live consistent with who you are as a Christian. Every one of us should remind ourselves daily, I have been bought with a price I should glorify God in my body and spirit, which are his. Every single one of us, every day that we get up, we should remember that it's of the Lord's mercies. We're not consumed. His compassions fail not. They're new every morning. Great is his faithfulness. And because of the mercies of God and my position in Christ, I'm going to present my body to him a living sacrifice, wholly acceptable to God, which is my reasonable service. I'm not going to be conformed to this world and be transformed by the renewing of my mind. When temptation comes and I'm tempted to drift, I need to remind myself If any man be in Christ, he's a new creature. Old things have passed away, all things have become new. I need to reckon myself to be dead to sin and alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. We need to live consistent with who we are in Christ. May God help us to do that. Let's bow together for prayer. Before I close in prayer, I just want to ask a simple question. Maybe there's someone here this morning. They hear this message and they go, I mean, I'm really nervous about this coming of Christ thing because I'm not a Christian. And I really don't understand how one is reconciled to God. I want to get that question answered this morning. If that's you, don't leave here without reaching out. Maybe somebody's listening on the live stream this morning. And you started out maybe out of curiosity and then you've been watching this message and you've been thinking about these things and there's a lot of turmoil in your heart. Don't hesitate. Reach out. Send an email to our church. Reach out. We want to connect with you and go through the gospel with you and show you how you can be saved. So if there's anybody here this morning that does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior, please don't leave here. Without reaching out, either when you walk through those doors or as soon as you get home, send us a message. Don't hesitate. And then to the believer, I encourage you, let us live consistent with who we are in Christ. Let's live with a hopeful anticipation of his return. Let's bow to the Lord and commit to him these thoughts. Our Father, as we think about your word, I pray that we would walk away with the most important things in the back of our minds. Your word is absolutely trustworthy. We as your children need to live with an anticipation of our Lord's return. Help us to live like the people we are in Christ. Help us to be committed and faithful to your purposes. Bless each of us as we head to our separate places. Those who are struggling in their hearts right now, I pray that they would reach out. And they would get the help that they need spiritually so that they can be strengthened and encouraged in the Lord or pointed to Christ's finished work. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.