Morning. Hope you all are doing well. Looking forward to good Sunday school time and a happy Mother's Day. I know today's a very special day. We had Candy and my kids were already raiding the candy, my poor wife. Give her candy and they're like, Mommy said I could have some chocolate. I'm like, are you sure? I guess that's the way it goes. So Alright, well it's good to see each of you. Let's go out together for a word of prayer and then we will get into our lesson this morning, uh continuation of our discussion on this concept of forgiveness and the importance of of forgiveness as Christians us learning to forbear with one another, to extend grace, and to forgive. So let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to bless our time. Father, thank you again for the opportunity to be gathered as a body of believers. I pray that our time together this morning would be very Christ-centered. would uh encourage us in the word that we would be challenged. I pray that if our hearts are struggling with this issue, that you would uh work in us in a way that would soften our wills and that we would uh respond meekly to your authority and that we would be um a humble and gracious people. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen Okay, I want to remind you again of Colossians chapter 3, so if you could turn there, this is the passage we looked at last week. Colossians chapter 3 verses 12 through 16. I'll read it and then from there we're going to get into part number four on this issue of forgiveness. So Colossians chapter 3, verse number 12 says this. But put on, therefore, as the Elect of God, holy and beloved, vows of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, long Long suffering. Forbearing one another and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness, and let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to which also ye are called in one body, and be ye thankful. Thankful. Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom. Now I want to remind you that last week what we talked about is the basis for Christ Christian forgiveness. The first thing that we found in this passage is that we we begin with our position in Christ. He says, put on as. In other words, because we are God's people and because we are a forgiven people. we are supposed to respond to others differently than the way that we would if we were not a forgiven people. And so he says, put on as the elect of God. That word elect means a called out person. So he's referring to the fact that God has called us out from the world. And then the second word that he uses is the word holy. The idea is that we are not only called out, but we are set apart to God. So he called us out to be. The third word that he uses to describe our position is the word beloved And that means that we're the object of God's affection, the object of God's love. So he basically says, because God has called you out to set apart you unto himself and because he set his affection on you, you have a responsibility as a Christian to have a different kind of disposition and a different kind of attitude and different kinds of actions towards the people around you. So the second thing he talks about from position is our heart. The way that we are to relate to others based on what's going on inside. It's not just about externals. It's not about saying the right thing or doing what is culturally acceptable in a certain context. But he's talking about the way that we're supposed to be internally, the way that we're supposed to think and what we love and what we hate. So he says, put on as perf uh first of all, heartfelt compassion. The words used there are bowels of mercy. And what's interesting is when we read in the Old Testament, in particular, the way that the Jewish culture would describe internal affection and emotion. was they talked about bowels of mercies. Maybe the best description we could have is when a person is really nervous, maybe you're going to sing or you're going to give some kind of a a teaching on something, you're going to speak publicly, you're really, really nervous, or maybe you know You know, when you're a teenager, you're playing sports, and it's the first time you've ever pitched, or it's the first time you've ever gotten to bat in a varsity game, all of a sudden you feel internally something in your gut. You know what I'm talking about? Well, basically they described emotion, the deepest felt emotions, as bowels of mercies. In other words, it's mercy that comes from the deepest part of who you are. It really affects you emotionally. So it's it's a deeply felt, heartfelt compassion. The second word is kindness. This has the idea of a grace-based relate relating to other people, kind. He talks about humbleness of mind. The idea is that we're to carry ourselves with humility. Meekness that has the idea of being self-restrained. A person who's meek is not a weak person. It's a person that has the restraint or the control to respond appropriately, even when someone has wronged them. In fact, meekness is an incredibly important Christian virtue for us to learn to put on. And then the last one he mentions is long suffering. The idea is that there is a patient forbearance. There is bearing under a load for a period of time. So he starts with position. He moves to the the heart of the person and then he talks about the example. Just like Christ forgave you, you're supposed to forgive others. And then the standard, let the peace of God rule in your hearts. The idea is that since God has dealt with me in such a way, that is supposed to govern how I relate to other people. So that was kind of how we closed out our discussion last week. What I'd like us to do this week. is I'd like to get into the question of what it means to actually forgive. What's really interesting about words is that words are ways that we try to We try to relate concepts. And sometimes you cannot relate a concept with one simple word. Isn't that the truth? In fact, it's interesting in every single language you learn about how people think and how they process things by what words mean. One of the things that I loved when I was living in Ghana is I got to interact with the Fonti language. And the Fonti language was more of a picturing kind of language. So when we would sit down and we would go through the Bible and I would talk about what those words meant and what those phrases meant, we would pull out the Fonti translation. And I would ask Mr. Byoney, my friend, to talk to me about what those fonti words meant. And a lot of times he We would come to a word and you'd say, Oh, that is a deep word. I was like, Well, what do you mean by that's a deep word? He's like, I don't even know how to put into the English language what that word means I'm like, really? Well give it a try. And he'd say, well, let me give you a story. Or let me give you an illustration. And so he'd give this illustration or he'd tell this story and then he'd say, that's what that word means. And I go, oh. And so I would try to put into English words what was being described in another language. You know, when we talk about synonyms, we could say, you know, in our in the English language, we have certain words that we we'd say they're synonyms. They mean basically the same thing, but not exactly the same thing. In other words, there's enough overlap that we could say, if I'm saying this and I'm saying this, I'm saying the same thing. But this word might go to a fuller, richer meaning. This word might not be as descriptive. You know, I go to the example of Romans chapter 5 where it says that God commendeth his love toward us. Now we could say that God is showing, but that word commend is more than show. It's the idea that he's showing with the intent to make us go, wow, that's incredible. So what I'm trying to communicate here is that there are times that we have to describe a concept With explanations, with illustrations. Maybe there are several different words that we use to describe a concept. The concept of forgiveness is one of those things. If I ask you what does it mean to forgive, then more than likely you're not all going to give me the same answer Now the answers you're going to give me are going to overlap. But the reality is that there will be nuance to the answers that you give. So with that in mind, I want you to realize that the word forgive or forgiveness Is actually describing several different terms that are used in the New Testament, Greek terms. And what's interesting is two of those terms are standalone terms. The third example is not actually a term, but it's a description. I want you to see this because what I think it'll do is it'll help us to understand when the Bible talks about us needing to forgive one another. It's not just saying, okay, I forgive you and let's move on and ignore it. There's more to it than that. The first word we're going to come to is the word charizamai. And I'm going to read to you a couple of passages where this term is used, and the way that it's translated is to forgive. But I want you to understand that these are not the only places in the New Testament that the word is used. In other places where the word is used, there is color, there is nuance, there is a picturing there, and I want to kind of describe that because this helps us to understand the concept of forgiveness. Colossians chapter 3, verse 13 is the first example. By the way, that's in the verse I just read. Colossians 3. 13 says the following, forbearing one another and forgiving one another. Now when we talk about forbearing, we're talking about there's a patience. And there's a willingness to kind of go along with someone. We don't just write them off. We take time to try to work through things. Sometimes we have somebody that family member, it could be a child, it could be our spouse, it could be our parents. And the reality is we have relationship to them, so we value that relationship. to them, but they're not acting appropriately. And so what do we do? Rather than just cutting off the relationship, we're patient with them so that we can work through this issue, we can preserve relationship and eventually this person will come to the place where they were able to resolve this conflict appropriately Forbearing, that's the idea. So he says, forbearing and then forgiving, and that's the word charizamai. If any man have a quarrel against any, even as Christ forgave , A second example is Colossians chapter 2 verse 13. He says, you being dead in yourself sins, and the uncircumcision of your heart hath he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all of your trespasses. A third example, Ephesians chapter 4, verse 32 says, Be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. Now, what's very interesting about this verse is that this verse is going to give you a little bit of the color of the context of that word and how it's being used. Notice the phrase, be ye kind. Tender-hearted. Those words are very, very important. Because they're going to help us to understand some of the color of that word forgive. And then a fourth example, a 2 Corinthians. 2 verse 7, he says, you ought to forgive him and comfort him. That word comfort's really important, lest perhaps such a one should be And in the last passage, the context is that you have a person who has been openly rebellious and sinful. The church was ignoring the sin. Paul rebuked them for that. They had to put this individual outside of the church, not because they hated them. But in love, they separated that person for a season so God would deal with them, hopefully humble them, and then they could be restored. And so now we're talking about how you restore this person. But I want you to notice words like tender-hearted, phrases like be kind, words like comfort this person. This tells us about the color of the word forgive. Now I'm going to go back and I'm going to tell you what this word charizomai means. It means to adjust Extend grace. Extend grace. Now grace is a giving of something that does not, it's not deserved, okay? And it's giving somebody something that's good when they don't deserve it. I mean, when we talk about God forgiving us and God saving us, We talk about salvation as grace. That means God has not just forgiven me in a cold and calloused way. God has forgiven me And God has lavished me with wonderful blessings as a person who is a child of God. This word has that coloring of an extension of grace. We talk about forgiving somebody. One of the aspects of forgiving them is giving them goodness when they deserve justice. Being kind, having a compassion towards them when, frankly speaking, they do not deserve that compassion. They do not deserve that kindness. They do not deserve that goodness. This is a major part of what we mean when we say forgive someone. Extend to them grace. Now listen, you can extend grace to someone even who has not yet come to you and said, Will you forgive me? You can do Now that doesn't mean you can restore relationship, but you can extend grace. You can be compassionate towards this particular person, tender-hearted. The second word that's used, and this is really the most common word, and this is the word that's used most commonly in the Gospels, is the word aphiemy. This has the idea of to release a debt that is owed. Now there's a reason that I talked about the concept of indebtedness. last week and how in the Old Testament there was built into the Old Testament law a releasing of debt on a seven-year basis So every seven years, if somebody owed you a debt, you had to release them of that debt. If they had been indebted to the extent that they were working for you in your house Not only were you to release them of their debt, but you were not to send them out empty. It's really interesting. In other words, there's not just the releasing of debt, but there's the extending of grace. We see this in this word Ephemeral In other words, forgiveness is also the releasing of a debt that one could justly demand. For instance, in Mark chapter 2, verse 7, he says, Why doth this man speak blasphemies? Who can forgive sin but God alone? Those are the Pharisees talking. And when they talk about someone forgiving sin, only God can forgive sin. He's talking about God in the sense of only God has the right to release a man of a debt that he owes to God ultimately. Mark chapter 2 verse 10, it says, that you might know that the Son of Man hath power on earth to forgive sins He saith to the sick of the palsy, Rise up, walk. Romans chapter 4, verse 7 says, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven and whose sins are covered. So the point that I'm trying to make here is that when we talk about forgiveness, forgiveness has a sense of releasing a debt that you believe or you justly believe is owed to you. And another side of forgiveness is an extension of grace or an extension of kindness when the person does not deserve it. There's a third aspect to forgiveness, and this is not really described by a word, but actually by a phrase. And I want you to turn with me to Romans chapter 12. And by the way, this is the passage that we started at when we began this whole discussion. Romans chapter 12, verses 17 and 19. Notice what Paul writes. He says, recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men. I want you to think about what that phrase, recompense to no man evil for evil. What does that mean? It means lay aside your perceived right to judge a person. Lay aside your perceived right to judge a person. Second example in verse 19, he says, Dearly beloved , Avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. In other words, not only are we recompensing to no man evil for evil, but we're giving place to wrath. We're choosing not to avenge ourselves. In other words, what Paul is saying, when you're relating to other people, part of forgiveness is recognizing, hey, God is the ultimate judge here And so I'm releasing what I perceive as my right to be judge and jury and executioner. Hopefully not executioner, but you know what I'm saying. I'm releasing my perceived right to this, and I'm putting it on God's shoulders and I'm saying, God, you're just and you're righteous and you're holy, and I'm gonna let you judge in your time on the basis of your standard. Knowing what you know as a God who is omniscient and I am not, I'm going to let you be judge. What I'm trying to show you is that forgiveness is a very rich concept. And so as God's people, we have to recognize, even when we do not have the ability sometimes to repair relationships, to restore relationship. Because an individual is so stubborn and so self-willed, we still have a responsibility to extend grace, to not cling to our right to demand the debt. And we do not need to hold on to what we believe is our right to be the judge. We're releasing that to God. Now in the best case scenario, someone comes to their senses, and in repentance they realize they've wronged you And though you have extended grace and you are not clinging to your right to get your debt back, and you're not being the judge. You can restore relationship because they admit, here's where I was wrong. Let's work to resolution. You can do that. But even if a person is unwilling to do that, You can still extend forgiveness in these ways. I also want to mention that there's a difference between what we could call legal and relational forgiveness. In fact, we understand this because we talk about the gospel when we are justified, the legal debt against us has been canceled because of the cross of Christ. Forgiveness. Having been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. That's talking about how forgiveness is a legal transaction. There's now no more condemnation to those who are in Christ Jesus. So God does not hold us legally guilty before his courtroom because of the cross of Christ. I want you to realize that there are times That there are sins that are committed that have legal consequence, and we cannot actually deal with this. You know, for instance, let's say that you have a person who commits a horrific crime: murder, rape , theft, abuse in some way. And someone says, I'm going to relationally forgive you as they stand in the courtroom. Do they have the right to legally forgive that person? Answer. Nope, they don't. They don't. Whether the person that has been wronged believes the person should be let go because they have relationally forgiven them. There is a legal case against that individual before the state of Maryland. Maybe it's a federal case against the United States. The reality is that they don't have the legal right to forgive because they're not the judge and they're not the state and they're not the federal government. They're not God. In fact, it's interesting when in Luke 23 it says, Jesus said, Father, forgive them, they know not what they do. It's even interesting that even in that context, Jesus appeals to his father and says, Forgive them. Mark chapter two, verse seven, he says, Why doth this man Speak blasphemies, who can forgive sin but God only? Galatians chapter 3, verse 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us. Cursed is everyone that hangeth on us. In these passages, he's talking about forgiveness in a legal sense. And so I think it's sometimes important for us to recognize that when we talk about this concept, it does get into the legal realm. And there are times that even though we would like to see someone receive mercy from governments or whatever, the government has an obligation, moral obligation, to execute justice. Very, very important. We talk about relational gift forgiveness. The sin is against someone, and this person has dignity and they've been mistreated. In fact, when we talk about 1 John 1, verse 9, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. In that context, that forgiveness is not legal. But it's relational. You have a person who is legally justified, but they have sinned against their father, and that sin needs to be addressed in order for fellowship to be restored. In Ephesians 4. 32, he's talking about a violation between individuals. He says, be kind one to another, tender-hearted, forgiving one another, as Christ As God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you. So I think when we talk about this issue of forgiveness, we do have to recognize there is both a legal and a relational side to this There is a sense in which there is a forgiveness that you and I cannot give because only God can give that. Or only the person who is in the position of authorization to do that can do that. that. So I think it's important to remember that. Okay, before we get into this next section, I want to ask, do we have any questions? Go ahead. It's not so much a question as I was thinking about the other questions. other side of that where the the state has a responsibility at times to execute the judgment. Like a death penalty by the sense. And it's not murder for someone to execute the judgment Yeah. And by the way, what what we can see there is the reason that capital punishment is not murder. When it is being done in the right way, is because God created government and gave to government the responsibility to execute justice. And so what we're saying is not I mean this is why we don't have the right as citizens to execute justice like that, okay? God created the government, and the government responsibilities to do that. And by the way, that's not just an Old Testament concept. That is a New Testament concept too. I mean Peter affirms that, Paul affirms that, he goes back to what we see in the Old Testament and he says, God hasn't changed on this issue. Yes. By the way, justice is a harsh thing. Okay, when you see someone who has broken the law, it's easy for someone to go, oh man, that's terrible. How could you do that? Well, look at what they did. Who is responsible to uphold justice here and to judge with judgment here? God gave the responsibility to government. And so when a government refuses to be just. refuses to execute justice, it will answer to God. So when a when a when a government miscarriages justice and punishes people wrongly or if they're not being just in how they judge issues, okay, then we have a problem. But God's going to deal with them on that. She's going to deal with them on that. And interestingly enough, there's a reason that we have the concept of due process in our system. Due process, believe it or not, is something that goes back to the biblical concept of justice. You know, you look under the Old Testament law, there was a responsibility to prove that someone is guilty when they've been assumed to be innocent. We assume innocence Until there's proof with enough witness to prove guilt. And so a person you might say, well that well, that doesn't make sense because people are going to get away with crime. No, they'll never get away with crime. Never. Because God will always deal with sin eventually. And so within our system, having a biblical worldview, we say there's more than the now. There's innocence until proven of guilt. We recognize that there are going to be times when justice is going to fall short on the human side, but that's why we're thankful that there's a God in heaven who's going to settle it in the end. And so we do the very best that we can. But we recognize that that that falling falling that that we have that limitation. And one of the things that we are losing in our our culture when we as we are losing a biblical ethic and a biblical worldview Is we're also losing this conviction of what we call due process. Innocence until proven guilty. The burden of proof is on those who are saying So interesting. Alright, any other questions? Okay, let's get into a final section here. I want to talk about some misconceptions about forgiveness. The first misconception that I think people can have is that if somebody doesn't ask me to forgive, then I don't need to give it. Now, what I mean by that, and please understand. The way that I'm using forgiveness here is I'm not saying you can repair relationship and you can restore relationship and you can go through this whole process if a person's unwilling to address their site. I'm not suggesting that What I am suggesting is that you can extend grace , you can release debt, and you can choose to let God be judge. You can do those things no matter how the person relates to you And the fact that you have chosen not to cling to debt, and the fact that you have released to God the right to be judged does not mean that God's just going to let it go. God 's going to deal with it. But the burden's not on you, and the burden's not on me to deal with this individual. For instance, in Romans chapter 12, verse 19, he says, Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves. Rather give place unto wrath, for it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, saith the Lord. I hate to say this, but a lot of us take our Bibles, and this is how we read this. It is written, vengeance is mine, I'll repay. Stop. That's how we read it. But it's God who said that. It's not me, it's you. It's not you and me, it's God. He says, if your enemy be hungry, feed him, if he be thirsty, Mercy, give him drink, for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head. Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good. So we see the extension of grace. We see that there is kindness. James 5, 1 through 11 says, be also patient, establish your hearts. For the coming of the Lord draweth nigh. Grudge not one against another. He later goes on to say, God cares about you, he is kind, and he is merciful. And he is compassionate towards you in those times of great difficulty. A second area I want to mention is that forgiveness is something that doesn't automatically restore trust. Now I'm going to give you an example of David and Saul. We see a lot of interesting interaction here. In fact, when we go to 1 Samuel 24, verse 12, we see that David has the opportunity to take Saul's life. In fact, the people that are with David are saying, Get rid of Saul. He is unjustly trying to kill you. He is your enemy. And David says, No, I'm not going to touch the Lord's anointing. God has made him king, and when God wants to remove him, God will remove him without my help. What is David doing? He is choosing He's choosing to extend grace and he's choosing to extend mercy. And what's very interesting is in verse 12 it says, The Lord judge between me and thee, and the Lord avenged me of thee, but my hand shall not be upon thee. David is saying, God's going to deal with you, Saul, not me. Let God's justice determine what is right here. He says, the proverb of the ancients, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked, mine hand shall not be upon thee. After whom is the king King of Israel come out. After whom dost thou pursue? After a dead dog, after a flea? The Lord therefore judge between me and thee and plead my cause and deliver me out of thine hands. Now listen to what Saul says after this. It says, Saul lifted up his voice and wept. And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I. Thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I've rewarded thee evil. What is this? This is a description of what we've been talking about Thou hast showed this day how thou hast dealt well with me, for as much as when the Lord hath delivered me into thine hand, thou killest me not. If a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? Wherefore the Lord reward thee good, for thou hast done unto me this day. Now, behold, I know well, thou shalt surely be king And the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hand. Swear now therefore unto me by the Lord, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house. David swear unto Saul, and Saul went home. And David and his men got them up unto the hold. You might say, well, what are you trying to communicate there? Here's what's very interesting: David showed incredible restraint. He showed grace. He released the debt. He said, God's going to be your judge. All of those things are really descriptions of what we're talking about here in this concept of forgiveness. Saul is apparently humbled. I mean, he's saying things like you're righteous and I'm not. And I know that you're going to be the king when I'm gone. And I hope that God rewards you good for how you've rewarded me good. But you know what's interesting? David did not go home with him. He did not go back with Saul. And you say, Why? Because Saul could not be trusted. Period. You know that you can forgive somebody and not trust them. You can. You can extend incredible love and grace and kindness. Still recognize that this person does not have, they have not proven that they can be entrusted. And we see an example of that. Let me give you another interesting example. This is also from the life of Saul. Forgiveness does not eliminate the natural consequences of sin. I'm actually going to skip one and I'm going to come back to it. In 1 Samuel chapter 15, we see the example of Saul. He was commanded by God to utterly destroy the Amalekites. Now what's interesting is when we look at this passage. We see that the reason that God did this is specifically connected to the way the Amalekites dealt with the children of Israel when they were a vulnerable people. Now, as we read through this passage, we see that Saul did not do what God told him to do. Saul knew that he didn't do what God told him to do Saul was unwilling to address what he had done. And this is the continuation of the interaction between Saul and Samuel. In 1 Samuel 15, verse 25. twenty-two it says the following. Samuel said, Hath the Lord is great delight in burnt offering and sacrifices in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams. Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, he hath also rejected thee from being king. Saul said unto Samuel, I've sinned. For I've transgressed the commandment of the Lord and thy words because I feared the people and obeyed their voice. Very interesting. I have sinned because he is not repentant. He is not repentant. He has said the right words. I have sinned. But the continuation of this conversation is I sinned because It's like the woman that you gave to me, God, she's the reason that I ate the fruit. The serpent beguiled me, God. That's the reason I ate the fruits. I have sinned because the people did this. He then goes on to say this. Therefore, I pray thee pardon my sin. Turn again with me that I may worship the Lord. And we read this, we go, wow, Saul is He 's repentant. He wants to worship God again. He wants to do what's right. This is wonderful. Here's what Samuel says. Saul, I will not return with thee. Thou hast rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord hath rejected thee from being king over Israel. Samuel turned about to go away, and he laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle, and it rent. And Samuel said unto him, The Lord hath rent the king. Kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to thy neighbor, who is better than thou, and has and also the strength of Israel will not lie nor repent, for he is not a man that he should repent. He said, I've sinned, yet honor me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship the Lord thy God. So Samuel turned again after Saul, and Saul worshiped the Lord. And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death. Nevertheless, Saul mourned for Saul. Samuel mourned for Saul. That he was king over Israel. And the Lord said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I've rejected him from reigning over Israel? Fill thine horn with oil and go, and I will This is a really interesting passage. And it there's a lot. There's a lot that could be said here. But the thing that I really want to point out here is that it is true that God allowed Saul to continue to reign for a period. Samuel did worship with him, but that did not change the consequences. Of Saul's actions. He crossed the line, and there were certain things that could not be restored. The point that I'm trying to make is we have to be very cautious that we don't get in our heads, oh, thank you for saying forgiven. I guess everything's back to the way it was before. Doesn't work that way. Folks, God's grace is an amazing thing, and it can rebuild what was broken. But it's going to be rebuilt on a different basis. doesn't eliminate the scars of the past. And the reality is that we need to understand when we talk about this issue of forgiveness. That trust doesn't just automatically come back, that consequences just disappear. The reality is trust will be rebuilt after it has been demonstrated. To be appropriate. And the consequences of the past continue to haunt us many times, but God's grace can turn scars into triumphs for his glory. The reality is that forgiveness is a very complex thing for us to work through. And it's so very, very important that when we Have broken relationships, we appropriately address them. I'm going to give you one more interesting point as well. Patience with stubborn people is not meant to be. passive. I want to go to Romans chapter two, verse four. It says the following. He says, Despise thou not despiseth thou not the riches of the goodness and forbearance and long suffering of God, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repent. The point that I'm going to make here is that when we talk about patience, patience is not passive. Patience is active. For instance, as God is being patient with people, he's still working on them, bringing circumstances into their lives. Bringing them to bear with God's word. He may be allowing them to experience the consequences of sin. God's patience, in other words, his willingness not to move quickly in justice, is not him being passive. He's working. You know, for instance, if we have someone that's being very difficult towards us and we are forbearing, that doesn't mean we stop praying for them. It doesn't mean that we don't stop hoping and praying that God will bring circumstances and individuals that are outside of us that will get them to the right place. It doesn't mean that we are not in our own hearts dealing with our own attitudes towards those individuals. We need to understand that patience is not passive. God took action toward you and towards me when we were rebellious on our behalf. There was a cross before you and I existed. What brings us to repentance and faith in Christ, the process that God is working over the course of our lives, it takes place while we're still being stubborn, while we're still being rebellious. pursuing us in spite of our difficulties. God is regularly orchestrating events in our lives to lead us to repentance. We are to guard our thinking towards others during these time periods. We should be praying continually for God to work in their lives. We should be extending grace and kindness when we can under these circumstances. And so the thing that I want to kind of remind you of is that when we wait sometimes to restore relationships When it's outside of our control and we cannot actually really do anything to restore, we can still take measures patiently that God will use in the end to bring restoration. I want to encourage you, let's not get to the point with people that we just write them off The fact that we have had to step back and give some space and distance does not mean that we've written off. We should give space And pray for God to work. We should give space not because we're angry and being vindictive, but we may do it because we know that it is only in that space that God can begin to work. and to do what he can. And we're not forcing opportunity to show kindness, but when they when it comes, we take it. We take it. God gives us opportunities sometimes to extend grace. And guess what? We take those opportunities. We don't force those opportunities. We take It's almost like when we're trying to witness to a person that it could be a family member, somebody that we interact with on a regular basis. You could take a couple different approaches. The first approach you could take is that you're going to give them a gospel tract on their birthday every single year. And at Christmas, you're going to give them a gospel track and say, I'm praying that you will not burn in hell for eternity. And every single opportunity, I give them that track and I put them that in their face and I do it over and over and over again. Do you think that that's going to improve your relationship? No, it will not, I promise you. They know where you stand, you know where they stand. But you quietly pray for that individual. Day after day after day. And you know what will be interesting? There'll be moments When that person asks you questions, and guess what? When the question comes, you give the answer. There'll be moments that you can just take that step, and you'll see that it is the Lord who is giving you that opportunity. That's when you take that opportunity. It's a long-term thing. God does it over a period of time. And folks, when we talk about restoration with other people , We need to understand many times the same kind of pattern takes place. Sometimes It's years of you just walking with God quietly that becomes a thing that finally gets the attention. We have to be so cautious that we let God be the restorer of relationship. He can do it, he does do it. I'm going to stop there because of our time, but Lord willing, next time we're going to talk about kind of the process of forgiveness. And what I want to do is I want to kind of walk through, okay, we've got all these principles. Let's kind of walk through how to put it all together in a very practical way. That's my goal. So we're going to talk about how we go from principle to Practical, and I hope that that'll be a real help to you. Any questions or comments on our discussion today? Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, thank you for the opportunity to look at your word again. Use these truths to shape our thinking and to mold us into your image Help us to be compassionate, loving people. Help us to be filled with grace. Help us to be lovers of truth. Help us to be people who trust. Trust you and let you work on our behalf. Father, help us to have an unshakable conviction that you are sovereign, that you rule rule and that you reign and that you work in lives, and that you are far more capable of getting into the hearts of men and women than we are. Help us to do right whenever there is conflict. Help us to grow and to mature and In the face of such conflicts, and help us to rejoice in how you and your grace often restore things that we certainly could not have in our own strength. We ask that you'll bless in our service that is coming. We ask that Ask it in Christ's name, Amen