In the Word, morning reflection. And today we are in Luke chapter 2 again. We're looking at verses 21 to verse 32. So if you have a Bible, I want to invite you to take it. Let's all look together at Luke chapter 2, verses 21 to 32. Here's what the scripture says. When the eight when and when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child, His name was called Jesus, which was which was named of the angels before he was conceived in the womb. When the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem. to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of Moses. Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord, to offer a sacrifice according to that which is in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves, two young pigeons. Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. The same was a just and devout man waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Ghost was upon him, and it was revealed to him by the Holy Ghost. But he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. He came by the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the custom of the law, They took him up, then took he up him in his arms and blessed God, and said, Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word. For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. Now, I I talk often about certain texts of scripture that I really enjoy in the Christmas uh when we talk about the Christmas story. And the truth is, this may not be the highest on the list, but it's pretty close. Uh it's not the most thorough ex thorough explanation of who Christ is. But it's a really sweet picture. And I want you to think about this is a very old man. He has been serving the Lord for many, many years. He's somebody that was waiting for the consolation of Israel, meaning that he's looking for the Messiah He believes that God's going to fulfill all of those promises that he's made all throughout the Old Testament. And at the end of his life, he's living during that time period where God is going to fulfill the promises that he's made regarding the Messiah. And Simeon has been anticipating this, and God reveals to him, the Holy Spirit literally tells him, speaking to him as if he's a prophet, and he speaks as a prophet in this text that he's going to not only uh get to hear about it and believe on it, but he's actually going to hold the Messiah in his hands. He's going to see him before he passes into eternity. And so this is a really special passage because you have this old man who's been looking his whole life for the Messiah and he's going to get to see him But let me give you a summary statement and then just talk to you for a few minutes about some of the observations that we see in the passage. A summary is this the events that took place at the temple when Christ was circumcised according to the Mosaic Law revealed more details about his person and work. Now, as you read carefully the text, it's not necessarily saying that he went up to Jerusalem eight days after his birth. He was circumcised eight days after he was born, which was the Jewish custom. But there was a period of time when Mary was ceremonially unclean because she had given birth to a son And in the Old Testament it talks about how long that period is. Well, after that period is done, then they went up to Jerusalem, and they were going to continue some of the responsibilities that they had to follow the Mosaic Law. And so that's really what's going on here. They're going up to Jerusalem, and when they go up to Jerusalem, that's when they're going to meet Simeon. So let's look at the first observation in the passage. The first is this Christ submitted himself to the Mosaic Law even as an infant. Now when we say that he submitted himself, obviously he's not really making a choice here. It's more like his mom and dad are following the Mosaic custom. And one of the things that we see about Christ's life is that he fulfilled all righteousness. He kept and fulfilled the Mosaic Law perfectly. So when we say that he kept it, we mean even details like this. Details that really he didn't have anything to do with, they still were accomplished with him. So he was circumcised at the right time, he was dedicated to the Lord at the right time All of those things happened and they were a part of him fulfilling all righteousness. We also see that he fulfills the law. In other words, the law's pointing to him. And so Christ is going to fulfill every detail of the law perfectly. This is part of that. It says when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising, his name was called Jesus, which is what he was told to do And when the days of her purification, according to the law of Moses, were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written, in the law of the Lord, every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy, or being dedicated to the Lord, to offer sacrifice according to that which is in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves and two young pigeons. So basically, this text is reminding us that Christ's parents did exactly what they were commanded to do They named him Jesus like they were commanded to. He was circumcised the eighth day, like he was commanded to. And at the end of Mary's uh season of purification, then she was going to go to the temple with Jesus and they were going to dedicate him to the Lord. When it says that they were to present him to be holy to the Lord, the the idea is that the firstborn child, a male child, was considered gods. And one of the things that they had to do is they had to actually redeem the child by paying a a price of redemption or you could say a sacrifice. And based on a person's position in society, whether they were wealthy or whether they were poor The kind of sacrifice that they were to give to God when they had a male child firstborn was based upon their financial status or financial strength. And so when it talks about them offering a pair of turtle doves and two young pigeons, what that tells us is that this was a very poor couple. But this also tells us that they were very careful to follow the details of the law as God commanded them to. The second observation we see is that God revealed to Simeon that he would see the Messiah before he died. In verses 25 and 26 it says, Behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon. The same man was just and devout. By the way, that sounds very similar to what the passage earlier said about Zecharias. When it says he's just, that means he is righteous before God, just like Abraham, just like Zecharias, just like any other Old Testament saint, that's a person who is a child of God, a believer, waiting for God's redemption. Devout meaning that he's living out his faith in a practical way. He's obeying God's laws. And then the key, what made him just before God, he was waiting for the consolation of Israel. He was looking for the Messiah. And it says that the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed to him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord Christ. So we see that this man Simeon, a believer who is walking with God, is filled with the Spirit, and the Spirit of God tells him, You will not die until you have seen the Messiah. And by the way, that must have been an incredibly uh sweet blessing for this man to know. And you know, I don't know what time at what point in his life God revealed that to him. Was it when he was a very elderly man? Or was it when he was a middle-aged man? Was it when he was a young man? We have no idea. All we know is that God reveals to him, you're gonna see the Messiah. before you die. And by the way, somebody like Simeon, if he had been studying the Old Testament very carefully, particularly Daniel's prophecies would have understood that he was living during the time that the Messiah would be born. And so those are some interesting observations about Simeon. The third observation that we see is that God guided him to see the child. In verses 27 to 32, literally God moved this man to the right place at the right time so that he would meet the right child. He says he came by the Spirit into the temple. And when the parents brought in the child, Jesus, to do for him after the customs of the law, They took him then took he up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word. For mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. I love this text and the statement that he makes. He came by the Spirit, meaning God directed him. When he picks up this child, he didn't bless the child. He blessed God. He said, God, this is your gift to us. This is the one who you have prepared for redemption He then goes on to say, now you can let me die in peace, as you promised, because my eyes have seen your salvation. And I want to kind of focus in on that last little phrase because it's very important. My eyes have seen your salvation. The final observation we have in this text is that salvation is found in a person, the person of Christ. And verse thirty he says that your salvation is in this child, and he has been prepared before the face of all people. He talks about Jews and he talks about Gentiles. And the fact is that when Simeon talks about this, he's really implying or referring back to what we see in the book of Jeremiah when it talks about the new covenant. And how Jew and Gentile are going to be a part of the same body. And so he's emphasizing the fact that Christ the Savior is not just a Jewish Savior, but he's also a Gentile Savior. And he has been prepared before this moment by God. God's work of redemption was a very deliberate plan Every detail was unfolding according to God's timetables and according to his sovereignty and his wisdom and his power. And so Simeon is expressing that in these verses. So here's the question. What can we practically take from the verses in front of us? There's really one main point that I would like to emphasize today that I think is extremely practical, and that is that Salvation is found in a person. Let me say that again. Salvation is found in a person. You know, every single false view of salvation is going to be found either in whole or in part in something outside of Christ. You know, when somebody believes that the church is what gives us salvation, or relig a religious ritual like baptism, or law keeping, or our own personal righteousness Whenever we believe that we come to God through something outside of Christ, that means that we don't understand that salvation is found in a person. When we talk about the gospel, the gospel is the good news about a person, who that person is, what that person came to do, and the fact that he actually did it. When we talk about salvation, no part of our salvation is rooted in what we do for God No part of our salvation is rooted in some kind of system or some kind of ritual or some kind of inheritance. We don't become Christians because of mom and dad. We don't become believers or we're not saved because of the church that we're associated with. Now I'm not trying to downplay church. Church is important. I'm a pastor, and I believe that people need to be connected to the local church. I believe that baptisms is is important. We see people get baptized and it's a wonderful thing. But baptism and that religious ritual or that ordinance that we practice in the church does not play a part in our salvation. Or the fact that we partake of the Lord's table does not play a part in our salvation, or the fact that my parents were Christians, where that Maybe my dad was a pastor or a missionary or someone else like that, a faithful deacon. That doesn't make me a Christian. Salvation is found in the person of Christ. The fact that he is God in flesh, the fact that he lived a sinless, righteous life, he fulfilled all righteousness, he kept the law perpet perfectly, blameless. Not one detail of the law fell short in how Christ lived his life. And Christ went to the cross and he died on the cross. And he bore the full weight and the penalty of our sin on the cross. And literally, God's just wrath against us for our sin has been removed by the work of Christ. And when Christ rose from the dead, he did it by his own power. He conquered death and he conquered sin's curse when he died and he rose from the dead. And that story of redemption about the person of Christ and the work of Christ and the fact that he did it all, that is where we get salvation. It is all rooted in him. And that's why the scripture says that it's by grace that we're saved through faith. It is not of ourselves. It's the gift of God. It's not of works, lest any man should boast. In other words, all of our salvation is rooted in the work of Christ, not our own work. And so really, Simeon is in a very small way making that very statement I have seen your salvation. In other words, it's all rooted in him, not in me Not in what I'm doing for God or not in some system that I'm a part of. Simeon said it's all in Christ And I hope that that's how you understand the gospel. If you don't understand that the gospel is all in Christ, then you don't understand the gospel And you need to study and understand what it says, and you need to embrace it, and you need to trust in it. The Bible tells us that we can know for certain that we have eternal life if we're in Christ. Romans 8 says, if any man be in Christ, then there is no condemnation to that person. And so we need to remember that salvation is all in the person of Christ. If this has been a challenge to you this morning or an encouragement, I hope that you'll share that. Perhaps pass that along to a friend who needs to hear this. We think about the Christmas season. The Christmas season is celebrating the person who is the redeemer, who is the object of our faith and our Savior. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then I hope that you have a great weekend. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study your word together. Thank you for these wonderful statements made by Simeon. Help us to understand them. If there's even one person here who will hear this uh this devotional thought that does not know the Lord Jesus as their Savior who's not trusted in the finished work of Christ. I pray that through listening to this this message, this devotional, they would come to a clear understanding of the gospel. And in repentance before you, they would trust in Christ. Pray that this would be a blessing to every believer. And we ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. I want to remind you if you live locally and you're not a part of a local church that is meeting in person, that this Sunday we have a special presentation program where we'll be focusing on the incarnation. And so our kids will be singing, we'll we'll have a production, there'll be obviously Christmas uh carols being sung, and we'll have a challenge from God's Word. And so we have our special Christmas program this week on Sunday at 1030. If you could join us in person, we would love to have you. If you can't join in person, we hope that you'll join us on the live stream. Hope that you have a great weekend. Lord will and we'll talk again next week. Bye now.