All right, well good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our service tonight, and uh we're gonna go ahead and get started with a word of prayer. Then after that we have some songs. So let's let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so grateful for the Lord's Day and the opportunity to gather together again this evening. And as we open up the Word of God, I pray that you'll speak to our hearts as we have opportunity to share testimonies of Some of the things you've been teaching us and the work that you've been doing in our lives that we would be very encouraged with the things that you're doing in each of our lives. And I pray that This would be a very special time for those who will be moving out of the area that we would be able to send them out with encouragement and we thank you for the time that we've been able to minister to them and that they've been able to minister to us. We ask it all in Christ's name, amen. All right, good evening. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number two hundred and thirteen. The first Noel. We'll sing verses 1, 2, 5, and 6. If you want the screen, you'll be perfectly fine. So first Noel Great singing. Please be seated as we turn back to hymn number 207. 207. Christmas bell. I believe I know this one, but can we play it through once? Here we go. And one hundred and ninety-nine Heart the Herald Angels Sing. Lots more familiar ones. Great singing this evening. Good evening. Oh, come, O come, Emmanuel. One hundred ninety six. Angels we have heard on high Two sixteen, two sixteen away and a major Got time for a few more Kelly. Six ten? That's a spooky number there. Let's see what that is. Yes, ma'am. One ninety-two in the blue book. Let's see where that takes us. Six ten I sing a new song, all right. Little chorus. I haven't heard that one in a while. 192 in the blue book. Let's all stand for this one. 192. Great singing, please be seated. Arthur, Herald Angel Sling, Hory to the new boy King Peace honor the mercy my own God is me thus recognition. Join for the nations rise, join the triumph of the sky, where the delicate was proclaimed. Christ is glory backwards. How the herald angel sing, glory to the new morning. Man, thank you, Peterson family. We're continuing our studies in Old Testament and finding ourselves in the book of Judges. So you can open with me to Judges 13 and 14 We're going to skim over these two chapters for the sake of the fellowship and our evening. We'll just look at some highlights as we cover some of this. We're going to look at Samson's birth and then his selfish life. So his birth primarily in chapter 13, then we'll just touch a little bit of his selfish life in chapter 14 in the book of judges. And I will go ahead and start reading in Judges 13 with verse 1. And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord. And the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years. And there was a certain man of Zora, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah, and his wife was barren and bare not. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto the woman and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not. But thou shalt conceive and bear a son. Now, therefore, beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine, nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing. For lo, thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall come on his head For the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb, and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. Father. We come before you. Would our hearts and minds be tender and open to the Spirit of God as He uses the Word of God in our hearts and our lives? to reach us, to conform us, transform us more to the image of your Son, our Savior Jesus Christ, and that this passage may be a blessing to us to the children, to the parents, and may we all learn and grow from it, allowing it to change our lives. To be more like you. We thank you and we praise you and come to you through Christ's name. Amen. I just wanted to share, uh, I almost did it during the praise and testimony time, but During Thanksgiving, we get around lots of family, and they usually ask me to pray before the Thanksgiving meal. And I don't get to see a lot of this family very often. And I had preached a challenge at the senior luncheon about being thankful and to the teens, about the the ten lepers and the one came back thankful. So in my own heart and mind I was really uh thankful for what the Lord had done for me and for my salvation. So in the midst of my praying, I was just kind of praying sort of through the gospel and really just giving thanks to God for what He'd done for me. And it came around through someone else to me that like Were you preaching or praying? I I couldn't help but think that when I was just opening in prayer here. I was like, well, I guess both, I suppose, but I mean really I was just thankful. Just thankful what God had done for me in my life. And is that okay? Yes, it's okay to pray and to thank God for all those many things. Death, burial, resurrection, all that, and his life and death and everything. I was just overwhelmed with thanksgiving and You know, some of those people aren't used to I wasn't trying to be long and fancy. Really, I wasn't. I was just overwhelmed with thanks and just wanted to make it known as I prayed for the food and for everyone else. I just said all that to say just came to my mind while praying. But just praise the Lord, truly, that we could be thankful. And one thing I love about this season from Thanksgiving all the way through Christmas is we get around friends and family. And some that we don't get to see as often. And here, even within these chapters, we're going to see some family relations and how that works, especially with parents and their son. And maybe some do's and don'ts as we get around family or personally in our lives for the next month or so. But we're going to see some of that come out when we look at Samson's birth. And then his selfish life. So picking it up back in verse 1, we're going to see how Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord there in verse 1. And then the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years. I just want to kind of look at the big picture really quick of Judges. We're kind of diving in about halfway through here or through the back half of the book of Judges. And if you're not familiar with the book of Judges, there's a cycle that repeats itself over and over throughout the book. And I'm just going to give the kind of the four summarized version of this. You could add more, be more specific with others. But when Israel did evil again, what the Word of God is reminding us is this cycle. The first part of it is Israel would definitely, they would do evil and they would depart from God's ways. And when we think about this cycle, just don't think that, okay, this is for Israel, and they have their problems, but I'm not like that. When the truth of it is, we go through cycles in our life. Where we get away from Lord, we come back due to circumstances or just conviction And then we end up coming back and doing right, and the cycle can start over and over again with certain struggles and difficulties we may have within our marriage, our family, or whatever it may be. So don't just think of this cycle, oh, this is Israel's like sin cycle, they might call it, but think of it of sometimes we go through this. this. Maybe not to the extent of making idols and other things that they did uh to that extent, but we do make our own idols and different things and we have consequences and decisions. That seem to be circular in our life. So the first thing is Israel would do evil and they would depart from God's ways. Number two. God would chasten Israel and allow them to be oppressed by another nation. So Israel does wrong, another nation comes in, and in this case it's the Philistines, and it's 40 years. And it's hard for me to imagine that here in this country, we haven't been oppressed really by anyone. We get mad when the towers go down and we you know, we fight a lot of our battles overseas, but here the Philistines had come in and they're taking over for forty years. That's pretty much my lifetime. So some people, all they would have known is oppression by the Philistines. So what happens is Israel does evil. God chastens them and allows an oppressor to come in and to kind of rule over them, then what happens is Israel prays for deliverance. They recognize they don't like what is happening. Okay, it's because we're not obeying God. We need to return to Him. They recognize that which is good. And I just want to insert for us individually. Don't ever eat the lie of Satan to think I've gotten so far from God I cannot return and come back. The book of Judges is all about God's goodness and us coming back to him, even though we make mistakes, just try to make them less. I guess is the lesson that we can learn from this. So Israel, they pray for deliverance, and then what God does is he raises up a judge, hence the name judges, and there's about twelve of them. And God raises up a judge to deliver them from this oppressing nation. So that's when it takes place. So when we read chapter 13, verse 1, and the children of Israel did evil again, that's what it's referring to. We have seen this multiple times this cycle throughout the book of Judges. And in this case, it's the Philistines and it's been forty years. So what is God going to do? He's going to raise up a judge. In his grace and in his goodness, he's going to deliver them from this, and he's going to use an amazing birth. To do it. So let's look at this. In verses 2 through 5, we're going to see how Samson is going to be a Nazirite unto God. A Nazirite unto God. So pick it up in verse two. And there was a certain man of Zora of the family of the Danites whose name was Manoah, and his wife was Baron Baronot. I find that funny we see Baron was Baronot. It's kind of getting redundant. She's barren. Yeah, and she hasn't barren any children. I got it. And then it sa it says it again uh later in another verse. It's like okay, w we understand what that means. But it's just emphasizing that God is going to do something outside the normal and what's interesting. We see this a lot in scripture. Ladies are barren, they pray, and God provides. In this case, it's very interesting that it's for the benefit of the whole nation. Well let's just continue down in verse 4. It says, now therefore, beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine, nor strong drink. And eat any unclean thing. For why? Why are you going to have this special diet with this baby in your womb? For lo, thou shalt conceive and bear a son, and no razor shall come upon his head. For the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb. I just want to kind of mention here, this is one of those passages that we can use. To help us from the Bible understand life is not at the first breath. Life is not at a certain trimester. It's not when just that there's a heartbeat or brain waves. When we look at this, this is kind of hinting at from the very beginning. of conception, he or she is supposed to have this special diet. Now he didn't say three months in, six months in, nine months in, wait till the baby breathed breath, and then don't cut his hair or anything like that From the womb, from the very beginning, like start now with this special diet. Why? Because this young man that you are going to have the privilege of carrying has a special call upon his life. He's going to be a Nazirite. What is that? A Nazirite, we can look through it But we won't for right now. But in Numbers chapter 6, in Numbers chapter 6, it gives all the criteria and some special things. Some of them Just in verse 2 of chapter 6, it says, separate them unto the Lord. So the purpose of the Nazarite vow is to be separated unto the Lord. Something different, set apart, outside of the normal. In verses 3 through 4 of number 6, you'll see that they're not supposed to drink strong drink, and they're not supposed to eat grapes or anything from the vine. A third thing is they're not supposed to cut his hair. For some of us, that's getting easier. And they're not even supposed to get near a dead body. Not even close, even if it's a sibling. That passes away, you're not supposed to get near them. And all this is done, if you look at verse 8 of Numbers 6, it says, all the days of his separation. Shall be holy unto the Lord. So the purpose of this vow was to show that you were unto God, separating yourself unto the Lord, and to be holy unto him. Now when we read through this description, really we could argue that a lot of this, or most of it anyways, could really be descriptive of the Christian. Especially with the purpose we are supposed to set apart. Our lives are to be separated to serve God and be holy unto him. So that was what Samson was called to do from before he was even conceived, is he had this special calling upon his life, very unique We too, when we are born of God, of our own choosing, should choose to be holy unto the Lord and to follow him. To separate ourselves from sin unto God. And some of these are a pretty good list here, especially the strong drink. The grapes, I love grapes. But the whole point of this is to separate your life to be different. And that was the call on Samson's life unknown to him. And this is announced by, it says, uh, an angel of the Lord in verse 3. And he explains and gives instructions of what happens. And then here's what happens, so Manoah here then in verses. 6 through 8 of Judges 13. Moa is going to entreat the Lord and he wants to see this. He's like, what's going on? He's kind of doubting himself. He's had a Gideon moment in his life. And he was like, wait, I want to see this guy. I want to hear from him. What is going on? And then we see in 9 through 14, God hears his prayer. He sends this angel of the Lord again. In verse 8, it says, Manoah entreated the Lord and asks, hey, teach us. Look at this. I'll just read the whole verse. Then Manoah entreated the Lord and said, O my Lord, let the man of God which thou didst send Come again unto us and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born. Now it is great that he believed they were going to have a child that was going to be born. But the interesting thing to me is throughout this, and we're going to see another example of this in Manoah's life, is he is kind of doubtful of how to raise a child. How do I do it? What do I do? And the angel replies, when you look through this list here, he just repeats what he already told the mother. He's going to be a Nazirite. He's not supposed to cut his hair. He's not supposed to drink strong drink. Okay, give the list again. I've told this to teens many times over the years. That if you learned nothing more in life, you just took what you know right now and you actually applied it and obeyed it to your life. It would change the way that you live. Manoah here, they kind of knew the instructions. His wife had already told him these things. He wanted to hear it from himself. He was already doubting what God had said. what the instructions were and how do I do this? I've never raised a kid before. And it is on-the-job training, and everyone can be different. I had four. And even my girls were like night and day growing up I couldn't believe it. I was like, are these still our kids? I mean we have girls. You think that the girls would have similarities and different things? Very different. And then you think you get the girl thing figured out and God gives you two boys. I mean even the diaper changing experience is different. It's like, whoa, different, okay, all right. But here, what we do, we tend to doubt what God does and what he has said. And that's where Manoa finds himself. He finds himself, he's like, wait a minute, what's going on? How do I do this? And most of the time, if we're honest with ourselves, we can pretty much determine right and wrong most of the time. We know there's choices to make. Do I do it? Do I not? And if we're really, if we just pause and think, most of the time we would know the right decision to make. We don't have to go digging deep and sometimes we try and complicate it and we get all and it's really just a simple yes or no. We just don't want to admit it. Maybe we find ourselves like Manoa and we're like, well, I I just want to hear it again. I need to be encouraged. Are there any other parents doing this? Does any other parent have to um spank their kid more than once in a day? Maybe it's just us. I mean more than once an hour. Maybe we're the only ones. I don't know. And you said that you doubt all these things. It's like you feel overwhelmed. He just wanted the instruction again. He didn't get it. So the Lord in his grace, he sent angel again, repeats the whole message again to him. The angel Lord does this for that is just great. God gives us reminders and encouragement. And then here, Manoah then gets it from his wife. And it just reminds us when he gives this again, if we look in verses 12 through 14, and Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass. How shall we order the child? And how shall we do unto him? So he's asking it again. And the angel of the Lord said unto Manoah, All that I said unto the woman, let her beware, I've already told you, now do it. It's not a trick question. And one thing that has encouraged me and helped me along the way is knowing that we have a God who is consistent. Who is unchanging? And we see this concept in both the Old and New Testament. Malachi 3. 6, for I am the Lord, I change not. He doesn't change, you know how hard it is to follow something that changes? It gets kind of challenging, it gets difficult And we brought up kids, if you're playing a game with a with a child, they somehow always seem to win because the rules will change in the midst of the game It's like, what how does that how does that work? Then you play the next game and you're trying to play by those rules, but that's not playing in their favor, so it's changed again. Like, wait a minute. God is not like that. It's not like playing a game with a child. I am thankful that God doesn't change. In James 1. 17, it says, every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. And cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. I like that. I like being able to have a God whom we can seek, who does not change, is not a moving target, and he'll even repeat himself for our own benefit. As he did with Manoah here. So he comes in again, repeats these things, and but what is it for us? I just need to obey what I've been told. I need to obey the Word of God and don't doubt God 's word. That is what we can believe in, is that and is what we can follow. And we will continue on. Then they offer a burnt offering It's very interesting here. They try and detain the angel of the Lord. How do you detain an angel? They just wanted to feed him and they wanted to they did a burnt offering. And then he asks, who are you? Look at verses 17-18. And then Noah said to the angel of the Lord, who What is thy name? And when thy sayings come to pass, what may we do thee honor? And the angel said unto him, Why askest thou thus after my name, seeing it is a secret. What's interesting about this word secret is we often hear this passage used around this time of the year. I'm going to read this verse and you just listen. In Isaiah 9. 6, for unto us is born, unto I'm sorry, for unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given. And the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be Wonderful Counselor, the mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. The word for secret is in there. I'll read it one more time and help us out a little bit. For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, and the government shall leap on his shoulder, and his name shall be called wonderful. That word wonderful is the same one for secret. He's reminding them this is going to be a wonderful, this is going to be a win, this is of the Lord. Same one in Isaiah 9. 6. The secret here, it really carries also with the idea of being wonderful. It just adds more color to that word for us. It's not so much to be hidden, although sometimes wonderful things are hard to see So he says here, he doesn't give his name. And then they do an offering. And what's interesting here is when he does his offering, this angel the Lord receives offering. He upset upset accepts the offering. Which leads us to think that this is very likely a Christophany, which is the pre-incarnate Christ appearing before his incarnation. So he's appearing unto them because he receives the offering and acts of Urito. It's really neat. I th this is one of those moments in the Bible that I would love to like rewind and play again in heaven or something. This angel is there with them, then all of a sudden he just goes up in the smoke of the flame and goes up into heaven. Just like I would like if I would I'd be like, whoa, that was kind of neat. That's just one of those cool moments that when you read through the Bible, like, did that just really happen? Let me read that again. And he just goes up in the flame. Very neat. And it reminds me of some passages in Exodus 25, and thou shalt not bow thyself unto them, nor serve them, for I, the Lord thy God, am a jealous God. He says a similar thing in 3414, For thou shalt worship no other God, for the Lord whose name is jealous is the jealous God. He is a jealous God. He doesn't want to worship anyone else, and here he is accepting this worship of their burnt offering. And so here I'm just thinking this is the pre-incarnate Christ here being seen. As they are giving this offering unto him. So you have these parents. They're trying to figure things out. They're a little doubtful. They're going to give birth to this son who has this special diet. He has this Nazarite vow, this blessing of God upon his life. And we close the chapter. With the blessing of them receiving this son. Look at verse 24 and 25. And the woman bare a son and called his name Samson, and the child grew, and the Lord blessed him. And the spirit of the Lord began to move him at times in the camp of Dan between Zorah and Eshtel. So here we see that he is born, and God is with him as he was growing. And the spirit of the Lord Would come upon him. This is a great encouragement. This Samson got off to a great start in life. He's got parents unsure what to do. They're trying to do what's right, even though they're doubtful. But here God is with him from his birth. So everything for Samson here seems to be going very well. He seems like he's got decent parents, though they're doubtful. The angel of the Lord announcing his birth. Everything is going great. Then all of a sudden we jump into chapter 14. And what we see is not so much what we would expect. As we look at the selfishness of Samson, and starting in chapter 14, verse 1. And Samson went down to Timnath and saw a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines. And he came up and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines. Now therefore, get her for me to wife. Then his father and his mother said to him, Is there never a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people? Did thou goest and take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samsid said unto his father, Get her for me, for she pleadeth, pleaseth me well. Wow What is going on here? We go from this great amazing birth to parents that are trying to figure this out, they're asking multiple times to make sure they get it right, and now all of a sudden you have this Man who is now telling his parents what he wants to do when he wants to do it. Now I don't know about you, but my children were younger, and if they started to tell me what they wanted when they wanted it and how to do it. We just took the rod of correction to the seat of understanding and got things ironed out right quick. Because this right here, even in our I think this is more of a struggle here in our country today. We have parents not standing up to say, no, Samson, you're wrong. You know you're not even supposed to be looking at women from the from the Philistines, and here you are telling your parents. That you're going to go do it anyways? So there's multiple things that are a challenge here between the parents and Samson The parents knew better. They even told him. But it's like one of those things they tried to suggest it to the child. Like don't don't you think that's not a good idea? I mean, you don't really want another cookie, do you? You know, as a chocolate snirl over the face. That wouldn't be good for you. I mean that you wouldn't like that. No, I I would like another cookie. And what does the parent do? Here in this case it'd be like, okay if I you want another one, alright. If you if you say please, please, the only time they use their manners, you know, when they really, really want something. And you give it to them. Why? Just because they asked? Because you don't want to break the heart of the little child? You struggle with telling the child no? Then he grows up and he wants free college and free this and free that and expects to have everything that you've worked your entire life for, but they want it now. And you're gonna help me get it. Whoa! What is going on here? So he sees daughters of the Philistines. Already wrong. Should not do it. That'd be like us today having a young man saying, I really like this young lady. And I would ask this question, is she saved? Well, I don't know, but she's pretty, and I like her. Okay. Does she know the Lord? Does she go to church? That doesn't matter. She's pretty and I like her. And you're gonna help me marry her. What? Really? That is what's going on here. This young man is telling his parents what he wants and when he wants it. Everyone knows it's wrong, but it continues to go through anyways. So shame on Manoa and Mrs. Manoa. And Samson. It doesn't give her name, so I gave her one. Mrs. Manoa. Okay So he's in the wrong place doing the wrong thing and they go along with it. And here's what's crazy about this passage, as we continue on to read through, so he says, and they tried to hint, there's verse 3 to the hint of, you know, you know this is wrong, let's try and do it right. You you there's no one here amongst Israel that you could try and marry? Nope. And the quick story by the end of this chapter is the woman he likes from Timnath. He d uh he ends up going off with a friend of his. What? What kind of love is that? We're not gonna go into all that, but if you read the rest of the chapter, hopefully you'll be thinking about it now. You're like, how does that happen? Just read it. It's there. After a ridiculous riddle. Which we're not going to have time to get any of that. So he goes down and he tells his father and mother, and here's another thing. When he does this, look at verse five. And Samson went down to his father and mother in Timnath, and came to the vineyard to Timnath, and behold, a young lion roared against him, and the spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him, and rent him as he would a kid And he had nothing in his hand, but he told not his father or his mother what he had done. He was physically strong, because the Lord allowed him to be, but spiritually weak. Making wrong decisions. I would love to if a lion came at me, I'd love to just tear a thing in two with my bare hands. Yeah! Take that, buddy! A lightweight ripping a lion in half. That would be cool. I'd more likely run. But that would be cool. But here's what he does. He does wrong. And then what happens later, I'm just going to fast forward a little bit. So he kills this lion and he passes by it back that same way. And what do you know? There's like a uh a honey bees right there and he dips some honey out of this. Why is this wrong? Numbers chapter 6. He's not supposed to get near a dead body. So he's defiling self to eat some honey. Then here he's getting more brave. He takes his honey from the lion and then shares it with his parents and doesn't tell them. You know what happens when children do wrong? It's a pattern we've seen in scripture. This is what happens. You do wrong. You hide it and don't say anything, and then there's consequences for it. We see this with Adam. What did Adam do? Sinned. Then he hid himself Achan sinned, hid the Babylon garment and all things in his tent, tried to hide it. David Bathsheba tries to hide it, ends up murdering Uriah, tries to hide it, and then it gets found out. Here, we see the same pattern. Sometimes we sin. We want to hide it. Things get away with it. And Samson got what he wanted anyways. I mean Samson really should be Samson the spoiled brat. I mean that's this is like the screaming kid in Walmart. Okay, I'll give you what you want. Just be quiet. Be quiet. I want that! I want it! I'm thinking take that kid out to the car please. We had one time I got shit really quick. We were at Sam's Club about a lot of years ago, right here in this area. I had a daughter of mine that was throwing a horrendous fit in the Sam 's Club. Like something crazy. And I thought, what is going on? I didn't know how to handle this side. Uh Becky and I were looking at each other and I'm like, I can't do anything in it right here. There's a little bit in public and this is getting really bad. So me and my little daughter are walking, sort of, it's more like a drag, okay? And we are going out, and I think I ended up picking her up to help the drag. And you know how they have those greeters at the door? What a great moment. Those humbling moments as a parent that you never have, you know, you're like, screaming kid. Ah! Okay, my face is red, so we're walking out. So we walk out, I go to the car, I do what I always do, I had my little talk, took the rod of understanding or the sea the rod of correction, the sea of understanding, we talk through it, we forgive, we walk in hand in hand. You know how those the greaters at the door were walking in and she was like What did you just do? I said we had a little talk. And I kept lacking. We need to spend time with our children to discipline, right? To teach them to obey authority. Parents didn't do it here. Samson got very selfish and did what he wanted when he wanted. Why? Because it pleases me. If every kid did what they want to please themselves What a mess we'd be in, especially as we become adults. Oh, I just do it because I want to please myself and become very selfish. He had a great start to his life He was dedicated to be separated unto God and to serve him wholly, and the parents were all for it. But the connection between the parents being parents and Samson being a son wasn't connecting. He got daring with his sin. He was sharing out of his wrongdoing even with his parents. And he got so selfish he made this ridiculous riddle at the end. And then he gets frustrated because he loses the riddle because of a crying woman. And he just gives in, and then we we see this. Samson had a weakness for women because he was not strong in the Lord. So your start in life, you could come from a pastor's home, you could come from any place. You could have a great birth in life. We could even try and start right like the parents. Yeah, they were inquisitive. They were asking, you know, how do we do this, even though they knew what to do, but they didn't follow through. If we don't obey God and confidently follow, graciously and by the Word of God, We are raising the next generation to be selfish. And God could end up turning in his amazing big picture. God still worked it out to benefit all. But Samson is the one that missed the blessing. By the end, fast-forwarding more, he ended up losing his eyes and killed more people in his basically suicidal death than he did his entire life. When if he would have chosen to fear God, who knows what would happen? We'll never know. But he could have chosen to obey God and use his strength given by the Lord for the Lord instead of his own selfish purposes. And who knows what would have happened. Are we going to be encouraged to follow God's word, believe what it says, despite our birth, despite our circumstances, our pedigree, our upbringing? Will we follow the Lord, wholly separated unto him, though we may not take a Nazarite vow, but we could confidently follow God in his word to avoid being so self-separate Father, I thank you so much for this passage of Scripture, the things we can learn and glean from you and your word We just thank you so much for what Christ has done and that we could learn to be selfless instead of selfish. We can start out right in life, but it's having the consistency of doing right before you and your sight. Would you be with us as we seek to be with you and obedient to your word, just obeying what we already know to do To save us from our own selfish desires. Would you be with your people and encourage them as they walk with you for Christ's honor and glory? Amen. Are we gonna close with hymn number four hundred? Okay. You know, out of all the deliverers that we read about in judges, I think that Samson is the one that would be the most likely to be a national hero. He was physically strong. He obviously was a very persuasive person. He was courageous. He had all of the qualities that we would say, man, that's somebody that is really going to be a national hero. But there's something that he did not have, and that was self-control. In Proverbs it says that a person who does not have control of their spirit is like a city broken down without walls, a defenseless city. And really the discipline that we learn, it starts when we're kids. It starts when we're little. Doesn't mean it can't get turned around as we get older. God's grace can change us But we really need to instill this in our children, in the generation that's coming up. And we need to recognize in our own personal lives that we may have tremendous gifts, tremendous abilities. God can use us in a lot of ways. But if we are self-centered, self-absorbed, if we follow our bellies constantly, our appetites, that is going to be fatal. And so we see that in the life of Samson All right, let's go ahead and uh close with our closing hymn and then I'll explain our dismissal. Hymn 400, take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord, to thee. Let's go ahead and stand together as we sing it, please. I'd like us to sing each of the verses and uh while we are seeing that I'd like to ask the Wagners. I'd like to ask Kelly if you guys can head to the back so that you can get your food. And that way you can greet people as they come by. Okay? So let's sing it out. Take my life and let it be consecrated, Lord, to thee. We'll close in prayer after that, and then we will head to the back for our fellowship. Take my life and let it be command for me. All right, well we're going to close in prayer in just a moment. I do want to remind you that uh this Saturday we have our Lit conference and uh it's an annual conference we've been doing. Uh it's a team conference. I believe we have uh 10 to 15 churches that are coming, uh pretty good number of teenagers and sponsors. And uh our church members, uh you guys feel free to come and uh Sit there and watch some of the some of the program. If you want, it's going to be online as well, so that's another option. If you have stuff that you're bringing, please make sure that you bring those this week. And there still are a couple of other items that we haven't had anyone sign up for. So if you would like to do that, please check by that bulletin board. and do that. Also, I don't think this was mentioned this morning, but uh we traditionally put out poinsettas and uh those poinsettas are Many of them are are bought by individuals in our church. And so if you'd like to put one in memory or in honor of Please do make sure that you get that as soon as possible. And then at the end of the Christmas season, we do our very best to take good care of these plants. Every year it is a it is a trial of our faith because um I love plants, but they can be finicky. Poinsettas can be finicky. Too much water is a problem, too little water is a problem. uh the knee light there's a lot that goes into that uh but they are beautiful and so if you would like to do that please make sure that you do that as soon as possible because we will start bringing them in this next weekend and And when you come in here on Sunday, Lord willing, it's gonna be beautiful. Not that it isn't normally beautiful, but it will be Christmas beautiful instead of fall beautiful, all right? So wanted to mention that as well. All right, let's down for prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our fellowship, the food we're going to enjoy, and then we will be dismissed to the back. Father, I thank you so much for the word. And scriptures are so transparent about human nature. As we think about Samson, I pray that our hearts would be convicted if we find ourselves following in his footsteps. If we have allowed pride and self-centeredness and a domination of fleshly appetites to control us, I pray that we would be convicted and that we would recognize how dangerous that path is. And recognize that the end of such a way is going to be destructive to our personal walk, to our family, our friends. I pray that you would help us to be sobered by the life of Samson And I pray that we'd also be encouraged by your grace, and we recognize that you did use Samson, and you were very kind to the nation of Israel, even as they went to Samson. through these cycles. And I pray for our families, especially those who are raising little kids right now. I pray that you give them strength and wisdom, help them to be faithful as they seek to train their children and love their children and demonstrate uh how to walk with you to their children and discipline their children, restrain their children. Um the it's such a tremendously important season of life. And so I pray that our our our young families and not so young, all those amazing kids, that we would be faithful in that endeavor. And I pray that you would just continue to bless our church in that way. way. Bless the food that we'll enjoy, the fellowship we'll enjoy, and I thank you for these folks who have had the opportunity to grow and mature in this church and I pray that as you move them to to new communities and and new endeavors, I pray that they would be faithful to you and that you would use them mightily uh where you plant them. We ask it in Christ's name, amen.