Amen. Well it's uh good to have everyone here this evening for our Tuesday night evening service. I have been enjoying the services so far, uh having a great uh time, just listening to the word of God opened up. And for those many that have been faithful every night, appreciate that. And I got a sneaky, sneaky submission. Suspicion. There might be something special about tomorrow. I just if you're not sure what that is, hang on. You just might hear something soon. You keep wondering, but meanwhile, I'm going to open this up with our opening scripture reading in Psalm 36. We're going to start in verse 5. Thy mercy, O Lord, is in the heavens, and thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds. Thy righteousness is like the great mountains. Thy judgments are great deep. O Lord, thou preservest man and beast. How excellent is thy loving kindness, O God! Therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house, and thou shalt make them drink the river of thy pleasures. For with thee is the fountain of life. In thy light shall we see light. O, continue thy loving kindness unto them that know thee, and thy righteousness to the upright in heart. Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand of the wicked remove me. Our focus for this evening is his compassion. Let us pray. Father, we are so thankful for your mercy. And your loving kindness, your great compassion that you have towards us as sinners saved by grace. We are thankful for what Christ has done on our behalf and that we have the privilege of meeting here this evening to gather once again as a church body That our hearts and minds be opened, that we could be conformed, that we could be more like our Savior Jesus Christ as a result of this service tonight. Would we not just be hearers, but doers? Would our hearts be soft and tender? Would our minds be open, eager, and willing to listen to what you have for us this evening? And we come before you through the great, glorious, compassionate name of our Savior Jesus Christ. We pray. Amen. Okay, well our theme tonight, as Pastor Josh said, is we're focusing in on God's compassion. So the first song we're going to sing is hymn 134. And can it be? 134. Please let's stand together. And uh your singing last night was excellent. Tonight let's Let's lift it up more if we can, right? Just sing out and lift up your voices, 134. And can it be And can it be that I should say? Ainakin ohminni. So we don't get his prevail. You can be seated, and that is a really, really good song. I love, love, love that hymn. Second hymn we're going to sing. It's 157. Grace. That is greater than our sin. This song is not as fast, it's a lot more reflective, and it's really emphasizing the same truths. But let's sing it out very reflectively as we think about God's grace, how we are the recipients of that grace through Christ's death and resurrection. 157 Your own cowboy There was a land. The D 's The little great grain creators will collide on any place with Grace that is greater than all our costs are in the same guy. But you 'll make for installing our hands on. Like the letter may be contained. Praise , praise God , claim, praise and will. May we start on the week? The last one we're gonna sing before we have uh our prayer and then uh shoulder glycer comes up to preach this evening is one hundred fifty six and this is one of my favorites I love doing this when we have the Lord's table I know this is not the Lord's table tonight But uh how can it be? Love this song, this great song as we think about how great God's love for us is, His grace, and how Where do we are? So let's really sing this out. One hundred and fifty-six. How can it be? Oh same man. God has ignored us nothing, love us creation thou has been thou Love it be my Lord Christ now, how can it be? How can it be? How can it be? I 'll be now and give up on my own and you the press green is going by. Oh how can it be? How can it be? How can it be one? Connect can be home before How can it be? How can it be? How can it be? It's a really good sign to prayer prayer hearts for the Word of God. Let's bow together. Ask the Lord to bless the preaching of His word. And then with Glycer, the rest of the time is yours. Father. Thank you for these wonderful songs that express the richness of your grace and how it is greater than our sin. As we think about the fact that we are forgiven and cleansed and we are justified, we are so unworthy. And as we sang that last song, how can it be? I pray that that's really where our heart would be. That we would recognize the unworthiness of what we have in Christ and the richness of your love for us. Father, as the Word of God is preached, I pray that you would help us to have hearts that are attentive And submissive to your word. Pray that you would bless Brother Geiser as he preaches the word, and I pray that you would speak through him. May the Holy Spirit stir up our hearts tonight, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Tell you, I uh I agree. I appreciate the words that we just sang together in those wonderful hymns. And uh they're powerful, powerful words, and I'm thankful for what we got to uh rejoice in. You know, there's a power to music I'm thinking about all the things that you've been involved with today and the activities of your life, decisions that have had to be made and work that had to be done and Teaching your kids and kids going through school and and uh all the things of activities of life and you you know you you stay extremely busy, rush, rush, rush and go. And you come to church You know, don't ever think that the singing of music that we've sung like tonight is just filler, you know. It's not. It is extremely helpful heart preparation. And uh I am so grateful. There's a whole book in the Bible, the Psalms, that give us wonderful music that was important in that in the heartbeat of King David and the heartbeat of Israel and the other psalmist writers. So I appreciate the songs tonight. How can it be? How many times have we sung that song? How many times have you sung it? Who knows But the power of those words are just extremely helpful for us. Glad you're here tonight. Thank you for coming. Appreciate you putting this on your schedule. I have no idea what Pastor Josh was talking about there at the he's talking about uh something Special. I I don't know what he's talking about. But I do know tomorrow night's the most important night of the meeting and so I do hope that you'll plan to uh to be here tomorrow night and and and look forward to that in a special way. The book of judges tonight. Would you go there with me? Judges, and you can get chapter 13 opened up in front of you. Judges chapter 13. Judges, if you're new to your Bible, is the seventh. book of the Old Testament. And uh I uh I think it's very, very special, honestly, when people are in a church and they're still learning where all the books of the Bible are. I uh I got to uh meet a young man at a Christian camp. Uh let's see here. It's been two summers ago, I think it was, and uh Uh he said to me at the end of a service, he said, you you quoted a ver you gave a verse tonight about this and that and so forth. He said, Where is that? And I remember it was in the book of Ephesians, and I said, Well, that was Ephesians. And he goes, I want to get that. And he went to the front part of his Bible that had been given to him because he had just gotten saved on that Tuesday night of that meeting, and he looked in the front to the index, the table of contents. And he went up and down until he could find that word Ephesians. And I just stood there and I just rejoiced as he was looking for. And then I just, I said, there it is. right down there and I pointed to it and he goes okay and he got the page number and he went to it and he finally found it and he says now now what was that chapter and I gave it to him Then he took a ballpoint pen and he got down on the floor with his Bible and started underlining that verse. And when he got through underlining, he stood up and tears were coming down his face. said, I've never heard this before. I just never heard this. He got saved on Tuesday night. They gave him a Bible, and so it's brand new. So I said all that to say this. I think it's great when a church family has newborn believers, babies uh in the walk uh with their Lord and they they maybe need a little extra time to find a book in the Bible. Thank the Lord for that. I'm grateful for that. Babies will change a house. Won't they? I mean literal babies. They change the house uh and the atmosphere of the well, newborn baby believers in the church family can bring Excitement too. So thank the Lord for that as well. Have I given you time to find the book of Judges? All right. And the chapter of 13. You know this probably The season of time of the book of Judges was as the book of Judges declares twice, that it was that season of time when there was no king in Israel. And every man did that which was right in his own eyes. And the history of the people of God, the people of Israel, was a roller coaster ride. They would live for God and God would protect them and take care of them and then they'd get lazy in their Christianity and all of a sudden a new rival nation would come in and God would have to judge his people And he'd bring in the Midianites and the Philistines and other uh e uh uh Edomites and others that would come in and take over. and would rule over the people of Israel 20 years, 30 years, 40 years. And then God would raise up A judge. Can I remind you or help you to understand the term judge here does not mean someone that you see in a courtroom setting, you know, wearing the robe and and uh in the old days the the w powdered wig and he would declare, you know, uh uh guilty or not guilty and would listen. No, no, no. That's not that kind of judge. The word Uh judge here is the idea of one who would be a defender or a deliverer, like Gideon. and Deborah and uh Ehud and there were uh uh there were other uh other particular judges throughout the the writing of the book of Judges and we come to I don't know, maybe the most familiar judge. If you've been in church much of your life, if you grew up in church, if you were a a young and you were a uh you know a a little lad or laddette and and you grew up in in children's church and went to vacation in Bible school. You probably heard about the guy we're going to look at together tonight His name was Samson. Girls, ladies, I had no idea whenever a teacher When you were a child, whenever they brought up the subject of Samson to be taught on, I had no idea what it meant to you, but I'm going to tell you something. To us guys, we loved it. I mean there was something about old Samson, man. He was he was rough and tumbling and he was we we in our little uh childhood uh brain kind of pictured some muscle bound, uh well built. I mean just muscle upon muscle, he would look a lot like uh never mind. And he would uh uh please please come back tomorrow night. Uh uh he was uh that's what we pictured, but that's not the way he was at all Not at all. You say, Morris, how do you know that? Are you that old? No. The fact is they kept trying to figure out what was the secret of his strength. If he looked like he was on uh in uh uh enhancing drugs and if he was on something that would make him l look like some uh wrestler ready for the wrestling match, uh they wouldn't have asked what's the secret of your strength, they would have seen it. You know. He didn't come walking in the door saying, you know, phi C5OF, that's another story. Uh uh He didn't come in with with that kind of uh uh uh walk about him. He looked like any other man. They couldn't figure him out. It's an incredible story. And so before I get running down trails of his life, I want us to read scripture. Here's the deal. Whenever you go to the Old Testament, as we're going to tonight, and look at the narrative of a person's life, it's almost really, we're going to take a look at textual photos. And see some some uh uh things within the text of a person's life. His life started in chapter 13, it ended in chapter 16, and so you don't want me to preach all those chapters, I know. We'll be here till tomorrow morning if we did that. It's a little different than what you often would do in the New Testament, where you would break down a text and a verse or a passage. We're going to look at something in textual photos of it. I hope you can follow me on that. Let's see a quick view of his beginning, and then we're going to read some in chapter 14, and we'll get going. In chapter 13, it says in verse 1, the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the Lord. And the Lord delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years. And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah, and his wife. It was barren. Bar not. And the angel of the Lord appeared unto the woman and said unto her, Behold now thou art barren. And bearest not, but thou shalt conceive and bear a son. Now therefore beware, I pray thee, drink not wine, nor strong drink, or eat any unclean thing, for lo, thou shalt conceive and bear a son And no razor shall come on his head, for the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb. And here's an interesting phrase. He shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines. What was a Nazarite? Well you could go back to the book of Numbers and you could read where God ordained for Israel to have seasons of time in individuals' lives or maybe a family's life where they would go under a Nazarite vow. And that Nazarite vow was a season of declared uh separation unto God to just devote themselves to focus on Jehovah God. And during that season of time, usually it'd be a month, maybe a week, maybe two months, maybe even a year. An Israelite under a Nazarite vow would not touch the body of a dead person or a dead animal. They would not drink any of the squeezings of a grape. Uh no no wine, no squeezings, no taking of a grape, and they would not cut their hair. Did you notice what happened to this lady? She was told by the angel of the Lord, You're going to give birth to a child, and he's going to be a Nazarite for life. And so from the beginning of this guy's life, this boy that she's going to give birth to, he came from a good home. He had been taught right. He was taught about Jehovah God. He was born in trying times. We just read they were under captivity of the Philistines. He was born with spiritual-minded parents, not perfect, but good people. He was spiritually surrendered over under the Nazarite vow. And you're about to see that he also saw the blessing of God upon his life. Because I know how many of us think the name Samson, we go immediately to the most wicked part of his life. I want you to notice something. Look at the end of chapter 13. Look at verse 24. And the woman bare a son and called his name Samson. And the child grew. Look at this. And the Lord blessed him. And the spirit of the Lord began to move him at times in the camp of Dan. Between Zorah and Ashteol. In those few verses we see him born, he begins to grow up, and God's put his hand of blessing upon him I could take you to the book of Hebrews tonight. For sake of time, we won't do it. But in chapter 11, that chapter that's been called The Hall of Faith. you would find those lists of names from the Old Testament of people who were people of faith. And guess whose name was in there? Samson. Because honestly, if we didn't know that, we could almost look at Samson's life according to the Old Testament and we'll see the activity of his life and you begin to question if he even knew the Lord. Is he really a believer? Is he anyone who knows Yeah we're going to see Samson in heaven? And God used him. Chapter 14, verse 1. And Samson went down to Timnath and saw a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines. And he came up and told his father and his mother, and he said, I've seen a woman in Timnaath. of the daughters of the Philistines, now therefore get her for me to wife. Then his father and his mother said unto him, Is there never a woman Among the daughters of thy brethren or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines And Samson said unto his father, Get her for me, for she pleaseth me. Well, go to verse 5. It's time for him to get through the marriage feast time, it says in verse 5, and then went Samson down and his father and his mother to Timnath, and they came to the vineyards Of Timnat. And behold, a young lion roared against him. Stop right there. Here is Samson. He's to have nothing to do with grapes, wine, fruit of the vine. And he's walking around in a vineyard What's he doing there? He was living flippantly about things he shouldn't have been And I believe, I'm reading maybe between the lines, but I don't think it's far afield, that the Lord sent this young lion to wake up and to warn Samson that he was in a wrong place. And you need to get out of here. You know, it's wonderful to see the mercies of God as He gent gently and appropriately uh shows us things to tell us you're going the wrong way. But look what happens. Verse six. And the Spirit of the Lord came mightily upon him. God wasn't through with him. And he he rent him. That means he tore him as he would have rent a kid. You know, that's the most fascinating statement to me. Who knows how a kid is a small gay goat, a young goat. And the Bible says, he tore that line apart as if he was Tearing up a a young goat. Well tearing up a young goat would be quite adventure, wouldn't it? I mean, I mean it's not like you know people did that all the time. Hey, let's go out and let's rip some goats apart. You know, I mean I mean really Incredible. And he just tore it apart. Keep reading. My brain sometimes is uh runs amuck. It says and and he had nothing in his hand, but he told not his father and his mother what he had done. In other words, they weren't with him in that vineyard. And he went down and talked with the woman, and she pleased Samson well. And after a time he returned to take her, and he turned aside to see the carcass of a lion. And behold, there was a Swarm of bees and honey in the carcass of the lion, and he took thereof in his hands. And he went on eating, and he came to his father and his mother, and he gave them. And they did eat But he told not them that he had taken the honey out of the carcass of the lion. I told you at the beginning, I love the stories of Samson when I was a kid growing up. Look, I'm so I'm I'm at the point of life that I l I love I was thinking as we were singing, I love having words on a on a screen like that. I love computer generated images like that. But look man, I can remember the days. I hope I'm not going to really date myself of uh the flannograph board. Does anybody know where the flannograph board is? Get a witness. Praise the Lord. Alright. I love those flannograph boards. board stories. And I'd had those Sunday school teachers walk in and they'd have that flannel graph board and they'd walk in with a file and you'd you'd see somebody's arm uh hanging out of that file folder and I said We're gonna get a flatograph board story and they'd slap those pictures up there. I had one lady uh uh teacher uh I I think she had to buy her own pictures because one week she'd slap that picture up there and say, uh boys Today we're going to look at the life of Moses. This is Moses. I thought she knew him personally. I figured they were about the same age. And I and and and she said, we're going to look at the life of Moses. And the next Sunday, next Sunday she came in there, she goes, Hey fellas, today we're gonna look at the life of Noah. Slap that same picture, same guy up there, uh, thinking, boy, those people sure looked a lot alike in Bible days Today we're looking at the life of young David, the shepherd boy. There's that man with the beard and everything. Man , you know you gotta use your imagination. I mean, really They all wore robes. They all had beards. Men, women, children. They all had beards. Somewhere along the way, we heard the story of Samson on the flannograph board. And I can remember stories. I don't have time to go through all the passages. Real quickly, do you remember the time when when in an effort to to attack and get back at the Philistines, Samson caught three hundred foxes Okay, Termout. How do you do that? How many, you know, you say, well they probably had traps. Okay, he had a bunch of traps. Okay. What do you do with them after you caught a bunch of them? You know, you know, just put them in a bin somewhere or in a barn or something and and hang on to them. And then he took the tail of one fox and he took the tail of another fox. This is so cool. And he tied their tails together in a knot. Then he took a torch. And he and he and he put that that uh torch in the knot of their two tails and then lit that torch. And so he's got 150 sets. of foxes and he sent them loose with that torch just to burn and someone said that's the first mention in the Bible of a taillight. Okay, that's that's that's a terrible, terrible that's a dad joke. Anyway, and and he sent them loose into the fields of the Philistines. And can you imagine being a Philistine farmer and you're looking at there and all of a sudden you're seeing your farmland being burnt down because you got a bunch of wild animals that are down low the ground, running hither and yon, trying to get away from the one they're tied to. How did how did he pull that off? Do you think those uh foxes were real cooperative while he was Tying their their tails together, you know? Yeah, go ahead, mister, do what you need to do back there. No! But God used it. I don't know how he pulled it off, except from what I read in the scriptures. I just think it's really clever. He was quite the guy How about the time when he went into Gaza to a prostitute's house? And those those men of Gaza said, we got him. This is what we've been waiting on. Ah, he's going into that prostitute's house, and when he finally comes out, we'll all attack him. And the Bible doesn't tell us how many those Philistine men were there. I can see them with their bladed uh sharp knives and spears and and some swords and they were hiding in the shadows of the night and they were waiting. The Bible says in the in the midnight, in the middle of the night, Samson comes out of that prostitute's house. And I could just see those men saying, we got him, here he comes, here he comes. Now look, these cities had giant walls to protect them all the way around, and huge gates. that would be closed. Historians tell us those gates weighed somewhere between a ton to two ton. I mean it took several men to close these gates at night. And then they would have posts that would fall down into uh holes in the ground and they would clamp down some uh special lock. uh uh locking on the uh on those gates. Why? So that everybody inside the city would be safe. Then during the the morning light they would open up those gates so commerce could come and go and travelers could come and go. and so forth. And so here they are with the gates all closed. The Bible says that Samson gets out of that house and and he comes walking over. And he grabs one of those posts of that gate, grabs another post of that gate, rip. He just rips it right out of its moorings and puts it up on his shoulders. And just kind of walks through the opening now. And the Bible says he carried him uphill up toward Mount Horeb. And I've read it several times how far he carried them. He carried them as minimum six miles. With this gate on his back. He may have gone as much as some people believe over 30 miles. I don't know about you. Sometimes I have a hard enough time carrying my own weight any kind of a distance on a long walk. He carrying this two-ton or a ton of And the Bible never tells us about those men that were ready to attack. But come on, use your uh sanctified imagination here I can imagine someone as they watched him go over there and take their gates away, somebody said, I'm not messing with him. You know, I mean that guy could rip my head off. I'm not that was Samson. We all know. We all know how it turned out, chapter sixteen. You know what happened It's chapter 16. Can I just glance at a couple of verses with you real quickly? Verse 15 says, And she, that's Delilah, said unto him, How canst thou say I love thee? When thine heart is not with me, thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth. And it came to pass when she pressed him daily with her words and urged him So that his soul was vexed unto death that he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon mine head, for I've been a Nazarite unto God from my mother's womb. If I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and shall I shall become weak and be like any other man. Go down to verse Verse uh nineteen. And she made him sleep upon her knees, and she called for a man, and she caused him to shave off the seven locks of his head. She began to afflict him, his strength went from him. And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. Here's one of the saddest verses in the Bible. And he awoke out of his sleep, and he said, I'll go out as at other times before and shake myself. And he wist not that the Lord was departed. from him. But the Philistines took him, put out his eyes, brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with feathers of brass, and he did grind in the prison house. That's the story we know, isn't it? You could say tonight, oh, Brother Gleicer, I know about old Samson. He blew his his great testimony, he heard his ministry. He had a terrible decline of effectiveness because he had such a craving, uh uh insatiable uh desire for loose women. He played loose with sin. And that would be true. It's heartbreaking. He's one of us. He's one of our family members But the fact is, friends, can I tell you something? Long before he got here, there were some other decisions that he made that led to this. There was a sad decline in his life that destroyed his effective ministry. He was destroyed by unchecked sin. Look, friends. There was a time that he literally was fighting the enemy, and then he became flippant about sin, and then he fell in with the enemy. Satan knows what he's doing. He leads you one step at a time into sinful behavior, attitudes, and activity, and after a while he gets his grips on you and destroys a healthy marriage. A good ministry. A strong testimony. I in my years of travel I have occasionally been introduced to someone who said, would you like to go see a certain such, such, such church some church that had a great rich history in our Christian history past. And I say, yeah, I'd like to see those old buildings. And you walk in and you see buildings at once who are alive with uh uh evangelism and alive with energy praising God. I've seen Christian schools I've walked into school classrooms where the school books are just they were just left behind, uh opened, and just left there, dust gathered all over the property, and they they just everything got shut down. And the testimony was hurt in the community. The church was destroyed. Those things are heartbreaking to hear and to see. And yet, we can all talk about people that we've known who had a healthy marriage. Maybe an individual had a strong ministry. And yet that marriage has been dissolved. That ministry is no longer effective. Look, friends, I'm not trying to be negative tonight. I'm just the guy that's going to wave a banner and say to us, Let's not get caught up in the Samson chaos and disorder, the highway that he traveled. There were some things that Samson did that revealed the decline of an effective ministry. We see that he went, as some people call a hero to a, he went from a hero to a zero. I don't like those words. Because God used him at the end of his life. But he went from being effective to being ineffective. What happened? Look, the story of Samson is a story genuinely of God's long-suffering and patience. Let me say it again. It's a story of God's long-suffering and patience with a person who was laissez-faire with sinful behavior in his life. God was patient with him, but it's also a story of warning. It's a story that tells us that God uses all kinds of people in different ways. And it's a story that is a lesson of warning of a sorrowful failure. And here's what Paul said in his writing to the church at Corinth. He said, the things that happen, he said in 1 Corinthians chapter 10, verses 11 and 12, he said, those things happen unto them. They happen unto them for examples, or examples unto us. And they're written for our admonition. And therefore, let anyone who thinks that he standeth take heed lest he fall. Now there's people in this room who'd say, I'd never fall into the traps that Samson fell into. And I trust that'll be true. But there were some steps that Samson took. And I only have two things I want to say tonight, and I'm going to do my best to get through them. I may only get through the one thing tonight, but I'm going to get through that one. What were the areas that caused him to lose his bright future? What shortened his spiritual ministry? What brought about a hurt testimony, a lost life, a lost honor? What caused him to lose his giftedness of physical strength? Where he ended up in a dungeon like an animal. They kept oxen or donkeys in those dungeons as they would walk around. grinding at the meal. They would go around in circles after circle after circle with a slave driver, whipping them on the back to make them keep moving, making a stone. grind as it would turn and grind corn and meal uh uh uh grain into uh uh something that could be used for food. And here's Samson, God's man, being treated like an animal. How did this happen? You say, oh Morris, I know, can't you tell? He's loose with loose women. I got it, but it happened even before then. You say, well, what happened? I want you to go back to chapter 14 and notice something. When his father in verse 3 and his mother said unto him, Is there never a woman among the daughters of your brethren? or among all my people that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines. Look how notice how how Samson responded. And Samson said unto his father, Get her for me. She pleaseth me well. You say, Morris, see, he's got a lust problem. Wait a minute. Don't miss the fact that he was rude to his parents. Let me put it like this, and I'm going to show you some more passages. Samson, number one, had an abundance. of hostility. He was an angry man. He was a guy who had a problem with his, somebody would call it a hair trigger. Look at verse 19 in chapter 14. And the Spirit of the Lord came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and he slew thirty men of them, and he took their spoil and gave change of garments. unto them which expounded the riddle. Look at this. And his anger was kindled. It means it was increasing. And he went up to his father's house. Oh, what does that statement mean? He was there for his wedding feast, but it was like the old proverbial statement when Little kids are having a fuss and a fight. A boy just, he says, I'm taking my football and I'm going home. That's what Samson's doing. He says, I'm going to just go back to my father's house. He was angry. Look at chapter 15 and look at verse 7. It says, And Samson said unto them, Though you have done this, yet will I be avenged of you. And after that I will cease. No, no, you won't. What's he saying? He's saying, you you retaliated on my on the Philistine family, and now I'm going to be avenged of you. You started it. Does that not sound like a couple of children fighting? It's not my fault. He started it. We call it trash talking in the sports world. I'm not gonna let anybody walk over me. There's your Samson. Go down and look at verse 9. Then the Philistines went up and pitched in Judah and spread themselves in Lehi, and the men of Judah. Said, Why you come up against us? And they answered, To bind Samson, or we come up, to do to him as he hath done to us And look, verse eleven. Then three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock Edom, and they said to Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? What is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me. So have I done unto them. Samson had an abundance of hostility Let me just cut to the chase and say some things here from the life of Samson. His failure into moral decline started even in his own home. And then it spread out through the rest of his life. He was a guy who got angry and furious when things didn't go his way. Don't we? Hey, if we were honest tonight, everybody in this room would have to admit we have issues with anger. We get angry. We get angry at home. We get angry on the highways, out driving around, we get angry at work. Siblings get mad at each other. They get mad at their parents. Parents get mad at their kids. Husbands get With their wives, wives with their husbands. We get mad at church, we get mad at work, we get mad in life with perfect, complete strangers. We get mad at TV personalities and politicians. You know, the Bible says a lot about the tongue, you know that. The Bible calls the tongue a fire. James chapter 3. He calls it a dangerous poison, a deadly poison. The tongue is a serpent's strike. Writer of Proverbs calls our tongue the use of arrows and swords. Think about it. In every one of those metaphors, the tongue is used as something that hurts, destroys. And consumes. Just be honest with yourself. Have you ever been hurt by somebody's speech? Of course. Has anyone ever said anything to you that just went deep into your being, into your soul? And maybe to this day you carry some baggage of remembering. Something that's been said to you that was very, very hurtful from an old coach, a a a teacher, a parent, a spouse. Something that was been said. Have you ever been hurt by somebody's mouth and speech? Tongue? You say, Of course I have. Let me reverse this. Have you ever hurt anybody? See, it's a lot easier to talk about others who've hurt us than it is to talk about our right To use our mouth to come back. Don't look down your nose at Samson. Sure, I wish he hadn't fallen with all these loose women. I get it. But long before he got there He was a hot-tempered, angry individual. Things are going to test you. Things are going to test us. Let me think here. Every day. There are going to be things that are going to come along on our pathway every single day that's going to touch us and rub us the wrong way. And there is a sense of forgive me. I'm going to start with me. There's a sense of entitlement. I don't deserve this. No. Morris, you deserve to go to hell. I'm not trying to be preacher hyperbole here. It's the truth. And so do you. And yet so often we feel like I deserve better. I don't know why people are jumping on me. Other people's decisions, other people's words can cause heartache and trouble and disruption and cause us to become retaliatory and vengeful, full of self-pity. And we want to get back, we we we we we want to argue and we do argue at a at a moment's notice. It shows up in our homes, it shows up on ball fields, it shows up behind the wheel of a car, it shows up at church. It shows up online. It's amazing what people will say online to somebody that they don't have to look at face to face. I was aboarding a plane. Oh man. A couple of years ago now, I guess it was, and wherever I was going I needed to carry a I needed to carry a light jacket of some sort. So I had this jacket. I wasn't wearing it. But I had it underneath my arm and uh and I was trying to get to my seat on the plane. I love the window seats and and so I was trying to get over that window seat and of course they just cram you in there if you've ridden on a plane And uh and so I was I was trying to uh cross over and get to my seat. Well, this jacket that I had underneath my arm, uh, the the arm of the jacket fell Slipped, it just kind of fell. I didn't know. It and it the lady in the middle seat in the row in front of me, it hit her in the head and just kind of came down. Her husband sitting on the aisle beside her grabbed the arm of my jacket, hurled it back at me, and he said, watch your coat, dude! And I you know by that time I got to my seat and I of course I felt the coat and jerked and I thought, he's I'm the dude that he's talking about. Can I tell you something It came all over me. I just like you think I did that on purpose? I felt like I was in junior high, ready to fight somewhere now on the ball field. I said, I wanted to climb over the seat in front of me and say, here, eat this chair. You know, I mean I just wanted to. I mean it just came all over me You ever had anybody honk at you on the highway? And you want to get out of the car and say, what is your problem? That's what I wanted to say to that man, what is your problem? I'm telling you folks, I sat there. I said, God, you gotta help me here. I'm ready to come after that man over something. I look at it now, it was silly. Totally silly, but it wasn't to me at that moment. Why? Because Satan was just all over me with it. And then finally I realized what had happened. Evidently my coat had tapped his wife on the side of her face. So I just simply leaned forward and I said, ma'am, I'm so sorry that my my coat uh hit you As I was walking by and she didn't say anything, but her husband said, Yeah, it's about that's more like it. I'm trying to handle this and you're not helping We flew to our destination. We landed. We were pulling into the to the gate to the terminal where we were going to and so forth. And uh it we had not come completely up to the place where uh we could we could undo our seat belt, but some man on the other side, on the other aisle, on the other side had evidently thought it was clear, he un hitched his seatbelt and he stood up. The same man who had yelled at me said to him, Hey, we're not at the gate yet, dude and I thought, There's more than one dude on this plane. How about that? And I thought, This man is just full of rage. He just mad at everybody. It just came all over me. I'm not preaching something tonight that I'm I have arrived. No way What does it take to get you to say things that later on you say, did I say that? It was Charles Spurgeon, the prolific orator of yesteryear, who said, being an angry person will cause you to say something that will cause you later to think that you've been temporarily insane. Meaning, for that moment of anger, I just lost control. It was as if I didn't know what I was thinking. Do you find yourself getting more angry a lot more lately? You say, I don't know How frequently do you lose your temple? You say, now Morris, now wait a minute. The Bible does say be angry and sin not. You know I'm not preaching that particular truth. Why? Look. When I think about what the uh people are doing to small children, that that that ought to anger all of us, that kind of sinful behavior, by all means When I see what people are doing to our country, yes, it disturbs me with great anger to see Satan using his powers in high places. I get that, but wait a minute. I'm talking about sinful anger. The Bible's talking about somebody who has a stubborn anger, that kind of anger that you dig your heels in to say, I may be a little bit wrong, but I'm not budging to you admit it. I'm talking about sudden anger, stubborn anger, sinful anger. James 4. 11 says, speak not evil one of another. Brethren. He's talking to God's people. He said, out of the same mouth comes blessing and cursing. And it's as if James, the pastor, to his people, just kind of explodes, not in anger, but I mean he just explodes with in energy, and he says, My brethren, this ought not so to be Samson had an abundance of hostility. Anger has led to more divorce courts than immorality. Anger has d split up a good church family a lot more than error in the pulpit of doctrinal nature. Anger has caused more kids to run away from home than Other types of abuse. Anger can destroy that which is supposed to be healthy. and holy. Anger hinders us from having sweet worship with the Lord. Remember Jesus said in his Sermon on the Mount, he said, If you come to the altar and remember there's something between you and a brother, look, look, if your anger you you may not have killed anybody, but you're just as guilty as what Jesus said. Jesus goes on to teach. He says, You leave your gift at the altar and go make things right, which leads me to say this about anger. Sometimes that anger leads to bitterness and unforgiveness. Let me say this and I'll hasten. to move on. Is there somebody in your past you need to forgive? You say, Morris, they've never asked me to forgive them. I'm not talking about wait until they ask. Don't carry the baggage of a bitter spirit toward anybody. You say, but you don't know what they did to me. No, I don't, but I'll tell you something. If you'll take yourself back to the cross of Calvary and remind yourself how much you've been forgiven, it'll make it a lot easier to forgive somebody who may not even have asked for forgiveness, who may not even know that they've done wrong. Forgiveness and freeing people up by not being bitter toward them is releasing them from the debt they owe you. You say, well, they don't they don't need to be released. Wait a minute. I'm not making trivial bad treatment of you. When you forgive somebody, here's what you're saying. Lord, I'm backing out of the way. You take care of me. of them because his word said, vengeance is mine, I will repay. You turn them over to the Lord. Don't be angry with somebody. Samson had an abundance of hostility for those who just want an outline. I'll say this and I need to close. Finally, he had the absence of humility. You say, what do you mean? Did you know that no one was allowed to speak into Samson's life His parents tried to. God tried to, but Samson was unapproachable. There was an absence of humility. Oh, there's a there was an abundance of hostility, but there was no humility in his life. In other words, you Samson couldn't seem to see that he might be wrong unless you take it to the end of chapter 16, for which I'm grateful. where the Bible makes a statement, the hair of his head began to grow again. There was no magic, mystic work of hair growth. It was that he was making things right with God, and that's why he pulled down that temple one last time. He prayed, first time we see him pray in the whole s account of his life. God use me. One more time. And he pulls down that temple. And more people of the Philistines were slain with with his own personal death as well than at any other time in his life. But before that time, Samson was not a humble man. Can you just stay with me? Can I just take two or three more minutes? Stay with me It was said that George Whitfield used to go and preach to miners as they'd come out of the coal mines, their faces covered with the black soot of the coal. And the only way that George Whitfield knew as they came out that they were under conviction was that he would begin to see little rivers. Flowing through the midst of that black coal on their face. They were under conviction. What? Can I tell you how to destroy a healthy marriage? Can I tell you how to destroy a sweet family child Church family? Can I tell you how to how to uh disrupt a church and disrupt a home? Can I tell you how to uh keep uh things unsettled in your own environment? Have pride be the king of your life. Can I remind all of us that Lucifer, the real first sin in the scriptures, we find was the angel of heaven who was full of himself. We're no more like the devil than when we're full of ourself. Martin Luther made the statement, it is God's nature to make something out of nothing. That is why he cannot make anything out of him who is not yet nothing. Be submissive to the word of God. Obey it. We we love to talk about ourselves. We live in a day of social media. Look, we all use it, I suppose. Where people say, see me, see my family, notice me, I am perfect, you're not. Let me make this statement. How many likes did I get It's all about talking about me. We love to tear down somebody else so that I can feel better about myself. Be a servant to other people. The Bible says that Jesus took a towel and he washed dirty feet like a servant. And Paul tells us in Philippians, let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus, who took upon him the form of a servant, and he humbled himself I had a teenage kid in my youth group years ago who was so full of himself. And truth is, he was he was probably the smartest kid I ever had in my youth ministry. Brilliant. I mean that. When he graduated from college, he graduated in four years. You say, well, doesn't most people? Mm-hmm. Not with three degrees. History, education , and a Bible degree. But no, wait a minute. How did he get there? He used to sit in my office and would fuss and argue about things that had been preached of late, and he he could twist words around. He was like a lawyer No matter what you said, he said, yeah, but and he could come right back at you. He was so smart that I honestly I couldn't I couldn't keep up with him and in my in my vocabulary and in my intelligence I couldn't I couldn't I couldn't out debate him. But one night in his senior year of high school, I watched him in the back row as God broke him. He became a humble young man. When we gave the invitation that night, I stood at the front of the auditorium if people needed someone to pray with them And I watched him as he stepped out into the aisle and he trembled with brokenness. He walked a few feet and he grabbed a chair to hold himself up Took a few more steps, came about three more rows, and grabbed another chair. I mean, he was about to fall over He did that, I think, twice when he got up to me. You said, Morris, why didn't you go help him? Because uh God was doing something I didn't want to interrupt. I did think about it, but I just said Just let the Lord keep dealing with that young man. When he got up to the front, he collapsed all over me. Six foot four guy. And he was nothing but a skeleton. He was just arms and limbs everywhere, fell all over me. He was crying so hard on my shoulder that he couldn't talk. And I just said, You're good. And I thought, what am I supposed to do with him? You know? And I looked way over to the side, so we kind of I kind of transported him over to a side. There was a a piano bench over there. We got on our knees and he literally, and that's not a this is not a make-believe story, he put a puddle of tears on that piano bench He couldn't talk for a while. Finally, when he could talk, he said this. He said, I am so full of myself. And I hate what I see. He said, God has broken me. And he did. Boy, this is sweet. Sweet brokenness. He was a believer, but he was just full of himself. He made things right with the Lord that night. You know what he said to me the next day? He said, Brother Morris How does a person know if God's calling them into ministry? I said, are you feeling a bit of a nudge? He said, I I I am, I said. He probably is calling ya. Just be available. That's why he graduated also with a Bible degree from a Bible college, and an education degree, and a history degree. Brilliant. Just a few months ago I got online and I looked up a certain church in the state of Florida. I pulled it up. And I went to the sermon to watch the pastor preach. That young man. And I hurt him break open the bread of life in a spirit of humility. And I remembered the night God broke him I don't suppose anybody here needs to do that kind of have that kind of experience, but I would like to say, and again, forgive me for going a little past eight. Don't commit the sins of Samson, who had an abundance of hostility. Maybe there's somebody you need to forgive. Maybe you need to just ask God to forgive you. And he had the absence of humility. May God help us not to get caught up in the Samson disorder and chaos. Chaos. Father, I thank you for these dear friends. I thank you for the opportunity we've had tonight to take a snapshot view of a man that you give us in the Old Testament to learn from as an example. Of someone that we can learn from. Lord, we're all guilty of the same pride. We're all guilty of the same temper issues And I pray with all of my being tonight that you'll help us to be sensitive to the Spirit of God and what you're trying to say to us tonight. May our loved ones see a difference in us. May the world around us see a change in us. Most of all, Lord, may we know that you're maturing us into Christ's likeness. With our heads bowed, I'm just going to let you stay seated tonight so you can spend some time with the Lord. In a moment, a pianist will begin to play. Would you take time with the Lord and be honest with him? This is one of those messages that one size fits all. We're all prone to be in the realm of the Samson chaos. May God help us tonight to do the real Would you take time with your Lord? I'll let Pastor conclude as he sees fit. What an excellent challenge from God's Word tonight. Truth is when we see terrible decisions, those decisions are not made at that moment. Those decisions are made in the patterns we establish for a long time. long, long time. And I think that that was such a such important thing for us to see this evening. And so let's really ask the Lord to help us to be humble and And not entitled, not angry. And anger really is something that comes from a heart that's unsettled internally. And you've got to go back to the foundations, the source. I'd like us to close with this hymn 251, near the cross. We're just going to sing the first and the last verses. But uh got to get back to what gives us forgiveness and cleansing And remember God's love for us. Let's stand together, please. Let's sing this Psalm 251, first and last verses. And then we will close in prayer. Want to remind you to Tomorrow's the last night that we will be meeting. And uh so I hope that you'll be able to make it back for that. And um I think we'll probably see a bunch of our families with kids tomorrow night. But uh Just spend some time with the Lord and allow the things that you've heard, the challenge from God's word to be something that sticks with you. Not just in this moment, but That we will take these things and we'll live in the light of them. Also want to remind you that we do have we we are uh taking up a love offering for Evangelist Gleiser, and so if you'd like to uh participate in that. Uh please um don't forget that we had the box there in the back. And you don't have to put a note love offering because This is the only law offering we're doing these two nights, so uh so please do remember that as well. And uh just stop by and and greet him and and share how the Lord's been working in your heart. I think that'd be an encouragement to him. If you need to reach out for anything, don't hesitate to talk. Scott, can you close us in prayer? And then uh we'll be dismissed. Let's pray. Lord, we are so thankful to you for all that you do for us, how you work in our lives when we don't deserve. the blessings that we receive. And I ask that you would give us compassion for others, for their souls, for those who even offend us or hurt us. I pray that we might find mercy and grace to apply in those situations and that you would just steer us in the path of righteousness for your sake. And I ask, Lord, for the rest of the evening that you would give us safety in Jesus' name. Amen.