Okay, well good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our service. Hope you had a great afternoon. And as crazy as this was, it was snowing. We got in the car to come to uh to choir practice this afternoon. So What a day, right? Well, let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer, and then we'll get started tonight. Father, we're so grateful for the Lord's Day, a day of rest, and I pray that Our minds and our bodies would be rested rested and refreshed. And as we sit under the ministry of Scripture, I pray that your word would just stir up our hearts, speak to us tonight, help us to Have a heart that is tender to the things that you have for us. And as we have opportunity to share testimonies, I pray that those things would encourage your people. As we share our burdens, I pray that we would uplift one another in prayer. And we just pray for your blessing on this time, and we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's get started with some singing. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number 550. 550, channels on label All three verses. How I may be presently that I will only What we do as well is love for every day and every hour , empty that 's not me. When you're me when we were so long before we have I was high on the road, that was pretty much. And back to hymn number 548. Make me a servant like you, dear Lord. This we have to do. Make me a so when I walk. That's what I was trying to be for the one Can you be brought on us and It will be a life heart, if my life is every part. Help me crawl with our. . Great singing, please be seated. We turn over to hymn number 391. 391, I am resolved. I am with all the time by the wall of I am resolved to enter the kingdom, leaving the past of them , pray for the before. Great singing this evening. All right, six oh five. Six oh three. Six oh three. Obedience is the very best way. Obedience is a very best way. Do the game that comes the Lord Do the Earl that we know. Alright, one, two, three. Let's stand with saying the first and the last I like the best of my home and passion. All the things great for me with the year Father 's hope, I want it to bring away. Bring the body all the fresh day. Oh man by the bread , but we 're wonderful, rainbow. Because praising the most new life by experience, bringing him on his love , purchasing me. And the wonderful brain of the Deeper than the fire was me I think the founders were like a foundation Alpha were made of me Right, the goal of my contradiction, greater by the same , all make my friend , they must be Hey man, please be needed. All right, good evening. We're going to be continuing our study. in uh 1 Samuel chapter 2. So you can open our Bibles to that section of Scripture. I've enjoyed studying this chapter. We're going to look briefly at the whole thing towards the beginning just to get some overall context before we dive in, spend most of our time kind of in the middle of the chapter. But 1 Samuel chapter 2, and I want to start reading actually with verse 11. I'm going to skip around a couple as we I'm going to hit some highlights of this chapter to kind of get our minds and our hearts with the core part of this chapter that I think will be very good for us this evening. And so starting in 1 Samuel chapter 2, I will start with verse 11 and skip a couple verses just to help us out here. So starting with verse 11, and Alcanah went to Ramah. To his house. And the children did minister, and I'm sorry, and the child did minister unto the Lord before Eli the priest. Go down to verse. 17. Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before the Lord. For men abhorred the offering of the Lord. But Samuel ministered before the Lord, being a child girded with a linen ephod. Moreover, his mother made him a little coat and brought it to him from year to year when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. And Eli blessed Okanah his wife, and said, The Lord give thee seed of this woman for a loan which is lent to the Lord. And they went to their own home. And the Lord visited Hannah, so that she conceived and bare three sons and two daughters, and the child Samuel grew before the Lord. Skip to verse 26. And the child Samuel grew on and was in favor with both the Lord and also with men. And I'd like us to skip down to where was it? Oh, verse thirty-four. And this shall be a sign unto thee that shall come upon thy two sons. On Hopni and Phineas, in one day they shall die, both of them. And I will raise me up a faithful priest That shall do according to that which is in mine heart and in my mind. And I will build him a sure house. And he shall walk before mine anointed forever. Father, we thank you so much for this passage of Scripture. There's a huge contrast we're going to see. with Samuel who ministered before the Lord and the two sons of Eli. Would we learn and glean these truths from your word? Would the Spirit of God speak to His people this evening to do His work in their hearts and in their life? And when we learn these truths as we have tender hearts before you And that we would be sensitive to the Spirit of God, as he would do a work in us and through us. For the sake and for the glory. Of the precious name of our Savior Jesus Christ, we pray. Amen. Alright, so just very quickly here in 1 Samuel chapter 2 The first, we're gonna let the quick summary is in Hannah's prayers, verses 1 through 11. We've covered that, but just for the sake of pointing out context, it's just overall prayer as she's just praising and thanking the Lord for providing Samuel The next we see Eli 's sinful sons, and that's verses 12 through 17. I tried to just pick out a couple verses to remind us of these things and some of the opening scripture reading And so we see a contrast of a son who's been given by way of an answer to prayer that was long waited for. And then you see Eli 's sinful sons living for selfish purposes and desires. And we see that in verses 12 through 17. Then we get to verse 18. And in verse 18 through 21, we're going to see Samuel ministered before the Lord in verses 18 through 21. I do want to read all these verses again. Just to focus on this before we dive into it. But Samuel ministered before the Lord, being a child. Girded with a linen ephod. Moreover, his mother made him a little coat and brought to him from year to year when she came up with her husband to offer yearly sacrifice. And Eli blessed Elkanah his wife, and said, The Lord give thee seed of this woman for the loan which is lent to the Lord, and they went to their own home. And I just put this little section here as I was thinking about it. Not too creative, but it's a linen ephod, a little coat, and a lot of faith. Some lessons we're going to learn from this next little section. A little ephod, a little coat, and a lot of faith. So let's just kind of dive in and look at this piece by piece here. Starting with verse 18. But Samuel, the butt is contrasting the the wicked, sinful sons of Eli. And then you have, but Samuel ministered before the Lord. And this sounds very basic, but I'm just going to put it out there. When we minister and when we serve, God puts us in a place in the church where we can be involved. It is a good reminder that we're What are our purposes? What is our purpose? I want to look good. I want to look busy. I want people to think that I'm great Well, we ought to just pause for a moment and think, am I doing this as unto the Lord and for the Lord? Are we evaluating our service and gifts and talents that God has given us? Are we making sure that we're doing it before the Lord? Then continuing on, it says, but Samuel ministered before the Lord, verse 18, being a child. I love working with teenagers and raising four children. One thing that I've the had the blessing and privileg privilege of raising all my four children from the ground up Or from the womb out or however you want to look at it. Not really from the ground up. Already low enough to the ground as it is. But the bl the blessing is being able to reign them from a little child because I've just known a situation where there's adopted or you know you you you you have a a marriage, you know, and you each have kids and things and it sometimes there's just challenges, uh even from my own personal experience of just you with my dad getting remarried and different things, you have different children involved and my mom did the same thing and you have these half siblings and there's all this oh well that's your kid and that and I'm just thankful that I haven't had to have that experience with in my immediate family But the important part I want to make here is being a child, it is okay to teach children from a little age to love God and to serve Him as their little kids. And it is okay to give them the mindset of getting them to clean up after themselves, to tell them stories, to sing songs from the Bible, to get them. It is amazing how much scripture you can get in the mind of a little child. They're just like sponges. I mean they want to learn new words and they're trying to talk. Start teaching them scripture. A fond memory I have It was actually uh back in the we saw it a while ago, it was this little video clip that we saw. You know, on your on your phones has those memory things that pop up or whatever, whoever puts those things together, but AI, I guess. But anyway, it popped up and Becky and I looked at it, and actually it was my oldest daughter Julia. She was in her toddler bed in this parsonage upstairs And I was just asking your references and it was like truth tracker lately, but you're just popping off all these verses. And you know it's two on one. You know, with your first child it's two on one. They got no hope. I mean they're just they're getting it, you know. Two-on-one. It changes as you get older. Becky and you're like, what happened to Daniel? I don't know. Do we have any pictures? Yes, but they're with other people, other kids. But the blessing is that the oldest one, and so Julia from a very early age, Becky and I were just, I mean, lots of scripture and truth trackers and tiny trackers and all that really helped a lot. But you have the privilege of teaching them to train God from an early age. And I believe that's what Hannah's prayer was, and that's the contrast we're going to see. You have parents that are heavily involved. And I never thought that we'd have to be at a place in this country where we'd have to emphasize so much that really it takes. Two parents. As we read through the scripture here, he says he being a child, but yet he had two parents that were involved in his life. Given in this situation, it was a little bit from afar. But I think he must have learned from a young age. My parents prayed for me, especially mom, and when I was given to her, she gave me unto the Lord to serve him. From a little child. And really, is it much different for us today? Some scripture that reminds me of this. Whether you're a mother, grandparent, Here's some scripture that reminded me as I was thinking about this. In 2 Timothy 1, 5, it says, When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first In thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice, I am persuaded that in thee also. So you have Paul writing to Timothy about a grandmother and a mother, and the faith that's been passed down, probably not just verbally. Probably it's been learned. Children see and they learn. And then we continue on later in that same book, 2 Timothy 3, 14 and following. But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them. And from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus. So here, little Timothy had learned from his mother and from his grandmother about serving God, about loving God, about a faith in a God that's just not a figment of our imagination. But a real living God whom we can serve. If we start teaching this to the next generation, to our children. And they start developing and understanding God and Jesus Christ from a young child, it's going to be hard for them to get rid of that. If we start right away from the womb, it's okay to you know read them scripture. I remember doing that a couple times. I mean just looking at Well there when my wife is pregnant, there's nothing but baby, you know, like basketball. And you know, you just you know, you read scripture, you talk to 'em, and it's incredible They can even learn the distinction while in the womb, the difference between the mother and the father's voice. So I've read. I I would think that would make sense. They're not just a couple of accidents in there. I mean they're they're living children in the womb. But the point is from a young child taking two parents, and it does take a team. It's not two men, it's not two ladies. We have Elkanah, we have Hannah, we have them teaching even from afar. But I really think that there was an emphasis of when they met and well how come I don't get to see my mom and dad? Well, because you're an answer to prayer And really isn't every child a gift and a miracle of God, anyways? What child is not a miracle? My uh my parents used to tease me every once in a while, not a lot, but every once in a while like, oh I was an accident. I was like, you know, just shy of honeymoon baby. And uh they were like, Oh yeah, so if they were still married, they would have been married for almost forty two years now, because it wasn't much time between. But as I thought about that and you add the scripture, there is no accident. Oh yeah, they may have had a different plan, but God's plan was different. We need to treat no child, and I appreciate that what you said to the pastor. Every person has value. They're valuable to God, and God has given them to us. to steward and to teach and to train from a little child. And look at this, they said, girded with a linen ephod, serving to God. This was like a priestly garment. We could go back to other passages of scripture in uh in the Old Testament where it describes. This being a part of the priestly attire. So he as a little child is serving God. And even if it takes longer to fold the laundry, or you have to re-vacue the house or whatever it is, I think it's worth the investment. You can do it faster on your own. I know. I've been there. It's great when they get older and they can, you know, brush their own teeth and take their own showers and fold their own clothes. That's wonderful But it takes time to get there. It does. It really does. But are we teaching them and training them from a child? And it also, look at verse 19. It says, moreover, his mother made him a little coat. and brought it to him from year to year when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice. So a couple quick things is they're they're going to the sacrifice every year. They're consistent with doing this. Yes, they have added incentive, but it seemed like this is a pattern of life before this. Do you remember Panina just poking and prodding at Hannah? Every time you remember all the birthdays and all the kids that she would have and everything, it's like, ah, and Hannah was just up to here with it. But it seemed like they had a consistent lifestyle of serving God, doing what they should do, and waiting on God's timing. So in verse 19, she made him a little coat. This is her way of expressing to her son, I'm still loving for you, I'm still loving you, praying for you, I appreciate your service. She is helping her son. And what she believes God has called them to do, and an answer to her prayer. Sometimes I think the struggle with children serving God is the parents Can get in the way. Well, I don't want my kid to do that. If you go into the ministry, you're going to be poor, you're going to be broke, people are going to be mean to you, and you know, you don't get weekends off, or whatever excuses they may have. I don't know. I don't want you to go to another country. Do you really want your kids to serve God? It seems that Hannah here, as she would bring him a gift, that's her way of expressing, listen, I'm your mother. There's a reason why we're separate, but you're going to serve God You are special. And I'm giving you this. I made this for you as a gift. Yes, I'm gonna have to go away soon, but I'll see you next year. I'm sure as a child He would have looked forward to his birthday, or well, we'll say birthday, but his annual visit from his parents, like a gift, as if it was a birthday. She would come year after year and bring him a little coat. And I have the little coat. He's not a grown man. He's not a teenager. He's just a boy Reinforcing that you are some service for God. Why should we be any different? If we aren't treat training our children and encouraging them to serve the Lord, the world's not going to do it. Some in your family aren't going to do it. And I'm not saying they all have to be in full-time ministry, but whatever God calls them to do, would they walk worthy of the vocation wherewith God calls them? When is the Bible going to go to waste? When is knowledge of the scripture going to be void or useless? Is there a time? Are we willing to invest and to continue to be faithful? And it also reminded me of a passage in Genesis. We've got to get moving on. In Genesis 22, starting verses 2 and 3, and then we'll skip to verse 12. And he said, Take now thy sons, thy only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah, and offer him there for a burnt offering upon the mountain which I should tell thee of. And Abraham rose up early in the morning. And saddled his ass, and took two young men with him, and Isaac his son, and claved the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up and went to the place which God had told him. And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do anything unto him. For now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son, from me. Why do I bring that up? In this passage, you have a mother giving her son, at this point her only son, to serve God. Now I'm not saying that she has a promise of land and seed and blessing like here with Abraham and Isaac. But the truth of the same is you're willing to obey with your only son That has been given to you in an amazing way. And are you willing to allow them to serve God? God Himself did this as the Father with His own Son. We're familiar with John 3. 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten, a very unique, one-of-a-kind son. Gave him that whosoever believed in him should not perish, but have everlasting life. But he gave of his son, his only son, for us One more there at the end of Genesis 22. And he said, By myself I have sworn, saith the Lord, for because thou hast done this thing, thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son. That it is a blessing, I will bless thee, and in multiplying, I will multiply thy seed. So because of their obedience Abraham's obedience. He chose to bless him. The timing need of Abraham's choice, and we know that him and Sarah tried to take things into their own hands, and it didn't work. But they still remained faithful, believing in the promise along the way, and they got stronger as it went. And I think that's kind of where Hannah is. And look how this relates here. When we get to verse 20, so here they come year after year to do the yearly sacrifice. Look at verse 20. And Eli blessed Elkhanah and his wife and said, The Lord give thee seed of this woman. For the loan which is lent unto the Lord. And they went unto their own home. So very here, that idea of loan is a petition or a request. Give them of their request. And the Lent has the idea of the asking or inquiring of the Lord. So it's kind of going back a little bit. And then here the man of God is looking at this and going, Man, these guys are faithful. They only have one son and he's here with me learning to serve the Lord. So what's he saying here? He's like Man, would you bless this woman with some seed? Give her some of the children. And praise the Lord. Look what happens. In verse 21, it says, And the Lord visited Hannah. Now I want to pause for a quick timeout right here. If the Lord were to visit you, let's just admit, sometimes it may not be so exciting. Let's just be honest. If you're not obedient to the Lord, you haven't been his house, you haven't been in your word, you haven't you've done some things you shouldn't, thought some things maybe you haven't, and the Lord visits you, wouldn't that be rather convicting? The good news is for Hannah, that's not the case. The Lord visited Hannah for why? Look at this. So that she conceived and bare not one, not two. But five children, years of blessing after this. What an amazing blessing that is. She conceived. Now that took some time because year after year she would go to visit uh her son So we're talking many, many years of without children, panina, poking at her, prodding at her. Then year after year, once she finally gets Samuel, she goes year after year, that's her only son. Year after year she stays faithful. Do you see the longevity? Sometimes we just need to trust God in his timing. God will take you places and have you do things that you would have never thought. I never in my mind would have thought I had ever been a youth pastor when I was growing up in the Liberal State of Washington. Never would have thought it. Uh-uh. Nor would I have thought about being the same church twice. These things are just beyond what man can put together And then I was reminded of this passage in Matthew 19, 29. And everyone that had forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife. or children or lands for my name's sake shall receive a hundredfold and shall inherit everlasting life And then we look here at the end of verse 21. So great blessing. She's rewarded greatly after years and years of faithfulness and doing right. Look how verse 21 ends. So she gets the three sons and the two daughters, and the child Samuel grew before the Lord. You know, we've already mentioned about training them from a child, and they can grow in the Lord, and it reminds me of our Savior. In Luke 2, 52, it says, and Jesus increased in wisdom and in stature and in favor with God and man. And we're going to see the same thing with Samuel. He had favor with God and man, but we must move on. So we've seen Samuel minister before the Lord in verses 18 through 21, and we're very quickly look at the sins of Eli's sons in 22 through 26. And I kind of put on there, these are transgressions in the tabernacle. When we think of going to church on tabernacle, our I think our New Testament mind would think, okay, this is a good place. These are good things. Good things are happening. Samuel's in a great place to really serve God. And there's some truth to that. But it's not like probably we're thinking. It's not as optimistic as what we're looking at. So let's just check it out really quick here in verse 22 through 26. It says, Now Eli was very old. and heard that all his sons did unto all Israel and how they lay. Look at the description of this place of worship. And how they would lay the women that assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. Not good. Okay, that'd be like, you know, Joshua and Joel hanging out before the church service, you know, whistling all the girls, okay? Well, that'd be a minor compared to what's going on here, but I think we get the picture. You've got the priest's son 's absolute blatant wickedness. Ridiculous. Crazy. At the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. Look at verse 23. And he said unto them, Why do you do such things? And I hear of your evil dealings by all this people. Now as I read this, I'm like, shame on you, Dad. I mean, did he really not know what was going on? I don't think this was the first time that this happened. I think sometimes when your child doesn't mean, as a father, sometimes you don't want to Do you want to fight the battle? Do I want to train this kid? Oh, it's so much easier. I got this kid as a little child and his mom and dad were so faithful. Yeah, he's doing great. He's doing wonderful. But my kids, man, I'd really messed up and now it's like, uh, do I have to correct them? I don't know exactly what happened. We don't got a lot of details. But the point is we need a mother, and I don't know where Mrs. Eli is in all the scripture you're reading through. I don't know where Mrs. Eli is. So when you draw the comparison, you've got two boys and a father that's not doing right. And I understand, you know, raising your kids in a pastor's home can be a little bit different than others. But at the same time, there's no excuse for this. He may have been a good priest and helping with other children, but his own not so good. And we can go to places like 1 Timothy 3 and things of that nature. which are very convicting verses. But he's asking them, why are you doing this evil? And here's some verses that came to my mind as we just sing it. In Romans 14, 16. These guys, they had no shame. It seemed like they weren't even concerned about the tabernacle, about God's name, about God's presence, about their father's testimony, about their own testimony, about God. They didn't seem to care about any of it. So it brings these passages to my name. In Roman to my uh Just to my mind here. In Romans 14, 16. Let not then your good be evil spoken of And in this one, 1 Thessalonians 5. 22, abstain from the appearance of evil. They're not even attempting to try and do right to abstain from evil. They're flaunting it. They're not even trying to do good that even though it might get spoken evil of. These guys are just blatant wicked. Many different contrasts. Just because you grow up in the right place With a uh you know a father that's doing the right thing doesn't mean that you're not responsible for your own actions. Meanwhile you have this not really orphaned, but he's not directly being raised by his parents. But they must have taught him well enough when he was little and in their conversations from year to year, it must have been enough influence to keep him on the straight and narrow. And by the grace of God and his blessing, he saw that it was real and he decided I need to I need to serve God. Whereas when we look at Hof Nine Phineas, God really just was a way for them to get what they want. They use God to leverage other people to get their own selfish desires. Not good. And that made the people transgress. I mean what when you see people in leadership do wrong, that just infuriates people When you see leaders, whether it's a governor or president or anything, they might claim a certain religious background, and then they say things like they support things that are completely obviously opposed to scripture. I mean I would scratch my head and apparently I have because I'm losing it, but I'm thinking that doesn't make sense to me. You're a Christian, you're a Catholic. How in any way can you stand for things that are blatantly true in Scripture, like homosexuality? Transgender. Killing innocent life in the womb. How could any Christian whatsoever stand for these things? Are they transgressing in the temple? It doesn't matter with my kids Whatever they want, I don't know what their thinking is, but it's certainly not biblical. This happens. Look at Eli and his sons Just because you have a person in the right position doesn't mean the family's doing well. Meanwhile, you have little Samuel, almost like an orphan, if you will, who's deciding to serve God. They chose not to obey their father, and there's many different things we can look at in Leviticus and Deuteronomy that sh that share about that. And then very quickly, we know Ephesians 6. 1, children obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. My kids heard that a lot growing up. It's a simple, easy verse. And with that, you can look at Colossians 3. 20. But it's obey your parents in the Lord. And when Becky and I disciplined our children, we had to reali we we actually had a plan. We would be consistent. We would try and do it the same. Sometimes she waited for me to come home. Sometimes I came home from lunch. But we tried to do it the same every time. But what we would use is we always were calm and collected. We didn't tell them to go in their room just because we wanted to finish what we're doing. We want to make sure that we're doing it out of a calmness of mind and of heart. Because you don't want to discipline your child for getting mad and angry and you go in and discipline them because now you're mad and angry. We didn't like that. That'd make a hypocrite of you. So we tell them to go to their room and sit down and think about it one time a couple times. Becky had to remind me, um, did you take care of so-and-so yet? Oh man, no. Then I feel guilty. I mean that that happened more than it should have. Not a lot, but more than it should have. I was like, oh I feel so bad and you go in there and there's your little kid still sitting there waiting for the torment. You know, I'm sorry. I've been thinking about it for half an hour. You know, like I know. And then you still have to go through with it. That's no fun as a dad So B times, do it quicker. Give them some time. You, the parent needs some time. But you want them to obey the Lord. Another important part I just want to share with this is are you using scripture? We always have scripture when we discipline our children because what we wanted to connect is you discipline you disobeyed God Yes, you disobeyed mom and daddy, shouldn't obey your pension to the Lord for this is right. But you know how many times they've heard be kind one to another, tender hearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake have forgiven you? Is hitting and biting kind? No. You didn't obey the Bible. Murmuring, do all things about murmurings and disputings. They've heard that one a lot too. Be swift to hear, slow to speak, and slow to wrath. Yeah, I know. That's why we're here. You didn't obey the Bible. Because eventually when they get older, you have to understand that mommy and daddy aren't always going to be there. We are chaining our children, whether to Samuel or Hofni and Phineas, or to avoid the Hopni and Phineas, and to end to be with Samuel. You want to understand they're disobeying God and his word. And when they're a little kid, that comes from learning from mom and dad. And if you don't follow through with discipline, you could end up with a Hofnight Phineas. It can happen very easily. And I think we need to be sensitive. It is not easy. Being a parent is like on-the-job training. It really is. And and every kid is different. And you get multiple of them. And like our pediatrician said, after two it doesn't matter because you're outnumbered. You know, I mean it is not easy. Really. Yeah, some of us more than others. But let's look quickly, we we gotta land this plane here really quick. Let's look at some other things. Let's skip down to verse 26. I just love this. It's so convicting though at the same time. Look at verse 26 here. It says, And the child Samuel grew on. And was in favor with the Lord and also with men. This is what was reminding me about the Luke 252 passage Samuel as a man, okay, yeah, but that's Jesus, and of course he'd have favor with God. Amen. He's God. Yes, I know. But isn't true here with Samuel too? He's a man. Not even the greatest upbringing. And I also want to remind us very quickly in Job 1. 1, it says this. There was a man in the land of us whose name was Job. And that man was perfect and upright and one that feared God and shewed evil. So you almost have man's perspective of Job. What did he do? He was perfect and upright and one that feared God. And Eschewed evil. Look at verse, well, you don't have verse 8, Job 1. 8. Let's look at God's view, God's word of Job. Very interesting here. And the Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? That there is none like him in the earth, and perfect and upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. It's the same. This is the challenge. If we could be a parent to hopefully grow a Samuel instead of a Hawk Nine Phineas, consistency, I think, is key. Consistency. Don't be one thing at home and another thing at church. Yes, you want to try and live right before man and before God. It's not an easy task. It is challenging. But if you want to grow up a hypocrite, a rebellious teenager, live two different lives. And then you want to send them to the Christian school, you want to send them to the Christian whatever, to the church, so they will straighten them out And in bicology about giving up, you're willing to spend extra money because hopefully they can straighten out your kid. Because we couldn't do it, so now you're literally paying for it. If that's your purpose, not a good idea. Okay, not not recommended. But these things happen. I've known the one-year guys at college. They're just going there because their parents made them. I'm like, yeah, I would send you two, but still. Yeah. But the the law of responsibility, it's on the parents. It's on the parents. Do we have the same view before man as God does? Tough. Very tough. Samuel found favor in verse 26, both with the Lord and also with men. That's how you win the heart of a child. That's how we grow Samuels. You be real. And it's not that you don't ever make mistakes. Some of the greatest, most tender, yet challenging times for me is when I had a child on my lap that was about to discipline. And I had to apologize to them because mommy caught me and gave me the story, and I had to apologize to them. That can be a tough nut to swallow sometimes. I was wrong. I didn't understand the whole situation. Will you forgive me? You know what's great about kids? They're so forgiving. They're like, God forgive you, Daddy. And they just move on. I'm like, wow, is that easy? But you feel horrible. But you're just being honest. Dad made a mistake. I'm a human. They're gonna figure that out eventually anyways. They will Like Samuel, are we going to be find favor between God and men? Then, very quickly. We're going to see a message from the man of God. And this is 27 to the rest of the chapter. I didn't want to spend a lot of time here, but there's a lot of questions here. In verses 27 through 29, you have this man of God coming. And he's posing a bunch of questions to Eli, getting him to think and to consider. And Eli is probably realizing at this point, I mean I just I just picture like the prophet before David points Pony pony finger at David and said, you know, thou art the man. This is Elizabeth moment here. He realizes he's messed up, and now his day is coming. And then we look down at verse 30 through 36. And uh we read through this, let's see. Uh that day comes. Look at verse 31. Behold the days Come, that will cut off thine arm and the arm of thy father's house, and there shall not be old man in thy own house. And you continue reading through here, basically what's happening is the consequences are coming. It's not just verse Hof Nine and Phineas. They're both going to lose their lives. And then we get to 1 Kings, where we see this come to pass. So there is a day of consequences. You can think you can get away with that. And that's sometimes where we go astray. So if we don't get immediate consequences, We think we're getting away with it. Our kids will think they're getting away with it. You and I will think we're getting away with it. That only works for so long. So his day, this day did come to pass with the consequences, and this is further explained in first Kings two, twenty-six and twenty-seven And unto Abathar the priest said the king, Get thee to An Anathon unto thine own fields, for thou art worthy of death. But I will not at this time put thee to death, because thou bearest the ark of the Lord God before David, my father. And because thou hast been afflicted, in all wherein my father was afflicted, so Solomon thrust out Abathar from being priest unto the Lord. Look at this. that it might be fulfilled the word of the Lord which he spake concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh. The consequences are going to come. It may not be in the timing, and that could be dangerous. Why is God so patient and gracious? Maybe he wants us to turn and repent. But the consequences will come. And sometimes the consequences may come in the next generation or in the grandchildren. Are we going to be a servant of the Lord personally to find favor with God and before men? Are we going to look at Samuel and try to raise some Samuels? And do the best that we can to fear God, obey his word, and to be a servant that's willing to do right ourselves. And encourage the next generation to serve God because I am serving God. Even Paul told the Church of Corinth, you follow me even as I follow Christ. Can we say that to our generation? that follow us. You follow me as I follow Christ and see where it leads you. And would we hopefully be servants of the Lord? Before God and before man and Father. I thank you and praise you for this passage. And there's a huge contrast, and a lot more we could look at between Samuel and Hopani and Phineas from the parents and their upbringing. But Lord, sometimes I think it just comes right down to are we honest before you to live And to love you and your commands so much that we would desire to obey them, even when it's difficult. Help our parents and grandparents here to be consistent, to be loving. to lead a life that points to Christ as the opportunities we can. Hannah had once a year to visit her son To bring him that little coat. And he was already wearing that little linen ephod. Father, would we take advantage of the times that we have? Would you give us wisdom? Discernment, help us to parent, help us to be an example, even if we're not parents, to be an example to the next generation, to be godly young men and godly young ladies that desire to serve you. Before people and to praise our Savior Jesus Christ. Would you be with us as we come to you for His name's sake? Amen. Pastor. Such a great need for us to really uphold those families that are raising their kids right now. And you know, you get twenty years about to invest in your children and then the rest of your life you'll see the fruit of what you did. And uh obviously they're responsible to take what they've been given. But um in those very early formative years, that's when some of the most important times are when they're really little. I love that point about he was a little kid and he was serving the Lord. Isn't that really a great thing? One of the things we're really trying to do in our church is involve our young people. And um Sunday nights, the one of the reasons that we um pick favorites, honestly, is to get the kids involved. This might sound a little funny, but you know why we have meet and greet time on Sunday mornings? So that our kids feel like they're a part of the service. Not the only reason, okay? But that's a really and you know who really gets excited about going to greet and food? It's the kids. I'm telling you, man. They are really They're plugged in. Maybe too plugged in, but they're really plugged in. But the truth is that those things are invaluable because it connects them to the body. And it's important for them to learn at a young age. They can go up and greet someone and welcome to church. I'm glad to see you. Those things are very, very important. Alright, the song we're going to sing for our closing is 374, Be Thou My Vision. It's a beautiful song. We're going to sing. Uh let's just in the first and the last verses. So whoever is back there, I'm gonna throw a curveball at you and we're gonna just do the first and the last verses. Three hundred and seventy-four. Let's stand together, please. And let's sing, Be Thou My Vision. It am I trying to my heart, I will. I be not heaven, I will angel be one, may I be heaven? Beautiful song. Frank, can you please come and post a prayer? And uh I know the teams have their singer so teams meet in the back for uh the van. And uh good to see each of you here tonight Our gracious Heavenly Father, we're so thankful for Your great loving kindness to us and um just the wonderful gift of salvation that you have bestowed upon us and um the mercy and kindness that you reached out to us in love and uh revealed yourself to us and Revealed our need for a Savior and blessed us with the wonderful gift of eternal life through your only begotten Son, Jesus Christ, that died for us. That we must have fellowship with you. We thank you for all you do for us, Lord. But most especially that. In Christ's name we pray. Amen.