Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our service tonight. Hope you had a good afternoon and looking forward to our service. I do want to remind you that tonight we will be Partake in the Lord's table. So if you're planning to partake, please pick up your elements during the first hymn if you don't have them already. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to really work in our hearts today. Father, we thank you for your word and the privilege that we've had this morning to hear it preached and taught and the opportunity to fellowship as a body. Saying praise to you, I pray that tonight as we think about the truths that will be laid before us, that our hearts will be tender to them, help us to learn, help us to grow, help us to be shaped more and more into the image of Christ, as we partake of the Lord's table and we reflect on the the body of Christ broken and the blood of Christ shed for our sins, that our hearts would be warmed. As we remember this great sacrifice and what was accomplished on our behalf, I pray that you would use this to strengthen us as we think about you. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Let's get started this evening with some hymns out of our hymn book, hymn number five hundred and eighty-seven. Victory in Jesus. Please stand with me as you're seeing all three verses of hymn number five hundred and eighty-seven. I were not reading, I press on the wind. Well , we got a name , we can love my way. Amen. Great seeing you. Let's turn back to them number three hundred and fifty-five. Three hundred and fifty-five, Jesus paid it all. What's the more verses I may be highlighting. Free to make the home all the time. Neké , van az ügy. Amen. Please be seated as we turn back to two pages to two fifty-three. Two fifty-three search me. Oh God. But we have a friend , bring me one. Amen. Make me a blind you say. I'll go to the team, and I'll take him on me to be a great thing. It before you are, if I know the. . All right, four eighty-two in the red book, four eighty-two. And let's sing the last verse on that one. Verse 3, viewing here the works of God. Oh just stop with it. Wait , but Like two fifty two in the red book, two fifty two. Nothing but the blood. And let's all stand, we'll turn back to the fly leaf. Blessed be the tie that binds will stand, will sing the first, third, and last. Verses 1, 3, and 4 If you have your Bibles, which I hope you do, please take them and let's turn to 1 Samuel 15 tonight. And as we were say setting out our working our way through 1 Samuel, 2 Samuel, this is a passage that we are going to we're going to deal with in more than one section. And the reason for that is there's really a lot to break down in these verses. And so this evening, what I'd like us to do as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table is I'd like us to look at this concept of self-deception. And I'd like us to see it from the life of Saul, because that is the person that is in front of us this evening. So, 1 Samuel chapter 15, we're going to begin in verses 1, 2, and 3. Then we're going to skip down a couple of verses to verse number nine and then read through kind of the bulk of the section that we will be looking at tonight. Here's what the scriptures say in 1 Samuel chapter 15. Samuel also said unto Saul, The Lord sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people. Over Israel. Now, therefore hearken thou unto the voice of the words of the Lord. Thus saith the Lord of hosts: I remember that which Amalek did to Israel How he laid wait for him in the way. When he came up from Egypt, now go and smite Imelech and utterly destroy all that they have and spare them not Then in verse 9 it says, but Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep. And of the oxen and of the fatlings and of the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them. But everything that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly. Then came the word of the Lord unto Samuel, saying, It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king, for he has turned back from following me and has not performed my commandments And it grieved Samuel, and he cried unto the Lord all the night. And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came. to Carmel, and behold, he set him up a place, and is gone about and passed on, and gone down to Gilgal. And Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him , Blessed be thou of the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. And Saul said, What? Samuel said, What meaneth this bleeding of sheep in my ears? And the lowing of the oxen which I hear. And Saul said, They brought them from the Amalekites, for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen. To sacrifice unto the Lord thy God, and the rest we have utterly destroyed. And Samuel said unto Saul, Stay. And I will tell thee what the Lord has said to me this night. He said unto him, Sayon. Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own sight, And thou had not made that was not was wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel? And the Lord anointed thee king over Israel, and the Lord sent thee on a journey and said, Go. and utterly destroy the sinners, the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed. Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of the Lord? But didst fly on the spoil and didst evil in the sight of the Lord? And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord, and I have gone the way which the Lord sent me, and I have brought Agag, the king of Amalek, and I have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. But the people took the spoil, sheep and oxen and the chief and the chief of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto the Lord thy God in Gilgal. Samuel said, Hath the Lord as great delight in burnt offering and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, to hearken than the fat of rams. Rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft And stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry, because thou hast rejected the word of the Lord. He also has rejected thee from being king. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to understand these very important truths before us tonight. Lord, speak to our hearts. Prepare our hearts as we Prepare to take the Lord's table. Father, help us to reflect internally at how we maybe have developed some of the same patterns of behavior and thinking that Saul has. Father, please protect us from this root of pride that manifests itself in such ugly ways. And Father, help us to turn our eyes to the cross and help us to delight in Christ and what He has done for us. For us. May you move in our hearts this evening. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. I summarize the text in front of us the following way: Saul's refusal to obey God's command. To execute justice against the Amalekites was an arrogant dereliction of duty that reminds us how people respond when they become self-absorbed and feel entitled to do as they please. with the authority that they have been delegated. There's a lot that I'm talking about in that little summary statement, but the basic way to put it is it's a big deal when God gives you authority and you abuse it. That's really what it comes down to. Saul thought he could do things on his own terms. And this is a very consistent pattern that we see in the life of Saul. Each of the sermons that we have looked at in Saul's life, it seems like he's a very self-centered person. He's very concerned about what people think about him. He's all about getting the glory and all about getting the credit. And he's all about doing his own thing. This is not in any way a deviation from that continual pattern in his life. As we look at these verses, it will be clear that what God wants us to do is reflect on our own disposition and ask the question: do we have any of Saul's disposition in our own hearts? And so in order to do that, I want us to kind of remind ourselves of what was talked about last week as Braxton handled this text of Scripture. The basic story is that God sends Samuel with a message, and he spent a lot of time developing the fact that when Samuel came to Saul, he says God sent me to anoint you over his people. And he has a mission for you, and you need to obey it and you need to fulfill it. But Saul did not obey what God told him to do through Samuel. And so Samuel is going to have to confront Saul, and this was no easy thing. And we can see in these verses that when Samuel goes to Saul, Saul is very good at making excuses, and he's very good about diverting away from taking responsibility, and he's very good about talking about why he did what he did And Samuel's having a tough time pinning him down, but he eventually does. We'll see that later on in just a few minutes. But Saul excused this disobedience, and Samuel communicated God's response to Saul's disobedience, which was basically the kingdom will no longer be yours. God has removed the kingdom from you. And it's not that Saul immediately steps down as the king and David takes his place. David's just a young man. But what God does is he sends Samuel to anoint this next king, and God's going to begin raising up this young man, David, not by David trying to take the throne and push himself forward. But God's going to take this young man and he's going to pull him out from following the sheep and he's going to bring him into the palace and eventually he's going to become a national hero. God's hand is going to be upon David, and as long as David serves the Lord faithfully, God will work through David We also talked about God's judgment on the Amalekites. And obviously this is a very delicate issue for us to think about in our modern time. But the fact is that this was an act of divine justice delegated to Saul as God's representative to execute justice. And if you remember, there are several things that he says in the text that are very significant. He talks about the sinners, the Amalekites. Now we're all sinners, okay? Every person in this room is a sinner. And we know the wages of sin is death for all of us. But there are certain categories of sin that God talks about in his word that he calls abominations. There are certain kinds of categories of sin in his word that he calls flagrant injustices. There are certain categories of sin that in fact they are so severe and they are so serious and they are so evil that God many times has to step into that situation and deal uniquely with those individuals in time. In fact, to appreciate how serious the sins of this group of people were, we can only think about some examples of God's mercy. Think about the story of Sodom and Gomorrah. I mean, this is a fully immoral, wicked city It was so evil that when the angels go down to see what is going on and they're welcomed into Lot's house The men of the city, and he says the young and the old. So we're not just talking about people that are in their 20s and 30s and their forties. We're talking about Boys, young men, people that are probably eight, nine, ten years old, they're there at that door beating on the door saying, we want to abuse those people that you brought into the house. You say, really societies can get that evil? Of course they can. There's absolutely no question that those things happen. We have it in the Word of God. And what's amazing is that there have just been ten righteous people in that city. Only ten. God would have spared them. And you know how we know there weren't ten? Well, obviously because God punished the city, but I mean look at Lot's family Watson 's wife didn't make it out of the city. Look at the mentality of his daughters. The fact is that God punished that city. And then we look at the story of Nineveh, and we we know the story of how When God sends a message to Jonah and he says, go to Nineveh and cry against that city, he goes the opposite direction. Why does he do that? Well, because he knows that God is in mercy. And if these people would have humbled themselves on any level, there's this slim possibility that God might spare the city. And guess what? That's exactly what God did. And there's Jonas Sulkin up and looking over those people. I wish God would have destroyed those people. And God said I'm a merciful God. Now why do I say that? I say that to help you to realize something. When God said utterly destroy Amalek, there was a reason for that. And you and I may not fully comprehend all the reasons, but if we could know the mind of God and we could have lived at that time, we would understand that what God is choosing to to do is right. It's righteous. And Saul's job is to be God's representative to execute this justice. And this command was proportionate to Amalek's numerous egregious offenses against God's people. Think about the fact that when they were coming out of Egypt, these people had been slaves for 400 years. They didn't have an organized army. This is just a group of people moving through the wilderness. They don't have the ability to defend themselves like a formal army at this time. And what did the Amalekites do? They say, aha. We have an opportunity to just slaughter people at will and take their stuff and do what we want with them. And so they came to the back where where the older people were who were moving a lot slower. And the ladies who had the little children and they're nursing babies and these are the most vulnerable people in the entire society. And they just came in without any mercy and any restraint. They slaughtered these people. It's kind of like what happened in October, to be very honest with you. What's amazing about the Amalekites is that this wasn't something that happened one time. It happened over and over and over and over and over and over again. And here we are, hundreds of years after, and they're doing the exact same thing. And we think about the Abrahamic curse, covenant. Genesis chapter 12, he says, I will bless them that bless thee, and I will curse them that curse thee. We like to focus on the blessing. We bless the nation of Israel. God blesses those people. But don't miss the second sign. You curse the nation. God curses you. That's sobering. The fact is that people hated this group of people and they were willing to go out against them because they didn't have any respect for the God of Israel. And so God took that very seriously. Amalek had a well-established character. In Exodus 17, we see that in Deuteronomy chapter 25, Braxton talked about all of these things. But the statement is fascinating. He says, He met thee by the way and smote the hindermost of thee, even all who were feeble and faint and weary, and he feared not God. Therefore it shall be when the Lord thy God hath given thee rest from all thine enemies round about that God giveth thee, thou shalt blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven. And then we read in 1 Samuel 14, verse 48 last week, that Amalek up to that very day was spoiling the people. That means they were raiding their cities. And they were harassing and killing innocent people. The last thing I'll mention is that when Saul decided to spare Agag, it was not an aspect, it was not him saying, Oh, I want to be merciful to this poor man. It wasn't compassion, it was pride. He wanted a trophy that he could bring home and say, look who I conquered. The second thing that I want us to mention tonight is that there were two great failures that Saul made. The first one was what we talked about in 1 Samuel chapter 13. This is the second of Saul's great failures. And before we mention that, all human authority has a limited jurisdiction. There is no such thing as an absolute human authority. You know why Christianity comes in conflict with things like communism? Do you know why that is? By authoritarian dictatorships, do you know why there is this conflict with Christianity? It's because Christianity has a higher authority than the human government. Okay, that's really what it comes down to. There's a reason that communist societies are anti-Christian and that they are secular because the state is the highest authority. And God says, No, I'm the highest authority. There is no such thing as a human authority that is unlimited, whether it's in the home, in the church, in the government, in all areas of life. No human authority is absolute. There are always limited jurisdictions. And when Samuel came and anointed Saul, he says, you have a responsibility. to God. You have limitations to your authority. You can only go as far as God says go. And this passage of scripture is where this comes to a head. Now when we look at the 1 Samuel 13 passage several weeks ago, Saul presumed to act without God's instruction. He went and he offered sacrifice without hearing from God before he took action. In this passage of Scripture, he presumed to act despite God's instruction. And what Samuel says is when you were little in your own eyes, God made you the head of the tribe of Israel, and the Lord anointed thee king over Israel, and the Lord sent thee on a journey. Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of the Lord, but fly on the spoil and gets evil in the sight of the Lord? What's going on? In the first situation, he says, I don't need God's instruction. I'm the king. I can do what I want And the second situation, God said, I'm going to get ahead of you and I'm going to tell you what you need to do. And he says, I don't care what God told me to do. I'm the king. I'm going to do what I want. It's easy for us to look at Saul and say, well, I'm glad I don't do that. How many of us raise our families without considering what the scripture says about things? How many of us make big-time decisions in life and we don't consider the scriptures? Or how many of us we make decisions and we know what the scripture says and we just kind of lay I'll just go push it to the side. Guess what? Different circumstances. Mistakes are different. There's no question about that. But we do the same. It's really easy for us to move forward with this desire to do it our own way and ignore what God said or not take the time to search out what He says. And so that really is the background of this text of Scripture. The next thing I'd like us to look at is the response of Saul because it is very revealing. And I think as we work our way through the different things that Saul says and does, we have seen this unquestionably in our lives as we've dealt with people over the years. And maybe Maybe we've done the same thing ourselves. So let's work our way through these verses and look at Saul's response to Samuel when he comes. The first thing we see in verse number nine. is that Saul made an executive decision regarding the spoils. And what I mean by that is Saul took this attitude that I'm the king and I can decide what we're going to do with what we take. It says in verse number 9, but Saul and the people spared Agag and the best of the sheep and the oxen and the fatlings and the sheep and would not utterly destroy destroy them, but everything that was vile and refuse they destroyed utterly. This is what Saul said. Saul looked at what what was going on when he goes to battle, and he basically says, I know God said to utterly destroy things And I'm going to utterly destroy things except a few exceptions. I'm going to keep what I want. I'm going to keep what pleases me. I'm going to keep what I can use. I'm going to keep what the people can use. It wasn't just Saul who had this idea. It wasn't just the people that had this idea. The people pushed Saul, and Saul was willing to go with what they said. We don't know who the ultimate initiator was. Whether Saul or whether it was a people, but the bottom line is that God appointed Saul to be the leader and to govern by the jurisdiction that God gave him, and according to the instructions that God gave him. And Saul decided he was going to do it his own way. The second response we see is that when he was caught, he immediately tried to get ahead of the narrative. This is fascinating. At verse number 13 it says, and Saul came to Saul, Samuel came to Saul, and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of the Lord. I have performed the commandment of the Lord. Now pause and think about this for just a minute. The whole night before Samuel didn't sleep. You know why he didn't sleep Because God said, I sent Saul on a mission, he did not obey my word, and I'm removing him as the king And Samuel actually cared about Saul as a person. He actually loved him. How do we know it? Well, because we see the way that he responds. It says, he wept all the night. And so here is Samuel who gets up very early in the morning and he has to go and find Saul and he has to confront him. And when he sets out to the first place that he's going to go, Saul isn't there anymore, so he has to go to another place. And as soon as Saul sees Samuel coming, he goes, Oh, I know why he's here. I better get ahead of this. Hey, welcome. Blessed be thou the Lord. I performed the word of the Lord. Now and pause a second. Is Samuel not a prophet? I mean like doesn't he know what has taken place? I mean doesn't God talk to this man and speak through this man? How does Saul think he's gonna get out of this? he does. He absolutely believes it. You ever just ever had a situation where you need to talk to somebody about something and they just they talk and talk Talk and talk and talk and talk. If they know where you're going and they don't want you to get there, or they're trying to give the gospel to somebody and they're asking you a question over here and a question over here, and you're like, this has nothing to do with what's going on. They're just trying to divert so that you'll forget about why you're there and get off on this tangent and then, oh, the bell rings, class is over, everybody's got to go. Right? That kind of a thing. Not gonna work. Saul tried to get ahead. He knew he had done wrong. He wasn't willing to face it. Now, why did he make that executive decision? One word. Pride. Why did he try to get ahead of the narrative and think that somehow he could like confuse the prophet and do what he wanted to do? One word. Pride. Immediately he defers the blame when when he's confronted. Verse 15 it says, and Saul said. They brought them from the Amalekites, not I did, or I authorized it, or we did. He says they did this. The people spared the best of the sheep. And the people did this to sacrifice to the Lord thy God. Interesting statement. He didn't say our God or my God. He says your God. God. It's almost like Saul kind of knows he's not really on good terms with God at the moment. The rest we have utterly destroyed. Do you see how he puts all the blame on them? He says, we obeyed you. They took the stuff they weren't supposed to. But you're the king. You're the king Think about our families. We get frustrated with what our kids do sometimes. Guess what? We're in charge of those households. If our kids are out of line, it's our fault. You say, well, they have a will. I know they have a will. And one day they're going to grow up and they're going to get to do what they want to do. But when they're in our household, guess what? We're responsible to make sure they do things like that. their homework, their school, their attitude, their obedience, all those things. We have been given a responsibility. to shepherd their souls and to instruct them and to be the authority. And we can't just say, well, they did it and I c I can't do anything about it. It doesn't work that way. We need to take responsibility for action. That's not what Saul did. Saul said, they did this, they did this, they did this, and we did the right thing together. Why did he speak like that? Pride. Next we see in verse number 15 again That he provided a very creative justification for his actions. So this is fascinating. In verse 15 it says, the people spared the best of the sheep, but of the oxen to sacrifice unto the Lord thy God. Interestingly, twice in the narrative, he makes the exact same statement. And then when we come to this very well-known passage of scripture where Samuel says to Saul, he says, Does the Lord have as much delight in burnt offering and sacrifices as in obeying the voice of the Lord. as Why does he say that? Well he says that because you have justified your actions by saying, well, we've given this to God and you can't talk to me about it because I was only doing something that was more noble than what I was told. Samuel says, God doesn't need your sacrifices. He wants your obedience. He expects you to do what you've been commanded to do, not to deviate in any way. Follow through with what he said. And so he creates this justification to spare these animals for sacrifice, and maybe some other purposes as well along the way. In verse 20, we see another example. He refused to admit his sin. He says, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the Lord, and I have gone the way which the Lord set me. And I have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and I have utterly destroyed the Amalekites. And you're like, There's an inconsistency here. You obeyed And you took a gag and you utterly just said, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It's not how it works. I'm confused. Did you obey or not? You didn't obey. The fact is, even though it was laid before him, and Samuel says, what am I hearing? Oh, those are sheep. Oh, they brought them. Even though it was so clear, the evidence was was just, it was so clear, it was objective. It's not like, hey, this person said something and I heard something second, third hand. It wasn't like that at all. There's the animals right there. There's the king right there. It's very clear what you've done. And he said, I didn't do this. I obeyed the voice of the Lord. What is that? Self-deception. It's a person who's unwilling to look at the facts honestly. And the reason they're unwilling to look at the facts honestly is because of pride. And this is what Saul is doing. Then in verse 24, he says this. Okay, I've sinned. I've transgressed the commandment of the Lord thy God. But here's why I did it. Well, it's because I feared the people. You still can't hold me accountable. He qualified his confession. It's like someone who you've wronged or they've done wrong to you. And the confession goes something a little bit like this, you know. I'm really sorry that you took it the way that you did because, you know, I know it offended you. You know, you felt bad about it, and it's really too bad that that's the case. And, you know, I feel bad for you. Like, well, did you not do something that caused that? I'm sorry that you feel bad. That's not taking responsibility. He qualifies his confession. But then it even gets worse. Because in verses 25 and following, he literally tries to Turn Samuel around so that he doesn't follow through with what God has sent him on. Now Samuel is a more noble man than Saul. And we see that in these verses. He says, Therefore I pray thee, pardon my sin. Turn again to me that I may worship the Lord. And Samuel said to Saul, I will not return with thee. You have rejected the word of the Lord, and the Lord hath rejected thee from being king over Israel And Samuel turned about to go, and he laid hold on the skirt of his mantle, and it rent, and Samuel said unto him, The Lord hath rent the kingdom of heaven from thee this day, and given it to a neighbor of thine That is better than thou, and also the strength of Israel will not lie nor repent. He is not a man that he should repent. What is he saying? He's saying, you cannot convince me to turn God's word. You remember the story of Balak and Balaam? And Balak comes to Balaam. He's like, I'm going to give you all this money if you'll just curse these people. And Balaam says, well, I will only be permitted to do what God permits It's sea to do. He's like, oh, don't worry. Come on. Come on. Everybody's got their price. And he's like, there they are. All right, curse them. And he starts blessing them. He starts prophesying. He's like, no, no, no, that's the way I brought you here. He's like, well, I can only do what God told me to do Such a fascinating story. Even this guy who's being lured by money, and he's not a disciplined person, even he knows he can only go as far as God says. He says, I can't bless someone who God has cursed, and I can't curse someone who God has blessed. I can only speak the word of the Lord. And here is Saul trying to convince Samuel, come back with me. Change God's mind. Please, don't do this to me. Samuel says, God doesn't change If God said he's going to do this, it's as good as done. You can grab a hold of my garment and you can try to physically hold me here, but nothing's changing this. God's word is set. And this is how it will unfold. God does not lie and he does not repent, change his mind about how he's going to handle the situation. But Samuel thought, Saul thought, I can turn God. I can manipulate him. I can get him to do it differently. What is that? It's self-deception. There are people that get to such a place because pride has so taken over their heart and their life that you can lay in front of them all the reasons they've done wrong and they don't see any of them. them. And when they finally admit to you to get your off your back, you off of their back, they divert the blame. And when the consequences come, they refuse to take those consequences, and they try to convince you to change your mind so that they don't have to face the consequences. But that's not the way that God works. He resists the proud. He doesn't give in to the proud. He doesn't give them what they want. He doesn't have a conversation with them and say, well, you know, okay, you win and you can have what you want. God doesn't do that. He resists the proud and gives grace to the humble. The Bible is full of men who were so arrogant and God humbled of Nebuchadnezzar. And God gave him grace. Manasseh, even Ahab at the end of his life. Humbled himself before God. He resists the proud. He gives grace to the humble. In verse number 30, he attempted to save face before his peers. And this one is fascinating to me. He says, I've sinned. Honor me now, I pray, before the elders of my people and before Israel, and turn again with me that I may worship the Lord thy God. You know what that tells me? It was all a show for this man. He wasn't really worshiping God. He said, Let me go through the motions so that the people that are following me won't think that I'm I'm some pagan, that I'm some guy that really doesn't respect the Lord, that I don't care about his ways. Let me go through the motions to save faith. That's what he's saying. Now, what is the common thread with every single one of those responses? Pride. And what did that pride produce? It produced this attitude of entitlement that said, I'm above the rules. I could do it my own way. God can't stop me. You can't. I can change his mind. I can cover my sin. I can I can put the blame on other people and I can get away with it. And you know what God says? It's not true. You can get in your head that that's the way it is, but it's not. So the question is, how do we deal with self-deception the right way? Well, the first thing I'm going to mention is this. We've got to realize that we're all susceptible to this and these same kind of responses. Nobody in this room is immune. To this kind of a problem. None of us are. You say, well, if I've been if I've been a Christian for 30 years, like don't I like get immune to it? No. I was gonna say it's like the COVID shot. It doesn't give you long-term immunity. The bottom line is that you're always gonna struggle with this issue. It's constantly going to come back up. You get into a set of circumstances where you learn that lesson, but then the next season of life comes with some unique challenges, and all of a sudden it comes right back up again. What's the point? The point is we're susceptible, but we don't always realize we're susceptible. And we need to live with this realization because that's the first step. You want to make sure that you have a humble heart. That's looking for this creeping up, and you deal with it immediately. I think about what David says in the Psalms. He says, Search me, O God, and know my heart, and try me. And see if there's any wicked way in me and lead me to the way everlasting. What is he saying? He's saying, God, right now, I'm not aware of this, but doesn't mean it isn't there. And so please, if it's there, reveal it to me. You know, the Lord's table is a time for us to reflect on two things. One is the work of Christ, and that is the primary focus. But the second is why we needed it. We're sinners. We break God's laws. We deviate from the path that He wants us to walk on. We need to realize we're susceptible to the same kind of response. Secondly, we need to be honest about the root of the sinful response. You know, if if we are not taking responsibility for actions, guess what? It's hard to take responsibility for our actions. Does that make sense? If I'm always saying, well, they did it and it's their fault, and by the way, our our society has created this mentality that we're not responsible for anything we do. It's true. And the bottom line is we're living in God's world and it's got laws that He's established. And whether the government doesn't hold people accountable for their choices or whether parents don't hold people accountable for their choices, or whether society gives a blind eye to the decisions that people make. , The bottom line is there's a God in heaven that's not going to do that And one day we're going to stand before him. And the fact is that we're going to live in this world, and there's going to be a time where we find out there's a payday for the choices we make. And so we need to be honest about the root of these sinful responses. If God is beginning to show us in our lives that this is here. That's the time to bend the knee and say, God forgive me. God help me to see myself correctly before you. Help me to do right. Thirdly, we need to accept our place under his authority. Now, what I mean by that is that whatever you have as authority in this life is delegated by God If you're a dad, it's delegated. If you're a husband, it's delegated. If you're a mom, it's delegated. If you're a government person who has author It's delegated. For me as a pastor, it's delegated. The fact is that God says, here's how you're supposed to function in that role. Here's what I'm going to hold you accountable to that role. And if you decide to do it your own way, there's going to be consequence. In other words, accept the place that he has for us, where he has given us authority. We're answerable to him, and we should never forget this. Next, embrace his objective standard. Why do we need to be in God's word? Well, because this is what tells us how to live our lives. This is objective. This is not emotion. This morning I made some comment that how we feel in reality, they're not necessarily the same thing. If my emotions are driving me, I'm going to make really bad choices. And when I am beginning to get off track because I am being moved by my emotions and moved by those sentiments, I've got to get back to the Word of God and plant my feet on what is sound and solid and objective. I've got to do this. We've got to embrace this objective standard. We need to have a higher allegiance to his pleasure than our own. You know, one of the reasons we sin, maybe one of the greatest reasons we sin. It's because we like to please ourselves in the moment more than him down the road. We're more concerned about our own pleasure, not his pleasure. And by the way, the greatest joys of life are when we live the way that he designed it. Next, we need to have a higher concern for his perspective than the perspective of those around us. The truth is a lot of us live our lives looking over our shoulders more than looking up to the sky. We're a lot more concerned about what our peers think. We're a lot more concerned about how someone is going to take a decision we make. We should be more concerned about him. The fact is that what people think about a situation Can really turn us off track. What does it say in Proverbs? It says, the fear of man bringeth a snare. You say, well, what kind of snare? There's all kinds of different snares that come from a fear of man. We need to be concerned about his perspective, not those around us. So as we prepare our hearts to take of the Lord's table, let's remember these things. Let's take a little bit of time to ask the Lord, Lord, search me and know my heart. If there's any wicked way in me, show me. So I can confess it. Turn my eyes to the cross. Remember that the blood of Jesus Christ cleanseth us from all sin. And then let's turn our eyes not from our cross. And his death, his body that was broken, his blood that was shed, his triumph over death and the resurrection. Let's remember the righteousness that we have in Christ. This should not just be a time where we we we wallow in our misery, but we feel comfort in the cross. And so let's take a moment to do that. Let's bow for a word of prayer, and then we'll prepare our hearts to take of the Lord's table.