And uh we're gonna go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we will get started. Lord, we thank you for this day. Thank you for our moms, especially as they make great sacrifices. I pray this afternoon would have been a restful time for people, and that tonight as we gather again for the ministry of your word and speak to our hearts, be with Pastor Josh as he preaches. As you have opportunity to share testimonies, help those things to be an encouragement to us, and just help us to have a wonderful time together as a church body. We ask it in Christ's name, amen. All right, good evening. Let's have a wonderful time singing praises to the Lord. Stand with me as we turn to page 529 or watch on the screen. All four verses of There Shall Be Showers of Blessing. Sing out. Make a joyful noise. There shall be showers of blessing. Бог пора , появился украинский , час на поэтому , а появился , поэтому. . Okay, page 374. All four verses of Be Thou My Vision. Page three seventy four Me now I listen the heart of my heart not be all I call for our game to me and the time of the life and forever. I don't agree. Now we know now we know we 're not going to be able to do it. I keep Many, many are in bed and good, we don't try and drive, how they all come everywhere. Please have a seat. Just turn back a couple pages. Page 371. Page 371. Both verses have a passion for thee. Set my heart, O dear Father, on thee. We and the only Lord. Я плата на лабаті добра до двій да не закажає мене , моя. Yeah That's good thing. If it's not my mission this moment, round the break. Forty one gets you over a little of that stage fright. Page 41, let me put some glasses on. Worthy of worship. Verse 3. Almighty Father, Master and Lord, King of all kingdom. Wonderful counseling, Savior and source of our life. You are worthy of a creator. You are worthy, Savior. Worthy and all the beautiful word worship and praise. Okay, let me do Oh seven. What is okay. Let's go to page ninety three in the blue book. And yeah, just the first verse. Valvanine. God has us just to linger with the one who set me free. And I lift my eyes and see his awesome glory. Emperor said balcony Balbany Balcony The Figure on the edge of balcony God alone on his throne. See him high and lifted up and how the knee do it for you. Him all the glory I shall let him love him more body. Okay, let's go to page two hundred and seven. I'm not sure I know that. Can you play through that once for me? All right, here we go. were not your people and you were not your God I speak without a shepherd not told me we were all We wandered through the valleys, our better souls were live. You will be our God, and you are God alone, we will be your people. Well that is known, where well we are God and will Where we are belongs? And you are not Amen. All right, now we're going to go back to page one hundred seventy-four But we're going to sing, we asked for verse 2. Let's sing all three verses before the message, and let's stand on this. See the Christ. Page 174. Save the Christ, the Son of Man, one with God before all. Lay aside his role of light , watching not his servant. Lord, finding on our human. Make his armor mine your own. Serve your brother's hearing. See the Christ, the Son of Man, in obedience to God's plan, take for us as sinners death. Cat thing now his final breath, say him on the cross of blood, curving there his love for God. Trust the Father with your life, He will turn all wrongs to right. See the Christ as done alive. In his rain, place above thou exalted high , reign from the father's eye. Lord of all I proclaim Hellem and found a knee for the Others glory. Please be seated. You are the colder, and we are the land. The work of your animals. It 's in the days of Jesus Christ. And she does your son May we live on you May we be one in you and even in you and you are in you. For me, I should be forever. Forever under Very much appreciate that. And one final happy Mother's Day to all the mothers out there. I feel like I'm not on talking to myself. Oh no, we checked it before I came over here. Okay. Can you hear me now I can hear me so what I was saying was one final thank you to the mothers. We all have one and that's good. Uh I didn't get to talk to my mom today, but Uh three hours is just enough to kind of get in the way. But I we had a great conversation yesterday, uh my mom and I, and it was great. Uh I love my mom. I always like to call my mom. She did all the work and I just screamed and cried about it. But it w it was quite the circumstances being the firstborn. It wasn't exactly easy. So thank you, mom, and to all the mothers out there, the selfish, selflessness that they learn as a mother, giving of yourself. And going out of your way to help screaming crank. But anyways, uh we better get to our text here. We're going to be in 1 Samuel chapter 13. And I just have a question to start with here as we uh look at this text. Our question is, how do you see your circumstances? How do you see your circumstances? I was going to read verses 1 through 14, but I think I'm just going to go ahead and take the heart of some of these that we're dealing with tonight. So let's go ahead and pick it up at verse 5. It says, and the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel, 30,000 chariots and 6,000 horsemen. And the people, as the sand which is on the sea shore in multitude. And they came up and pitched in Mikmash eastward in Beth Ammon. When the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, for the people were distressed Then the people did hide themselves in caves and in thickets and in rocks and in high places and in the pits Skip down to verse nine. And Saul said, Bring hither the burnt offering to me and peace offerings. And he offered the burnt offering. And it came to pass as soon as he had made an end of offering, the burnt offering, behold. Samuel came, and Saul went out to meet him that he might salute him. And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou cameest not within the days appointed. And that the Philistines were gathered themselves together at Mi'kmaq. Therefore, said I, the Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal. And I will not have made supplication unto the Lord. I forced myself therefore and offered a burnt offering. Father, as we come before you this evening, we thank you so much. That you are a God who hears and answers prayer. Thank you so much that you are worth singing to. And we thank you so much for this passage of Scripture that can help us to be reminded to see things the way that you do. And how we are to trust in you, regardless of circumstances and the challenges before us, and how we may see it. And humanly speaking, it may seem impossible or overwhelming. But you are the God of the impossible, and you see beyond our current circumstances to give us victory, to grow us through the challenges. And Father, we just thank you for being the great God that you are. And we come before you through Christ's name. Amen. Have you ever had a great expectation? Something that you were really looking forward to? I know for Becky and I for anniversary We had an opportunity to be up in the Plymouth, Massachusetts area. And I was very excited for several different things. One, I wanted to see the replica of the Mayflower. I wanted to see Plymouth Plantation. And I wanted to see the rock. And I wanted to see the monument dedicated to our forefathers. Several different things I was looking forward to. Very excited. So we're up there, we were only up there for like the day and a half or whatever, but we we took the time and went there and I thoroughly enjoyed it. And I was very excited I got to see I really liked the monument dedicated to our forefathers. If you don't know what it is, look it up. It's really, really neat. Just hidden. It's kind of almost swallowed, almost in a residential area now. A lot of history, a lot of great biblical history built into this statue. Uh all granite statue, by the way. I think it's one of the biggest in the country. Uh probably the biggest thing you've never heard of. It's because it's dedicated. It's probably because it's dedicated to our forefathers and it has a lot of biblical significance. But look it up, it's really there. I've seen it. As of you know about ten years ago, it was there. Okay? So that I was very excited, and Becky and I are going through And then our expectation just keeps building and all these things I get to say, oh that isn't so cool. And then I go and we're in pursuit of the rock. And I walk up in Plymouth and you know there's this little line of people and I guess in my mind I was visioning something big, something awesome, something grand, and we walk up and we're in this line and Like down in this pit and in this sandbox above is a rock. I was like, what? I was like a joke. That was one of like the biggest like expectations I had and it was like a total letdown. Second to that, just in my mind's eye, this is more recent. But I thought, man, we're gonna get the opportunity. We're in Texas. We're gonna go visit the Alamo. This is gonna be cool. A lot of history. I mean this is like the birth of Texas, you know, and we're driving by and we're like, oh man, we missed it. You know, and I was like, what this? And it was a lot smaller than I expected and everything. And I was like, oh. I mean I I liked the history and it was really neat, but I was That was second to the rock. The rock was like the ultimate like oh this is it. I mean I came here to look at this rock in the sandbox down here. I couldn't believe it. But Alamo was I mean it I I like that more of a historical context of that too, but that was also let down Well what I feel here in 1 Samuel 13 is there's this building, this expectation. We want a king. We're desiring a king. He's tall, he's handsome, he's gonna lead us into battle. There's this great expectation But Saul starts as king as we look in the first four verses. Saul's start as a king is really kind of quiet, awkward transition for Israel Okay, it's not like the George Washington setting a precedent as the first president of the country. Okay, he's trying to figure things out, set a precedent for a precedent for all the presidents to come. Here, Saul is trying to get things figured out. The first king in Israel has never been done before. And he wasn't exactly picked because he feared God and he was a great example of a man that feared and you know, would look the enemy in the face and stare him down and say, but this is our God and we will fight to the end to defend his name. Okay, that's not exactly why Paul was or Paul, why Saul was chosen. He was chosen because what he looked like, how people saw him, and their own expectations. And kind of what we see here is I feel like they're kind of let down in a sense. It's kind of like you're looking at this rock in a sandbox, and you're like, but this is not what I was expecting. So we see Saul, he's early in his reign, the first couple verses, he chooses men in verse 2. He gives he takes 2,000 for himself, 1,000 for Jonathan, and then Uh, we look at verse 3. And Jonathan, who has only a thousand men with him, he smote the garrison of the Philistines And it was in Gibba, and the Philistines heard of it, and Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear. So what does he want all the Hebrews to hear as he sounded the trumpet? It tells us in verse 4, and all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garrison of the Philistines. And that Israel also had an abomination with the Philistines, and the people were called together after Saul and Gilgal. So here what we have, we're going to kind of see a contrast take place. You have an a king who is getting an awkward start. He chooses out men, he sends some home to their tents, he keeps two thousand, his son keeps a thousand, and you think that I I mean I was thinking if I was a king and you're trying to build an age to get things going, you think I would try and take every man that was physically able That's not what he does. And then by verse 3, his son Jonathan, which I don't know, I don't know if Saul instructed him. I kind of lean that he was instructed by his dad to take out this, but I'm not sure. But here, his son Jonathan fights the Garrison and the Philistines, and he he's victorious, and then dad comes along as the new king. He's blowing the trumpets all over Israel and he's trying to take care of it for what his son did. I'm thinking this is weird. You're sending men home, you're keeping very few, it's possibly sent your son on a mission, and then you through all these are trying to take the claim for everyone else. And one thing about leadership here, especially if you're starting as a king or any position, you want to give credit to whom credit is due You don't want to even if you send them, oh you want to give credit, hey, they did this. Saul here, I think he's well we're gonna see, he's not a very courageous man. Where in comparison, Jonathan, I think is. And I'm going to sneak ahead to chapter 14, just a couple verses of chapter 14, to help us with Jonathan's victory over this garrison of the Philistines, is really showing he's a courageous. kind of fit to be king. He he's willing to take on the enemy and he's gonna stare him down and just do what he can and he's doing it for the Lord. So a sneak peek at this in 1 Samuel 14 and we'll look at verses 1 and 6 It says, Now it came to pass upon a day that Jonathan, the son of Saul, said to the young man that bare his armor, Come, let us go over to the Philistines' garrison that is on the other side. But he told not his father Verse 6, and Jonathan said to the young man that bare his armor, Come, let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised, that it may be that the Lord will work for us. For there is no restraint to the Lord to save by many or by few. That's Jonathan Outnumbered, superior weapons on the other side. They have the better position. They are they they've got the high ground. He's got one other guy with him, and Jonathan says, God is with us, let's take him on. He's very courageous. That's Jonathan, Saul's son. Meanwhile, the opposite is taking place with Saul. Saul here in chapter 13, his son gets the victory, is very courageous, is victorious, and then Saul sounds the trumpet to all Israel. Look what I have done! Look what I did Look what I have accomplished. That's what he does in verse 4. And by doing this Saul is trying to attract people to himself, giving a false impression of who he is. I don't really think he's a great man of courage, and we'll look at that. But Saul in doing this, what he did accomplish was he caused Israel to stink And you probably missed this. I I liked seeing this when I was studying this out. It's very interesting. When you look in verse 4, and you see there in about the middle of the verse it says, and the Israel also was had an abomination with the Philistines? That word abomination means made them to stink. A foul smell. It reminds me of what your dog does under your bed Okay. I mean this is the impression that we get. It it made them say I I mean really if now if you're in the Philistines and this you know nation is trying to get things figured out, they got their first king, very novice, okay, let's kind of test them He comes and attacks Lever Garrison as victorious. How do you think the enemy feels about that? Oh, so you want to play that way? Well, now let's see what you're made of. That's kind of the impression here. So they get this attitude of, oh, okay, he's causing them a bad stench for the Philistines. He's got this thrown-together military that's not very large. And we see this word, just to get a a fuller look at this word, Genesis 43, 30, it says, And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me. To make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land. That's that same word for abomination of the Lord. In Exodus 7. 18, this is very picturesque. And the fish that is in the river shall die. And the river shall stink. I don't know anyone that likes the smell of rotting fish, especially when they drowned in blood. That is the word here for bombation. This is the the idea. Okay. This is this really stinks. Okay. Israel's really stinking before Israel right here. And then in Exodus 1620, notwithstanding they heard This is the manner that some of them tried to keep extra, and it would stink. Same word to abhor, to be an abomination with the Philistines. And I want to remind this, this Saul, though he's giving, taking credit that belonged to his son, He is causing his new nation that he is now trying to reign over or exercise his authority over. He's trying to take credit. He's not showing much courage. But remember that this is the same guy that was hiding in the stuff when he was chosen king. Now as we've been studying through so even this series as I've been studying working through this I guess in my mind just over the years I thought all this Saul you know he he had his moments he had his good days he had his bad days and you know I think he kind of loved the Lord sometimes but he like us he struggled with things But as I've going to this study and thinking through, this Saul I think was very cowardice. I don't think he had much courage in him at all. And I'm using this example we're going to see in 1 Samuel 10 when he was hiding amongst the stuff. I used to think, okay, he's scared, you know, this has never happened in Israel, he's just a nobody, and all of a sudden, okay, now you're gonna rule over over the nation. Oh, okay. I don't know if I like that idea. Okay? But that's also in 1 Samuel 10 , therefore they inquired of the Lord further, and the man should come hither. And the Lord answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff. And shortly after this, they come out and they see him. They're like, yes, that's the guy. He's a real psalm. They're like, he looks like a king. Look, he's tall. He's handsome. He's strong. Look at this guy. He looks like a king. What we're finding is that's all he was. He just looked like a king. I think he was hiding amongst the stuff because he wasn't very courageous. I think he was really scared. I don't think he knew how to eat I really don't think so. And he couldn't even credit to his own son, who seemed to be the opposite. And we'll see how this plays in more at the end. But there the people are called together at the end of verse 4. And it's interesting that he just recently sent them away in verse 2. And now he's trying to call them back together like he made a big mistake. He's like, oh wait, wait, wait, wait. I know I sent you back to your tense earlier. But now I made some people mad and now I need you all to come back. So he's not being very wise, he's not being very courageous. So Saul's start as king. Starts out kind of awkward, kind of slow, not doing things the way I think a leader should do things. And then we see in verses 5 through 8, let's look at what Israel saw. And they saw that they were in a strait So we already read it, but let's look again. And the Philistines in verse 5, the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel. And it gives a list of all these thousands in the military. Verse 6. And when the men saw that they were in a strait. It says, for the people were distressed. They are looking at externals. What I've been learning about Israel even in this study is they like to look at externals. They looked at Saul, this great and mighty king. He's wonderful. Now what are they looking at? They're looking at this large force that's now angry. Your nation now stinks before them. You made them mad. And they're coming to get vengeance. And they're looking at this massive army. And they are in distress. They're in a strait. They are thinking This is not good. The idea of straight is the almost idea of cramped, impeded. They feel hard pressed. I envision someone like in a straight jacket. You feel kind of cramped, maybe a little cross the floor, but they're thinking we don't know what to do We got this massive army here, and this king is not turning out to be maybe what we thought he would be. It doesn't really say that. Let's kind of get the impression you know they're looking at a rock in a sandbox, okay? It's like what is going on here So look what happens. So they see this, they get distressed. And they go and they hide themselves. And when you read the description, they're hiding anywhere and everywhere they can, thickets, caves, anywhere. Anywhere but where the Philistines are. They're scattering like cockroaches in daylight. It doesn't matter. They're going quick. They're hiding in every place they can. And those that did follow Saul, look at this in verse 7. And some of the Hebrews went over Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. As for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him, trembling. What? Wait, wait, wait a minute here. Those that are with the king, the one that they desired, the one that they begged for, the one that they truly wanted, and they're saying, yes, this is the guy. Those that are still with them are trembling. They're scared. Their expectations have got flattened. It's not what they expected. They are seeing only with their eyes They're looking at their circumstances. And don't you and I do the same thing? We can read God's word and we can get excited about a promise or a verse. Then we start living our life throughout the day. And we start looking at the circumstances, the impossibilities, the challenges, the difficulties, and we think, I just can't do that. There is no way. This is not going to work out And before we know it, we're like Peter and we're sinking because we took our eyes off of Christ and we're looking at the circumstances and we begin to sink To remind ourselves of these things, I want to just look at some passages here. Those that are even with them are still scared in 1 Samuel 8. Couple of verses in this chapter. Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together and came to Saul unto Ramana and said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways. Now, make us a king to judge us like all the nations. But the thing displeased Samuel when they said, give us a king to judge over us And Samuel prayed unto the Lord, and the Lord said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in that day they said unto thee, They have not rejected thee, but they've rejected me, that I should not reign over them. That we may also be like all nations. This is verse 20. That our king may judge us. And here it is, to go out before us and to fight our battles. So we're reminding ourselves of chapter 8. Here is what they were waiting for. This is why they wanted a king. They wanted to be like other nations. They wanted to have a great, strong, mighty leader to lead them in the battle and to lead them through the victory. Here's his opportunity. And how's it going for him? They're scattering. They're scared. He's already taken credit that's due to someone else that caused this issue. Going back a couple messages ago, sometimes we careful what we desire, because sometimes we get it. And here their eyes are telling them that they're scared because they're looking at The circumstances. But this is the moment. You think in verse 7 it could have said, as for Saul, he was at Gilgal, and all the people that followed him were excited and ready to meet and take on the Philistines. Isn't that what they wanted? Yes it is. But yet what they wanted is not what God desired. And What's really taking place is they're looking at the circumstances and they've already said, God, we don't need you because we have a king. We want to have a king, not this guy. In 1 Samuel 10. And Samuel took a vial of oil and poured upon his head and kissed him and said, This is verse 1 of 1 Samuel 10, It is not because the Lord hath anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance. They wanted a king to lead them out and to fight their battles. They wanted a captain over the nation later on in verses 17 through 19. And Samuel called the people together unto the Lord at Nizvah, and he said to the children of Israel, Thus saith the Lord God, I Brought up Israel out of Egypt. Who was doing all this for Israel? God was. Who is Israel rejecting? They're rejecting what the the very thing that they need. Why is it that challenging times in life we reject and neglect the things that we need most You know, sometimes the pastor's heart comes out and you you're praying for people and you desire things for them and you're just hearing the Word of God preach and then you reflect on the service and you're like, oh, I know some people I've been praying for. You know, if they weren't, that would have been encouraging for them. Sometimes it seems like the people that need it the most are the ones that are not there. And maybe that's why they're not there. Maybe they're getting caught in the circumstances. They're starting to reject the God that they should be turning to. Sometimes going to church is one of the easiest things you can do as a Christian, because all you have to do is show up. But sometimes it could be one of the most challenging, because you have to get ready and go. Sometimes the Christian life is not so difficult. It's just doing what we know. But we get caught looking at the circumstances We get distracted by what the world is trying to attack us with. And some of the things we even ask for, God allows, and then we find ourselves ourselves worse off than what we started. That's where Israel is. They've got their king. It's not going well. Do you think they'd be excited? We're behind this guy. And they were, but their knees were knocking for the few that were there. Some other verses is to remind us in 1 Samuel 10, verse 22. Therefore they inquired of the Lord further, if any man should yet come hither. And the Lord answered, Behold, he hath hid himself amongst the stuff, as we said earlier. But it continues. And they ran and fetched him thence. And when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people, from his shoulders and upward. And Samuel said unto all people, See him whom the Lord hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people. And all the people shouted and said, God save the king. He Fit the bill. He's exactly what they want for, exactly what they were desired. But it was only external. And what we're gonna see, and I just have this thought, I'm not trying to take too much thunder from the next next couple chapters. But it has really been sticking out to me the phrase where it says that man looks on the outward appearance, but God looketh on the heart. That is all the more powerful to me as we've been studying through 1 Samuel. What has Israel been doing? They're doing what you and I do. They look at the outside. God doesn't view things the way that you and I do. He is looking at the heart. And they were excited about this king. And when everything's going great, things are going great. But when difficulties come. That's when men of courage and men of God can hold the line because they're not looking at the circumstances the way that man would. But they're trusting in God and asking for his guidance, his direction, and his wisdom. And Lord, this seems impossible. What do I do? One more verse as we reflect on the people that should have been following Saul and how they should be looking at it. In 1 Samuel 12, verses 12 and 13. And when ye saw that Nash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, he said unto me, Nay, but the king shall reign over us. When the Lord your God was your king Now therefore, behold the king whom ye have chosen and whom ye have desired, and behold, the Lord has set a king over you. You wanted it. God was doing a great job. I think he led you out of Egypt. Did some pretty amazing things about ten of them. He happened to part a sea. He delivered you with judge after judge after judge, and now that's not good enough. Because we want what we don't have. We want what other nations do. And sometimes this creeps into our nation. Some of the movements we have in our nation, we want to try some of the other things that other countries have tried throughout history. And it doesn't work. But yet it'll work because now we're doing it. That's what we desire and we're different. We're sinners just like everyone else. We're a country of sinners just located in a different spot. But some people today think that philosophy of this world are gonna work The problem is we need to recognize recognize our sin nature. It's not going to work. So the Israel saw that they were in a strait and they were scattered from Saul and they were and here's look at verse 8. We've got to get to verse 8 here. And he tarried, this is Saul, he's getting impatient, he's nervously waiting, uh, the arrival of Samuel, and in verse 8 he says, and he tarried seven days according to the set time that Samuel had appointed. But Samuel came not to Gilgal, and the people were scattered from him. But then what happens in verse nine? And Saul said, Bring hither the burnt offering to me and the peace offerings, and he offered the burnt offering. And it came to pass, as soon as he made an offering, The burnt offering, behold, Samuel came. Here's what happens. Circumstances are not going our way. We start looking at that, we get intimidated, we get impatient. And what happens? Instead of waiting on the Lord to see him work through the challenge, to see him work through the circumstances, and to see the impossibilities from our mind, what we do is we say, you know what? I'm to take things in my own hands. I can do better. The timing doesn't look good. I'm going to do it myself. That is what Saul is doing And it's also interesting too because he's trying to exercise authority as a king, but yet they still have Samuel, who really had the name recognition, who they had trusted throughout his entire life since he was a boy. And yet he should have waited if nothing else. If you have this massive army and you know God has helped deliver in the past for your nation, don't you think you'd wait on the man of God? But he got paid if it didn't meet his timeline. And isn't this how it works? As soon as he did what he shouldn't have, he shows up If you just waited a little bit longer, have you ever been there? Had I just waited a little bit longer, this all would have worked out, but I got impatient. I didn't trust in the Lord, and I got ahead of God. I didn't want to wait on him anymore. And now I'm in trouble. That's exactly where Saul is. He's got the pressure of a kingdom he's trying to run. He wants to look good because they liked how he looked, and he wants to continue to look good, but they're struggling. And they're rejecting the very thing that they needed. They weren't serving obeying him as he already said earlier in another chapter. But Saul is still attempting to establish himself as a king with his own authority. And in 1 Samuel 12 we see, And if you will fear the Lord and serve him and obey his voice, and not rebel against his commandment of the Lord, then Shall both ye and also the king that reigneth over you continue in following the Lord. But in verse 15 But if you will not obey the voice of the Lord, but rebel against the commandment of the Lord, then shall the hand of the Lord be against you as it was against your fathers. Saul knew this. He knew he wasn't supposed to offer this burnt offering. Samuel was. They had a set time appointed. Some people point to chapter 10, verses 8. But the point is there was a time he knew it was going to come and in Saul's own clock in his mind he thought, You're late. They're getting nervous. They're scattering. Those are with me are trembling. I don't know what to do. So I I need I need to serve God my way and in my time. And that's what he did. And we could easily point the finger at Saul, but you and I are so tempted and do the same thing ourselves I don't understand this timing. God, you're going too slow. Would you speed things up and we start treating God like He is supposed to answer every whim and cry that we have in our timing, forgetting that we're but dust. So we've seen Saul start as King verses 1 through 4. In verses 5 through 8, we've seen how what Israel saw, and they saw that they were in a strait And very quickly, at the end, and the pastor is saying, finally, in verses 9 through 14, what did Saul see? Saul saw that the people were scattered. We're already touched on this in verses 9 and 10. But Saul takes matters into his hands. There's the 1 Samuel. 10, 8. I don't know if it's on the screen or not. He got selfish and impatient. What did he see? So you look at verse 9 and 10 here. But here the brother And Saul said, Bring hither the burnt offering to me, and the peace offering, and he offered the burnt offering. And it came to pass, as soon as he made an end of the offering, the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came, and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him. And Samuel said, What hast thou done? Both these guys knew it was wrong. They both did. And Saul said, Look at this, because I saw That the people were scattered from me. He saw they were scattered, but who are they scattered from? Me. Samuel? I'm sorry, Samuel recognized what Saul did and it was wrong. Saul's recognizing they're leaving me. If you're a proud leader and everything is about you and want to look good and they're leaving you, he's getting very insecure. He is getting very impatient. He's got excuses. He's got several of them. He says, and that thou cameest not within days appointed. You know what? This is not my fault. Samuel, you didn't show up when you said you would Maybe he was a touch late, but apparently it was pretty close. Samuel just couldn't get there on time, and Saul is looking at this. This is your fault. The people, they were scattering from me, saying you didn't show up on time. And you know Adams tried this blame game from the beginning It still doesn't work. That's what he's doing. He's got excuse after excuse after excuse. He's blaming everyone else except himself. He's not taking responsibility. Sometimes as a leader or king, you need to admit you've done wrong. I messed up. And as a parent, I've been there. That's not easy. When you have to admit to your kids that I messed up, I'm sorry, will you forgive me? Those are hard moments in life. Saul's not there. It's not there. It's the people's fault. Samuel, it's your fault And he says, and on top of that, in verse 11, and the Philistines gathered themselves together at Nicmash. I've got a bunch of huge army gathering together. But look at verse 12. Therefore said I, the Philistines will come down now upon me. to Gilgal. And I have not made supplication unto the Lord. I forced myself therefore and offered a burnt offering Now Saul is trying to make a good excuse here. He's trying to play a good game here. He's trying to blame everyone else. It's like I really just had to make myself do it. There was no way I could get out of this one. You know this word force? I want to give us another picture of this word forced here. In Genesis 43, 31. Listen to this. This is about Joseph. And he washed his face and went out and refrained himself. That's the same word for force. And said, Set on bread. Then later in chapter 45, verse 1, and Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood by him, and he cried and caused every man to go out from me. He refrained himself in his tears, because he didn't want to reveal himself yet to his brothers. He's trying to hold back something for the sake of someone else. In contrast, you have Saul Who says he's restrenuous? I held back I had no choice but to do it. I mean the people were doing wrong, you were late, they're a massive army. I had no choice Isn't that how what we do with ourselves? We justify ourselves so often. I had to do it. I was Peter Rock in a hard place And I had no choice but to disobey you and the Lord. I just had to do it. God, I had to disobey you. You were late, your guy didn't show up. There's a large army out there. It's all your fault. We are there so many times. Blame it's so much easier to blame someone else that is, you know what, I messed up. I'm sorry. I'll take the responsibility. I messed up. Stop. God, will you forgive me? Do you see any kind of repentance here? Saul, you know what? I did make a mistake. I d you were supposed to do that. You're right. I'm sorry. Will you forgive me? Ask God to forgive me. So we need his guidance and his direction because there's a massive army there and we need God's help. Do you see that anywhere in here? I've read it. I don't see it. I don't see it. And then the conclusion in verses 13 and 14 here He was foolish, and Samuel told him so, thou hast done foolishly. Thou hast not kept the commandment of the Lord thy God, which he commanded thee, for now thou Would the Lord have established thy kingdom upon Israel forever? But now thy kingdom shall not continue. And the Lord hath sought him a man after his own heart. And the Lord commanded him to be captain over his people. Already right here in the first couple years of his reign, he's being replaced, and he knows it. By someone that loves the Lord, who's someone who's choosing to fear him. This is really hard for a father because you want your children to succeed. And who is Saul's son? It's Jonathan. Jonathan seems like he is the guy. He seems like he could be he could be far better than Saul at reigning. At being a king, at taking on the enemy, at saying, the Lord will fight for us. I don't care if it's by many or by few, and we're going to see that in the next chapter as I already alluded to. He would have been a great king of Israel, but because Saul was impatient, selfish, playing the blame game, really just living in the flesh, acting cowardice. Doing things in his own time and his own way, it was taken from him. Because someone needed to seek the Lord with their heart. And a little sneak peek in the future, I think that's why Jonathan and David were so close. They both love the Lord. They can look at challenges in the face and say, God, you better help because this doesn't look like it makes sense. No little boy's right mind is going to take on the biggest guy in the room. Just doesn't make sense. Jonathan running uphill with one other guy against um you know several others. That just doesn't make sense. It doesn't make military sense. But what does make sense is they saw the circumstance and they said, God, this is your battle. So going back, how do you see your circumstances? Do you see it as it uh it's woe is me, it's all about me. I need to try and just look good, and if the timing doesn't work, I'm gonna do it my way. Or are we going to look at the circumstances and be like, Lord, if I've messed up, I ask you to forgive me. What I see, how you can deliver me, how you can work through these circumstances, though they look grim and overwhelming. We can be like Jonathan, by many or by few. All tack the Philistines. May we not caught in the flesh of selfishness and the cowardice like Saul. And play the blame game and all these things. How do you see your circumstances? Father, we thank you and praise you for your goodness, for your grace. The fact that you are the God who can deliver and help to guide and direct. In our fast-paced, microwave ziplocket generation, Lord, sometimes we just have a hard time waiting. Sometimes we have great expectations and we see things through the eyes of just humanity and what we physically see and we come to great disappointment because we didn't trust in you. Father, when we have circumstances and challenges in our life, would we see you through it and be willing? To trust, to wait, to take courage in doing what's right, even when it seems so overwhelmingly challenging Father, would you be with your people as you speak to their hearts and to their minds through your word as the Spirit of God leads and guides? We ask through this, all this, through Christ's name. Amen. Some great challenges in that text of Scripture. Uh this Thursday we We discussed the text that we're going to deal with, and there were so many things that I know Pastor Justin, you're going to get to get into all of them. That text is a very rich text. And it's very practical because it shows you what happens when people become self-absorbed and they refuse to take responsibility for their actions. And rather than trusting God, they push ahead and try to take matters into their own hands. And that is what defined Saul's reign. And may it not define our lives. Let's go ahead and pull out our hymn books, please, and turn to our final closing hymn. 355, Jesus Paid It All. And we're going to sing the first, the third, and the fourth verses together. Please let's stand. And let's remind ourselves what Christ has done for us as we close out this Lord's Day. 355, Jesus paid it all. I hear the Savior say, Thy strength and need is small. Shall of me sponsored, finding me all She the same and all I will Singers stay in my hunter, the one. Why I raised the flame of five my glory fine in the blood of God before he has made us Let me forgot, I can be on the I 'll do. Well I hope it's been a blessing to be in the Lord's house. And if any of our ladies did not get your gifts uh after the morning service, there are still some. in the basket there in the front. So please uh pick that up. And hope that you'll be able to join us in the middle of the week for our continuation in our Sermon on the Series Sermon on the Mount series. We're working our way through the Lord's Prayer. So I hope that that's encouragement to you. And uh kids did have a couple more weeks of tree trackers and tiny trackers before we move into our our summer program where we uh have anchor adventure clubs. So I know we're We're getting to the very end of that. David Avery, can you please come closer to prayer and see each of y'all tonight? Let's pray. Dear Father, it's good to be in your house today. We thank you for what we can learn tonight, Lord, about Saul and the people of Israel. And Samuel, help us apply that to our lives, Lord. Help us be courageous. And remember what you've instructed us, all the details of how you want us to live our life. Give us safety as we depart tonight and prepare us for this up-and-coming week. Amen.