Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We are back in Ecclesiastes chapter 3, looking at verses 1 through 8. So If you have a Bible, I'd like to encourage you to turn there with us, and we will look at these verses for a second time. This is what the scriptures say. To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. A time to be born, a time to die, a time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted. A time to kill, a time to heal, a time to break down, a time to build up. A time to weep, a time to laugh, a time to mourn, a time to dance, a time to cast away stones, a time to gather stones together, a time to embrace, a time to refrain from embracing, a time to get and a time to lose. A time to keep and a time to cast away. A time to rend and a time to sew. A time to keep silence and a time to speak. A time of love, a time of hate, a time of war, a time of peace. We come to this passage of Scripture, we're reminded that we go through various seasons of life, and the changes that we experience are things that are guided by God's providence. And that godly responses are the way that we should respond to these circumstances. So yesterday we gave a simple summary statement. I'll read it again. It's that life is full of change and opposites, and these seasons are guided by God's providential hand. Our responses in these circumstances should be guided by godly principle. And so yesterday we talked about just a couple of basic principles that we gleaned or truths we gleaned from. Today I'd like us to look at some of the specific details of the passage and just kind of reflect on those things for a few minutes. Now I will I will admit that if you look at commentators and what they have to say about this, there's going to be a lot of diversity about the way that they're going to explain some of the statements that we find in this little poem right here. But these are sort of the way that I look at some of what's being stated here. The first thing is this. The first two that are mentioned really remind us of how short life is. He begins with this. Our lives are short. There's a time to be born and there's a time to die God gives us a period of time on this earth. It is delegated to us. It's our responsibility to use that time wisely. And he reminds us of that. We then see this in the natural world. And every single time that we go through a season where we plant a field, we plant a garden, at the end of that season we're reminded that life is short and our time here is not forever. He says there's a time to plant and there's a time to pluck up that which is planted. And I'm experiencing that right now in my garden. So I planted early in the year, starting in March and April, we were planting things. And here we are getting into September, looking at October, and some of the things that we planted over the year, we actually have already pulled them up, we've harvested them, some things we replanted throughout the summer. But here we are at the end of the summer, and basically things are kind of winding down. A lot of stuff has died, it's finished, it's seasoned, some things are at the very end of their season. He says every time we go through that experience of planting and plucking up. We're reminded our lives are short too. The second thing we see is that we need to remember that there are things that are only beneficial for a time. He talks about two illustrations, that of the farmer and that of the builder. He says there's a time to kill and there's a time to heal. If you lived on a farm where you're taking care of animals, there comes a time where an animal is going to have to be put down. There comes a time when the animal has been raised and fed and now it's going to go to the slaughterhouse. And he reminds people of that kind of sobering reality. He talks about building a building. There are times to tear down what you've built. And there are times to continue to maintain those things. And so not everything that we use in this world is beneficial for very long. Some things It's just a short time that we use them or that they're actually beneficial to us. And he expresses that reality. A third thing he mentions is that we need to realize that life is full of both blessings and struggles, good and bad. He says that there's a time to weep and there's a time to laugh. There's a time to mourn and there's a time to dance. There are seasons we go through in life that are full of tremendous blessings and joy. We should enjoy those blessings. We should reflect on those things as gifts from God's hand. But there are also seasons that we're going to go through in the same life And we're going to go through times that are very hard, very lean, very sobering, very sad, very discouraging. And so he says, I'm just reminding you that life is full of both the good and the bad, the blessing and the struggles. A fourth thing he mentions is that there are things that we build and sometimes we need to tear them down and rebuild them because their maintenance isn't worth it anymore. And he kind of has already alluded to this a little bit earlier, but we see this concept again. He says there's a time to cast away stones and there's a time to gather up stones. And more than likely, when Solomon makes this reference, he's talking about Building a building, maintaining a building, and then coming to the conclusion that it's not worth maintaining anymore. Let's tear it down and let's rebuild it. But then he goes from things that we use, things that we live in, buildings, material things, and he talks about human relationships. He says some relationships are worth maintaining and investing in. Others are not. In fact, it's really interesting. We look at the book of Proverbs. One of the things that he emphasizes is that we should be very careful about who we choose to become close to, who we confide in, who our dear friends are, who we get for advisors. He's expressing this. There's a time to embrace. It's a time to refrain from embracing. There are some relationships that we need to invest in over the course of our entire lives. And we should build those relationships. We should maintain those relationships. And then there are other relationships that sadly we need to come to the conclusion that this relationship is not healthy. It's not good for me in the long term. I'm not actually growing and thriving as a result of this relationship. This person's not helping me make wise decisions. And so I'm going to let that relationship go to the wayside. And so one of the things that he's emphasizing is the selective nature of those whom we confide in and those whom we become very close to. He emphasizes how some investments work and others don't. He says some investments prove to be successful while others are not. There's a time to get and there's a time to lose. And so sometimes a person buys something and they use it and it ends up being a disappointment. Sometimes a person gets behind a venture and the venture becomes very successful and other times it becomes very unsuccessful. And he says that's just part of living in this world that we live in. Another thing he mentions is that some things that we use need to be used a little longer and maintained while others They need to be let go. You think about a vehicle. I have a vehicle that I'm driving right now that has 210,000 miles on it And I'm in this point where I'm like, do I keep driving this vehicle? Do I keep maintaining this vehicle? Do I pay to keep it on the road? Or do I say it's time to go ahead and get a new vehicle? You know, sometimes you have a a a pair of pants or you have a shirt that you've been wearing for years, particularly a flannel that I like using in the winter. And that that flannel shirt is something that has been passed over and over and over again. Well there comes a point where you need to say, you know what, it's time to just hang up that old shirt, hang up that old pair of shoes, hang up that vehicle, and get a new one and replace it But the truth is that sometimes you need to maintain those things, make them last a little bit longer. And he talks about that reality where he says there's a time to keep and there's a time to cast away, there's a time to rend and there's a time to sow He also mentions two more things. Sometimes we need to share our opinions and even confront people and rebuke them, and other times we need to hold our peace, keep our opinions to ourselves, and not go and confront somebody. He says there's a time to keep silent. There's a time to speak. There's a time to love. There's a time to hate. The reality is there are times that we need to look at somebody with tremendous compassion, and there are other times we need to look at somebody and realize that person's very dangerous. And they're very detrimental, and we need to protect ourselves from them or protect the people that are under us from them. And he's going to express this in one final statement. Sometimes we have to defend ourselves and our interests and the interests of those that we're protecting, even to the point of force. And other times we need to enjoy the fruit of those sacrifices. The last thing he says is there's a time of war and there's a time of peace. When Solomon is laying out all these things, what he's basically saying is life is full of changes. Life is full of seasons. Life is diverse. Life is full of both good and bad. And sometimes two things that are actually opposite of one another can be right in one set of circumstances while in the other set of circumstances the exact opposite could be right. And so the question is how do we know what is right and appropriate at the right time? And the answer is we have to make godly wise decisions. We need to remember as we look at this passage of Scripture that life is full of change and we need God to guide us in how we think about those things. So I want to remind you of a couple of practical things we talked about yesterday as we close this little section. The first thing is this. Life is full of changes that we experience. And these can be tough to deal with. The person that loves to plant the garden has a hard time pulling up everything. The person that is that loves to have a good time has a very hard time with those difficult seasons of life. That person who is going through a season of investment blessing is sometimes going to experience leanness and they're going to struggle with that. That person who's a peacemaker is going to have a hard time going to war. That person who loves to go out and fight and defend is going to have a hard time making peace. The reality is that life is full of change and seasonal change, and these experiences we sometimes have a very difficult time working through. The second thing is this. We can be tempted To feel that the changes we experience, the fact that life is full of seasons, makes life pointless and simply random And I want you to realize that that's not true. In the passage in front of us, he says, to everything there is a purpose under heaven. That means that God has a reason for allowing us to go through the things that we go through. And so we need to keep that in the back of our minds. God is sovereign in seasons. His hands are guiding the various seasons of our lives. And he has a reason behind what he's allowing to happen and how he allows us to pass through that. A third thing we see, his reason his character determines what is right and what is wrong in those seasons. In other words, what ultimately is the right response as I'm going through a difficult season? It's going to be guided by what God's wisdom and what God's righteousness says is right. and what is wrong. And so the final thing I want to challenge you with this morning is we need to purpose to have godly responses as we pass through each season of life. We need to respond to God and to our circumstances in a way that that demonstrates godly wisdom. And so really what Solomon is saying is, look, life is full of seasons and changes. And what gives it purpose is God's hand. What helps you make right decisions is God's wisdom. And so I want to encourage you this morning to trust in God's good hand. and to make godly choices that are based upon his wisdom. If this has been an encouragement to you this morning, I hope that you'll share that. I hope that it's been a blessing to you. And Lord willing, tomorrow we will continue in our section dealing with studies in the book of Ecclesiastes. Let's pray together. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study this little section together. It's a it's a rich passage. In fact it's one that There's so much that we could reflect on as we think about these little statements about times and seasons and your purposes and your wisdom. Help us to think right as we go through these various challenges. I pray that we'll make good choices in life. And I pray that we'll be in a position that you can bless. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Well, I hope that you have a wonderful morning. And Lord willing, we'll see you tomorrow. Bye now.