Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are in Ecclesiastes chapter 3. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to take it and turn with us together. We're in Ecclesiastes 3 verses 1 through 8. This very familiar passage. People hear this quoted a lot of times at funerals, at lots of different events. So let's go ahead and read it together. Ecclesiastes 3. 1. To everything there is a season and a time to every purpose under heaven. A time to be born and a time to die. A time to plant and a time to pluck up that which is planted. A time to kill and a time to heal. A time to break down, a time to build up. A time to weep and a time to laugh. A time to mourn and a time to dance. A time to cast away stones and a time to gather stones together. A time to embrace and a time to refrain from embracing. A time to get and a time to lose. A time to keep, a time to cast away. A time to rend and a time to sew, a time to keep silence and a time to speak, a time to love and a time to hate, a time of war and a time of peace. Now if I could summarize the section of scripture in front of us, I'd basically say this. Life is full of changes, and these changes need to be guided by wisdom. And so when we come to the passage in front of us, there are a couple of very simple truths that we're going to look at this morning. And we're actually going to look at this again tomorrow, Lord willing. And we're going to kind of look at the different categories that Solomon puts out in this little poem that he writes. But the first thing I'd like us to see in the passage is this life is full of change. He says it this way in verse 1, to everything there is a season and a time. And we think of seasons, we think of times that change throughout the course of the year. And we have natural seasons. Here in the United States we have four seasons. Depending on where you are, the seasons are a lot more distinct than others I grew up in Florida and so we didn't really have four distinct seasons. We didn't have a distinct fall. We sort of had we sort of had summer and then we had kind of gradually into the cold season and then back into the hot season When we lived in Ghana, we had a rainy season and a dry season. But here in the mid-Atlantic, up in New England, in the northern parts of the country, we have, you know, spring and summer, fall, winter. We go through this seasonal change Well, just like we experience seasonal change in the world, the Bible says in this passage that we go through seasonal change in our lives. And this is something that we really struggle with sometimes, but God has a reason for it. And so he just states clearly, he says that life's full of change. The second truth we see is that this constant change we experience is not pointless. Now, when I say it's not pointless, we need to recognize that sometimes we might feel that it's pointless based upon the kinds of changes we're experiencing. He says it this way. There's a time for every purpose under heaven Now when he uses the term purpose, the idea is that there is a reason behind it. The things that we're going through, they serve a purpose. And the question is, whose purpose is it? Well ultimately it's God's purpose. The third truth we find is this. Appropriate responses in those seasons are rooted in God's wisdom and in God's character. In verses 7 and 8 he says, There's a time to rend, a time to sow, a time to keep silence, a time to speak, a time to love, a time to hate, a time of war, a time of peace. And the question is, if we have different times and different seasons, and we're supposed to respond in different ways at different times. And by the way, we're talking about a difference between killing and not killing. We're talking about the difference between war and peace. We're talking about the difference between speaking up and being silent. How do we know which of those two extremes is the appropriate response in a certain season or a certain series of events? Well the answer is it ultimately is rooted in what God says is right and what God says is wrong. What God says is wise and what God says is foolish. And so we see this concept even in the book of Proverbs. I think of one of the Proverbs that says, Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest you be like unto him. Another place it says Answer a fool according to his folly. And so the idea is that there are times when you're supposed to speak up to a person who is a fool and say, no, we're not allowing that to happen. And there are other times where you just keep silent, it's pointless. There's no point in pushing that matter And so really what it's saying is that there are times that different responses can be appropriate at the certain time that we're dealing with that. Well, where does that come from that we know what's the standard that guides us? Is it just our own minds and what we think is right and wrong? The answer is no. It's ultimately guided by God's wisdom and what he says is right and wrong. And so when we think about this issue of season and change, my question is, what are we supposed to do practically in the light of this? The first thing I'll mention is this. We need to realize that the constant changes in life that we experience can be really difficult to deal with. One of the things I was commenting to my wife about the other day is here where we live in Maryland, We live in a very transient area. We have a lot of people that move into the area to get government jobs, military jobs. Lots of people move into Maryland on a constant basis. But at the same time, we see lots of people that leave Maryland on a constant basis. As people get older, they don't want to retire in Maryland because of all of our taxes and some of those kinds of things, because of our climate. We see that people only take jobs in this area for a few years. And so one of the things that's very exciting about living in this area is we meet lots of new people. One of the things that's very difficult about this area is we see people that we become good friends with They move to different areas. And so that change that we experience in life, just in that little area, can be really frustrating to deal with. It can be difficult. It can kind of make us throw up our hands and say, this is pointless. What are we supposed to do with this? Well, we're really supposed to seize every opportunity and make the best of them. And see that God has a reason behind it. The second thing is this. We can be tempted to feel that these changes mean that the shortness of a certain season makes it pointless or random. When I say random, we can have the idea that, well, it's just up to chance. And the fact is that actually it's not up to chance. It's not random. It's actually God's hand that guides in those circumstances. It's God that brings people into our lives. It's God that moves people out of our lives. It's God who gives us opportunities. It's God who shuts doors. And so we see it's the sovereignty of God that governs in circumstances that keeps these seasons from being just random chance, but really providential opportunities, divine appointments. God is behind those things. The third thing is this, it's God who is sovereign in these seasons. And I'm really kind of emphasizing that in our second point. But one of the things that we really have to recognize when we're dealing with change in our lives Is that ultimately that change flows from the hands of God. And it's guided by the wisdom of God. And it's guided by the goodness of God. And so as we go through different seasons of life, we have to learn to submit our wills to God's sovereignty. We have to learn to trust in God's wisdom. We have to learn to draw on God's grace. And we need to make decisions according to God's character and his laws. And so it's really important that we recognize the sovereignty of God when we're dealing with change and circumstances. The last thing I want to mention is this. It's God's character that ultimately determines what's right and what's wrong in these various seasons of life We're going to talk about this, Lord willing, tomorrow, how you can have a situation where it's right to love and it's right to hate, or it's time to make peace, or it's time to make war. And you say, those are two huge contrasts. How is it possible for it to be okay in some circumstances to hate something, where in another set of circumstances it's okay to love something? Well, it's it's all determined upon what God says is right and wrong. If God says that something is evil, then we're supposed to hate it. If God says that something is lovely, we're supposed to love it. And so it's not just determined by what we think is right and wrong, but our decision to love or to hate should actually be rooted in what God says is right. What God says is wrong. Is it right to go to war to defend your interests or the interest of your family or the interest of your nation? Can can war actually be just In certain circumstances? And the answer is yes, it can. Obviously it can. The scriptures are teaching that self-defense is an appropriate thing. We're supposed to do that I should defend my family and protect them. It's my job. It's my responsibility as a husband. Yet there are other times that we should make peace. There are times that we should lay aside our rights. That we actually shouldn't rise up to defend ourselves, but we should set those things aside and we should say, let's make peace. Let's do uh let's do what is difficult for all of us and let's lay these things aside and let's let's Let's be peaceable. There are times that we're supposed to do that. How do I know if I'm supposed to be peaceable or if I'm supposed to defend? The answer is that it has to be guided by God's wisdom and God's character. And so when we think about this issue of change, I recognize personally in my own life that change is hard to deal with. But change is also something that God uses in our life. It's something that can can bring freshness into our lives. It's something that can remind us of God's goodness. It's something that can remind us of our need to depend on God. It's something that can remind us of our need to draw on God's grace. It's something that reminds us that we're not the sovereign, God's the sovereign, that he's the judge, not us. And so God uses change and seasons and circumstances in our lives for his glory and our good. I hope that that will be an encouragement to you this morning. Lord willing tomorrow we're going to look at a couple of these details and we're going to talk about different categories of change and how we should respond to those things and how we should work through those things in our mind. So I think that that'll be a real help and encouragement to you as well. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to look at this passage. Just a couple of very simple thoughts, but they're also quite profound. that you're in charge in circumstances we have to submit to your will and we have to determine what is right and wrong based upon your character. and your uh laws, not our own opinions and whims. We ask that you use these things to be a help to each person that's listening this morning. We pray that you'll bless their days. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well, it's been good to chat with you this morning for a couple of minutes. And Lord willing, we will see you again tomorrow. Have a great rest of your day. Bye now.