Please take your Bibles and turn to the book of Ephesians. We are in Ephesians chapter 3 this morning, and the text that we're going to deal with, in fact, is a very interesting passage of Scripture. I'm going to read it and then I'll make a few comments before we start working our way through what I think is the heart of what Paul is trying to communicate. Ephesians chapter 3, verse number 1. For this cause, I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles. If you have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which is given to me the U word, have I by revelation he made known to me the mystery? As I wrote afore in a few words, whereby when ye read ye might understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ, which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by Jesus Christ. That the Gentiles should be fellow heirs. Of the same body and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel? Or have I was made a minister according to the gift of the grace given unto me by the effectual working of his power Unto me, who am the least of all the apostles, is this grace given that I should preach amongst the Gentiles the insurgable riches of Christ. And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery which from the beginning of the world hath been hidden God, to create all things by Jesus Christ. to the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God. According to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith of him. Whereof I desire that ye faint not at my tribulation for you, which is your glory. I want you to begin by putting yourself in my shoes this week when I looked at this text and said, How in the world do you outline this? When I looked at this passage of scripture, I was like, this is a large chunk of scripture that has so much content that needs to be unpackaged. And to be very frank with you, it looks like Paul is going into all kinds of different places as he says what he says here. In fact, the reason that I'm dealing with with this in one setting is because it's really one section of thought That is really a diversion from what Paul is laying out in the book of Ephesians. I want you to think back to when you were in junior high, guys. Were any of you the kind that would try to get the teacher off track? Were you good at it? Well the question is, was your teacher good enough when they got off track to get back on track and were they able to kind of navigate that little rabbit trail and kind of bring it back in a way that everybody could kind of appreciate what happened? That is what the Apostle Paul is doing here. The Apostle Paul is laying out a series of arguments. He's laying out a series of thoughts that in fact are very powerful. They're very rich. And then in the middle of this, he breaks for a second and he's like, hold on, I want to just take a little rabbit trail and say something that's on my mind. I'm concerned about something. I'm concerned that you are stumbling and fretting because right now I'm in prison. And I want you to understand that this is That is what Paul is doing in these verses. And so I want to start by saying this. When we talk about this issue of suffering and trials, this is something that is an inescapable part of our human experience. I wish that I could insulate myself from all trouble, all struggles, all trials. Well, I should say there's a part of me that wishes I could do that And there's also part of me that wishes I could do that for you. And if you have small children, you're watching them grow up in this world, one of the things that parents really struggle with is they say, Why do I want to bring kids into this world that are going to have to suffer and struggle and go through all the heartache and the difficulties of life? That's something that's really on people's minds many times. But here's the fact that Paul is laying out here. God uses suffering He uses trials. He uses the struggles that are a part of living in a fallen world. He uses them for the good of people and ultimately for his glory. And even though when we witness suffering, often we stumble at God's goodness, we wonder about his purposes. When we see others who are suffering, we go through the same thing. Paul writes here that what I'm experiencing and what I have experienced is all a part of God's purpose. to bring the gospel to Gentile people and he wants to use my life and so I'm willing to go through whatever it is. It's for your good, it's for your glory. That's really what this section is all about. So I'll summarize it like this. God's plans are often a lot bigger than we realize in our limited perspective He wants us to consider our circumstances in his big picture. It's all about looking at the eternal purposes of God. So Let's do that for a few minutes this morning as we follow the trail that Paul diverts from his main subject on. still actually is it very much a part of what Paul is trying to lay out here. So the first thing I want you to notice is Paul's concern for the church. And we see this in two verses. Verse 1 and verse 13. Also, interestingly, in verse 3, or verse 1 of chapter 3, he starts, for this cause I Paul, and then he says all these things. And then again in verse 14, he picks up and he says For this cause I bow my knee unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's almost as if Paul starts something and then he goes on a little side thought and then he comes right back to it. That's what Paul's doing here. So what is his primary concern? Well he tells us And verse 1 and 13. Here's what he says. For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ, notice the next word, for you Gentiles. I'm in jail for you. That's what he's saying. At the end of verse 13, he says, I desire that you faint not at my tribulation, which is what? For you, which is your glory. What an amazing series of statements by the Apostle Paul We could say that everything that Paul is going to say in these verses, verse 1 through 13, it's his way of saying I don't want you to fret at the struggles I'm dealing with right now. It's actually for your good, and I'm willing to embrace it, and I'm totally okay with it. That's what Paul is saying. How do we know that? Well, first of all, he's writing from prison, verse 1. I am the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles. Paul is not speaking figuratively here. He's not saying it's like I'm in prison. He's saying I am in prison and it's for you. And one of the things that I think is very important to not forget is that in the context when Paul is writing these things, the whole reason he's in jail in prison is because when he goes down to Jerusalem, he goes into the temple and he was accused of bringing a Gentile into a portion of the temple that he was not permitted. That Gentile that he was accused of bringing was from Ephesus And so there's a very personal dynamic here. The people, maybe in some senses, are kind of wondering, hey, maybe it'd be better if you hadn't brought this guy with you. Maybe you wouldn't be in prison if it wasn't for us participating in some way. So when Paul writes I'm in prison for you. Like he really means it. He's in prison for somebody in that church. Second. He did not want this situation. To cause them to stumble. Verse 13, I desire that you do not faint at my tribulation for you. What's he saying? There's a purpose in what I'm going through. Verse 1, it's for you Gentiles. This purpose is for their good. Verse 13, this is your glory. And one of the things that we have to learn to wrap our minds around is that we do not analyze our circumstances by looking at it in only one way. We can't be one-dimensional when we look at what we're experiencing in life. We need to recognize that it's not just how I feel in this moment that defines the totality of my circumstances There are times that we have to step back and we have to look at our situation through the eyes of eternity. Through the eyes of God, through the eyes of his purposes. And when we begin to do that, all of a sudden, it's not negating the fact that we feel how we do. But it's showing us that there's a lot more to factor in to understanding how to think about circumstance than how I feel in this moment from one point of view. Very, very important. The simple fact is that God often uses struggling and suffering for our goods. You do not grow without struggle. You do not mature without struggle. There are certain things in life that unless you go through difficulty, you will not experience those things. I wish that wasn't the case, but it's true. It's like a person who their New Year's resolution is, I want to be able to bench 300 pounds, and right now I bench 150. So when I wake up on January 1st, because I decided that I want to do it, I'm going to do it. Doesn't work that way. You might spend six, eight, ten months in the gym and not even be halfway there. Who knows? It depends on their your your biology and how you're how you're made up. But the reality is there's a process. that you have to go through so that you will get to that goal. Well God has a purpose in our lives. He's shaping us. He's maturing us. He's growing us into the image of Christ. And the way that he does that is a process, and he knows exactly what we have to encounter and go through in life to do that It's not just what we're becoming, but it's also how he works through us. And this is what Paul is highlighting in these verses. God works through me because of what I've encountered in life. He often uses the struggles of his servants for their good and the good of the people they're ministering to. And so we see this in 2 Corinthians 4. Listen to what he says. He says, our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more and exceeding eternal weight of glory. That's a general. That's not just because Paul's an apostle or Paul's a minister, but that is a general statement for all Christians. Our light affliction is for a moment in light of eternity. And it's working for us to produce an eternal exceeding weight of glory. 2 Corinthians 1. 4. He says, blessed be God who comforts us in all of our tribulations, so that we may be able to comfort them which are in trouble. By the comfort wherewith we ourselves are comforted of God. As the suffering of Christ abounds in us, so our consolation also abounds by Christ. And whether we be afflicted, it is for your consolation and salvation. That's a pretty amazing statement. What's Paul saying? Paul's saying, I experience tribulation not just for my good, but so that I can learn to be able to help you. It's really amazing. When we think about raising children, one of the benefits of being 20, 30, 40 years old, well, I don't know if there's so much a 40-year gap, but Sometimes 40 years older than our children, right? Sometimes more than that. But one of the benefits of being so much older than our children is we have life experience. And that life experience shouldn't be wasted. That life experience is something God gives us so that we learn and we grow and we're positioned so much better to help our children. And so what Paul is saying is, God allows me to suffer so I learn, so I grow, so that I can help you. That's what he's saying 2 Corinthians 4. 80 says, We are troubled on every side, yet not distressed, perplexed but not in despair, persecuted but not forsaken, cast down but not destroyed, always bearing in our body the dying of the Lord Jesus Christ. And the life also of Jesus, that it might be manifested in our bodies. That the life also of Jesus might be manifest in our mortal flesh, so then death worketh in us, but life in you. Just pause. Do you look at life like that? I didn't ask if it's easy to look at life that way. It's not. But the question is, do you look at life from a truly biblical Christian perspective? I'm not suggesting that we should in any way look at people's struggles and and think of them lightly. We should never do that. We should carry one another's burdens. That's very, very important. But it's also important for us to see our struggles in the light of eternity. And that's what Paul's communicating. Second thing I want you to notice is Paul's message to the church. And we find that in verses 2 to 6. And there are a lot of interesting words I'm going to have to kind of give you some explanation on. He says, if you've heard of the dispensation Interesting word there, by the grace of God, which was given to me to you, word, how that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery And this is not the Hardy Boys or whatever, as I wrote afore in a few words, whereby when ye read ye may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ. Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit But the Gentiles should be fellow heirs of the same body, partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel. Alright, what's Paul saying his messages Well, the first thing that he's telling us in these verses is that his message is a mystery. And when he uses the term mystery, we need to recognize that there is a very specific idea in the mind of Paul When he uses the term mystery. It's not like he's saying, there's something out there for you to figure out. I'm going to give you some clues and see if you can figure it out. That's not what he's doing. It's not a game. It's not a riddle. What he's saying, he actually defines within the context itself. A mystery is a spiritual reality that has not been fully revealed. before the time that God gives an explanation of that particular thing. So in verse 5 he says that in other ages these things were not made known unto the sons of man. Here's it's important how he puts this. As it is now revealed. Now, did you catch that? He's not saying God was 100% silent on this issue back in the day. He's saying it was not revealed then to the extent that it is now. And so the idea is that God is giving us this information progressively. He gives a little bit of information here, and then he builds on that information, he gives a little more here, and he builds on that and he gives a little more here. It's almost like the way that we learn mathematics and we're kids You know, you you get this basic information in first grade and second grade and third grade and it just builds throughout your academic career up into the seventh grade and the twelfth grade, and then if you if you go on beyond that, it just builds and builds and builds. So It's not that these things were not true when you were in the first grade. It's that you weren't aware of them. And so this information gets fuller and fuller and fuller, and you're able to use all that's there. The Bible actually works that way When the gospel is presented in Genesis 3, he simply says the seed of the woman is going to crush the serpent's head. That's all he said. Okay Now there's a lot of well, well how's he gonna do that? And who's gonna be the seed of the woman? And and what's the purpose of this crushing his head and all this kind of stuff? And then we come to Abraham. He says, I'm gonna make of you a great nation, I'm gonna bless all the nations of the world. Through you, and you go, well, that seems to give a little bit more information because now we have a person who has offspring, but we still don't know a lot about this. And what happens is throughout the Old Testament, more and more information is given. The new information is not contradicting the old. It's building on it. It's filling it out more thoroughly. And so that's what a mystery is. It's new revelation, not in conflict with the old, not contradicting the old, but building it out, filling it out, putting meat on the bones. That's the idea. He's expanding their understanding. And so much of Paul's preaching was was saying, look, what I'm preaching to you is not a new faith. It's helping you understand the faith the way it was being presented in the Old Testament. and has now been fulfilled in Christ. So when Paul preached the gospel in synagogues, he didn't go to the Romans' road. He didn't go to the Gospels. He went to Isaiah. He went to the Psalms. He went to portions of the Old Testament. He is preaching the gospel to people after the cross out of the Old Testament. Pretty amazing to think about. So what does that tell you? It tells you it's there. It's in the Old Testament. It's just that we don't see it as clearly as we should. And so this mystery describes the way that God will administrate his kingdom rule. And that's what he means in verse 2 when he says that it was a dispensation of the grace of God given to me. The word dispensation is a fancy word for an administration. The way that Christ is going to administrate his rule for all of eternity is what he means when he uses the term dispensation. And what he simply says is this, the Jews, the Gentiles, all believers are going to have equal status in that final kingdom. That's what he means when he says verse 6, they will be fellow heirs. They will be a part of the same body. They will be partakers of his promises in Christ. And so the first thing that he says is that what I'm giving you is a mystery. It's always been true. It was revealed in part in the Old Testament, but now today it's being revealed more thoroughly. By the way, let me add this. There are still things in the Bible that we do not fully understand. Read the book of Revelation, and let me tell you, you are going to have a lot of question marks and how all that plays out. There's a lot of stuff that we can nail down pretty firmly. There's a lot of things that sometimes people think they can nail down pretty thoroughly, but frankly they really don't. But there's a lot of stuff we cannot answer every single question that could ever pop into somebody's mind about a lot of these issues. What we have is sufficient. It's enough. It's enough to obey God and to honor Him. And so that concept of a mystery, we still live in a context where there are still things not fully revealed. We have to be willing to live with that. Second thing we see is this. God uniquely fit Paul to expound this wonderful reality. And I really think this is at the heart of what Paul is getting at. In verse number three, he says, by revelation he made known this mystery unto who? Unto me. I wrote to you in a full few words. It's interesting. Go back over this passage in your own time and notice how many times Paul refers to himself in the first person. So this is clearly something that he is concerned about very personally. He's emphasizing the fact that this mystery, this reality, how God's kingdom is going to be administrated in the future that this information was given to him and he serves a very unique role in the distributing of that information. That's what he's saying. You see, I don't think it's fair that Paul got picked for that. Would you like to be the one in prison? Okay, if that's a part of the story, then I'm okay with not being there. Would you like to have been the guy who, you know, in your mid-30s, you you basically turned away from everything that had given you clout in the world and the people that were your closest friends and affirmed you, they now despise you and they hate you, they want to kill you The church that you were dragging into prison is now the church that you want to be a part of? So if you want to be in Paul's role, just remember there's a lot that comes with that role. And so he's saying this. God hand-selected me to be a unique individual for this role. He was raising up a leader from amongst the Pharisees, one who had been very zealous about the law of God, one who loved the traditions of the elders. One who was living by the standards of first century Judaism? One who had a well-established relation or well-established mindset that people had with him. He was the absolute last person anyone would think would become a Christian. And not only was he the last person someone would think would become a Christian, he was the last person that someone would have thought would be a proponent spreading the gospel. Yet that's exactly who God wanted to be in this position. His conversion and his appointment to this role is one of the most powerful testimonies that you could ever imagine God giving to the world of the gospel. And so the third thing that we're going to see here is how Paul's testimony before the church, how God used that to give a credibility to what he was saying. Look down in verses 7 through 12 at Paul's testimony before the church. Paul writes, I was made a minister according to the gift of the grace of God. That's a really important statement. Unto me, who am the least of all the saints, is this grace given. That I should preach among the Gentiles the unsurgible riches of Christ. To make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world was hidden God, who created all things by Jesus Christ, to the intent that now unto the principalities and powers and heavenly places He might make known by the church the manifold wisdom of God, according to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord, and whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith of him Now let's break down the pieces to what Paul is saying here. The first thing is this: Paul's ministry had three distinct marks, and he's going to mention them in this passage. The first is this. Paul's conversion and Paul's ministry is demonstrating the greatness of God's grace Notice how he puts it in verses 7 and 8. I was made a minister according to the gift of the grace of God. When Paul thought about this role, do you think Paul had any pride in it? But certainly not in the way he communicates it in the text. 1 Corinthians 15, 8, this is what he says. He says, last of all the apostles, he was seen of me As one born out of due time, I am the least of the apostles. I am not meet to be called an apostle because I persecuted the church of God. But by the grace of God I am what I am, and his grace, which was bestowed on me, was not in vain. You know what Paul's saying? If there's anybody in all the world that doesn't deserve to do what I am doing, it's me. And the only reason I'm doing this is because God is a gracious God. 1 Timothy 1:15 he says, this is a faithful saying, Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the chiefest. And then in verse 13, before he made that statement, he says, I was in the past a blasphemer, a persecutor, injurious, but I obtained mercy. And so the first thing that Paul mentions about his ministry is, I don't deserve this. It's all God's grace. By the way, it's true of all of us too. It's not just true of Paul. But Paul's life was so unique and that this was magnified in a way that it's really not magnified in your lives and mine. It's true in all of our lives, but Paul was such a prominent individual in Judaism. Paul was so outspoken. He was so zealous He hated the church. He hated the cause of Christ. And now he's a totally different person. And everybody knows that. Second, it demonstrates the power of the gospel. You say, well, grace and power, aren't they the same? Well, grace is emphasizing the goodness of God. Powers emphasizing his ability to do something that nobody could have ever predicted. An absolute impossibility, humanly speaking. Verses 7 and 8 he says, It was given to me by the effectual working of his power. That's a really interesting statement. The effectual working of his power, unto me I am the least of all the saints. This grace is given. Now, what is Paul saying? Paul's saying it's not just that I had access to the truth, but the truth worked in me in a way that it never had before that moment I met Jesus. Now, just pause and think about this about Paul. Paul was probably similar in age to the Lord Jesus Christ. The Apostle Paul was a man who lived in Jerusalem. He was a Pharisee, and he saw, and he heard, and he knew it all. Do not think that Paul just comes on the scene and all he didn't know anything about Jesus. He never saw him, never heard him preach, never saw the miracles, didn't know anything about him. He's just like, These people aren't true Jews. I'm going after them and throwing them in prison. That's not the Apostle Paul. I believe that the Apostle Paul would have been one of those guys watching every single step that Jesus made, listening to his words. Plotting with all of his friends, how do we take this guy down? And then when Jesus goes to the cross and he's crucified, this guy Paul says, I'm so glad this is over. And then people say, actually it's not. He's alive, at least that's what they're saying. He's like, that's impossible. Impossible. And so here is the Apostle Paul before his conversion doing everything in his power to suppress the truth. Fighting it on every single level. And he's going on that road to Damascus. And what does Jesus say to him when he meets him? He says, It is difficult for you to kick against that goat. You know what that tells you? Jesus says, you saw this and you know. But your pride said no And by the way, this is where the unbeliever who is exposed to the truth over and over and over again, that's where they find themselves many times. The Spirit of God is working, and they're going, no, no, no, no, no, and they're pushing against that pricking of the Spirit of God. But there was a moment where it came through with great power, and Paul was humbled, and Paul was broken. And what does that demonstrate? The power of the gospel 1 Thessalonians 1:5. Our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power and in the Holy Ghost and in much assurance. When you pray for somebody to get saved, pray for that right there. If God can save the Apostle Paul, He can save your friend, He can save your neighbor, He can save that person that you're concerned about. He can do it. You need to pray for them. Third thing we see about his ministry is that it demonstrates a special irony. I believe that God has a sense of humor. Look at some of the animals he's created. I mean for crying out loud. There's like a duck bull platypus down in Australia. Like this is a mammal with a bill like a duck. I'm like crazy, right? God has a sense of humor. And God works ironically in people's lives. This guy, the Apostle Paul, the church was terrified of. And the Lord Jesus Christ says, that's my man. He's going to take the gospel to the othermost parts of the world. And he's going to do it when I break his heart. And nobody's going to predict it, but this is going to demonstrate the irony of God's ways. Verse number eight, that I should preach among the Gentiles. The unsearchable riches of Christ. You know, a lot of people might have thought, well, Paul might be a good guy to send to the Jews. I mean, he he was a rabbi, he was a Pharisee. He he know he knows the Old Testament law. He sat at the feet of Gamaliel. This guy is a very intelligent, well-reasoned individual. He's the guy that should take the gospel to the Jews. And what does God say? No. He's going to the Gentiles. You say, well, why does that matter? I just jotted this down as I thought about it. The one who imposed man-made traditions now goes to the ones he hated the most. 1 Corinthians 9, though I'm made free of all men, yet have I made myself the servant unto all that I might gain the more. Unto the Jews, I became a Jew. Well, he is a Jew. He's a Pharisee. That was his background. He says to the Jew, I became a Jew. To them that are under the law as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law. To those who are without the law as without the law, being not without the law to God, but under the law to Christ That I might gain them that are without the law. To the weak I became as weak, that I might gain the weak. I made all things to all men, so that I might by all means save some. The guy that said, Those are Gentiles, they are uncircumcised, they are unclean, they can't even come past this wall in the temple, and if they do, they should die. That guy Goes to the Gentiles and acts like a Gentile to reach them. It's like, wow. The one who was once viciously persecuted the church is now persecuted for the church. 1 Corinthians 4. 10. We are fools for Christ's sake. We are weak. We are despised. Even unto this present hour we both hunger and thirst. and are naked and buffeted and have no certain dwelling place, and labor working with our own hands, being reviled, being persecuted, being defamed, made the filth of the world, and are the offscoring of all things unto this day. Paul traded clout for prison. He traded respect for disdain. Pretty amazing. But this is the one that really gets me. The one that viewed the cross as weakness and foolishness now glories in it. 1 Corinthians 1. 23. We preach Christ crucified to the Jews a stumbling block, to the Greeks foolishness, but unto them which are called both Jews and Greeks Christ, the power of God, the wisdom of God, the foolishness of God is wiser than men, the weakness of God is stronger than men. That stumbling block to the Apostle Paul is what he glories in now. Do you see why Paul says, Don't worry about me, I'm okay. God's doing something through me. This message through Paul provided an undeniable, powerful validation. I think about the story of Paul standing before Agrippa. And this is what he says in Acts 26. He says, My manner of life from my youth, which was at the first among mine own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews. By the way, he's saying this to a man who he believes knows that. He says, which knew me from the beginning. If they would testify that after the most strict of the sex of religion, I live a Pharisee. Now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made of God unto our fathers. I really thought with myself that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth, which thing I did in Jerusalem. Many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priest. And when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them, and I punished them often in every synagogue, and compelled them to blaspheme, and being exceeding mad against them, I persecuted them even unto the time. strange cities. That guy does not seem like a good candidate to take the gospel to anybody. But he was And so what does he preach to the church? Very simple. God's plans are complete from beginning to end. Verse 9. He made known to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery. Which is from the beginning of the world, hidden God, creating all things by Jesus Christ. He said, God's ways are complete, beginning to end. His wisdom is known in the heavenly realm, but now it's revealed in the earthly, verse 10, to the intent that now the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church, the manifold witness of God. The angels know how great he is, how wise he is, how complete his ways are, and they praise him day and night and will forever. You and I, we're just starting to scratch the surface And for all of eternity, we're going to grow in our knowledge of him. That's what he's saying. Verse 11 and 12, his eternal plan is fulfilled in Christ according to the eternal purpose. Which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access by confidence by the faith of him. So what is the point of everything that Paul is saying here? I think it's very simple. Do not fret that I'm suffering. God has used these circumstances to further his kingdom, and I'm good with that. So you know what this passage is really about? It's really about two things. One thing is the stuff that Paul is glorying in. The fact that we are a body, Jew, Gentile, equal status, a mystery that in the Old Testament wasn't fully revealed, but has been revealed far more thoroughly today than it was in those days. He talks about all of those things, and he wants the church to worship the Lord Jesus Christ because of all those things. But the second thing is this: he's saying, do not fret at my troubles because my life Actually, it further emphasizes that this stuff is true. And the fact that I'm suffering strengthens people's confidence. The fact that I was converted out of Judaism and now I embrace something that I despise, God uses that to strengthen people's confidence in the message. If he can save Paul, he can save anybody. If he's given grace to Paul, how much more me? That's what he's saying. How in the world could someone like Paul reject Such a wonderful status to embrace something so contrary. Because it's true. And so you see, there's two sides to what Paul is saying. It's a rabbit trail, kind of. It's not totally disconnected. He's going to pull it back. So, how do we apply this? Two simple thoughts. The first is this: we need to learn to submit to God. Choose to think biblically about how God uses hardship for his glory and our good in your life. God has uniquely fitted each of us to fill a role in his work to build his kingdom. I'm not you, you're not me. But God's got something specific for you and something specific for me. And the way that He's worked in your life and the way that He's worked in my life, the way that He's worked in our lives, it's not a mistake. Our background, God can use it. Our struggles, God can use it. When we came to faith in Christ, God can use that. Some of the struggles in our own temperament, God can use that. He uses it when we submit to him. He can use our story if we'll surrender to his purpose. That's the question. Are you going to be bent out of shape and angry and bitter against God because? Or say, God, what are you going to do through this? What is your purpose? Help me to embrace it. When we struggle and suffer, he has a plan and he's doing a work. And so we need to learn to step back and see our lives through the lens of eternity and his purpose for our lives. Sometimes when we are really discouraged and really down, we need to go to the wisest, godliest person we know and say this: can you give me some fresh perspective on what I'm living through right now? Now if you don't ask them, they may not tell you. Because they know you don't want to hear. But if you ask them And they really do love the Lord and they love you. You know what they're going to do? They're going to say, well, what you're saying is true. But let's step back and let's look at it from another angle and ask some questions about what God might be doing here. Or what he has done. What he could do. And you know what that can do? That can clarify our perspective quite a bit. It doesn't diminish what's going on, but it does clarify what God is doing in the midst of of it. The second word is the word worship. We need to think deeply about these great gospel things. And by the way, I sat down and was like, I guess I could write like Lots and lots of them because we have two chapters of some of the richest theological information in all the Bible. But I just want to give you a couple to think about. He chose to set his love on a world that was in rebellion against him. I mean God could have been like Adam sin in the garden. Well, Ichabod, the glory is departed. I'm done with y'all. He didn't do that. He loved mankind. He gave the promise of redemption. Every single time that promise was put to the test and something could have completely derailed that plan, what does God do? He intervenes in history to accomplish his purpose. He purposed in himself from eternity past the only way that he could be both just and the justifier. The cross isn't an accident. It's the wisdom and the power of God. That's the only way that a just God can forgive a sinner and declare him righteous. It's through what Christ did on our behalf. He's redeemed us by the shedding of Christ's blood on the cross. He's removed the enmity that stood between us. He's united people groups who were never the same people and are very different still. Through his sacrifice, those who were excluded from the temple, they now are the temple. He used the radical conversion and suffering of a first-century Pharisee to undeniably testify to the power of the gospel. I like that one. Because that's really what Paul's saying. He uses all things in our lives for our good and his glory. So here's the question. Will we be willing to see our trials from God's eternal purpose? Let's bow for prayer. Father, you know all things. You know what is? What will never happen, what could have happened. You don't make mistakes in the way that you work. Yet sometimes we ascribe to you many mistakes. And we chafe at your ways. Lord, help us to be humbled, to see life through the perspective of eternity, and to see life through your eternal purposes. And as we struggle, help us to find people in our lives who will speak the truth to us in love. And give us a heart to hear it. And a willingness to work through things in a way that brings glory to you. Father, help us to be the kinds of people that people could actually come to and we would give them a sound biblical view of their circumstances. Father, when we stumble, help us to get back up. Help us to realize that the things that we encounter in life are not mistakes But in fact, you have purpose in what you permit. You are actively shaping our lives for a reason. And so help us to have a firm conviction of the truth. I thank you for Paul's life and how it bears a tremendous testimony to this reality. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.