Okay, well good morning. Good to see each of you today. Hope that you're having a great week and we're looking forward to our service this morning. I want to mention a couple of announcements and then Pastor Chris will come with a few more before we get started. First of all, tonight, after evening service, we have our first quarterly business meeting. And the items have been posted in the back, so if you did not see that, please stop by and look at that. In preparation for that. Also, I wanted to mention that tonight at 4. 45, we're asking the choir to be here uh a little bit early because we're trying to uh get all of our pieces uh prepared for next Sunday. We have been practicing up till okay don't think we're just Kremming and all in this week, but uh we wanted to ask uh everyone to come a little bit earlier. Please be on time for that uh so that we can run through those songs as much as possible Also, something I haven't mentioned a lot, but I wanted to remind you of, is that we have a Good Friday service up at Calvary Baptist in Westminster And there is a sign-up sheet in the hallway area. If you would like to join us for that, please sign up. We are going to leave here at 5. 30 and the actual service starts at 7 and then We're thinking it's going to go about an hour 15, 20, something like that. So if you'd like to join us for that, please sign up so that we'll know not to leave you. And we can wait for you. If you'd like to just join us up there, that's fine too. But it'll be a great time. There's going to be several churches that are going to be there. And they have a fairly large facility, so they should be able to accommodate everyone that is planning to be up there Also wanted to mention that we have our men's breakfast and Bible study on the 16th. It's at 8 o'clock. And so please do sign up for that, guys. We sometimes don't do a good job about mentioning the signup sheet and that really helps our men who are preparing all of the food for that. And then also wanted to mention that The care package that we're putting together for Kimberly Hutcheson, the cutoff for that is this coming Sunday. So if you'd like to uh give something for that. Please do make sure that you uh put that on the table in the back so that we can get that out to her because we want her to get the care package before she comes home for uh her break. So uh next week is the cutoff for that. Chris has a few more announcements and then we'll start our service. All right, just a few more things there to note in your bulletins. We have this Tuesday the uh Baltimore Rescue Mission. If you haven't had a chance to come out to that, it is a really neat time to meet with folks, the the the least of these in Baltimore City, people that really are encouraged, uh both on the women's side and the men's side, uh talking to folks So if you uh have a free evening Tuesday night, do try to come out and uh be an encouragement to them. Our truth trackers have a theme night this week. It is nerd night. Um, so that means take it just a step further from how I look, you know, glasses and all that. And uh it'll be a fun night. And uh We'll see who can address the nerdiest. And our seniors, you have your luncheon coming up on the twenty first. I hope you guys are planning on uh coming out for that. It's always a good time. Uh play games and and uh eat really good food. And I think we uh w are we still bringing food for this one? No. Nope? Covered dish at the time. Covered dish. Awesome. Enough for everybody. So do uh come out if you plan on coming out to the seniors luncheon uh on the twenty first. With that we'll move on to Pastor. Yeah, it's just like a normal senior potluck. Okay, if you could take your Bibles, let's turn together to Psalm 118 for opening scripture. Psalm 118, and we're looking at verses 21 through, I believe verse 26. Here's what the scripture says. Psalm 118, verse 21. I will praise thee, for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation. The stone which the builders refused is become the headstone of the corner. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord hath made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now I beseech thee, O Lord, O Lord, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. We have blessed you out of the house of the Lord. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer as we focus our attention this morning. This is Palm Sunday. We're to focus our attention on the value of Christ and we're going to celebrate him as the king that he truly is. So let's bow together for prayer this morning. Father, we're so grateful for the opportunity to gather and to focus our attention on the Lord Jesus Christ Christ, and I pray that this morning, as we think about Him as the King and the Lord over all creation, That our hearts would be overwhelmed with tremendous gratitude as we think about the sacrifice of Christ as he went to the cross. And we think about the might of his triumph over death and the resurrection. I pray that this morning you would be exalted. I pray that our hearts would be encouraged and stirred up. Father, we thank you for each person that's able to join us this morning, whether by live stream or here in person. I pray that you would stir up our hearts and may our time of worship and praise be very sweet to you and may it be very encouraging to your people. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well very good morning. It is really, really good to be with you. By the way, Joanna and I would love to extend our gratitude for your prayers. uh for our family and myself as I was in the hospital. Your prayers astonished the doctors. It's a miraculous turnaround for my own condition. So I want to personally thank our church family for your prayers. uh for our family. This morning we're gonna sing as we celebrate Palm Sunday for the hymn books. We're gonna be singing hymn number thirty. Uh note to our musicians, this is different than what is listed listed. The words are the same. It's a different arrangement of all hail the power of Jesus' name. It's a majestic thing. So if you're following the words on the screen, It'll be slightly different towards the end. Just follow with me or grab a hymn book to number 30. Let's all stand and sing. All hail the power of Jesus' name. We'll be singing verses 1, 3, and 4. Oh my god, they just record. The angels pass, bring for the loyal dial. I am the man , I am a ball, but we can So that we got us, we are the same, we are default, we're gone. Amen. Let's turn over to hymn number forty-six. Crown him with many crowns. We'll sing all four verses of hymn number 46. Sing out the song. Morning. Crowding with many cry for morning. Never dy more being proud of the more. Then the sky can fully have an light, but what they like , I guess the reason so far. Crown in the Lord of Why I'm for my pray for rose and turn us by Thursday , their glory now is seen, could die and was on my surprise. And then that we 're in the Lord I 've done, one with the To the endless way for an hour and I Amen. Please be seated As we turn over to hymn number 65 , O worship the King. All glorious above. Hymn number 65, we'll sing verses 1, 2, and 4. All words that I keep on glory, my father, and great words. Our seat will man be fender being a sandwich of And the rest hotel is my mostly praise Whose one is almost done. And darkness is that one of the storm Frail children of us and we will have real in the past Lord I need to male I move Merci our gender, our fancy and our maker become the premium friends. Amen. Great singing. Our scripture reading will be found in the Gospel of John, chapter 12. The Gospel of John chapter 12, we'll be reading verses 12. through nineteen, the Gospel of John chapter twelve, verses twelve through nineteen. On the next day, much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem Took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna, blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon, as it is written: Fear not, daughter of Sion, behold, thy king cometh, sitting on an ass's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first. But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him The people, therefore, that was with him when he called Lazarus out of the grave and raised him from the dead bear record. For this cause the people also met him, for that they had heard that he had done this miracle. The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing Behold, the world is gone after him. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. And heaven will sing with much happier hearts, and in voice is so good. With your life, and the earth will grow down with pleasures and fears, and the memory of all will fade into the nine. Gory of God will say to his prayers And we with the angels will say Of his grace. That voice like the ground of high waters will rise with the glory of that. When you say join their voices in praise to the Father, say the shining joints around. Oh glory. We have songs that will say to his praise When we with the angels will pay off. Only those who have loved and obeyed his commandments, yet those who have saved his life. We'll be saving that day when he goes to signs. God will give you his grace. God will give his grace. Gory that was getting to his place with dangerous. All right. As we continue our singing this morning, we're going to open our hymns books to hymn number two hundred and seventy-three. Hymn number 273, Christ the Lord is risen today. We'll sing all four verses. Sing out. Christ the Lord is present today. Sons of men and angels say oh never praise our joy and joy of life Singing the tender , And I 'm for your state. Where that' Well I make glory all bread. Vai dar um jail. Vino I can find out the green of God. Great singing. Our final song will be our song for the month of April. It'll be in the blue book, number 167, in the blue book. It's still the cross. Let's all stand as we sing all four verses of number 167 in the blue book. Still the cross. All four verses. The lonely night the agony, the crying agony. The whole amount based is that And where they leave our bad exact Let's stand on the car. And you got the mark Command And give me everything for pride and give me everything For Christ, the woman's curse of honorary, the hanging burns of cavalry, the word of life pursuit is dead. And satisfy the penetration. Allowing me to spend my life Been giving everything for Christ Been giving everything for Christ My must know we would be at the Mularmine. It's still the blossom, it's still the one, it's still inside the law , compelling me to spend my life in the world. Everything for Christ, and giving everything for Christ, the greatest love sacrifice, the triumph of the The cross of Christ, the Lord of my team and my dad to the poor him with every breath, it's still a farm, it's little white. Still in the God of my kids and my life everything for me getting everything Great singing, please be seated. The guide of cards don't pray , Montana , Moldana. They don't repair the way , Goldana As he slowly writes along, people try to join those star , how we are poisonous. Shuts for the car, people Take out, repair the way , Wolsa , But the people now rejoice , congression find our joy, I joined. Oh Open life that gates of every heart with the love and let the bell of great style with the dream. They tired up on the prey , Osana, Osana, they now prepare the way Osana. He is David 's royal son, he is happy , so we 're turning on garden to the king. Thank you so much for that. If you uh could, our children who are junior church can be dismissed to the back for their class. And the rest of you, I want to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to John chapter 12. And John 12 is the text that we read this morning. And as it is Palm Sunday, if you read through the synoptic gospels, what you'll see is not all of the Gospels give a record of this event. Obviously it happened. But not all of the evangelists as they were writing their record of Christ's ministry and life saw fit to actually record these details. But John does. In fact, John is the fullest of all the information about this. And so that's where we're going to spend our time together this morning. John chapter 12, and I'm going to begin in verse number 12. Here's what the scriptures say. It says on the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem, took branches of palm trees and went forth to meet him and cried, Hosanna! Blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. And Jesus, when he had found a young ass sought thereupon, And as it was written, where as it is written, Fear not, daughters of Sion, behold the king cometh, sitting on an ass 's colt. These things understood not his disciples at the first But when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they these things that were written of him , that which had been done, these things unto him. People therefore that was with him when he had called Lazarus out of his grave and raised him from the dead bear wet bear record. For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle. The Pharisees therefore said amongst themselves, Perceive ye how he how we how ye prevail not behold the world is gone after him The passage in front of us is a passage that actually has a lot of subplots that are very interesting. In fact, if we're to just sit down and try to understand the passage that's in front of us, we really have to understand the flow of the entire period of time that Jesus is living through. And so a lot of what I would like to do first of all is kind of give you a little bit of a synopsis statement for the section that we're looking at. We're going to focus in on chapter 12, but really chapters 10 through 12 is kind of what we're going to look at this morning. So let me give you a synopsis statement. And then we're going to dig into some very important details that I think will be practical and helpful this morning. John chapter 10 through 12 retells the flow of events that led to Christ's crucifixion. And then ultimately to the resurrection, showing how these events fulfilled prophecies concerning the Messiah and established the sole basis for our redemption. So what we're doing is we're reading a storyline, but the reason we read the storyline is we have to understand within the human perspective what it is that led to Christ's going to the cross. And then deeper than that, not just the details that led to this event unfolding, but what is the prophetic significance of this event? And what is the theological significance of this event? They were people that hated Jesus, that plotted to kill him, and ultimately were successful in the arrangement of their plot. Those details unfolded by God's allowance or God's providential design. God allowed those things to unfold. And the question is why? Well, it was to fulfill prophecy. And then ultimately to establish the basis for which you and I can be redeemed to God. That's what's at the heart of the passage in front of us. As we read these verses, I think what we'll see is that God wants us to learn from these people so that we will respond properly to Christ when most of them did not. God wants us to respond differently than the vast majority of the people that we read about in these verses. There are a few individuals that stand out as shining examples to us, but the vast majority do not. So with that in mind, let's begin by looking at the first fact or the first truth we find the text And that is that Palm Sunday is an event within a story. When we're reading this passage of Scripture, we need to see that it's a part of a long storyline about God sending the Savior into the world. And we can see that in this little statement in verse number 9. It says, on the next day Say, why does that matter? Well, but it's because what we're going to look at is something that's connected to a whole bunch of things that happened before that day. Very, very important. So you might say, well, in the big picture, what exactly is going on when he says on the next day? Well, let me give you a couple of details that we should think about here. First of all, Christ has been preaching the gospel of the kingdom all throughout those regions. As Jesus is preaching the gospel of the kingdom, he's calling people to repent. to turn from their sin and their pride and the rejection of the Messiah and to recognize they have no righteousness to give God. They have no basis to stand in God's presence apart from the work of the Messiah. And so repentance is calling them to turn from self-righteousness and to receive the Messiah, who is their only hope of a standing with God and an ability to go into the kingdom of God. Repent, prepare for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. That's the first part of this. But there's a second side to this. Not only is Jesus preaching, but he's performing miracles that were signs that were meant to prove that he is the Messiah. In fact, it's interesting how Jesus does many of the things that he does. A lot of the miracles that Christ performs were very strategic in where he did them. when he did them, and then the conversation that unfolded after he did them. In fact, a lot of Christ's miracles were not just acts of mercy, but they were actually drawing out the internal thoughts of people. In fact, you could even say that a lot of what Jesus did was kind of provocative, to be very honest. For instance, he walks up to a man who is not able to do something and he says Sir, your sins are forgiven you, and all the religious leaders go, well, only God can forgive sin. And so what does Jesus say? Well, just to prove to you that I'm God and I have the ability to forgive sin Sir, take up your bed and rise up and walk. Oh, and by the way, carry your bed. Oh, but sir, this is the Sabbath day. You can't do any work. Hey, I'm the Lord of the Sabbath. I can tell you what you can and can't do on the Sabbath day. So what exactly is going on here? Well, it's Christ kind of provoking a conversation. And he's not doing it to be edgy. He's doing it to draw out the thoughts of people. He is doing this to demonstrate who he is. He not only can be believed, but he must be believed upon. Then the third dynamic that's very interesting is that as Jesus does this, there's this incredible division. That's going on in that region. And by the way, it's not just a Jew-Gentile division. It's a believing Jew versus unbelieving Jewish Jew division. It's a believing Gentile versus an unbelieving Gentile division. There was this stark contrast between those who say, this is the Messiah, and those who say, I don't believe it. There's a huge division. And so the fact is that everybody had, they absolutely had to make sense in some way or another of who Jesus is. There's also another dynamic that I think is very important, and that is that they were living at a very tough time in history. Now, I don't want you to get the impression that I believe that there's any time in history that isn't tough on some level. I believe we're living in very tumultuous days. In fact, my heart's very heavy when I think about our young people and I think about what they're living through in history as they develop. And what they're going to live through after they have developed and now they're adults leading in this land. Every single generation has dealt with heavy burdens. That generation dealt with a very heavy burden. And that's that the Romans ruled, and they were a continual irritant in those days. In fact, it's very interesting. This time period would have been around the AD 30s. By the eighty seventies, the Romans were so fed up with the Jews that they literally marched into Jerusalem And they laid waste the city, and over a million Jewish people in 8070 were killed by the Romans' hands. We know the story of Masada. You know that story? And the people standing there against the Romans, well, what was the end of that story? Everyone died. Well, the fact is that the Jews were under this oppressive rule from the Romans. And it was a continual source of frustration. There were continually people that were working behind the scenes to either get in league with the Romans and kind of benefit off of what was going on, like the tax collectors Or you had people that were constantly fighting against the Romans saying, this is our land, we have our own rules and the way that we live, and we don't want Roman occupation. And then the the vast majority of the people, frankly, they were powerless to do anything. They just had to live with the burden. You say, well, why does that have anything to do with the text in front of us? Well, it's because what the people wanted was a deliverer They wanted somebody to step in, and they wanted him to throw off the Romans and establish Jewish rule where they could live by their rules and their standards, and they wouldn't have to worry about all the nonsense. That's kind of the big picture, but there's kind of a secondary side to this, and that's the immediate context. In John chapter 10 , We see the story where Jesus says he's the good shepherd. Last week we talked in Psalm 23 about Jesus being our shepherd. The Lord is our shepherd, will not want, he makes us lie down in green pastures. It's a beautiful text of Scripture. Well, in John chapter 10, the Lord Jesus Christ says, I am the good shepherd, and I lay down my life for the sheep. He then goes on to say that there are people around him who are hirelings and wolves. Do you know what he's saying when he makes those statements? He's saying, I'm the true shepherd of Israel and the religious leaders of Sanhedrin, the religious elites, they are all in it for the money. And for the power and for the prestige, they're not the true shepherds of Israel. I can only imagine the incredible burning hatred and animosity that those people would have had hearing Jesus say that. His identity was demonstrated. He is the Messiah. His mission, he's going to eternally save and keep his people. His enemies kind of come to the surface. We see the religious elites. And we see these opportunists who wanted to get in on this, and they all begin to plot together to take Jesus' life. John chapter 10 gives us a lot of information, the immediate context as to why things unfolded as they did. But then we come to John chapter 11. This one makes things even more interesting. Because as Jesus is away, he receives word from some very dear friends. These dear friends lived in Bethany, a little village about two miles outside of Jerusalem. And in that village, those friends, Mary and Martha, said, Jesus, come, your friend, our brother, is sick and he's going to die. And Jesus said, okay. He didn't go. And four days later, Jesus comes, but Lazarus is dead. And then Jesus comes to the graveside, and Lazarus has been in that grave for four days, and Mary is weeping. And Martha is weeping. And when Jesus sees everything that's going on, it's one of the most touching scriptures in all of the Bible. Jesus wept. And it says they saw and they said how much he loved that man. By the end of the story in John chapter 12, what does Jesus do? He raises Lazarus to life. Now, when you have seen something like that take place, you have to make sense of it in some way. In other words, he demonstrates his wisdom and power as he delays coming. He shows his compassion, he weeps and he comforts his friends. But he demonstrates that the main purpose of this thing unfolding as it did, and why he delayed, and why he raises Lazarus from the dead and at the time that he does. It is to prepare the people for what we're going to talk about in the Passion Week. Because in the same way that Jesus has the power to raise Lazarus to life, Jesus has the power to rise from the dead by his own power. John chapter 11. So then it moves us to John chapter 12. where he's traveling to Jerusalem to celebrate the Passover, and my ad for the last time. And by the way, as he goes there on the Friday evening before that final Passover, he stops in this little village in Bethany, and there he sits down in the house of a man named Simon the leper. This is a person who Jesus had healed from leprosy. And the center of attention that night is Jesus, is Lazarus, who has died and rose from the dead, and Simon, who is the host of this event, who had been healed by Jesus as well. That's what's going on in the context. And move this to a second truth. It's very important. The people could not ignore what they had witnessed. Now, what's very interesting about studying history and talking about Jesus, people that lived during the time of Christ, that would be those who became Christians. Those who rejected Christianity, those were who were antagonists to the Christian faith, they all talked about Jesus. You know why that is? It's because he really lived during that time period. He really died during that time period. They all wrote about Jesus. We can go back to history and we can read the words of people like Josephus. We can read Roman historians who talked about Jesus, Jewish historians that talked about Jesus, people who are part of the plot against him, and people that embrace him. What does that tell us? You have to grapple with the fact that there's a real man named Jesus who lived 2,000 years ago. He was really nailed to a cross. He really died. And the Bible says he rose from the dead. You have to grapple with that. What's interesting is in these verses, we're going to see that people grappled with who Jesus was. And we're going to see that as we read these accounts, they didn't all believe on him. Nobody was neutral about him. Not anybody in the story was neutral about Jesus. Either they loved him or they despised him. Him. Say, why is that? It's because of what he represented. It's because of what his presence says about us. We're sinners in need of a savior. Let's walk through a couple of these examples just so that you can see them. First of all, many believed on Christ. In John chapter 11, verse 45, it says, Many of the Jews which came to Mary and had seen the things which Jesus did, meaning he raised Lazarus from the dead. They had witnessed some of these miracles. They had heard the accounts of the miracles. They had seen these things take place. They were eyewitnesses of these things. It says, many believed on him. There's a second group, though. In the same context, the next three verses, some were troubled by his popularity and the threat that he created to their position. It says in verses 46 through 48. But Some of them went their way to the Pharisees. You say, who are the Pharisees? Well, they were the religious elites. And they told them the things that Jesus had done, and then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a council and said, What do we do? This man doeth many miracles. Isn't that an amazing statement? He raised someone from the dead. He performs all these miracles. They know it's true. And their conversation is not about how do we make him king or how do we embrace what he has to say or how do we make sense of this person Jesus? It's how do we get rid of them. How do we kill him? How do we stop him from his popularity? That was the sense of the conversation It says, this man doeth many miracles. If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him. And the Romans shall come, and I love them. Well, I don't know if I love this statement, but it's a very provocative statement. It says, and they will take away our place in nation. These people knew for a fact who Jesus was. They knew for a fact what Jesus did. They had to contend with this. And rather than bowing the knee in humility and saying, This is the Savior. They said, how do we get rid of them? Because they viewed their position in the kingdom, which was easily taken away. I mean, the Romans did do that for crying out loud. They destroyed the temple. They killed a million people and they took several hundred thousand captive. It's not like they were a great group to work with. It's not like their position was really secured by the Roman authorities. Yet that's how they responded. Doesn't make any sense, does it? But that's what they did. Some secretly plotted to take him by force and have him executed. Verse 49 says, one of them named Caiaphas. It's a very interesting story about Caiaphas. He was a bit of a political man, you might say. He became the high priest that same year. If you want to study history and find out how he became uh the high priest, go for it. It's a really interesting story. It's kind of off the side Anyway, this is what he says. It is expedient for us that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not. In other words, he's willing to kill a man that he knows for a fact is innocent. A man that he knows for a fact has performed miracles and is proclaiming the word of God. He's willing to kill him. so that he can preserve his reputation and his position. It's fascinating. You realize people still think that way today? Some are being used by God without even understanding what they're doing. This is absolutely fascinating. In verse 51, he says, this spake not of himself. But being high priest at Ye prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation, and not for that nation only, but also that he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad. So what's absolutely fascinating about this event or this moment is that as Tyaphas is plotting to kill Jesus, The scriptures tell us that God was allowing him to do this because he was ultimately fulfilling what was foretold thousands of years before. Absolutely incredible. In other words, God's going to allow this story to go the way it's going because he's ultimately going to accomplish redemption through what is going on. These people had no idea what they were doing. Well, they knew what they were doing, but they didn't understand the significance of what they were doing. Some sense of direction of the events that were pointing to the cross and they cherished who Christ was. Now, in this storyline is the story about Mary. And there are two events in the Gospels where we see something like this take place. One is a woman who is of the street. This is Mary, the brother of Lazarus. Listen carefully to what it tells us. And what it really tells us about this woman's heart and what she understood that really the disciples themselves didn't even understand. It says, then Jesus, six days before the Passover, John twelve, verse one Came to Bethany where Lazarus, which had been dead, and who was raised from the dead. Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him, then took Mary, a pound of ointment of Spitner, very costly. And anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the odor of the ointment Now it's very interesting is if you read the story carefully and you see the the the dialogue between Mary well actually Mary doesn't want to say anything, Jesus and Judas, what you see is that the cost of this woman's lavish display of love for Christ is literally a full year's salary. So I guess in this room everybody makes different salaries. I get that. But just think about what you make for a year and go, okay, I'm going to buy something with that. A couple Teslas and some of you I don't know. I don't know. A new house. Who knows what no not in this area, you won't buy a new house. Forget that. Maybe maybe down south or out in the Midwest or something like that. But she takes a full year's salary. And she buys this ointment. And by the way, it's Spitenerd, which is something that came all the way from the Himalayan mountains So literally, you're talking about something that came a very long journey talk about uh people complaining about the stock the stock on the shelves not being good and we have we have issues with our uh getting all of our items here. Well this came all the way from the Himalayas in those days. And she takes that and she breaks it and the room is filled with this aroma and she's weeping. And you go, why? Well, she appreciated what Jesus did just a few days before. Jesus raised her brother to life. But there's a lot more to it than just that appreciation and that love. This woman understood that there's a lot going on right now, and she could see where it was leading. You know what I mean? You ever you ever watch things unfold and you're sitting there going, I'm no prophet, but I see where this is going? You know what I'm talking about? I see where this is moving It's like nobody can stop this. She knows very well that Jesus is going to the cross. See, how does she know that? She listened more intently than the rest of the disciples did. She heard what he said. She heard these statements that he drops time to time. And she's starting to put it all together and she's saying, I see all of the anger and the animosity and the hatred that is building up toward this time period. And she realizes he's going to die. And I want to pay my respects now. That's what she would say. Was doing. She was anointing him for the burial. This is a person who loved the Lord Jesus. It's amazing. The same man and people who witnessed the same things. Some loved him, some hated him, some were willing to give a full year's salary to just display how much they loved the Lord Jesus, and others were plotting how they could kill him. And all they could think about was preserving their power and their position that wasn't going to last forever anyway. There's another person who became disillusioned and became part of a plot to kill Jesus. In verses four and five it says, Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him, Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence and given to the poor? By the way, if we read through this passage, what we'll see is Judas didn't care about the poor. He was the moneyman He was the guy that kept the money with him. And he kind of liked to tap into those resources a little bit. That's really the way that Judas saw it. But here's Judas who saw the same things all the other disciples saw. Yet in his heart he was willing to walk away and betray Jesus for 30 pieces of silver. Absolutely incredible. He was disillusioned and he was part of this plot to kill Jesus. Some wanted physical deliverance. In chapter 12, verse 12, it says when they heard what that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem. They took branches and palm trees and went forth to meet him. You might say, well, what is the watershed issue? What is it that determined which side you fell on when it came to how you relate to Jesus? And there were three things, three questions that popped into my head that I think are at the heart that kind of determine if you go this way or if you go this way. Here's the first question: who is Jesus? If you believe he's the Messiah, if you believe that he's God in flesh, if you believe that he's come to redeem people from their sins , Then the way you relate to him is completely different than if you say, I reject that. I don't believe that. Who is Jesus determines if you go this way or if you go that way. And by the way, you have the freedom to choose which side you want. And people saw the same things unfold. They heard the same things. But some said, I believe he's Messiah, I embrace him. And others said, I don't believe he's Messiah, I reject him. Number two, what do you really want from him? That's a really interesting question, is it not? Jesus is a genie in the bottle to a lot of people. In other words, I've got an agenda. I want something. And if I can use him to get what I want, I'm good with him. But if his will and my will are not the same, well, then I don't I can cut him loose. That's the attitude of many, many people. I'm going to come back to that in just a second. The third question is, are we willing to trust him to give us what we most need? Everybody believes that they need something. The question is, do we believe what we need is what God says we need? That's the question Lots and lots of people believe if they could get rid of the Romans, things would be great. But I want to ask you a question, what would have been better? To have the Romans dominate or the religious elites dominate? I mean really these are people that are willing to kill an innocent man These are people that are taking the scriptures and they're twisting them and they're using them for evil. Do you think that they would be better leaders? I mean, at least it was a legitimate rule of law with the Romans, ironically. So the question is: if they were to be overthrown, the Romans and the religious elites were established, would they have been a whole lot better off? And then when it comes to their eternal destination, the question is this. Who do they need in power? It's the Lord Jesus. Were they willing to trust him to give them what they most needed? In other words, was Jesus just a means to their own end? Was he a roadblock to what they really wanted? Or is he the mighty Savior that can be exclusively trusted? All those questions, we can personalize them. Do we see Jesus as a means to our own ends? Do we see him as a roadblock to what we really want? There are some people that hate Christianity, they hate the church, they hate the Bible, because what the Bible says is their life is full of sin. And their life is full of misery. And what they want, God says, is evil. Yet there are other people who say, I like what the Bible has to say because I can use it to get something that I want. And I ask the question, who is really better off? Both are not submitting to the authority of Christ. Both are not Bending their will to his wishes, but they're using him or attacking him because he stands in the way of what they want. Are we willing to exclusively trust him? Truth number three. History repeats itself because human nature is fundamentally unchanged. There's never been a time in history Never been a time in history that there weren't a group of people who looked back at a generation before and read about their lives. And sat down and said, what I'm watching right now is an unfolding of what happened a hundred years ago. There is not a generation, well, of course Adam, I guess, didn't have that luxury. Okay. But I'm talking once you get into human history, every generation is looking back and going, and you know, most people are just going with the flow. They're just going with the flow. They're not thinking about the times that they live in They're not thinking about what is right and what is wrong. They're not willing to stand against the grain. They're just going with the flow. That's the majority of people throughout human history. But there are some who live in every time who listen to what has happened and they read about it and they say, hey, you know what I'm seeing right now looks a lot like what happened in the 1920s, in the 1940s, and the 1960s in the 1840s, in the 17, whatever. You understand what I'm saying? They look back at history and they see this repetition. You go, why is that? How in the world do we have this repetition? Like, haven't we as people learned how to learn from the past? And the answer is no, we haven't. You say, why is that? Because we are fundamentally no different than they were. We just are not. One of the things that's so amazing about Scripture is that Scripture takes People, and it tells you exactly what they are foundationally. It tells you what people are on the most fundamental level. And so you could take any culture, any time period, any language, and guess what you'll find out? People are people. That's what you'll find out. Human nature is the same, and history repeats itself because that is true. And so I want you to think about what this passage shows us about human nature, and I want us to personalize it for just a second. Maybe more than a second. Think about the triumphal injury. Jerusalem was filled with worshipers. All these people were crowded into the city. The city was exploding with excitement. And what are these people here to do? They're here to celebrate the Passover. And here is the irony of the whole thing. Here is the Lord Jesus Christ coming to Jerusalem, not just to celebrate the Passover, but to fulfill it. It's an incredible thing. He's coming into Jerusalem to die as the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. That's an absolutely incredible thing. Like the timing of what's going on was all according to the fullness of time. That's really what it was It was events coming together in God's plan for Christ to go to the cross. And here's all these people celebrating Passover, totally clueless about what was pictured in the Passover. To them it was the way most people celebrate Christmas. To them it was the way most people celebrate Easter. They were clueless. to the weight and the significance of the Passover. And here is the Lord Jesus Christ coming into Jerusalem and they're saying, take away the Romans, take away the Romans, take away the Romans. And they're saying, actually I'm here, take away your That's what he's saying. I'm here to take away your sin. The fulfillment of the Passover was not only in their midst, but he was coming to fulfill what they ignorantly celebrated. Isn't that an amazing thing to consider? And their cry was passionate. And their cry was an anticipation of this immediate action. Verse 13 of chapter 12, he says, They cried, Hosanna, save us. Blessed is the king of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord. That word Hosanna literally means save us. Rescue us. Deliver us. In fact, what's interesting is they're actually quoting from Psalm 118, the very psalm that we read this morning. Kind of funny how we did that, right? Here's what it says. Verse 25. Save now, I beseech thee, O Lord. O Lord, I beseech thee, send now prosperity. Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord. That's what they were crying out. But here's what they tragically missed. The three verses that came before that statement. In verse 22 it says, the stone which the builders refused is become the head of the cornerstone. This is the Lord's doing. It is marvelous in our eyes. This is the day which the Lord has made. We will rejoice and be glad in it. Save now. I know I've always quoted, this is the day that the Lord hath made. Let us rejoice and be glad in it. We even sing a song about it. But we don't know about the day that it's talking about. It's talking about the day Jesus went to the cross. It's talking about Him fulfilling all these prophecies. And what this shows us is that the people knew the psalm saved, but they didn't understand that before salvation comes, there has to be a basis for salvation. In other words, you and I can't enter heaven without there being a basis for us to enter heaven. You and I can't be forgiven unless there's a basis for there to be forgiveness. You and I cannot be declared righteous before God unless there's a basis for being declared righteous before God. And so the people wanted salvation without the basis for salvation. They wanted a certain kind of salvation that wasn't their greatest need. And I hate to say this, but I say it. Nothing has changed Nothing has changed in human history. It was through the rejection of Christ that they would later be able to be saved. And even the disciples didn't understand that. Verse 16 of chapter 12, he says, these things understood not his disciples. At the first, but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they these things that were written of him, that they had done these things unto him. Now just think about this for a moment. I said earlier there's nothing new under the sun, history repeats itself, so the question is, what's the catch? If that's what happened then, then what's going on now? Let me give you a couple of examples in our modern era. Why are we seeing this? Several things I want to mention. Why do we see an epidemic of religious deconstruction in our nation? I will tell you why. It's because a lot of Christianity in this country is no different than the crowd at Passover. It's true. Why are we seeing an explosion of prosperity theology in our day? It's because there are many people who think just like the crowd did at that day. Why are so many church leaders embracing movements that are unashamedly anti-Christian, anti-family? Why? Why do we see this epidemic? It 's because a lot of religious leaders are not as principled as they present themselves. Why are there people that are ambitious Church planting entrepreneurs. It's really about building an empire, building a kingdom, stroking the egos of those in authority. It's because a lot of leaders do not walk like the shepherd of the sheep, Jesus Christ. But they're actually building an empire and they're using Jesus to accomplish what they want. Why is there such a vicious and calculated effort to destroy and silence Christianity in our culture today? Why is that It's because just like people who lived 2,000 years ago hated the presence of Christ and his authority and the threat that it was to their power, we have the same problem today. Folks, there's nothing that is more offensive to those who want absolute totalitarian control of people than a book that says there is no higher authority than God Himself. It's true. Folks, the point is nothing has changed. But I want you to realize that on that day there were many, many people Who they might not have thought clearly on that day, but 50 days later at Pentecost, guess what? Thousands of people in Jerusalem embraced the gospel. In other words, some of the very people that had no clue what was going on at the moment, that were caught up and blinded, some of those very people and broke History repeats itself because human nature is fundamentally unchanged. And folks, we desperately need to understand the times that we live in. We desperately need to see that our nation is a nation that needs a shaking return to the authority of Scripture, the sufficiency of Scripture, the centrality of the Scriptures. We desperately need this in our time. So I give you one final thought. The gospel is available no matter where you find yourself in the story No matter where you found yourself in the story. Now maybe this will startle some people, but I do believe it. Though Judas betrayed the Lord Jesus Christ , Had he responded like Peter did, he could have been one of the twelve. It's true. His betrayal of Christ was not an unforgivable sin. Think about the centurion that was standing there. He he his job was to kill people. I mean, that's what he did for a living. You know, Jesus was just another another criminal that he killed. It was his job as a Roman centurion. Yet on that day, as he sees the sky go black and the ground shakes, All of a sudden, he looks at this person who they have crucified and he says, this guy's different. This is the Son of God. Truly, we have crucified the Son of God. That man could embrace the Savior. One of the malefactors was railing on Christ, and the other said, Hey, remember me when you come into your kingdom. Here is this man who's hanging on the cross next to Christ, and all of a sudden it hits him. That's the Savior. Guess what? He's in the store. He can embrace the gospel. What about one of those people that was there? Crying, Save us, save us, save us, and they're throwing out their palm branches, and they don't know what's going on, and then Jesus dies, and then they hear the story of the resurrection And now they can't make sense of it, and all of a sudden they hear Peter and the apostles preaching. This Jesus whom you've crucified, he's risen. And by the way, it's the fulfillment of all these prophecies in the Old Testament. And he just walks through scripture after scripture after scripture, and you're sitting there going, I didn't get it then, but I get it now. Guess what? The gospel's available Even within the religious elites, the Sanhedrin, there were some that embraced the Savior. Nicodemus is one. Joseph of Arimathea was one. Ironically, a lot of the contentions they had in the early church were because there were Jewish Christians who wanted to go back into the old Levitical system. And there was a lot of tussle and tangle within the church context because there actually were many people who genuinely believed in the gospel. What's the point? This passage reminds us that Christ came and did what he promised he would do. And it reminds us that we can find ourselves in this story somewhere. We really can. I don't mean like the story's not about you and me. It's about Jesus. But really, it is about us seeing how we think and how we respond to his authority. It calls us to ask ourselves some tough personal questions, and I'm going to ask them to you this morning. My first question is, how are you responding to the Savior? That's a very personal question. I'm not asking anybody to tell me how you're responding to the Savior. I'm asking you to personally ask yourself, how are you responding to the Savior? Do you do you resist his authority? You don't want anything to do with him? He stands against what you want? Do you hate him Do you fear him? How are you responding to him? Is he a means to this end that you have? Do you see him as a roadblock to what you really want? Folks, a holy righteous God who is infinitely wise would never stop you from something that's good. For you. He would never do it. He's never going to call evil good and good evil. He is righteous And so is he a roadblock to what you want? Is he your Savior who delights your heart, who shapes who you are and what you love. Being a Christian more than anything else is about recognizing who Jesus is, what he did, and I humbly accept it. Personally. That's really what being a Christian is. I believe he's the Son of God. I believe he died on the cross for my sins. I believe he rose from the dead. I believe that I have no basis in myself to stand righteous before him So I accept his sacrifice on my behalf, and I embrace it and I rest in it. And by the way, I love him because of what he's done for me. And I submit to him because I understand who he is. That's what Christianity is all about. It is about the person of Christ. And so I want you to see, just like this text shows us, you cannot ignore Jesus. You just absolutely can't do it. I want to encourage you to be like those who believed and like that one Mary who loved. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us to really internalize these things. Before we close in prayer, I'm just going to ask a simple question or two. First of all, is there anyone here that say, Pastor? Man, I heard this message and I never really thought about this, but I've never accepted him as my savior. And I need to do that. I don't want to be like those people who rejected Christ. I want to be one who embraces him as my savior, where I rest in his finished work. Is there anybody that would raise your hand and say that's me pastor? Pastor, I need to trust Christ. I've never done this, but this is what I need to do. I'm not gonna call you out or ask you to come forward or give a testimony or anything like that. But if you raise your hand, I'd love to speak with you. Or maybe you're not comfortable raising your hand. I'm okay with that. Just we could talk at another time. Send me a text. Send me an email. Say, Pastor, I need to talk to you. Second question, is there anyone that would say, you know, Pastor I'm saved, but using him as a means to my own end, guilty as charged many times. A roadblock to what I want, guilty as charged many times. And I need to just submit to him in my personal life. Anybody that raise your hand says to me, Pastor, I need to do that. I need to submit to him. I see that. I see that. Amen. Let's bow and ask the Lord to help us with this. Our Father, we thank you so much for This evented history that we were able to re reevaluate, look over again, be reminded of afresh. Father, help us to see who in that story we most resemble. And help us to remember the gospel is available to us no matter where we find ourselves in that story. Father, if there's even one in our midst who's never placed their faith in Christ, pray that today they would do that. Like a child trusting in his finished work, they would do that. Father, I pray that if we find ourselves in the story as one who's using you for our own end, resistant to you, I pray that we would be humbled. And convicted and confess the sin, and that we would reorient our thinking towards you in a healthy and vibrant way. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's take out our hymn books, please, and we will sing for our closing hymn number 416: My faith has found a resting place. It's a really great hymn, is it not? Let's stand together, please, and we'll sing that. Hymn 416. My faith has found a resting place. My faith has found a resting place, not in the my storm. I trust in her shall say I need no father argument, I need no father. My heart is leaning on the word , perfect word of God Salvation by my sin. Salvation through his wife. I need no other argues that I need no other thing It is enough that Jesus Christ and that he died from me. Great statement. I need no other argument or plea. It's enough he died for me. That's a great statement. Hope that you've been blessed to be in the Lord's house this morning. If you're visiting with us, hope you'll stop by, shake my hand, say hey, good to see you. And hope you can make it back tonight. We have our first quarterly business meeting. And uh nothing real heavy. It's just our financials. So please make sure you pick up uh the financials on the way out. And then um I just want to talk about some of the events coming up. uh in the new year and encourage you or I guess it's not really new year. Feels like it, but I guess it's the end of the first quarter, so well the next three quarters of the year. Uh but just uh just thinking about these different things, praying uh for these different events and activities and um just really excited i also want to just kind of clarify so we know um next Sunday is sacrificial Sunday And so anything that is given unless otherwise designated is going to the Ukraine fund uh through uh beam and they have missionaries that are there um in Ukraine and uh individuals who are displaced who are uh going to be able to actually be benefited. So um if you want to give tithes and offerings, just say tithes and offerings, okay? Or if you want to give to missions, say missions. Um but everything else will go uh entirely towards that project and we really want to be a help. And by the way, um I do send out updates and so if you don't get those updates and we're kind of discreet about it, okay So we don't just like plaster them online. If you would like some of these updates, and some of them are from folks in country, some are refugees who are displaced, there's a lot of different information that we're getting, please contact me directly and I'll make sure that I get you that information. And so please be aware of that. that. Okay. Uh Brother Marshall, can you close us in prayer this morning? And uh good to see each of you out. Dear Lord, thank you for this day. Thank you for the opportunity we can spend in your house. We just Pray that we would take these things that we've heard of your word today and apply to our lives. We pray that you would protect us, be with us, please be with our missionaries in the Ukraine, that you would. Just give a extra measure of grace and mercy to them. And we're just thankful for the country that we live in and how blessed that you've truly made us. Please be with this week. Please be with us this week. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.