To take your Bibles and turn with me to the book of Daniel. Daniel chapter nine. And what I'd like to do over the next couple of minutes is I'd like to take the things that you've just seen. And I'd like to kind of put it all together in a way that will help us to appreciate the purpose of this entire Cantata. What was this really communicating? And so what we're going to do this morning for the next few minutes is we're going to look at Christ through the eyes of the Magi. And we're going to start in Daniel chapter 9 because I think that this is probably a significant part of the reason that these individuals were interested in the Lord Jesus Christ. The scriptures never explicitly tell us what it is that motivated them as far as the text that they had access to, but it is very likely that this is probably one of the key passages. So here's what the scriptures say in Daniel chapter 9. It says 70 weeks are determined upon the people. Upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, to make an end of sins, to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy. and to anoint the most holy. Know, therefore, and understand that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah, the prince, shall be seven weeks. Three score and two weeks. The street shall be built again, the wall even in trouble 's times. And after three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself. Please let's just take a moment to pause and ask the Lord to help us as we look at this passage of Scripture and several other passages of Scripture to see what it tells us about the Lord Jesus Christ. The one that we celebrate during this season. Let's pray. Father, I thank you so much for your word, and I thank you for the music that we've heard. Just beautiful, beautiful music. The storyline that points us to what was going through the minds of the Magi as they came looking for the Christ child in Jerusalem and then ultimately to Bethlehem. And what text of Scripture would have driven them to the conclusion that they need to look for this king who was born in Bethlehem? Father, give us a clearer understanding of these truths this morning. And if someone has never placed their faith in Christ, I pray that as they hear this message and they think about these truths from your word, that you would use that to really stir up their hearts and show them their need. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. You know, when we're looking at a passage of scripture like this one, it's important for us to recognize that most of the Bible is actually written as a historical series of events that were documented by either firsthand eyewitness accounts or people who were learning from those who were eyewitnesses. And so when we're reading the Bible, we're reading history. This is not a myth. This is not just some fairy tale story that people in Western cultures have talked about for hundreds and hundreds of years and then Obviously, people in the Middle East would have would have understood about the birth of Christ for thousands of years. But this is actually an historic account. These are things That really happened. And what's fascinating about the Bible is that there are many different eyes that we are able to see this event through the eyes of. And each of these people that are giving us information about what they saw, what they lived through, what they experienced, they give us some unique details that were pertinent to their understanding of what was going on. For instance, the scripture talks about the birth of Christ through the eyes of people like Mary and Joseph. In fact, several of the Gospels record for us What Mary and Joseph saw and heard and thought about the Lord Jesus Christ We also have the example of the shepherds in Luke chapter 2. And here are these people, they're out on a mountainside, they're watching their sheep, and all of a sudden there's this bright light. And the angel of the Lord appears to them and tells them, Behold, I bring you good tidings, the great joy which shall be to all people, unto you is born today in the city of David, the city of Bethlehem, or we could say the town, the Christ child. And so we see the Christ through the eyes of the shepherds. Two of my favorites are Zechariah and Simeon, and I'm actually going to reference those two individuals sometime this morning. We even have the example of Herod, and then there's the magi. The ones that we talked about this morning. Now the magi were individuals that came from a a part of probably Persia or ancient Babylon, somewhere in that region, and they traveled a long distance. across desert terrain so that they could find this little child who they believed was born in the land of Israel who was going to be the king of not just the Jewish people. But the king of creation. Think about that. So I want to answer a couple of questions this morning. In fact, five of them. Don't worry, I'm going to move fairly quickly through them. But each of these questions, as we answer them, are going to help us to appreciate and understand what was going on in this text. The first question I want us to answer this morning is how Did these people know about the Messiah? How did these people know about the Messiah? Now, if we were to go back and think about Israel's history, we have to realize that they lived in the land that is current Israel many, many thousands of years ago, and they lived there for a pretty long period of time. But as we look at the history of the people, we see that God sends them prophets who warned them, if you do not obey the Lord who you are in covenant with, I'm going to remove you from the land for a period of time. To humble you. And in fact, uh, from one generation to the next generation, there were a few times where there were revivals amongst the people, but for the most part, the people ignored everything that they were told by those prophets. And during that time period, there were certain prophets who were pivotal in writing information about the coming Messiah. For instance, Isaiah is one of those prophets who wrote extensively about the Messiah. Let me read to you some of the things that Isaiah wrote hundreds and hundreds of years. before the birth and then the death and the resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. In fact, he wrote these things Even before the nation of Israel, Judah, was brought into captivity in Babylon and then stayed there for 70 years. And Isaiah 9, verse 2, it says, the people. who walk in darkness have seen a great light. And they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined. How many of you have heard Handel's Messiah? In fact, we were listening to this while we were driving to church this morning, and Handel's Messiah quotes extensively from Isaiah. Another passage that was quoted in that song is Isaiah 40, verse 1. Listen to what it says. Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, the voice of one that crieth in the wilderness. Prepare ye the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall be made straight, the rough places plain, and the glory of the Lord shall Shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. You know that section of Scripture that talks about Christ? It talks about the forerunner of the Messiah, John the Baptist. And when John the Baptist's birth is foretold, that particular prophecy from Isaiah is quoted by the angel. So that they would understand that in fact this child was going to fulfill that precious prophecy that had been made hundreds and hundreds of years before the birth of Christ. But here's another one that I think is really significant. Isaiah 49, verse 6 says, I will give thee for a light to the Gentiles. That thou mayest be my salvation unto the ends of the earth. Thus saith the Lord, the Redeemer of Israel and his holy one to him. whom man despiseth to him, whom the nations abhorreth, to a servant of rulers, kings shall see and arise, and princes also shall worship. before the Lord, because of the Lord that is faithful, and the Holy One of Israel, he shall choose thee. Now did you notice that little statement, princes will come and worship? You know what that's talking about? It's talking about what we just heard about this morning. In fact, that's a partial fulfillment. There's even going to be more to this later on. But during this time when the Lord Jesus Christ, this little baby in Bethlehem , Who is born and laid in a manger, and then those magi come from far away, and they see him in this house, this little, little child. They came to give him gifts because they understood who he was. And then that Daniel prophecy that we just read recently in Daniel chapter 9, where he talks about a timetable, you say, why are all those things significant? Here's why those things are so significant. In the same way that you and I study prophecy as it relates to the day of the Lord and the tribulation, the coming of Christ, and all of those things in the same way that we look forward to those things. And we argue and we debate and we wrestle with what is being foretold or being prophesied in the same way these people did the same thing. But theirs was not so much about the day of the Lord and the things that you and I are looking forward to, but they were looking forward to something that is in the past to us, but was in the future to them. You say, why did these men, why did they come to Jerusalem looking for a king? The answer is very simple. Because they knew that there were prophecies relating to a king that was not just for the Jewish people, but as it says here in Isaiah 49, he's going to be a light to the Gentiles, and he will be salvation to the ends of the earth. He is the Redeemer. He is the Holy One of Israel, and kings and princes will rise up and they'll worship him. And they said We need to look for this coming one. And then when they read through prophecies like Daniel chapter 9 They recognized there was even a timetable that was connected back to the rebuilding of Jerusalem. And as those men sat there and they read those prophecies and they calculated the time frame, in their mind they knew something. We are coming into that time that this person is going to have to be born Because he is going to come and he's going to die. And so they were digging into the scriptures, trying to figure out when this would be. They were called wise men or magi for a reason. Because they were digging into the scriptures and they were trying to make sense of these prophecies, and they believed there was really a Messiah. They believed he was really not just for the Jews, but for the Gentiles, and they believed they were coming into that time where he would be born. And then ultimately he would do all the things that were stated in that passage. Daniel was a well-known person in that region. He worked under several administrations. Several administrations, several different empires knew who Daniel was. And Daniel's writings and his prophecies were known to these men. And so they were looking for this king because they believed it was true. Second question is: why was their willingness to travel to Jerusalem so significant? And I've kind of already touched on this. But I would put it like this. It shows you that these men had a conviction that in fact this prophecy about the Lord Jesus was true. They understood. They believed. They were convinced that in fact it was really going to happen exactly like it had been foretold. It also reveals their conviction that the Messiah was someone who needed to be worshipped and adored and reverenced. In fact, even by the gifts that they bring, it shows you they understood something about the nature of his ministry. Gold and frankincense and myrrh, it shows you they understand he's a king, and it shows you they understand he's going to suffer, and it shows you they understand he's gonna die. All of those things are bound up even in the kinds of gifts. that they brought to Bethlehem on that day. It provides insight into how the Gentiles came in contact with these Jewish texts And came to desire to know the God of Israel. This is a fascinating thing for me to think about. You realize if it had not been for the captivity of the people in 586. being brought from their homeland, their city destroyed, the temple destroyed, people like Daniel and people like Ezekiel being there in the land of Babylon and then ultimately conquered by the Medes and the Persians. How would this information have gotten to those people? By the grace of God, as those people were ripped from their homeland, and it was a tragic and terrible story. They were bringing a gospel witness into a very dark region. And when they brought that gospel witness into that very dark region, it would come to a head. hundreds of years later, when there would be wise men who said, We have read these prophecies, we understand who is coming, we believe this is the time. And when they saw that star in the sky, they said, That's it. This is the sign that is telling us we're right. This is the time to look for him. Third question. What is the heart of this prophecy that is recorded for us in Daniel? I think it's very important for us to not miss this because this is really the heart of the whole story. What we see is that it identifies the timing of the Messiah's life and ministry. And I will tell you this if you dig into this prophecy, it's a little more complicated than just Saying very simply, here's what it is. These are guys who were wrestling through how to interpret this prophecy. And probably a major factor in them realizing that this is the right time was the sign in the sky. But notice the details of what the Messiah would do. In verse 24, it says that this would be for the finishing of transgression and the making of an end of sin. Why did the Messiah come? He came to address the greatest problem that humanity has. That greatest problem is sin. Sin separates us not just from one another, but sin separates us from a holy and righteous God, our Creator. And you know what the Messiah came to do? He came to finish transgression and to make an end of sin. And Isaiah 53 it talks about the fact that he would be despised and rejected of men, a man of sorrows and equated with grief. And and the Lord would lay on him the iniquity of us all, and he would complete this work in his death on the cross. Also in verse 24, he says that he would come to make reconciliation For iniquity. That word reconciliation means that there is an estrangement between two parties. Now the question is: where is the estrangement coming from? It's coming from us. We have sinned against God. He is holy. He is righteous. We have rejected his commandments. And when we disobeyed God, not only do we have this sin that we are guilty of. But we are estranged from our Creator. We are separated from Him. There is enmity between man and His Creator. But what did Christ come to do? He came to establish reconciliation. Between God and man. Third statement, to bring in an everlasting righteousness. This is an amazing statement. If we study history, you know what we see? We see the rise of a kingdom and the fall of that kingdom. And the rise of a kingdom and the fall of a kingdom. and the rise of the kingdom and the fall of that kingdom. And if we study thousands of years of human history, we see the rise and the falls of civilizations. The greatness of those civilizations and the brokenness of those civilizations, and we we're one of them too. We don't know how much time there is before the Lord Jesus comes, but the fact is if it's a long time We'll fall just like the other the other nations have as well. But what does he say? He's coming to bring in an everlasting righteousness. A kingdom that's far greater than any kingdom that has ever existed on this planet. A kingdom of righteousness, a kingdom of holiness, an eternal kingdom. That's why he came. And so it identifies the nature of his work. The last thing that really stands out in this prophecy is verse 26. He says, That Messiah will be cut off, but it will not be for himself. He's explaining the fact that when the Messiah comes, his death would be as a substitute. And his death would not be because of his own guilt, but it would be because of the guilt of someone else. This is exactly what it says in Isaiah 53, where he is going to take our sin on himself, and he will die in our place. Fourth question that I have is this. How do these prophecies relate to some Old Testament saints that we read about in the Gospels? Simeon and Zechariah are the ones that come to mind. Because this really gives us an understanding of how people living during the time of Christ understood the prophecies of Isaiah and the prophecies of Daniel and how those prophecies had had impact or bearing on their lives at that moment. As they were living through the fulfillment of these prophecies. Listen to the words of Zechariah in Luke chapter 1, verse 68. He says, Blessed be the Lord God of Israel who has visited and redeemed his people. He has raised up a horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David. As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began, that we should be saved from our enemies, from the hand of all those who hate us, to perform the mercies promised to our fathers, to remember his holy covenant. That he would grant unto us that we being delivered out of the hands of our enemies might serve him without fear in holiness. And in righteousness before him all the days of our life. Thou child shall be called the prophet of the highest. Thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to repair his way, to give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins. Through the tender mercies of our God, whereby the day spring on high has visited us. Those are amazing words. As Zechariah talks about the significance of the birth. The life and the death of Christ. Simeon in Luke chapter 2, verse 30 says, Mine eyes have seen thy salvation. Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. Does that sound familiar? It should Because we just read this from Isaiah. He's literally quoting from the prophet Isaiah. What does it tell you about these two men These two men who lived before the fulfillment of those prophecies understood who Jesus was. They understood why he came to die. They understood what he would accomplish. And we see that by the things that they said. Things like, Mine eyes have seen your salvation. He is the Savior in him. It's salvation. Or it is before the face of all people, a light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of your people Israel. He recogn these these men recognize that this is the Savior of the world. He's here for all of us, not just for one small group of people, but Jews and Gentiles, those who have been estranged from the covenants, and those who have had the covenants, they all have access to the Savior. Verse 68. He's visited and redeemed his people. He came to accomplish this work through the payment of a price. You hear the word Emmanuel? What does it mean? God with us. That's who Jesus is. He's God with us. Redemption, that means he pays a price. What is the price that was paid? He shed his blood on that cross so that we could be reconciled to God. It says, who his own self bear our sins and his own body on the tree. The just for the unjust to bring us to God. That's what Jesus did for us. Verse 72, he came to perform the mercy promised to our fathers. For thousands of years of history, people waited for that moment, and guess what? It was God's mercy that extended The continuation of those prophecies waiting for that day. When God looks at people who are fallen and broken and their lives are miserable, guess what? He loves them. He has compassion toward them It's his desire to save them. And he's done everything possible that redemption can be taken place. Verses 74 and 75, it's so that we can serve him. without fear and holiness and righteousness. I love Romans chapter 8 where it says, there's therefore now no condemnation to those in Christ Jesus. Or when we talk about the Christian armor in Ephesians chapter 6, what does he say? He says that we have to have our feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Christ is our peace peace. Between us and him, peace has been established. Why? Because of the sacrifice of Christ. I can serve God as a saint who is justified without fear of condemnation because of him. Not because of me, because of him. Verse 77 he says, it's by the remission of our sins. Literally, he removes our sin, never to be remembered again. So it leads me to the final question. How does this relate to us? I mean, we see what Daniel wrote hundreds of years before this was fulfilled. We see what Isaiah wrote even earlier than what Daniel wrote. We think about how these people, Zecharias , And Simeon understood these things and how they thought about them, how they expressed that. But what about you? What does this season mean for you? What does this season mean for me? Why does it matter at all? You might say, well, I'm not a Christian. I'm just here because somebody invited me. I'm just watching this because somebody shared it on their Facebook and they said, could you please watch this with me? Okay, fine, I'll do it. What does this mean for you? If it doesn't mean anything, you're in trouble. Notice what it should mean for you. Fact one, it should mean that every single one of us has a problem. You see, I didn't come here to get preached at. I came here to enjoy music. And here scriptures. Music and scriptures that tells you you have a problem Music in scripture, that is beautiful and powerful if you understand the significance of it, the totality of it, you have to deal with this issue of sin first. We are all sinners and guilty before our Creator and our Judge. What does the Bible say? All have sinned All have sinned. Come short of the glory of God. There's not one just person on the earth who does good and doesn't sin. Not one. And we are powerless to remove our guilt and satisfy the demands of God's holy justice against our sin. Some people say, I know what I can do, I'll keep the law. Yeah, go ahead and see how long it lasts. We were talking about this this morning in our Sunday school hour. Isaiah 64, 6 says, We are all as an unclean thing, all of our righteousness is as filthy rags. In Romans chapter ten, Paul said, My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. They are they have a knowledge of God But not accord they they they are seeking after God, but not according to knowledge. Being ignorant of God's righteousness, they are striving to establish their own righteousness, and they have not submitted to the righteousness of God. Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to all who believe. What's the point? The point is we have a great problem. And if we think by giving God something we can remove it, we're wrong. God's not going to take a bribe. He's not going to take your bribe. You're not going to be able to give him some kind of payment by something you do or something that you give or something that you promise to make God happy. Our sin stands between us and God, and we are powerless to remove it. But there's a second fact: He knows that we have this problem, but he's not abandoned us. You know, when we have people that uh that frustrate us, we bear along with them for a while, but then a lot of times what we do is we say, you know, I'm done dealing with this. I don't want this to wear me down anymore. So I'm just going to cut this person off. I'm not going to spend time with them. I'm not going to worry about what they have to say. We tell ourselves that while we're worrying about what they have to say. Okay, I mean we do that. But that's not what God did God didn't cut off humanity and say, Humanity is toxic, I'm done with them. That's what we do. Hopefully not, but That's what a lot of people do. But what does God do? He loves us though we have sinned against him In Romans chapter 5, verse number 8, it says this, but God commendeth his love toward us. While we were yet sinners, Christ died for us us. John 3. 16, God so loved the world, the same world that he made and that rejected him. It says, He came unto his own, and his own received him not. And what does God do? He loves us despite the fact that we are sinners against them. Against him, he has mercy toward us. In our sinful misery. A lot of people live their lives. They're living their lives in sin, and they don't understand why their life is so messed up. And why their life is so frustrating, and why their life is so empty and it's so broken and it seems to have no end that has any kind of positive outcome. God looks down at us in that kind of a situation, and rather than disdaining us, he loves us and he's merciful towards us, and he has compassion toward us, and he has graciously provided a way for us to be safe from our sins. You see, how do you do it? 1 Corinthians 15. Christ died for our sins. He was buried and he rose again. That's what he did. It's a talking about a person who came, a person who died, who died for a reason, for our sins, and rose from the dead. When God sees us as sinners separated from him, walking in rebellion, he loves us and he has compassion toward us and he seeks us us. Fact is, you might be in this room this morning and you're in that position. Rebel of being sought by the Lord. You're not seeking him. He's seeking you. That's why you're here. You say, well I came because somebody dragged me here. Why did they do that? Because the Lord's seeking you You say, no, that's my neighbor, that's my friend, whatever. That's God through those people. Drawing you to himself. Why? Because he loves us. Third fact, he graciously calls us to repent and believe. God doesn't just call us to listen to the gospel and say, that's really neat. What a great story. I just love the Christmas season. It makes me feel so warm and fuzzy. You know what the Christmas season does? It calls you to repent and believe Repent and believe. It's not about sentimentality, folks. It's about God making a way for you to be redeemed Himself. We must turn to Him. We must trust in what He has done for us alone. That's what the Christmas season does. It tells us to repent and believe in the gospel of Christ. Fact number four, he promises that he will save anyone who genuinely turns to him in repentance and faith. Listen to these verses. John 3:16, for God so loved I people know this verse, right? Tim Tebow used to wear it on his his little eye thing, you know. John three sixteen. People would, what is that, what does that mean? John three sixteen. Here it is. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten son that whosoever believeth in him Should not perish, but have everlasting life. You trust Christ, you turn to Him, you repent and believe. What does He do? He gives you eternal life Romans 10 9, that if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved. With the heart, man believeth unto righteousness. With the mouth, confession is made into salvation. Whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved. God saves those whom he has sought and who turned to him in repentance and faith. I love John 6. All that the Father hath given me shall come to me. And him that cometh to me, I will no wise come to cast out. me I asked this question. What is keeping you from trusting Christ? Is it pride? Is it unbelief? Was it fear? There's nothing to be afraid of, folks. I'll tell you what, you shouldn't be afraid of not doing it. God calls you, repent and believe If you've never trusted Christ as your Savior, my prayer is that today would be the day that all these little pieces of this story come together in your mind and you realize this isn't a fairy tale. This isn't something sentimental that we all remember together at the Christmas season. This is about God taking on flesh. Christ dying for my sins, rising from the dead and calling me to repent and believe. And today I Get it because he's drawing me to himself. And I want to be saved. What's keeping you from trusting Christ? I'm gonna encourage you, every head bowed, every eye closed. We're going to close with a with prayer, but before we do, I want to ask a question. Is there anyone here that would say, Joel, I've never trusted Christ as my Savior? I heard this cantata. It was very pretty, beautiful music, the choir was beautiful. The scripture reading was inspiring. But I realize something now that I didn't know before. This is about the gospel. This is about Christ's death and resurrection. And I have never understood that And I've never accepted that. I need to repent and believe. I need to be saved. Is there anybody here this morning that would raise your hand quietly? I'm not going to call you out, I'm not going to ask you to come forward. I just want to make a note of it so I can try to speak with you afterwards. Is there anyone that would say, Joel, I need to I need to trust Christ as my Savior today? I need to call on the Lord and ask him to save me because of what Christ Anybody like that? Raise your hand quietly. Is there anyone say, I think I need to do that, but I don't know that I'm really understanding how to do that. I need to speak with someone. I want to encourage you that when we close, if you're not certain that you're saved, please stop by on your way out and say, joining the And I'll be very happy to take a Bible and show you how you can be saved. Let's bow together for prayer. And then we'll sing our closing hymn. Our Father, thank you for your word. It 's amazing your love for people who are sinners, whose lives are broken by sin. Who sometimes are very angry and bitter towards you. Yet in your mercy and in your grace and in your love, you call to them through the preaching of the gospel. To repent and believe. And so, Father, I pray that this morning, if there's anyone that's either here or maybe join on the live stream, maybe they won't watch this for months, but they'll come in contact with this. They've never trusted Christ. I pray that today would be the day. That they turn humbly to you and place their faith in the finished work of Christ. We ask that you'd help us this season to remember this with great joy. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.