Take your Bibles and let's turn to Luke chapter 17 together. Luke chapter 17 and the text that we are looking at this morning is the 89th passage that we've looked at in the book of Luke. And uh we've been working our way verse by verse, chapter by chapter through this book. And I'm very thankful for the various topics that are addressed all over the book of Luke. This passage is a very practical one, and so my prayer is that as we dig into this passage and we look at it within the big picture of what's being talked about in the book of Luke, that we will see some very important truths for us. to grasp a hold of today and then to walk in the light of. So Luke chapter 17, verse 11. And it came to pass As he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee. And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers. which stood afar off, and they lifted up their voices and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourself unto the priests. Came to pass that as they went, they were cleansed. And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back and with a loud voice glorified God and fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks. And he was a Samaritan. And Jesus answering said, Were not ten cleansed? Where are the nine that are not found that return to give glory to God, save this stranger? He said unto him, Arise, go thy way. Thy faith hath made thee whole. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to really help us to dig into this passage, understand it, and then apply it. Lord, as we read your word and as we dig into it, I pray that the Spirit of God would stir up our hearts. Father, help us to see the rich truths that are being laid before us in this passage of Scripture. Truths about you, truths about us. Choose about how we should respond to you. And I pray that as we dig into the word, that the word would take root in our hearts, and that we would not just hear the word, but in fact we would take action upon the word. We would be doers. Father, I pray that if someone here this morning is hurting deeply and they feel like they've been abandoned and that you've forgotten them or that you're against them. I pray that as we work our way through these truths of Scripture, that you will help them to see the truths of Scripture, moving against those lies, and that they would understand truly how you look at them. How you love them dearly and how you're at work in their life, even in the midst of their hardships. So we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Before we talk about the summary of this passage, I want to begin by looking at the big picture, what's going on in the book of Luke, and then from that, let's look at some very specific details that are in the immediate context. In the big picture, this event takes place in the final period of Christ's pre-cross ministry. And so if you look back several chapters, you're going to see that it's clear that Jesus is moving his way to Jerusalem. And the reason that he's going to Jerusalem is he's going to participate in the Passover. But it's not just that he's going to participate in the Passover, he's going to a very specific Passover, that it's going to be his final Passover before he fulfills the Passover and his death on the cross. And so as he's moving, in verse number 11, it says, it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, he's actually already kind of been moving in that direction, but now it's talking about the final portion of that period. The second thing I want to mention in the big picture is that it's the first miracle recorded in several chapters. So as we've been working our way through the book of Luke It's actually been quite a quite a while since we've addressed a text that was dealing with a miracle. Most of what we've been talking about is interaction that Jesus is having with people, a conversation in a house, a question that he has. some preaching or teaching. This is the nature of what we've been talking about. So if you go back to Luke chapter 14, you'll see that the last miracle was that a man came into the synagogue on the Sabbath day and he had something called dropsy. Now we don't know a hundred percent what that was, but the idea is that his legs were swelling so much that it became debilitating. And there on the Sabbath, Jesus heals this man, and it was to make a point that became, we could say, a very controversial moment there in that synagogue. And then after this, we are looking at five particular ministries or miracles that take place. In each of those circumstances, one after the other, there's a miracle, and then there's a confrontation, and then there is teaching. This is the nature of what Jesus is doing. The Gospels don't record all the miracles that Jesus performed. Luke is simply giving us very significant ones. very controversial moments because they're pointing out who Jesus is, how the people are responding to him, and then ultimately what he's going to accomplish So that's kind of the big picture of what's going on. This is Miracle 4 of the last five up to the cross, and this is all taking place while he's moving his way to Jerusalem. Then I want us to step even closer into this passage and examine the immediate context. Because to me this is very interesting as this is what we looked at last in the book of Luke, and then the next thing we read is the passage in front of us. In Luke 17, 7 through 10, Jesus talks about the concept of discipleship and being a servant of Christ. And he gives several very direct statements about being a disciple of Christ. For instance, in verse 7. He says, which of you having a servant plowing or feeding cattle will say to him, by and by, when he has come from the field, go and sit down to meet? The question is, why does Jesus ask this question? Well, it's because he wanted these disciples to understand that servants are those who give, they're not those who receive. Because of the nature of their relationship to the one who they work for. Or then in verse 80 he says, Rather, the master will say, Make ready wherewith I may sup. and gird thyself and serve me till I have eaten and drunken, and afterwards thou shalt eat and drink. And so we see that he is teaching that they have to put the master's will ahead of their own will. And then the third thing we see is in verse 9. He says, doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? He says, I sure not. They don't thank the person that served if that's their job. And so he says that no one is commended for doing their basic duties It's like if I clock in on time, my boss isn't impressed. He just says, you're doing what you're supposed to do. It's when you don't clock in on time week after week that you have a problem. And then fourthly, he teaches that they need to endeavor to faithfully serve with a humble heart. In verse 10, he says, when you shall have done all those things which have been commanded you. Say we are unprofitable servants. We have done that which was our duty to do After that, what does Jesus say? I am the perfect example of someone who serves his master. You say, who is Jesus serving? The will of his father. I think of Matthew 20, verse 27, that says, Whosoever will chief be chief among you, let him be your servant. Even the Son of Man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many So when we think about the big picture and then we think about the little details, it almost appears as if Christ is some tyrant and he's saying, you have to serve my will and he's evil, but that's not the case. Jesus is saying, follow me as a master over you, you are my servant, but recognize that I lay before you an example of absolute submission to my Father's will. And my commands are not burdensome. I am a good master. And so these numerous records in the Scripture All of the interactions that we read in the book of Luke, you know what they do? They commend the character of Jesus and they expose the brokenness of human hearts. That's what we see in these interactions. So it's important for us to remember this before we actually address the text in front of us. So that leads me to how do we summarize these verses? Here's the summary. The passage in front of us commends God's compassion for hurting people, even the ungrateful, as he uses difficult circumstances to expose human hearts. Jesus was kind to these men not because they were grateful people. He was kind to them because he's kind. He was gracious to them, not because they earned grace, but because grace is given to the undeserved. His mercy was not earned. It was given. It says nothing about the goodness or the wisdom or the gratitude of the people who were healed. It says everything about the character of our Savior. This is a really important point for us to understand. God's goodness toward us is not earned, not deserved. It's all about his goodness because he's good. And so he wants us to see him as a good and merciful God through our sufferings. And the fact is that when I make a statement like that, it's very easy for us to go, that doesn't make sense. How can you see God's goodness through suffering? Maybe you could say despite suffering, but through it? That's the question. Hopefully we'll answer that this morning. How do we see that? Let's dig into the word. So the first thing I want you to notice here, truth number one, is that Christ has time for hurting people. If you look down in verses 11 through 14, it says the following. It came to pass as he went to Jerusalem that he passed through the midst of Samaria. and Galilee, and as he entered into a certain village there met him ten men that were lepers. Now, pause, when I was a kid I used to always hear, ten men who were lepers, and in my my my head I have this animal with spots. I thought it says leopards. It's not leopards. It's lepers. So I used to be really confused as a kid. So for all the kids, these are not animals, these are people who have a terrible disease. Leprosy In fact, when we lived overseas, there was a leper colony that was very close to the place that we lived. Interestingly, this community had a psychiatric hospital. Had a leper leper colony and it had a maximum security prison. It wasn't a nice place to live, let me tell you. But leprosy is something that we don't think about in our modern American situation. But it was a terrifying disease for people living in the ancient world. Because if somebody got this disease, they didn't say, well, let's talk about your treatment and how you can get treated for this. They said, well, you're going to have to say goodbye to your family, and you're going to die in a colony of lepers. It was a humiliating way to die. It was a painful way to die. It was a very isolated way to die. And so if you were told you had this illness, it would have been one of the most tragic moments in your entire life. And so here is the here are these guys, these ten men who have this horrific disease. And what does it say? They stood afar off and they lifted up their voice and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us. In other words, please have compassion on us. It says, when he saw them, he said unto them, Go show yourselves unto the priest. And it came to pass as they went that they were cleansed. Now, interestingly, there are other passages of scripture where Jesus healed in other ways. For instance, there was a blind man that he he spit on the ground and he made clay and he put it on his eyes and he said, go wash uh your face in this particular pool. He was cleansed. And there's another example where Jesus touched people who had leprosy. But in this situation, Jesus healed them in a unique way. He said, Go to the priest. And then they'll let you go. Well, fact is for them to do that, they had to believe that in fact Jesus was going to do that. They would go to the priest and say Hey, do we still have leprosy? He'd be like, get away from me. I don't want to talk to you. I don't want to touch you. I don't want to look at you. You need to go back and be a part of this isolated community. But these people believed that in fact Jesus was going to heal them. And so immediately They go, and as they're going, they're healed. So it does say something about their faith. It does say something about the fact that they recognize Jesus has the power, the ability to heal them. And it does say something about the fact that they think there's at least a chance that he's going to have mercy, compassion toward them, stop what he's doing, and perhaps heal them. But beyond that, it doesn't say anymore. You know, when people look at this passage of Scripture, it reminds me of something that I think is true to all of us. We have this tendency, when we are in bad situations, to assume the absolute worst in those situations. Now think about it for a minute. Think about the story of Job. Now you and I know the whole book of Job. It's a it's a fascinating story. If we actually think about the details and we think about them very carefully It's tragic, it's painful, it's heart-wrenching, it's a difficult book to read. But in the end, we know that it ends well, right? Apart from Job losing his kids But ultimately it ends pretty well. But if you were living through that, you didn't have the book of Job You didn't have the end of the story. You didn't have the explanation. All you knew is that you were suffering and you were in misery. And there's a man named Eliphaz. Who assumed the worst about that situation? Listen to his words in Job chapter 4. He says, thy words have hold in him that was falling. And thou hast stretched, strengthened the feeble knees, but now it has come unto thee, and thou faintest. Now That's not the worst part of what he's about to say. He goes on to say this. Whoever perished being innocent. Where were the righteous cut off? I have seen they that plow iniquity. Sow wickedness and they reap the same. You know what he's saying? You know, Job. You're hiding something from us Because God would never let you go through such miserable circumstances if it wasn't for the fact that you were hiding something from us. So this is how it's being accomplished. So here's this guy. He says to the best of my ability. I fear God. I eschew evil. I'm walking in obedience to the Lord. I'm a very conscientious person. He talks about all the ways that he does this. And here's one of his quote-unquote friends who says, Hey Job. You've helped all these people, but now it's your turn and you can't handle it. Oh, come on, please. Give me some space, man. Be a little nicer. Hey Job, I've seen in life that you notice somebody is having trouble, they're not innocent. Hey, please don't assume the worst of me. Hey, you plow iniquity, you sow wickedness, you reap the same. You must be getting what you deserve. I know that we could step back theologically. We understand we're all sinners. We're all condemned. We all deserve God's wrath. No questions. But their understanding of Job as a man was clearly wrong. And you know why they came to that assumption? Because when people suffer, they often assume the worst. Or think about David in Psalm 6. He says, O Lord, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure. Have mercy on me, I am weak. Lord, heal me, my bones are vexed, my soul is also sore vexed. Thou, O Lord, how long? Now there's a little piece of what I just read that I don't want you to miss. He says, Do not rebuke me in your anger. And do not chasten me in your hot displeasure. And I asked this question: Why does God chasten people? It says, whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth. And he scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. Do you understand that when God deals with his children with a chastening hand, it is not this harsh? callous, angry God who's trying to make life miserable, it is a father who loves you and says, I cannot permit you to do this without consequence. I cannot permit you to continue in such a path without me moving and directing you back in the right direction. So the attitude of God towards his children is not one of anger, not one of rebuking in hot wrath, but one of a loving father who cares that his child walks as he should. Very important. David assumed the worst about that situation. And I would be so bold as to say that I think that I think a lot of us find ourselves in this place. The very moment that something bad happens in our life, the first thing that we ask is, what did I do that I don't realize I did, that God is going to get me for? And maybe it's going to get worse and worse and worse and worse and worse. Or how many people, when you come to the Lord's table, you're afraid that there might be something you forgot to tell God about and repent of and ask forgiveness of because you might die at the Lord's table. I mean, is that why the Lord's table is to be celebrated? This do as often as you drink it in remembrance of who? Him. Wow. We remember the Lord's death until he comes. The fact is, when bad things happen, I think a lot of Christians immediately think, God is coming after me. What did I do? That is a very twisted and unbiblical viewpoint. Third, John 9, 2-3. Master, who did sin? This man or his parents said he was born blind. Jesus says, neither hath this man sinned nor his parents, but that the works of God should be made manifest in him. The disciples assumed the worst about that beggar. So I think it's really important for us to understand that when bad things are going on in our lives, things that are very tumultuous, things that are very troubling, we have this tendency to immediately assume the worst. When we need to get into the word and ask, how does God actually view people in such circumstances? These wrong assumptions can go in more than one direction. An unhealthy view of self can come out in such situations where people say, I've got to earn God's favor. He's hovering over me, waiting to crush me, unless I get in line. Or on the other side, an unhealthy view of God, he is whimsical, he's easily manipulated, he is cruel, he's vindictive, he is bound rather than being free. All of these views are wrong. They're not biblical. But this can be the mindset of every one of us when life becomes very unsettled and difficult. This is the fourth of five miracles, and each of those miracles is an act of mercy that says something about Christ and confronts the wrong thing of people. Let me just kind of draw your attention to this. Luke 11. Christ is compassionate towards a demon-possessed man. And what did the religious leaders do? They accused him of doing miracles by the power of Satan. Luke chapter 13, he's compassionate on a woman who's infirm for 18 years on the Sabbath day. And what do the religious leaders do? They accuse him of violating the law. Luke chapter 14, he has compassion on a man with a debilitating swelling in his legs on the Sabbath day. And what did the religious leaders do? They accused him of violating the law. Then we have the text that we're looking at this morning, and in Luke chapter 18, he compassionately healed a blind beggar who people were actively trying to keep from coming to Christ. Here is this man, Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. Get away Don't talk to him. Go away. And he's just he's more persistent. He's more persistent. He leaves his blanket and he says, I'm going to talk to Jesus. Go away. Jesus says, let him come. What does this do? This shows you the compassion of our Savior and shows you the troubling nature of human nature. That's what it shows you. It shows you this contrast: the goodness of God, the mercy of God, the grace of God, the power of God, and the troubled hearts of people. In darkness, in blindness. That's the purpose of these miracles. So this passage confronts how we view about how we view God, and I want you to notice what it says. First of all, in verse 11, he says that he is going to Jerusalem and he's going for a reason. It's not just to celebrate the Passover. He's going to die. And verse 1, it came to pass as he went to Jerusalem. Why was he going to Jerusalem? Because he loved and was going to reconcile sinners to himself. Those who are at enmity with God, he's going to go and die for them. That's an amazing thing to think about. out. His love for the Father's will and his glory. He wanted to bring glory to his father. Father, if it be possible, as much if it be possible, remove this cup from me, but not your why my will, but your will be done. That's what he says. And in this particular moment, it's love for ten outcasts dying in misery. Second thing, notice, just like he went through Samaria to meet the woman of Sikar, he went to meet these Ten men. In verses eleven and twelve he says, He passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee, and as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers. Now I'm not going to dig into this because we dealt with this several weeks ago and we talked about the woman at the well in John chapter 4. But the Jews did not typically go through Samaria because of the animosity between them and the Samaritans. And that was on both sides. It wasn't just a one-sided issue. Yet he goes there because he wants to meet these guys. He knows who they are. He knows who's going to meet them. He knows he's going to heal them. Thirdly, these people were outcasts living in absolute misery. Verse 12. They were lepers who stood afar off. This disease had tragically interrupted their lives. It separated them from their friends and their family. It was painful. It was humiliating. It was a miserable way for a person to die. And yep, what do we see? We see that these ten men, and we know nothing about them. You know, if one man was wealthy and one man was poor, at that point, what does it matter? They're all going to die the same fate. If one person had been a part of this massive chunk of property that he owned and he ran businesses and he gets leprosy, whether he had been a beggar and a pauper or whether he'd been a wealthy man who owned all this property and had people working for him, at that point it doesn't matter. at all? Because that sickness puts everybody on an equal platform. In trouble, dying in misery. All of them fourthly cried out for him tr cried out to him and mur for mercy. Master have mercy on us. It was not an entitled demand. It was humble. It was desperate. It was an appeal for pity. This is what these guys are doing. And guess what? It was driven by a belief that Christ could actually heal them. The fourth thing, or the fifth thing I want you to notice is that he mercifully does it. In verse 14, he says, as they went, they were cleansed. He took the time, he had the power. This tells us about our Savior. Second thing I want you to notice this morning is that many fail to respond properly to this mercy. In verses 15 and 16 he says, and one of them, when he saw that he was healed, Turned back and with a loud voice glorified God and fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks. Now let's just step back and let's think about this for a second. All ten guys experienced the same mercy. It's not like Jesus gave one like this level of mercy. This one, this level of mercy, and this one this. And so the one who received the greatest level of mercy, he was the one that got back. Everybody else, yeah, it's kind of 50-50, but they kind of forgot about it because it wasn't as big a deal for them. No, no, no, they're all in the same place They're all going to have the same fate. They all are in the same miserable condition. But they did not all respond properly to him. And I want us to think about this. Every person, every person, no exception, is a person who's experienced the mercies of God. For instance, in Acts 17, in him we live and move and have our being. That's me and you Hebrews 1. Christ is the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person. He upholds all things by the word of his power. Matthew 5. He makes his son rise on the evil and on the good. He sendeth his reign on the just and on the unjust. Mercy. Lamentations 3. 22. It's of the Lord's mercies that we are not consumed. His compassions fail not. They're new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. So here are these ten guys. They've all experienced the mercies of God. And you and I, we have two. And a lot of people ignore this mercy. Isaiah 65, 2, I have spread out my hand all the day unto a rebellious people, which walk in a way that was not good, after their own thoughts. Ingratitude is a human problem that extends to all people. He says in Romans 1, when they knew God, they did not glorify him as God. Neither were they thankful, became van in their imaginations, their foolish heart was darkened, professing themselves to be wise, they became fools. It's really easy for us to look at these ten guys and go, well, you know, nine of them, they were ungrateful. Thankfully, I'm not like that. Humanity is like that. How many people live in this amazing country, have so much opportunity, so much prosperity, so many freedoms, and they despise what they've been given. They completely waste the opportunities that are in front of them. They complain. How many people say there's no God and He's the one who gave this to them? Even think about the founding fathers. What was their view of government? That we have by our creator certain inalienable rights, and the government's job is to protect. Us from people taking what God gave us. The government doesn't give us rights. God does. How many people believe that today? Yet the things that they enjoy, they're from his hands. And so out of the ten, only one took the time to express this gratitude And this gratitude revealed several things. One out of ten realized that God was the one who healed him. Now, they all realize that Jesus healed them, but one expresses it differently. One out of ten realizes Christ is God. He expresses that by his worship and his thanks. One out of ten understood and glorified, gloried in the God who had given his mercy and grace to him. Nine out of ten failed to express any of those things. Third thing I want you to notice. God uses pivotal moments in our life to teach us very important lessons. Now, the older we get, the longer we live, the more we can look back, and we can see that that statement is so true There are lots and lots of times in our life that when we're in those moments, we're living through those things, they are miserable, they are frustrating, they make us angry, but once we're on the other side of that And we have clearer minds and bigger perspective. We look back and we say, God, you did things that I didn't understand at the time. Anybody ever been there? A lot of you might be, I'm saved today because of that. I was in this terrible situation. And then God got a hold of my life, got a hold of my heart through all these things. I was angry, I was bitter, I was complaining, and now I'm a intersave by grace. I was moving in this path and I was going this direction. This took place and then God used it to put me back where I needed to be. In verses 16 and following he says, it says, and he was a Samaritan, and Jesus answering said, We're not ten cleansed? Where are the nine? There are not found that return to give glory to God, save this one stranger. He said unto him, Arise, go thy way, thy faith hath made thee whole. This miracle and their responses became a teachable moment. This one interaction was a small piece of a far bigger picture. And I think it's important for us to realize this. When you talk about a culture, you know what a culture is? A culture is all the people that live in that location. It's the values of individuals put into a collection of people. If you don't like American culture, guess what? It's made of a whole bunch of people. And you and I contribute to the good or the bad of that culture. That's just the honest truth. Our mindset. The way that we interact with people within this context, it's a reflection of that. And what's interesting is that this particular passage and this particular interaction, Jesus healing can, and only one showing gratitude. Is one little piece of a bigger picture of the entire group of people that were ignoring the mercy of God. Christ's encounter with the ten was not an accident. He showed mercy on all ten. The only one expressed worship, humility, and gratitude. The man's faith was highlighted because God was healing him when he saw his faith. His ethnicity was highlighted. Why? Because he was the least likely of those men to come back and say, Jesus, thank you. You say, well, what what how does that reflect on the big picture? Think about it this way. Christ came to a broken nation in spiritual darkness. I mean, we just talked about five miracles. In every single one of those miracles, guess what you see? The mercy of God, the grace of God, the kindness of God, and the darkness of human hearts. Every single one of them. Oh yeah, you cast out demons by the power of Satan. What are you talking about? Oh, it's the Sabbath day. You can't heal a person on the Sabbath day. You can't because you're breaking our rules. Oh, yeah, I'm going to do it again and see what you do. And guess what? Ah, you can't be the son of God. You can't be the Messiah because God would never allow such a thing. Really Hey, could you please be quiet? Do not bother this man. Jesus, son of David, have mercy on me. What do you see? The grace of God Mercy of God, kindness of God, the darkness of human hearts. And so he and his disciples come and they preach the gospel of the kingdom. And they do it without discrimination. They preach it in Jerusalem and in Judea and in Samaria. And guess what? People didn't want it. People didn't want it. How many people were in the upper room after the resurrection? Was it hundreds of thousands of people? No. How many believers were a part of the Jerusalem church at Pentecost before Pentecost? Just a fewer than our people in this room right now. You realize that? There are more people in this room right now than there were before Pentecost. Why? Because all these people hear the gospel and they say, I don't need this. I don't want that. Only a few received him with joy, gratitude, and worship. Why? Because they understood this is Messiah. This is Savior. This is Lord. This is the propitiation for my sins. This is the Passover Lamb. He's the one who came to take away the sins of the world. Only a few received him with joy. And their gratitude and their joy and their worship flowed from an understanding of who he was and a trust in him as their Savior. And the least likely of all the people to respond to this message were the ones that did it. One of the greatest revival moments in the ministry of Christ was what? When he talked to the woman at the well and all these Samaritans are coming out of that town. And she says, come see a man who told me everything that I ever did. Could this possibly be the Christ? Jesus heals this demon-possessed man in Decapitalist. And he says, Go back to your family and tell them what great things I have done for you. And when he comes back to that place where they're saying, go away, there were massive groups of people that said, We want to know you. The most unlikely people were the ones who responded. Even when we study the book of Acts, what do we see? The most unlikely people are the ones responding to the gospel. This story is just a little piece of a big picture. And the fact is, no one enjoys trouble, but God uses it for good. And God used this moment in the lives of those people to teach us a lesson. God used this moment in the life of that one leper to teach us a lesson this morning. All things work together for good. Romans 8. We know it, that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them we're the called according to his purpose. His word will never return void. Isaiah chapter 55, verse 11, so shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth. It shall not return unto me void. But it shall accomplish that which I pleased and prosper in the thing whereunto I sent it. Affliction provides a catalyst for growth. Psalm 119, 71. It is good for me that I have been afflicted, that I might Learn thy statutes. He uses his word in affliction to give understanding. Psalm 2. 6. The Lord giveth wisdom, out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding. Knowing God causes us to fear him and have an understanding of him. Proverbs 9:10. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. Why did those ten men meet Jesus? Because they had leprosy. That's why. Why were they saying, please have mercy on us? Because they had leprosy. The question is, would that have been the same story had they not been in such a place? I don't know. But it doesn't appear that way. Why are there people in this room that are now sinners saved by grace? Because there was a period in your life when God in His mercy humbled you And drew you to himself in his mercy. Where are there some people that you were going this direction in your life for years and years, and you were fighting against that goading of the conscience? But today you're where you need to be. Why? The grace of God humbled your heart. Why is it that there are people that were once very proud and callous people, but today they are compassionate? And they are loving and they are merciful and they care about other people. Like, how did that happen? The mercies of God that took you through some very humbling circumstances in life. Why is it there are people that didn't desire the wisdom of God, but today they have great wisdom because of the mercy of God working in their lives? The fact is that the process that brings spiritual maturity, the process that brings wisdom, the process that knits our heart to God, the process that causes us to be humble, teachable, loving, merciful people is a tough process. But that process is being controlled by the hands of a loving God. So how do we apply this? First thing I want to say is this. We've got to think correctly about God. Knowing God is not about academics. You know how many people they go to Bible college and they take this like Bible comprehensive exam so that they can graduate from Bible college? You know, there's people that can pass that exam, they're not even converted. It's true. It says nothing about whether or not a person's a Christian. All it means is that they can academically answer the questions. You know how many kids go through confirmation, they have no idea what it means to be born again? You know how many people come and sit in Baptist churches over the course of their lives and they hear all kinds of truth, but they don't comprehend it at all. Hopefully not a lot here, but I mean it's a very common problem. Why is that? Knowing God isn't about academics, not about checking boxes, not about answering the questions right It's about what you're convinced of in your heart and how you respond to it. It causes us to grow in a vibrant, practical, daily relationship with God. God wants us to know Him in an experiential way. Not just I have this answer to a question, but I know God, I'm convinced in my heart what He said is true, and I'm willing to stake something on it that's going to put me in a tough place if I'm wrong. Put his word to the test. He is demonstrating his trustworthiness by the way that he cares for us. As we move through our lives, there are so many situations that if it was dependent on how well we navigated it, we fail over and over and over and over and over and over again. If God said the way that you have a good life, one that honors me and brings glory to me, and one that is rich and full. of eternal significance is you make all the right decisions at all the right times and you don't deviate once. Well then nobody in this room Including me, starting with me, I'll just say starting with me. None of us. None of us could say we've done that. What does God do? He works with us through all kinds of circumstances, he's persistent. And he puts the pressure when we need the pressure and he eases back just at the right time. And he brings that person into our life and he brings that circumstance into our life and he teaches that lesson on the backside. That's what he does. It's not about academics. It's about a genuine experiential knowledge of God. He wants the facts that we read to become the convictions that drive our way of life. If you know God, it shapes everything about the choices you make. It shapes everything about belongings of your heart, what you love , What you hate, what you embrace, what you reject. Secondly, we need to ask ourselves some real questions. First question: how am I thinking about him right now? I think a lot of us, if we were to go back to that first point, we would say, in my view of God, he is a tyrant. Who is whimsical and angry, and I really hope I don't get out of line because he's going to crush me. The other day I was reading a story to my youngest son, Owen. It's about Jack and the Beanstalk. Okay? And I'm sitting there. I embellish the story a little bit. I'll just be totally honest. Okay. And I'm telling them the story. I'm kind of reading the story, kind of adding a little bit into it, you know But here's the truth. A lot of people, you know how they view God? The giant and jack in the beanstalk. You say no. Yeah, they really do. Say how do you know that? Because I see the choices they make I see the fear in people's hearts. Do you actually believe that he's good and do you act like he's good? Do you act like he's sovereign That he's actually in charge? That if you'd have been in the position of, say, a Joseph, that you would recognize he's working all things together for good? Do you actually act like that's true? Are you acting like he knows what he's doing? I mean, how many of us when we pray, we're like, God, here's how you have to do it? I've thankfully gotten past that in some ways, but I can tell you there've been some moments I'm like, all right, here's step number one, God, is this one, and step number two is this, now if step number two falls back, then here's your you know your other way that you need to take this and here's another What are we doing? Like, come on. But you know what? That's how we think. How do I know that? Because that's how we pray We think that God has to follow all of our little rules and all of our little steps and step one, step two, step, because I thought it all out. No, you haven't. None of us have. What God's doing in the world is far bigger than we can fully comprehend. You step back and you read history and there's things even 100 and 200 years later, you still don't appreciate the significance of what God did in those moments. Do you act like he knows what he's doing? Do you act like his word is true and that he's actually faithful to it? We saying great is thy faithfulness. And it's true it is. But do we really believe that? Are we acting as if the lessons that we've learned are really good lessons? Are we learning from the things that we've walked through? Those are the questions we need to ask ourselves. The last thing is this. Write down what you know to be true about God and praise Him for it. I mean, write it down. Write down what you know about God's goodness. Say, well, I can't think of anything. Oh, I sure hope that's not true. Sometimes, you know, like when you're a kid, I don't know, I don't know what I did wrong. Okay, you could just sit in that chair. And I'll come back and I'll ask you if you've figured it out yet. And then you know I'll leave and then I'll come back and I'll ask you again if you figured it out yet. Hey, sit down in a chair and figure out where in what ways is God good And the more you think about it, the more you write down, the more you realize he's been good here and here and here and here and you st it just it's gonna have a snowball effect. Why? Because he's such a good God. Write down the specifics of how he's been good to you. And then get alone with him and tell him how thankful you are for everything on that sheet of paper. You say, how often I should should I do this? Starting today, every day for the rest of your life. This is the way that we should start our day. And praise to God. When I read this passage of Scripture, I need to remember that this passage says a lot about my own heart. Because I'm a lot like the nine. And you know what? I'm not alone. Let's bow our hearts in prayer and ask the Lord to help us to really let these truths settle in our hearts. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for its power. Thank you for this passage that gives us. A sound record of your interaction with ten men who had a debilitating illness that was a death sentence till you interrupted that situation in your mind. mercy. Father, help us as your people to be grateful, thankful people. Help us not to be proud and arrogant and self-centered. Help us not to distrust you, but help us to really grow in a knowledge of you that is rich and that is very personal. Father, if there's someone here that does not know you as their savior, I pray that this morning they would come through that door and say, Hey, Pastor, I need to talk to you. And I pray that we'd be able to sit down and show them from the Bible how they can be saved. If someone who's listening to the live stream doesn't know you as Savior, I pray they'd reach out. We'd be able to start a conversation with them that points them to the gospel and what Christ has done for them. Them. Father, help us to have a truly restful and Christ-centered Lord's Day, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.