Good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then Tori will uh begin with our hymns. Tonight. So let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for your word. The opportunity tonight to take a look at it. Pray that you would help us to understand the weight of these truths that we will look at. Bless our time of fellowship together after the service. And as we have opportunity to share testimonies, I pray that the things that are shared would really encourage your people. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. All right, thanks for joining us this evening. Let's all stand and open our hymn books to hymn number 108. My father planned it all. Hymn number 108 will sing all four verses. What though the way be lonely and the Christian I know we're inherently there, my father planned it all. I sing through the sight and love my side, I'll trust them whatever be fall Right, simple. Well I 'm not going to be a bit of a little bit more. I think the question that's what 's going on being more When I make more I can I read when I Great C please be seated as we turn over to him one oh nine. Great is thy faithfulness. We'll sing all three verses of hymn number one. One hundred nine Rapid thy faithfulness of God by Lord , there is nothing with Thou tree for the line. No, no, no, no, no, no. And over to hymn number one hundred sixteen. This is my father's world. Hymn number one hundred and sixteen. We'll sing all three verses. There is this my lord that I will Okay, Sunday nights we'd like to take a couple of minutes to give you opportunities Do I oh no nope we're not doing Christmas songs anymore Nice try you tricked me last time Sneakies, sneaky I got tricked last week. Three ninety one. Do you want to pick a different one? Oh. 391 in the red book. I'm a stickler on this one. Three ninety-one in the red book. No the I am with the Um I don't know you play four ones So that goes, no , no , three, three, three , no , no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I I I heard that one many, many years ago. That's a long time since I heard. Do you want to give it a try or you want some time to practice it? Let's let's yeah let's let's go for it. Alright. There we go. I've actually heard of a cappella most of the time. I haven't heard that one in at least two decades. Six twelve in the red We are going to this is a chorus, we'll sing the First three. No, I don't know how you don't know. Jumped up six more times, so alright, twenty-nine in the red book. Twenty Twenty nine in the red book. Alright, let's jump over to the blue book. 93 in the blue book. Bow the knee. What about two things away for more than sleeping is not possible? Eighty three in the blue box. I do not know this point in the split room One fifty eight is in the blue book. So I don't have a full time to use around that one. I mean , I don't have another one. One twenty two on another work. One twenty two As the team. As thou today , I said water, so my soul is for me to come out of here. You are all my mother of sea fire. twenty in the blue board twenty No, no, no. Right, let's all stand. We're gonna open our hymn books to number 194. Some of Soft E. Last one, alright? Between the first and the last verse. 194. Joy to the world, first of the last. Sing out. Great singing, please be seated. Okay. Wow, Tori, you really did go soft. Not only did you do that song, but you did two verses that made us stand up for it. Unbelievable. All right. If you have your Bibles tonight, I would like to invite you to turn with me to the book of Genesis and we are in Genesis chapter fifteen this evening and you might be saying, Well hold on a second. I thought we were almost done with the book of Genesis and now we're going back to Genesis 15. I'm starting to get a little nervous about this series through the book of Genesis. Well don't worry. What we're actually going to be doing is we're going to be looking at the story of Joseph, which we just talked about last week, and we're going to be looking at it from a different angle. We're going to be looking at it from an angle that I think will be extremely helpful to us this evening. In fact, one of the things I I do something called Marketplace Chaplain and basically we service certain uh businesses in our area and one of the things that we do is we just go and we're there as a support, as a service, uh to encourage employees there. And um, you know, as a church, we have a church family, we have a pastor, we have deacons, we have uh staff members. We do really have a lot of support that's available to us. A lot of folks in the community uh that are not part of a church family at all. They really do not have someone to turn to when there's a death in the family or when someone is in the hospital and things like that are going on. But one of the things that they taught us in our training is that when you're dealing with a situation, sometimes it's helpful to say, hey, Let's take a look at this situation from another angle. Has anybody ever done that before? And what it does is it allows you to recognize that when you're looking at a situation that you're dealing with, There are multiple different aspects to it that we can look at. And today what I'd like, tonight would like us to do is I'd like us to look at the story of Joseph. from a different angle, but not just a different angle, what is probably actually the main point of God including that story in the book of Genesis for the nation of Israel as he was preparing them to go to the promised land. So Genesis chapter 15, we're going to look at verses 12 through 16 together, and we're going to see life through God's eternal purposes. It says, and when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram, and lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him. And he said unto Abram , Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years And also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge. Afterward they shall come out with great substance And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace. Thou shalt be buried in a good old age, but in the fourth generation they shall come hither again. For the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full. Now you may not realize this, but when we talk about the life of Joseph, and then we move from the death of his father, and then we start looking at the story of Moses. opening up the book of Exodus, this passage of Scripture is actually the passage that connects those two stories. You might not have realized this, but from Joseph's life until the Exodus is over 400 years. This is a pretty significant period of time. And the question is, what happened during that time? Why did those things happen? What was the whole purpose behind this whole story and this pause of 400 years? The passage that we're looking at gives you the answer to that question. So what I first of all want to do is I want to give you kind of a summary statement, and then I want us to go back over the life of Joseph, not in tremendous detail, but a snapshot so that we understand what was going on in his life, and then I want us to look at it in the light of the text that we're looking at this evening. So a summary of Genesis 15 is this. God's dealings with the children of Israel teaches us that we must keep his eternal purposes. in view as we think about he how he works in the world. When God tells Abraham this is what's going to happen, he's basically saying, I want you to realize that the little details that are going to take place as a part of this story They're not just significant in the moment, they are significant in the moment, but they are significant pieces of a big story that is being unfolded in these verses. So with that in mind, let's first of all think about God's extraordinary work to the life of Joseph. Last week we talked about the story of Joseph's life And really, if we go back over his life story, it could kind of be summarized by several significant points. The first one is this. When he was a young man, probably a teenager, maybe the age of some of the guys that are in the youth group here in my Sunday school class, his brothers despised him. And they despised him so much that they were willing to kill him. They were willing to actually uh throw him into a pit and just kill him right then and there. And then tell their father a story about it. And one of those brothers intervened so that Joseph would not die What's amazing is that instead of his brothers killing him, they said, you know what, they disdained him so much that they thought it would be actually better to sell him as a slave to a group of people that were traveling through the area who just happened to be their cousins They were going to sell him as a slave and then lie to their father and say, some wild beast must have killed our brother because look, here is his coat, and here's this blood on the coat, and this is the evidence that something terrible has happened to our brother. And then for many, many years His brothers had to live with that on their conscience. And by the way, by the end of the story, we see that in fact they really did live with this on their conscience. It was something that tormented them, it plagued them. But that's where the story begins. This young, vibrant man is sold as a slave by his brothers. And then he ends up in a foreign land, the land of Egypt, which is a very powerful uh region at that time. And there he ends up in the household of a very powerful person. And there in that household, he is lied about. He he tries to maintain his integrity to the very best of his ability, and he's lied about, and he ends up getting thrown into prison unjustly. Now, if you or I were Joseph at this point in the story, I think we'd pretty much be ready to just give up on God and give up on his providence and all those kinds of things. But that's not what Joseph did. As Joseph was there in the prison, Joseph was a man of integrity. Joseph began to move up there in the prison because people recognized his character, his integrity. He was a trustworthy person. He was someone who had a reputation within that context, not a you know, not a great context to have a great reputation, but the reality is he had a good reputation there in the prison. But then Joseph is forgotten in the prison. And so this is a devastating blow to the possibility that he could get out of prison. But there through some very unusual circumstances. God elevates this young man Joseph to a position that is the second in command of all the land of Egypt. And he does it through a series of circumstances where the pharaoh has a dream, he can't he can't remember the dream, he doesn't understand the interpretation of a dream, and all of a sudden there's a person that there's that's there working, and says, I know a person that has the ability to Explain, interpret dreams. I forgot about him. He's in prison. I can I can tell you about him and he could stand before you he might be able to help you. And that's exactly what happened. Joseph does that And Joseph also has the foresight, the wisdom, to be able to tell the Pharaoh how he should handle the situation that's coming. There's going to be a terrible famine. And the land of Egypt. But it's not just going to be the land of Egypt. It's going to be a devastating famine that really affects the entire region, perhaps even well beyond the region that he is living in there. And through a series of circumstances, Joseph comes face to face with the very brothers that sold him as a slave in Egypt. That lied about him. Those brothers came to buy food so they could survive. And you know what Joseph did? He tested them. He tested them to see what kind of men they had become. Are these the same young men that sold me as a slave in Egypt? Or are these men who have been changed by time and circumstance? And what we see is that Joseph recognizes that in fact his brothers have been changed They look at the situation completely different. And Joseph has mercy on them. He he forgives them. He reaffirms his love for them. And he asks them to bring his father back. Now I know There's a lot more detail to the story. You got all that last week and actually over the last couple of weeks. But that's really the story of Joseph. This is an amazing story that tells us about perseverance. It tells us about forgiveness. It tells us about wisdom. It tells us about grace. And I think when we look at the story of Joseph, we almost all the time look at it from a Personal, unique situation. How do I forgive people? How do I not become bitter? How do I how do I learn how to be strong in difficult circumstances? All those things are part of that story. But that's not the point of the story of Joseph. It's not about how you handle adversity. It's not about how you handle injustice. It's not about how people grow. It's Not about how to withstand difficulties and not become bitter. That is a part of the story, but that's not the main main point. There's another side. We read about it in Genesis 15. God chose to permit Joseph to face these injustices, and it wasn't just about his personal growth. I'm not saying that it isn't in part about his personal growth, but it's not just about that. It wasn't just to demonstrate God's power and the power of forgiveness. And the rich beauty of grace. That is a part of the story, but that's not the entirety of the story. It was about God's dealing with a nation. It was about God fulfilling promises that He had made to Abraham hundreds of years before. This is ultimately about a small part of a story that gives us the gospel. You know, as we go through these Old Testament passages, what we've been doing is we've been talking about the story of redemption. And I hope that we don't lose sight that each of these passages and each of these counts is about an unfolding story of how God has promised to redeem people and he's going to redeem people. So that moves us to our second part. And that is this covenant relationship that God established with Abraham. Look back down, and by the way, he's called Abraham in these verses, but we know him as Abraham because his name is changed. And so I will refer to him as Abraham. I know there's a distinction. Genesis chapter 15, verse 12, it says this. When the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram, and lo, a horror of great darkness fell upon him. And he said unto Abram, Know of assurity that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, shall serve them, and they shall afflict them four hundred years. And also that nation whom they shall serve will I judge, and afterwards they shall come out with great substance, and shall thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace and shall be buried in a good old age, but in the fourth generation they shall come hither again, for the iniquities of the Amorites is not yet full. Now, if I was to read you the verses before this, you see some very intriguing things that are going on. For instance, he talks about taking a heifer of three years and cutting it in pieces. He talks about a she-goat and cutting it in pieces in a ramen, cutting it in pieces in a turtle dove and pigeons. And they line up these chunks of meat on the ground and you go, what in the world is going on in this picture? This seems kind of like a kind of like a gruesome and glory gory thing that I wouldn't uh want to really think too much about. What is going on here? Well what you're witnessing Is the establishing of a covenant. We use this term covenant quite a bit. In fact, in our Sunday school class, we're talking about friendship And uh our teenage boys will know exactly where I'm going with this. And we're talking about different kinds of friendship. We have relationship, friendship with our family members. There's a biological connection between us and our parents, and there's nothing that can change that biological connection. And there's a biological connection between us and our siblings and us and our grandparents and us and our aunts and uncles and all those different family relationships. But then I got into this concept of there's a kind of relationship that's established by covenant. That's what marriage is. And so I talked to them about the fact that when we have friendships as young men, there are some people that we have friendships that that friendship has the potential to go beyond just the ordinary friendship. This is a person that we may very well marry. And we talked about the importance of wisdom in how we conduct ourselves in those friendships And the importance of integrity. We really hammered integrity. So parents, you'll ask your kids some questions about what we talked about in Sunday school. Well, we really talked about this concept of covenant. What is a covenant? Someone might say, well, it's a legal arrangement. Well, a legal arrangement is part of the picture, but that's not the entirety of it. A covenant was something that was legally binding, but it was the establishment of a deeply personal relationship that had legal implications, and there was even a religious side to this. Now let's remember that in the ancient world, the vast majority of people were polytheists, so they worshipped all kinds of different gods. And so when a person was getting married, they would be entering into a legal agreement, and there would be a personal relational side to this, and there would be a religious side to it. And one of the things that they would do when they would establish these covenants is that they would actually take animals and they would kill those animals and they would lay them on the ground. And you say, this is such a gruesome picture Yes, but it's what they did. And the purpose of that was to say this. You're going to make an oath before God In the presence of witnesses, that if you break your oath, this is what should happen to you. Whew. That's pretty intense, is it not? Do you know why adultery was a capital offense in Israel? It's because of the covenantal comp concept, okay? It's a very serious matter And so what you're witnessing is God making an agreement with Abraham that if Abraham , if God were to break his word That he should experience the same fate as these animals that had been killed. You say, well, that can't happen to God. You're right, it can't. Say who does God swear by? He swears by his own name. Because there's no none higher than him. And what's intriguing about this passage of Scripture. Is that in most situations when a covenant was established, the two parties would walk through these pieces of meat on the ground, okay? And what it would do is it would symbolize that both parties had a responsibility in this covenantal arrangement. It didn't all lie on the shoulders of one individual. It was a mutual thing. In other words, this person could break their vow, and this person could keep their vow, and this person would be held liable, and this person would be freed. But in this situation was totally different. Abraham didn't pass through the chunks of meat on the ground. Only God did. You know why that is? Because this covenant was God to Abraham, and God took the full weight of every single part of this promise. He was going to be faithful no matter what happened with Abraham. That's an amazing thought to consider And so in the midst of this thing, usually there'd be an oath, there'd be a sacrifice, they'd eat a meal being symbolic of what they were doing, and then they would enjoy the relationship that had been established. So, in the midst of this thing, God gives some information to Abraham that was going to help his descendants as they experienced the ups and the downs of the 400 years he talks about. The first thing he talks about is a migration to Egypt. He says, Thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs. You say, well, why did they do that? The story of Joseph is why they did it. They're going to be in bondage in Egypt. They shall serve them and they shall afflict them 400 years. You say, Why is that? It's because After time goes on, there's a leader in Egypt that he doesn't remember Joseph. And all of a sudden he's fearful of the numerous number of descendants of Israel, and he says, we need to do something to stop these people. And so he begins to oppress them and he puts them in bondage. And he's hoping that somehow he can control these people. And they just continue to multiply and they become stronger and stronger and stronger. And that's the explanation of the bondage in Egypt. They're going to be plagues. That nation whom they shall serve will I judge, and afterwards shall they come out with great substance. We're going to talk about all these stories. You say, well, what was God doing? Here's the explanation. For the iniquities of the Amorites is not yet full. And we know how wicked the nations that were there in Canaan were at the time of Abraham. I mean the story of Sodom and Gomorrah is not during the life of Joseph. It's not after 400 years while the nation of Israel is in bondage in Egypt. The story of Sodom and Gomorrah is happening during the life of Abraham. And so what that tells us is that there was already tremendous evil and abomination within the Canaanite cultures. Yet for 400 years, God is going to extend patience and mercy because he says, it's not risen to the point that I'm going to judge it as I will when I do it. So, what's the point of all this? The point is this. Everything that is unfolding in Joseph's life is happening in a big picture. It's not just about Joseph. It's not just about the drama between him and his brothers. It's not just about the lies and the deceit and all those things. Forgiveness and grace and mercy. It's about Joseph and his brothers playing a small part in something God's doing in the big picture. If Joseph hadn't ended up as a slave in Egypt, guess what? The nation of Israel would not have been coming out of out of Egypt. If it wasn't for Joseph rising to power, the nation would not have risen to the place that it did. All these little details are an important part of the storyline. So the question is this : what are the timeless lessons that we take from this? In fact, I got this illustration that I wanted to show you, and this is something that this is a book that my my kids have, right? And you probably can't see this, but It's on human anatomy. Don't worry, I went through it and made sure there's nothing too embarrassing in here. All right. But when we talk about a doctor, we have like general practitioners, all right? They kind of, you know, that's the person that you go to when you know, you got a cough Not something that you have when you have a heart attack or you have cancer or something very, very serious. But what happens is you go from that general practitioner, then people go to med school and they study individual things. Like for instance, like here is the skeletal system So let's say you know you break a bone. You don't go to a heart doctor, you go to an orthopedic, right? You go to somebody who who studies the bones and then, oh, here's the digestive system. I I hope everybody's feeling good right now, right? But you know, um the digestive system, like your colon and your semicolon and all kinds of exciting things there and We have the urinary system, and we'd go into that one. We have the circulatory system, your heart, and all these blood vessels, the respiratory system, your lungs and the muscular system and the nervous system. The reason that I bring out this book is what's fascinating about it is you have like each And so you can kind of focus in on learning something about that part of the human body. Well, you know, when God made the human body It wasn't like he sat back and he's like, well I'm gonna I'm gonna form uh bones today and I'm gonna figure this this bones thing out and then there's this bone sitting there and then you know the next day he decides I'm gonna go ahead and I'm gonna I'm gonna do this like circulatory system thing and then another day is like, well, and he just goes like piece by piece by piece. God created Adam out of the dirt Out of the dirt. But he put all that into Adam's body. Isn't that amazing to think about? Like, just think about the simple things that you can do. You can throw a ball, you can maybe catch the ball. You can run you can walk. We'll go with that one. You can run, you can walk, you can jump. You know, we enjoy watching sports. The amazing things that people can do Every single little piece of the human body plays a part in that. I mean, you don't play football without bones or without muscles Without eyes, without the ability to breathe, or without the ability to process food and actually get energy from that food. And I want you to realize as complex as the human body is, the circumstances of life are complex too. And there are times when we look at a situation that we're dealing with and we get really focused on, let's just say, the muscular system, and God's saying, well, there's the skeletal system side to this too. And there's a circulatory system side to this too, and there's a nervous system side to this too. And he just goes through all and there's their skin and he goes through all he says, I see it all. I see it all. You just see like a little piece, and you're you're you're kind of caught up on that little piece. I got the whole thing in view. That's why we're looking at this story of Joseph in this way. We could say that the forgiveness side is like the skeletal system. And his endurance is like the circulatory system. But the big picture is God uses him in something that is great and grand and far beyond what Joseph understood. God 's purposes are not limited to one simple explanation. That's something we need to recognize. We focus on one simple explanation. He says, it's a lot more complicated than that. When somebody really understands the field and somebody asks them a question, a lot of times they'll say, Well , that question's a lot more complicated than you realize. And they start going down this trail over here, and they start going down this trail over here. And you go, okay, I get it, okay, I get it, I get it, I get it. The more you know about something, the more complicated you realize it is. God's purposes aren't lipping into just one simple explanation. There are so many levels to what he is doing in the world. He's maturing us, he's shaping us into the image of Christ. He's using us to reach people with the gospel. He's using us to encourage a brother or sister in Christ. He's doing all kinds of things in our lives. And the joy is when we start seeing those little pieces and we start seeing those. No nuggets of truth, and we start realizing God's doing an amazing thing in this area, but doesn't change the fact that this side's difficult. We're blessed when we come to understand any part of this work. And we must learn to trust him with what is unknown or beyond our comprehension. There's a proverb that I remember reading not too long ago where it says, it is the glory of God to conceal a matter. And it's the glory of kings to discover it. In other words, there is this incredible, noble purpose in digging into what God is doing and just getting little nuggets, little pieces of what he's doing. It's like a person who knows that there's gold or there's diamonds or there's there's some valuable substance in the ground. And and that mind is full of this stuff. And people go in and they dig out one piece. And they dig out another piece, and they dig out another piece, and they do it day after day after day. That's what it's like discovering God's purposes in our lives. He permitted these people to suffer in Egypt as an extension of mercy as he was withholding wrath from the cultures in Canaan that deserved destruction. He permitted Joseph to suffer and actively work to elevate him in part to preserve his people. His story is not just about Joseph and his brothers. It's about God's redemptive plan. And his faithfulness to his word. When we live through troubling seasons, we have to learn to allow the big picture of what God is doing to shape our perspective in the immediate. This is really important. This is a principle that we are taught when we are first learning how to study the Bible. You know, we are taught that when you are studying a book of the Bible, you kind of get the big picture of the book. And then from the big picture of the book, you kind of get the flow of thought from one concept to another concept to another concept, and you see how they're all connected together. And then as you understand the big picture, you dig deeper into the little details. And then those little details are seen, we could say, in the light of the big picture. Do you understand what I'm saying here? We tend to go the opposite. We fixate on the little piece and we ignore the whole big picture and then we don't get it And so it's sometimes helpful in a situation to go, God, what is the big picture thing you're doing here? You tell me that you are shaping me into the image of Christ. That's a big picture thing. You know, my life is rubbing shoulders with another person's life. So you may be shaping me into the image of Christ and preparing me to come alongside somebody and encourage and help them be shaped into the image of Christ. And all of a sudden we start seeing the big picture of what God is doing. To appreciate what we're going through, we have to think in terms of the big picture. So what is our duty? It's very simple. Not easy, but simple. Trust God. Obey what you know he says to do, and glory in what he reveals to you. That's simple, but not easy. Trust God, there will always be question marks as you go through life. It's that simple. You're never going to figure it all out. When you think you figured it all out , You're gonna get that reminder later that that's not the case. So we have to trust God. Obedience. There are certain objective things that God says we are to do or not to do in circumstances. So as I'm trusting him, I do what I know is right. That's what walking in the light is. It means what is clear. I know I need to do it, so I'm going to do it. And then glory in what he has revealed. What he does is all of a sudden he gives us a little glimpse into some concept of something he's doing. And it might be while we're reading the Bible and we're reflecting on some truths. It might be we have a conversation with someone. We might just be driving in the car and all of a sudden this thought pops into our head. And we start thinking about it and thinking about it, mulling it over, and all of a sudden we go , That's a piece of what God's doing here in my life. And when He gives you those little nuggets , rejoice in them. Glory in him and what he's doing. That's really the point I want us to take away from the text in front of us. The story of Joseph isn't just about the normal things that we always focus on. It's not just a bunch of moral lessons. It's about a man who lived and went through ups and downs being a part of this big picture of what God is doing. I pray that that's how we will look at our lives. and the challenges that we encounter in them. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you for this story. Not just Joseph's endurance and his patience and his forgiveness and his humility and his excellent spirit But I thank you that Joseph's life reveals that every little detail of life fits into a big story of what you're doing in the world. Father, help us to learn to trust you with what is unknown, to obey what is clear, and to glory in what you show us. Father, help us to live moment by moment, depending upon your grace, drawing on that infinite well of strength that you give us. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's take out our hymn books. And the song we're going to sing is hymn number 120: God makes no mistake. Mistakes. Let's stand together, please, and let's sing this song, reminding ourselves of how God works in our lives. And one hundred twenty, God makes no mistakes. I like to use a little round for the speaker. Well I don't ever say I know God makes no mistakes, he 's gonna be happy all the way that need to go. At times my heart breaks in the rest in every day, the world will see my life and go down making. And when someday as a lost my speech worth days may I have a murder I know make no mistake in the every time I get all the day that you 're. Okay. Well it's been good to be able to spend time together in the Word today, and I hope that your time uh With our church family has really been encouraging. Billy Few, can you please come and close us in prayer? And let's enjoy fellowship with one another as we think about these truths. Let's pray. Dear Lord, thank you for bringing us Here this evening in safety to come and worship you together in song and the preaching of the word, Lord. I pray that that trusting, obeying, and understanding that you have the the mystery in the In the situation, Lord. Would be something that we could all hold uh hold to a lot more often in the coming days. Do we continue to uh trust in the covenant which you gave to us uh in your word so long ago. Please help us as we go forward from this place. That we would honor and glorify you and any decision that we choose to do and the way we interact with others. In Jesus' name. Amen.