And tonight we're going to be looking at James chapter one. As you're turning there, I just want to say thank you so much for just the generosity and the spiritual mindset of this church. I've been so encouraged. And one question I've been asked a lot, I think all of us have, is what is your plans after you graduate college? Love the question. Sometimes I do have a plan. I feel like God's leading me to become a pastor. But how specifically? Where on the map? I don't know. But I need God's wisdom. And that's what today's talking about is wisdom. No matter where you are in life, no matter if you're a college student, no matter if you're a senior citizen, no matter if you're a child, you need God's wisdom. And so James chapter 1, 5 through 8 talks about pursuing wisdom from God with your whole heart. So James chapter 1, starting in verse 5, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally, and abbreideth not, and it shall be given him. But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering , For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea, and driven with the wind and tossed. For let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double minded man is unstable in all his ways. Let's go to the Lord in prayer as we start looking at his word. Thank you, Jesus, for this passage that you've written for us, Lord God. Lord, that was applicable to the people in James's audience, but also for us, Lord Jesus. Because you give wisdom, and out of your mouth comes knowledge and understanding. Lord God, would you help us to have wisdom, but also that our hearts would be open to your the directing of your word, being spoken spoken to our heart, Lord God. In Jesus' name. Amen. So James chapter 1 Last time I got to speak, I spoke on James 1, 1 through 4, but I think it would be helpful to look at it a little bit because it gives such deep context and the surrounding passages for what we're reading. So starting in verse 1 of James, it says, James, the servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad greeting My brethren, count it all joy when you fall into diverse or different or many different kinds of temptations, knowing this that the trying of your faith worketh patience But let patience have her perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire, wanting or lacking nothing. If you lack wisdom, let him ask of God that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not, and it shall be given. him. So as we talked about last week, the audience of James were suffering Christians. They're suffering because the persecutions That happened right after Pentecost, and that happened because the other Jews who did not believe that Jesus was the Messiah were persecuting the Church of God. And so James is writing as one of those same Christians going through that struggle and he's saying, there is encouragement and there is hope through God's word. There is encouragement that you will receive. As we saw in one through four last time, was that God can use the struggles and the trials of our life to mature our faith, to grow us in Him, if we allow Him to. But we also see in verse 4 it says, but let patience have a perfect work, that you may be perfect and entire wanting or lacking nothing. It's a a choice that you and I have to make to allow God to grow us through the trials of life. Just because we go through a trial doesn't mean that God gives us a di a diploma that says, here you go, you you went through a trial and now you've spiritually grown. It's a choice that you and I have to make to say, I will grow because of this trial because I'm going to allow God to grow me. And so that gives really good background for today's message. Because James talks about in 1. 4 how he says that you may be your um that patience have its perfect work, that you may be perfect and tire wanting nothing, you're not lacking anything. And then verse 5 takes a different branch or different aspect to this, and it says, but if you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. If any of you lack wisdom. And so verse 4 says, so God wants you to be that mature Christian that doesn't have any any lacking any um holes in their life. They're completely mature as God wants you to be. But if there's something you are lacking, Maybe it's wisdom, ask of God. You see, wisdom is something that is needed in the face of trials Because as we're going through the trials, our heart will want to tell us many different things. Maybe it will want to tell us that God is not good. Maybe it'll want to tell us that we can't endure through this. And yet we need God's wisdom to be able to help us to see that God has a plan for this and that God can grow and mature us. This is just one definition of biblical wisdom. I'm sure that there could even be a better one coming up with it. But one is living in consistency with God's truth. It's living in integrity and in consistency with God's truth. And we need this in the face of trials, but also in any situation of life, we need God's wisdom. And so it says here, if any of you lack wisdom, you don't have this wisdom, let him ask of God. We need to go through the to the source of wisdom. At many of the epistles, the either the beginning or the end, it'll say to the only wise God, or the all-wise God, and it gives us an attribute to God, saying that He is the one that is all wise, has all wisdom. And so we need to seek that God who gives wisdom. But maybe you're saying, okay, I already have wisdom in my life. I've already gone through a lot of my life. I've already gone through trials. I've gone through a lot of life And I feel like I have wisdom And I would say, and I think God's Word says too, that's a really good thing, but don't stop growing in wisdom. Because in Proverbs, which is the book of wisdom, It says in verse 5, the very opening of the whole book, it says, A wise man, so you already have wisdom, will hear, and will increase learning. A man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels. So yeah, you have wisdom, and that's amazing. That's something you can pass on to someone else, but it doesn't mean there's not room for growth. You can continue to grow in wisdom. By walking closer to God. God does not praise someone who despises wisdom. In Proverbs 1:7 it says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom and instruction. So as God teaches us, as we see his word, let us not despise the idea that we don't need wisdom, but instead knowing that there's areas in our life that we still need God to grow and mature us and give us wisdom. And that's what James is saying here when he says, if any of you lack wisdom, there's an area of your life that you need God's directing and wisdom to walk in accordance with him. Let him ask of God. God promises to generously give wisdom. As he says in the next part there, he says, that giveth to all men liberally, and it braideth not, and it shall be given him. So it says, if you don't have wisdom, ask our all-wise God. Because God gives to all men liberally, or another way of saying this in today's English would be generously. God gives generously to all. And it braideth not, and it shall be given him. I think though the first thing that relies, though, is the first step for having wisdom. is as Proverbs says, to have that fear of the Lord which comes through salvation. So you need to recognize that you need to be saved in order to have godly wisdom. But once you do, you need to have your heart set towards him. And God says, if you lack wisdom, ask God, because he'll give generously. When God gives us wisdom, when we say, God, I don't have wisdom, I need this wisdom in my life, I don't know what to do, He's not going, as it says here, to upbraid us. us, which is not a word we use a lot. So another way of saying this, what he's saying, he's not going to despise or criticize us for asking for wisdom. He's not going to resent us for asking for wisdom. He's not going to give in a grudging way. When we ask for wisdom, he gives generously without reproaching us for that wisdom, for asking for wisdom. Made me think about when I was younger, a lot younger, and what my family would do is we would have a meal for supper and then the next lunch we'd have leftovers. So it would be an easier meal for my mom to make. Maybe we had pizza the night before. and then the next morning we would have or you can't could have a breakfast if you wanted, but normally for lunch, and you would have that pizza. Well one day I was going to eat the last slice of pizza and I asked my little sister, I say, you don't mind if I eat this, right? And she says, Oh, you can have it. And as soon as I take my the first bite, she says, But I really wanted it. She was trying to guilt trap me and letting m me give it back to her, even though I took a bite out of it So she gave it but she resented me she for taking it. Even though I took a bite out of it. See God and he gives wisdom. He doesn't say, Okay, here's the wisdom, but then in his heart say, Why did you ask me? You should have known anyways God doesn't do that. When God gives wisdom, he generously gives wisdom without reproaching and criticizing us. In fact, he delights in giving us wisdom because you are his child. Why would God not want to give you wisdom? If wisdom is walking close to God and knowing his direction for our life and having our heart close to him That's what God has saved us for. The Bible tells us that He says saved us to live holy and to have close to Him. So giving wisdom would be knowing how to walk closer to God. And so when we ask God for wisdom, we must believe, we must have faith, and knowing that He will give it to us. Sometimes it may not be instant right away, really clear to us, but if we pursue wisdom, Through God and through the means that God has given, He will give it, it says here in James. So it says, if any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God. Sometimes we don't know what to ask God for when we're praying. We can know we can ask him for wisdom because that is what he has promised to give to his children. But God will not force his wisdom upon us. He wants us to ask him in humility for wisdom. But then it says here. So it says to ask God because he gives generously, but then it says to ask in unwavering faith Which is in verse 6. It says, But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like the wave of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed. It gives us illustration of an ocean and a wave being carried about. It says the person who asks God for wisdom, but then doesn't really believe that God will give it to them. Or doesn't wholeheartedly seek God for that wisdom. When they ask God for wisdom and their faith is not behind it, they're not trusting that He will give it to them. They will not have the stability that God wants them to have. So it says here, if any of you um, but let them ask in faith, nothing wavering. The Bible tells us that we can come boldly in Hebrews 4. 16. It says, Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Knowing that he hears us and cares about the needs of our heart. And when we hear God's wisdom, when he gives wisdom to us, part of that faith is trusting him enough to act Upon that with that wisdom. Not just having it in our minds, but being willing to act upon it. That's what James talks about in verse 22. He says, Be doers of the word and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves. When you hear God's wisdom, when God gives you wisdom in your life, maybe through counsel of godly people, maybe through his word, he wants us to act upon that wisdom. So our faith must be unwavering. So it says, um, let him ask of faith, nothing wavering. A person who does not ask in faith is not genuinely being committed to wanting wisdom, wanting godly wisdom. So what's going on here? They're saying, okay, God, I want wisdom, but in their very heart, they're saying, even though they want wisdom, they still want their own way. So they want they want God to direct them, at least they feel like they do, but then they still want to hold true the things of their own heart, their own direction, their own wisdom, which is not wisdom if it's not from God. And so God is saying here to ask in faith, to say, yes, I believe your plan for me, Lord God, is the best. I don't understand maybe what's going on. I don't understand the step in front of me, but when you show me wisdom, Lord, I will do that. I'll act upon it. I know that you can give me wisdom. And to not be wavering, not be going back and forth between, do I want God's way or do I want my own way? To be completely committed towards God's wisdom that He gives to you and I. So when it says um He that um waverth, he is going back be and forth between his o the person going back and forth between his own way and God's way, saying, Okay, I want that wisdom, Lord, but I also want my own way. You're going back and forth. It says that you are like a wave, no stability in your life , to hold you grounded Just like a wave is caught by the currents and caught by the wind and by the the natural things around it, and it crashes over and it's over in a minute. When you and I ask God for wisdom but still want our own desires of our own heart We're being carried about by our own impulses or by the things that other people say that are not wise. Maybe it's people that we think are wise counselors, but are not. And so God says to ask in faith, to say, Lord, I want your will completely. I want your wisdom, not my own heart's desires. It reminds me of in when Elijah was speaking to the people, when they were going between Baal and God. And they keep saying, Okay, God's cool, but then we also want the perks that Bell gives us. And so Elijah says , It says Elijah came into the people and said, How long will you halt between two opinions? If the Lord be God, follow him. But if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word. And that was in 1 Kings 18, 21. So Elijah was saying, Are you going to be committed to God? And Jesus said a similar thing when he said, No man can serve two masters, for either he'll hate one or love the other, or else he'll hold to one and despise the other, you cannot serve God and mammon or possessions. And that was Matthew six, twenty-four. And so when we ask God for wisdom, we need to have that our heart genuinely wanting that wisdom from God and not our own desires. That's why when it says in Proverbs, to trust in Him with all that we are. So when it says in James, to say, but let him ask in faith, let him ask, that person that asks for wisdom, to ask truly wanting and genuinely wanting God to direct them. Because it says um nothing wavering, for he that wavereth is like the wave of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed. The person has no stability But then it says, for let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. A double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. Sometimes people look to God and they say, I want wisdom, but really what they mean is they want God to stamp their appro God's approval on their own desires. So they can feel like God is backing what they're saying, but yet it's like, I want my desires. God give me wisdom so that I feel like you're good with it too, and I can go forward with it. But God is saying no. Instead, ask in faith, because in verse seven, let not that man think that he shall receive anything of the Lord. If you are not truly even seeking God for wisdom, then why would he give it? And it says a double-minded man is unstable in all his ways. That double-minded is going back to when it's talking about you want God's way, but then you also want your own way. You're going back and forth. You're having, it's almost like having two souls. You're going back and forth. And God wants us to be guided by what is true, which is Himself. So our when we have wavering faith because we want our own way, then it's ineffective But God doesn't leave us in that. He doesn't leave us saying, okay, so your heart is unfaithful. He doesn't leave us and saying, okay, so I see that you are a wavering person that asking for wisdom that has ulterior motives to it. Instead, James 4 says, draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. So James talks about and says, okay, so you you maybe are inconsistent at times. Maybe you're not seeking wisdom with the right motives. God can change that if you allow him, but you must come humbly to him. When it says to cleanse your hands and purify your hearts To say, yeah, I was wrong, Lord. I was wrong, Lord, for having ulterior motives for seeking wisdom, Lord. I wanted my own way instead of your way. And once you seek God and confess it to God, your sin to God, he says he will cleanse us. James 4 talks about how our heart can be knit closely to God. And that's I think what James 1 is talking about, saying, let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. You're wanting God's wisdom out of genuineness of your heart. So pursue wisdom with your whole heart. In the midst of the trials that James ' audience is going through, in the midst of a daily routine that gets maybe very draining. We need God's wisdom, but we must ask in faith. We must ask knowing that His He will give wisdom and that He is the best plan for our heart. As Proverbs says, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and the knowledge of the holy is understanding. So we could maybe ask ourselves, in light of looking at this passage, so how does one obtain God's wisdom? Through asking God in faith. So maybe some ways that God uses to give us wisdom is through his word, the Bible. That's what it talks about in 2 Timothy 3:15 through 16. when it talks about his word and how it can make us wise, first to salvation, but even to grow spiritually closer to him Sometimes God uses godly influences in our life. But make sure that that godly influence is a godly influence or that they're walking close to God. Just because someone's been a Christian a long time doesn't make them a wise person. A person could be very immature just because they've been a Christian a long time. But ask God to help you to know who to ask, and then ultimately asking God, because He can direct our heart through the Holy Spirit. Are you humbly and trustingly seeking God for wisdom? Or are you riding the ways of life or even coasting through life to see what will just happen in life? Are you genuinely seeking God for wisdom? James says to ask in faith. Today, when we pursue God, I encourage you to pursue God for wisdom with your whole heart. Let's go to God and ask him for wisdom. Lord God, would you give us wisdom? Only you can give wisdom, Lord Jesus. That is That is genuine, that is what we need for our life. There are many things in the world and even our own heart that says it can direct us. Sometimes we think that we know what is best, but Lord, you do. And Lord, we ask humbly that you would give us wisdom, that daily we would come to you for that wisdom, because you promise it to the person who comes in faith. Thank you, Jesus. In Jesus' name, amen.