Welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. We are back in Ecclesiastes and today we are starting chapter 12, so we are really close to the end of the book. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, we're looking at verses 1 through 5 together. So if you have your Bible, I want to ask you to take it. Let's look together at this section. Ecclesiastes chapter 12, verses 1 through 5. Remember now thy creator, in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say I have no pleasure in them, while the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars be not darkened Nor the clouds return after the rain. In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened. And the doors shall be shut in the streets, when the sounds of the grinding is low, and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low Also, when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fear shall be in the way, the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden. and desire shall fail, because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets. We come to this passage this morning, we are looking at the importance of seeking God when we're young And so let me give you a very simple summary statement and then dig into just a couple of simple facts that are laid out in this passage, and then talk about how we can practically live in the light of these truths. The summary is this. The section reminds us that if we live to be old, our bodies will one day decline, and we will look back at the strength of our youth with tremendous regret if we wasted those years. Solomon is is looking back at his life and he's saying, as I've examined my life and as I've gone through all these different experiences , My conclusion is that there's a lot of stuff that I did or that I didn't do that I really wish that I would have done when I could have. Because now I've gotten to a season in life where those opportunities are no longer before me. They're behind me. And I want the generation that's following me not to make the same mistake and have the same regret that I have. That's basically what Solomon's saying when he reflects on his life, and he reflects on the entire book of Ecclesiastes. So there are really two facts that we're going to talk about in this passage. The first fact is this We need to seek God when we're young. This is a really important truth for us to to grasp and get a hold of. And when I say somebody's young, I don't mean that somebody's fifteen or that they're twelve. When I mean somebody's young, I mean they still have strength. to do things that God would have them to do. And so really a person that could be even middle-aged still has the strength to do a lot of things that God would have them to do. But he's really focusing on someone who is, you know, like a teenager, like a junior high person, a child who is beginning to think about life. The fact is that when we are young, we have a lot of strength and we have a lot of energy and we 're very motivated. And so he's trying to focus in on a person who's in that season of life. And he's trying to sober them to the reality that this is a wonderful season to live through, but it doesn't last forever. So he says, listen, you need to seek God when you're young. Here's how he puts it in verse one He says, Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. Now, in this verse, there are a lot of details that we really can stop and park on and reflect on. The first phrase that really stands out to me is the phrase, remember now. He's saying, listen, it is imperative that at this season in life, when you have strength and you have youth and you have opportunity, And you are a driven person, this is the time to reflect on the fact that there will be a day when you don't have those things. And so it's so important that you seize the opportunity today. Don't waste that time that you have available to you. He then says, remember your creator in the days of your youth. In other words, your life isn't just about you. It's about God. The fact that God made you means that you're accountable to him. The fact that God made you means that he has a purpose for your existence in this world. The fact that God made you means that there are things that he desires that you do or things that he desires that you don't do. Means that there's opportunities that he's presented to you and there's opportunities he wants you to seize. And so he's saying you need to reflect on the fact that your life isn't just about you, it's about God and eternity The second phrase he says, while the evil days come not. What basically Solomon's saying is at the point in life that you have strength and vitality and energy and you're driven You need to recognize that that's not going to last forever. In fact, that time is moving towards you even though you don't feel it, even though you don't have this full weight of the sense of this reality The fact is that there's a lot moving towards you that if you don't take care, it's going to be upon you before you realize it. He's saying that the evil day is on its way. That time is drawing near. And so you need to take advantage of the opportunities before you today, right now. Then the last phrase that really stands out is he says, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. Basically what Solomon is saying is, if you don't take stock today, if you don't remember your creator today, if you don't seize the opportunities today. There's going to be a day that you'll look back. And when you look back, you'll realize that season is gone. That strength is no more. Those opportunities are no more. I can't go back and change what I've done or what I haven't done. And you're going to look back and you're going to have regrets. And that regret could be very troubling to you when you're an older person because you realize the opportunities were wasted. And so Solomon begins by saying, listen, seek God when you're young. Don't waste the opportunities before you. But there's a second fact that he's going to lay out in this passage, and that's this. Our strength doesn't last forever. In fact, in verses 2 to 5, he's going to lay out a couple of ways that our strength begins to deteriorate. In fact, it's a very descriptive way of looking at this. He says it this way. He says, While the sun or the light or the moon or the stars be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain And the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they're few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened, and the door shall be shut in the street, when the sound of the grinding is low He shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of music shall be brought low, when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fear shall be in the way. And the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail. Now let me break down what Solomon is saying here. He's saying if you live to be an old person All of these things that I'm describing are going to happen to you. Now when you're 22 years old or when you're 32 years old, you don't feel like there's going to be a day that you don't see clearly and that you won't be able to hear well And that the things that you used to be able to physically do, you can't do them anymore. Things that you weren't afraid of, now you're afraid of. Even though we think that that won't happen to us, the fact is It's beginning to happen to us, and that is the guarantee we will end up at that point in life if we live to be old enough to be at that season in life. Notice how he breaks it down in verse 2 He talks about the declining of our eyesight. He says the sun or the light or the moon or the stars be not darkened. He's saying, right now you walk out at night, you can see the stars clearly You can examine the celestial bodies, but there's going to be a day that you won't see those things the same way that you do today He talks about the clouds returning after the rain. You know, we think about when when it rains, typically the sun comes out and it's bright and it's dries out, but he says It's like a day where it's rained and then it clouds back up and what happens? You don't see as clearly. Things aren't as bright and easy to see. He's talking about how our eyesight's going to decline as we get older He talks about us losing our physical strength. In verse 3 he says, In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and I think this next phrase is so interesting. The strong men shall bow themselves. Later in the passage, he talks about the grasshopper shall be a burden. He's saying somebody who used to take care of their home They get to the place where they don't have the physical strength and the energy to continue to maintain their home. This is why a person who's shut in many times needs someone to come and split their firewood for them. They need somebody to come and get up on the roof and do a job for them, clean out their gutters. They need somebody to cut their grass, to rake their yard. Why do they need that? They used to be able to do those things. It's because there comes a point when we lose our physical strength. And he says, this person who used to be strong now bows down and they stoop. They don't have the energy and the strength to even be able to carry their own body like they used to. Things that were not heavy in a burden now are very difficult. He talks about people's teeth falling out. This would be odd, but this is what he says in verse 3. He says, the grinders cease because they're few. And all of a sudden a person can't even chew on foods that they used to be able to eat before. They need dentures. They they need dental work done. They get to the point where there are certain things that they used to eat they don't eat anymore. And then he says in verse 4, he says, we won't leave our houses. He says, the doors shall be shut into the streets. The idea is a person who used to go out to the store, person who used to go out to the field and work, and person who used to go to work day after day They don't go out anymore. They stay in their homes. It's too much of a burden to get out. It's too much of a burden to go out and to go to the grocery store, to go to work. This person just stays in their home because they don't have the physical strength and the energy. It might not even be safe for them to go out. Somebody has to take them out if they're gonna go out. All of a sudden, simple tasks become extremely difficult. He talks about us losing our ability to hear. In verse 4, he says, the sound of the grinding is low, all the daughters of music shall be brought low. Things that people used to enjoy listening to, they can't hear them very well anymore. They have to say, could you say that again? They get tired of saying that because they just don't hear very well He talks about people who can't sleep at night. In verse 4, he says, he shall rise up at the voice of the bird. And this is kind of an interesting thing. So here's someone that can't hear the things that they used to hear. But at the crack of dawn early in the morning when most people are are still in bed, they hear some small faint noise and you say, I didn't even know they could hear it, and it wakes them up and they can't sleep. And so this person is restless at night. They don't get a lot of hours of sleep. It becomes dangerous to do things that were once very simple. In verse 5 he says, When they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fear shall be in the way You know a person used to be able to climb up on a ladder and do work on their roof. And now they say, I I better not get up on that ladder. If I slip and fall, it'll be the end of me And lastly, he says they lose their motivation in life. Verse 5, desire shall fail. This is a person who used to be driven. This is a person who used to want to excel in things. This is a person who used to really be a hard worker and used to have tremendous skill in the things that they would do. And all of a sudden Doesn't matter to them anymore. It's not a big deal in the big picture of life. You say, how does that happen to people? It happens slowly. It happens over years And the reality is one day we wake up and we realize, you know what, what's happened to everybody who went before me is happening to me as well. And so the thing that Solomon wants us to remember when we're young is listen You might be strong today, but you won't be strong forever. You might be driven today, but you won't be driven forever. You might be very uh able to do stuff right now that you won't be able to do forever And so the question is this, how do you practically apply a passage like this? Let me give you a couple of thoughts that I jotted down today that I think are very important for us to contemplate today. The first is this, live life like it's short. Because it really is. Let me say it again. Live life like it's short. Because it really is. The fact is that the time that you have on this planet is not forever. You know, 70, 80, 90 years sounds like a really long time. But the fact is the older you get, the more you look back and your point of reference changes and all of a sudden 20 years seems like ten minutes. And you say, where did all the time go? That's the way that life is. It's short. We need to live it like it is. Secondly, use your strength for God's glory while you have it, because it won't last forever You know, if you're 20 years old or you're 30 years old, you need to realize you are at the greatest opportune time of your life You are not going to have the strength and the vitality and the drive that you have today 20, 30, 40 years from now. Don't waste it. So many young people Just move around and don't get things done. They waste the strongest years of their lives. And they do it because they don't realize it won't last forever. The fact is, life is always going to be full of challenges, always full of struggles. So when you're young and you have the strength to take on those challenges, then do it. And do it for the glory of God. Thirdly, don't be complacent when you're young. You know, it's easy to think, hey, everything's good and smooth. I have good health, I have good strength, I have lots of opportunities, I've got a great job, I just got married, I have a young family, everything's smooth and good in life. Well realize something. There will be a day that things will change. And so don't be complacent with the position of life you might be in right now. And the last thing I'm going to say is this. Invest in young people. You know many of you who are listening to our to this lesson this morning say, you know, I'm not young anymore. That season where life is done. I what am I supposed to do? I can't go back and change what 's happened in the past. And the truth is it's true you can't. But the reality is that because of the years you've lived, you have an incredible perspective. I mean the reason that Solomon wrote this book is because as an older man he says, I want younger people to learn from what I've experienced. I have a wealth of knowledge that I want to invest in people. And so what does he do? He does that And the fact is God can use you at any season of life. The fact is the wisdom of our elderly years is not of lesser importance than the strength of our youth The fact is our young people who have strength, who are driven, who are motivated, who can get a lot done, they need to be directed by those who have some experience and who have the perspective of a lifetime of years to examine. And the truth is that the effectiveness of our young people, those who are driven, those who are motivated, those who do want to work for God's glory, that motivation and strength needs to be properly channeled by people who've walked through that season of life and who've actually learned some valuable lessons. And by the way, you might say, well, I didn't necessarily do it right when I was at that season in life. That doesn't mean that you don't have insight today. The truth is you can learn from mistakes just like you can learn from good decisions And so I want to challenge you, if you're at that season in life where you say, you know, my strength really is beginning to deteriorate And I look back at life and I realize I can't go back and change those things. I want to encourage you to invest in those who are coming behind you. The truth is there are some young people that if you'll take the time to invest in them, they will flourish because of the time that you've invested in them. They will be much wiser. They will be much better stewards of this season of life if you will pour into their lives. And so I want to encourage you Be a person who invests in those who have not yet walked through that season of life. The truth is that we need each other Our young people people need those who are older, and our older need those who are younger. If you invest in young people, they will give you energy that you wouldn't have if it wasn't for your interaction with them. And if our younger people invest in those who've walked through life, they will have plenty of resources that they would not have had had it not been for the investment that you make in them. As we look at this passage of scripture, I hope that it'll be an encouragement to you. Whether you are young, whether you are old, whether you have strength or whether your strength is diminishing God can use you for his glory. He wants to use you for his glory. And so let's seize the opportunities that are before us today. Let's bow together for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study your word, this text before us. I pray that you will use it to encourage and challenge every person who has the opportunity to hear it. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Well, I hope you have a wonderful morning. It's been good to chat with you, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our study as we come to the end of the book of Ecclesiastes. Have a great day. Bye now.