Okay. Good morning. If you're awake if you were awake, if you were sleeping before, you're awake now. Uh this morning following the morning service we do have a nursery worker meeting. That will be over here on this side on the piano side. So after the service, so if you want to start working your way across to sit over here. This evening there is a teens inspiration. So teens uh be making your way to the back those paul. I'll be heading out in the van with Pastor Josh. Tuesday, we have the Baltimore Rescue Mission. That means there will be no ABBI class this week. So plan um we'd encourage you guys to come out. Just be an encouragement both to those that Um the ladies that are there for the month and having the opportunity to really spend a time witnessing to them and uh answering questions, concerns, and just fellowshipping with those ladies, but then as well as the men having to open God's word and just really uh challenge them. Next Sunday morning there is a sound ministry meeting, so m Sound Media IT over there. If you have any questions, please feel free to come talk to me. But that'll be tom next Sunday morning. Following the morning service. And then a couple not this week, but the following week we'll have our senior luncheon, college and career. There's a teen activity. Do you want to make a special note about the men's breakfast and tree cutting? That is So rather than doing our normal breakfast and door visitation, we have three, four, or five trees in the back that need to be cut down. So if you are a willing and able-bodied man and lady, if you I guess if you'd like to join us as well. Yeah, we'll bring us all. We'll get you guys involved, but there will be breakfast and then there'll be an opportunity to take down some trees and just get uh cutting away. Back there. There is that same day. It's not being put on by our church, is the walk and run for life. There is a sign as you walk as you're walking in off to the right. So if you guys like to look at, there's more information there and through the website. That is for a pro-life uh organization in our in our community in Arundel County that is They do a lot of preventative help to not prevent but responsive help to help yes, there's what I'm looking for, pregnancy clinic. Um for ladies oftentimes lower income that are not sure if they want to have an abortion or not, this is kind of like their first opportunity to have an ultrasound to see that they can maintain for life. So there's an opportunity there. But again, everything on the website if you just want to look at that sign and just see what's going on to that. But that's not being put on by our church, but Something to easily get involved with in the community. Pastor Josh. Our opening scripture reading is found in Psalm 100. And we will start with verse 1. Make a joyful noise unto the Lord, all ye lands. Serve the Lord with gladness. Come before his presence with singing. Know ye that the Lord He is God. It is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves. We are his people and the sheep of his pasture. Enter into the gates with thanksgiving and into his courts with praise Be thankful unto him and bless his name for the Lord is good. His mercy is everlasting, and his truth endureth to all generations. Today's theme of worship is for us to reflect on God's abundant mercy toward those who humbly turn to Him is actually, uh if you uh are familiar with the doxology, we're not going to sing it as fast as you might have heard it in a college or as slow as you may have hear heard it in other churches. But it said to that tune, and it is Psalm 100. It is all people that on earth do you dwell. And um the words of that uh song are going to come straight out of the passage that we just read, Psalm 100, and so just really going to focus our attention on the fact that we are to rejoice in the Lord and we are to worship Him. with gladness in our hearts. And then the next song that we're going to sing is a very familiar hymn that is, My hope is in the Lord. And we're going to go from thinking about God's greatness and his majesty to focusing in on His redemptive work and the fact that we rejoice in him, a holy and righteous God, who we have we have absolutely no ability to come into his presence in our own righteousness. Because of our sin, yet we can come into his presence because of the finished work of Christ, his death, his resurrection, his imputed righteousness. And then the third song we're going to sing is Complete in Thee. And that song will be focusing in on what we have because we are in Christ. Because we as his people have placed our faith in the finished work of Christ. So those first three hymns are really going to direct our attention to the Lord as we think about how merciful He is. And I just want to encourage you to really reflect deeply on the truths that are expressed in these great rich ri rich hymns. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to bless our service and to speak to our hearts through it. Father, we are so grateful that we have the privilege of entering your presence through the redemptive work of Christ. We thank you that Christ died for our sins. And that we are forgiven and we are cleansed, and that we can stand before you with clear conscience, fully accepted, because of Christ's sacrifice. And we thank you that we can worship you with a renewed heart, because we are new creatures in Christ, whom old things have passed away and all things have become new. And as we sing these hymns and we reflect on these truths, Our hearts can be stirred up with deep affection because of the Spirit of God working in our inner person. And so we thank you for that great blessing that we have because of the resurrection of Christ. And Father, we thank you so much for your mercy. We recognize that we are all saved because in your mercy You provided redemption through the Lord Jesus. And in your mercy, you reached out to us through the preaching of the gospel. And in your mercy, you convicted us of sin and righteousness and judgment. And in your mercy, you saved us, and we repented and believed. And so we are so grateful for your mercy. Help us to really reflect on that this morning. Father, we pray for those in our congregation who carry great burdens. You know these individual challenges. You know there are people who would have loved to be here this morning in person, but physically they cannot. You know the burdens and the struggles of every person who has come here this morning. And so, Father, I pray that as the Word of God is read, and sung about and expounded that you would take all of these things and you would uplift us as your people and strengthen us for the tasks and the duties that we have coming up this week and help our fellowship around the word to be very sweet and very encouraging. Father, we ask that your blessing would be richly on this time and we'll thank you for that in Christ's name. Amen. Well good morning. Please stand with me, direct your attention to the screen as we sing all people that on earth do dwell. We'll be singing All four verses, it is a familiar melody once we get started. You'll figure it out. And I Great singing. Let's turn over to hymn number three hundred and thirty-six. Three thirty-six, my hope is in the Lord. We'll sing all four verses. Great singing, please be seated as we turn in our blue book or on the screen number 192, complete in the One hundred and ninety-two we'll sing all quarters. Our scripture reading this morning will be found in the Gospel of Luke. We'll be reading Luke chapter 16 verses 14 through 18. Luke chapter 16 verses 14 to 18 The scriptures say, and the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things, and they derided him. And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselves before men, but God knoweth your hearts. For that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. The law and the prophets were until John. Since that time the kingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it. And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass than one tidal of the law to fail. Whosoever putteth away his wife and marrieth another, committeth adultery. And whosoever marrieth her that is put away from her husband committeth adultery. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. The Bible crafty look by the day I 'm nothing The Bible died by the So how do we do hope you know how you know I'm back? We're going to continue our singing this morning. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number 343. We'll sing the first two verses. We'll greet one another after the second verse, and then we'll come back together. I see the last verse of springs of living water. Drinking at the street blue they make all the time in the line Dreaming at the screen So the call is really well uh switch weaver or you don't know when you're interested in the building doesn't even know how you can 't. All right, let's lift it up with that laugh. Here we go. Guys had me kind of nervous. I wasn't sure if we'd be quiet by the end of the verse. Alright, let's let's sing one more before the sermon. Hem number four hundred. 463. Blessed assurance. Jesus is mine. I would love for us to sing this last verse, a cappella With all our hearts. Verses one, two, and three, blessed assurance. I might only happy everyone , watching everything will be along. Praise my day, Golden. This is my glory. This is my heart. Amen. Please be seated. In having a little scene with much happier heart , many voices so fair. With the love, and the earth will blow in , fifty pleasures and news, and the memory of all will fade into the night. Oh glory a cloud that we do his place when we are Angels will be too bad his praise That voice like the sound of the tiny waters from the rise With the glorious time with the strange joy the voice and praise to the Father shall be. Oh glory and God will sing to his day when we will. Jesus will say of this way. Only those who have love meditated commandments is those who have stated his love, only those who believe it on Jesus. The Savior will be singing that day when he saves his prize. Oh glory to that will sing. His way with me of his way of the glory. When we are Our children who are in junior church can be dismissed to the back for their class. With the help of a parent. And the rest of you, please take your Bibles and turn with me to the book of Luke. We're in Luke chapter 16 this morning. And We are working our way verse by verse through the book of Luke, and one of the things that's important for us when we look at a passage of Scripture is to kind of remember where we've been and where we're going. And so this passage will be one of those where we need to think about what was just stated before the text in front of us. The topic that we're addressing this morning is self-deception. And God's grace. And the people in this passage of Scripture that Jesus is speaking with are a people who had deceived themselves, and because they had deceived themselves. And they were people who had authority. They were people who were influencing other people. They were actually leading others astray as well. And so Jesus, in a very firm and direct way, confronts these people and their self-deception. And so let's read the text together. It's Luke chapter 16. We're reading verses 14 through 18. And then we'll pause for a moment to ask the Lord to bless the preaching of his word, help us understand the passage, and then we're going to work our way through the content of this passage. It says, And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things, and they derided him. And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselves before men. But God knoweth your hearts For that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. The law and the prophets were until John, since that time the kingdom of God is preached Every man presseth into it. And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass than one tittle of the law to fail. Whosoever putteth away his wife and marrieth another committeth adultery. Whosoever marrieth her that is put away from her husband committeth adultery Please let's bow together for a moment and ask the Lord to help us to understand what Jesus has to say in these verses. Our Father, as we think about your word this morning, I pray that you would help us to understand What was going on? Help us to understand the problem that Jesus was addressing. Help us to understand the way that the scribes and the Pharisees were concealing a heart that was filled with covetousness. And pride and self-glorification. And Father, help us to realize that what Jesus confronted in them is something that resides in our hearts too And sometimes we need to see what you said to them in order to see what you would say to us. And then, Father, as we process what is in front of us, I pray that we would see the true intent of the text in front of us. And that is to point people to Christ, to point people to his finished work of redemption, to point people to his marvelous grace that is available no matter what we have done, where we have been. His grace is available for us. And so I pray that as we work our way through the text, that we would see that today. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Now, before we dig into the actual details of this passage, I think it's helpful for us to understand that when we're reading through the book of Luke, as Luke is writing these various events that took place and he's recording these various conversations. Luke is very selective in what he writes about. Luke isn't writing every conversation that Jesus had. He isn't writing every single miracle that Jesus performed. He's not dealing with the entire conversation that Jesus had. But what Luke did do is he selected many events. And when I say he selected, the Spirit of God moved him. to write about these events. And the Holy Spirit directed him as he crafted this letter, the book of Luke , And as he writes these details, he even structures the various passage sections in a way that helps us to understand what his primary focus is. And so the passage in front of us, verses 14 through 18, is meant to be looked at as a section. And the section has a structure that is arranged in a way that helps us to understand parallel concepts that drive us to The main point of this passage. The structure is called a kiasm. Not that that really matters to you, but that is what we are actually looking at here. And when and when we look at this passage, this is the way that it's structured. The first thing that Luke writes about is an entitled attitude in the heart of these religious leaders. And we see that in verse 14. It says, The Pharisees also who were covetous heard all these things and derided him. Then the next thing that Luke mentions is that because these people had an entitled heart, They had lives that were filled with hypocrisy. Verse 15 says, Ye are they which justify yourselves before men. And then from talking about their entitled attitude and then their hypocrisy, that is really expressing what's going on in the heart, Luke gets to this point of a gracious invitation from the Lord Jesus. He says in verse 16, the law and the prophets were until John. And since that time, the kingdom of God is preached. And that word preached means that there is a proclamation of good news that you can be saved. And then what John does, or what Luke does is from that point, he starts backtracking, and we see some similar ideas. For instance, Instead of just talking about a life of hypocrisy, he now warns these people that there's a future judgment. In verse number 17, it says, it is easier for heaven and earth to pass. than one tittle of the law to fail. If God says something, whether we like it or not, we will be held accountable for what he says. And then the last thing he says, which in some ways appears to be just like, why did he just make these statements? There's no qualification. There's no explanation. There are no questions. He just makes this statement. In verse number 17, it is, or excuse me, in verse number 18, whoever puts away his wife and marrieth another committeth adultery. And whosoever marrieth her that is put away from her husband committeth adultery. The answer is that this was the teaching of their time. He's pushing back against some false teaching, which I will talk about in just a little bit That was a shameful abuse of their authority. So you can see this logical structure. There's an entitled spirit, so what does this do? They teach certain things. And they teach certain things as hypocrites, and he warns them, you're going to be judged. And the people who are following your teaching are going to be judged But there is hope no matter where you find yourself. The kingdom of God is being preached. And so the focus of all that Jesus is saying is not the first or the last or the second. Or the fourth, it's actually the third thing. And so this morning what we're going to do is we're going to look at Jesus' teaching in this text of Scripture. So let me give you a simple summary that will help you to understand the flow of where we're going this morning. The passage could be summarized this way Though people masterfully conceal their motives, God knows their hearts and will one day hold them accountable for their actions. If they do not repent and believe in the gospel. Let me say that again. Though people masterfully conceal their motives, God knows their hearts and will one day hold them accountable for their actions. If They do not repent and believe the gospel. As we look at this passage of Scripture, what I think will be really emphasized in the passage is that what God wants us to do is be honest with ourselves. And turn to him. That's what the passage is all about. So that's where we're going. Let's go ahead and dig in piece by piece at what Jesus has to say in these verses. The first truth we find in the text is that we are masters of concealing our true motives. Now I know when I use the word we, I'm including us, that's me, and that's you, in the same category as these people. Now when Jesus is speaking to them, he's speaking directly to them. But there is a universal understanding that the human heart that's being revealed in this conversation is something every single one of us has a tendency toward. Because of what we are as people. At verse number 15, he says, ye are they which justify yourselves before men. I know we have a lot of parents in this room. And because we have a lot of parents in this room, you have raised children, or you're in the midst of raising children, or you're watching your children raise children, you have been along the stage of life at some point dealing with small children And you know what it's like to have a situation where one of your children does something that is clearly wrong, and you have to step in as a parent and you have to ask them questions about what they did. Because you want them to see that what they did was wrong, you want them to admit that what they did was wrong, and you want them to ask you how do you resolve the issue, and then you come to a very constructive way of resolving the issue. So before you go to the constructive resolution, you want them to understand what they've done. You want them to admit that, and you want them to see that there's a need for the issue to be resolved properly The reason that we do that is because we know in order for there to be a resolution, you have to be faced with reality. You can't move to a solution if you ignore the cause of the problem. This is true if we're talking about physical issues and our health. This is true about spiritual issues. This is true about interpersonal issues. This is true in so many areas of life. Look what he says in verse 17. Ye are they which justify yourselves before men. Have you ever had a situation where someone that you needed to correct, you asked them a very specific question, the answer should be very obvious, and their answer is completely an excuse. Yes. You say, yeah, my uh my my neighbor does that, my friend does that, my spouse does that, my children do that, my dad does that, my mom does that, my boss does that, the people I work with do that We all do that. We are masters of justifying our own actions. There are a couple of things I want you to notice under this subpoint. The first is this: the people that Jesus is addressing had this incredible disdain for the things that he had been teaching. Notice in the verse it says that these people derided Jesus. Now that word derided means that they sneered at Jesus. They had this intense disdain for him. If you could have stepped back and you could have watched their body language, you would have said, ooh, this is really intense. These people have absolutely no regard for Christ. They hate him. There's deep animosity. You could see it in their eyes. You could see it by the way they were responding to him. By the way they framed their questions. There was this intense disdain for them, for Jesus. Interestingly, this word that is used here, translated to writ it, is found in one other place in the New Testament, and that's in Luke 23. And it's such It's such a helpful passage. Because here's what it says in Luke 23, 35. It says, the rulers also derided him, saying, He saved others, let him save himself, if he be Christ the chosen of God. That's a really interesting use of this word derived. So take your mind back to the cross, and here is Jesus. He's hanging on a cross. He's been nailed there. He's bleeding. He's suffering. He's dying and he's doing it so that people can be saved. And here are these scribes and the scribes These Pharisees, these religious people, they're dressed very nicely, they're very wealthy, they're very respected, and they had plotted behind the scenes. and lied behind the scenes and manipulate and connive to get Jesus up on that cross and they looked at him with this disdain and they said he saved other people and he can't even save himself. That's what was going on in the hearts of these people. These religious men who presented themselves as righteous, God-fearing people had this intense hatred for Christ. And it was ultimately going to accumulate in his murder. That's really what the cross was. It was these people plotting to kill an innocent man. I know it's to give us redemption, but on the human side, that's what it was. The second thing I want you to notice is that Luke commented on the ultimate source of their disdain. He says, who were covetous. Now that word covetous, there are a couple different Greek terms that are used for the word covetous. This term is actually a compound Greek term. It has the idea of to love. Money. That's what it means. So that word covetous means that these are people who have this lust and this longing to have material possessions. The same word is used in 1 Timothy chapter 6. He says that the love of money is the root of all evil. Money doesn't have a heart. Money doesn't have the ability to do things, it's not like it has a will. Money is used and people can love it And people can use it for evil. And he says that the root of all kinds of evil things comes down to this thing of greed. And so these are people who are greedy. And keep that in the back of your minds because that actually has something to do with why Jesus talks about this last thing, about adultery and all that discussion. That has something to do with what he's saying here. They loved money. These men were greedy and they despised Christ's teaching regarding money and stewardship and a love for money. If you remember back to the last time we were in Luke chapter 16, Jesus gives this long teaching to disciples about stewardship. And one of the last things that he says is, he says, no man can serve two masters. Either he hates the one and he loves the other, or else he holds to the one and despises the other. You cannot serve God in mammoth. And Jesus knew the hearts of these greedy religious leaders, and he knew that the way they taught And what they emphasized and the things that they said, they were doing it to heap to themselves material resources And so rather than these people having an allegiance to truth and what is right and what is wrong and stating it clearly, they trimmed And they connived and they manipulated and they presented themselves in hypocrisy so that they could get material gain. Keep that in the back of your mind. It's important. The third thing. Their entitled discontentment manifested itself in lots of different ways. Now what's interesting about the term that's used here to love money, I would have assumed that what Jesus would have talked about would have been an illustration that was connected to people using money or taking money through unjust means. That is what I would have assumed Jesus would say. But out of all the illustrations that Jesus could have used to confront these people, it was actually the issue of marriage. Whoever puts away his wife and marries another. You say, well, what's the connection between greed, that kind of covetousness, and teaching that says there's lots and lots of ways that you could get rid of your spouse if you want to go find somebody else What's the connection? The connection is they knew how to make people happy. They knew how to give them what they wanted so that those people would become their dearest of friends. What's interesting here is that the root of covetousness can run in lots and lots of different directions. And really at the heart of a covetous spirit is not so much something that can taste money. Or power, it is an entitlement that says, I deserve something I don't have. I'm entitled to more than I've been given. I'm entitled to something that's better than what I have. That is the true root of covetousness. And covetousness can run in lots and lots of different directions. And we even see this. When we go to Exodus chapter 20 in the Ten Commandments, the last of those commandments is verse 17, and this is what he says: Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's house. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's wife. Thou shalt not covet thy neighbor's manservant, nor his maidservant, nor one of his animals. You should not covet anything that belongs to your neighbor. Here's what he's saying. Covetousness can want stuff, possessions. Covetousness can want positions. That's about authority and prestige and how people see us. It can manifest itself in a desire to maintain reputation. It can manifest itself in being discontent with your husband or your wife and wanting someone else's husband or wife. And the Pharisees and the scribes were evil people who were very proud. And they were very self-promoting. And they were actively creating ways to get around God's laws. The truth is that Jesus could have used all kinds of different illustrations. And we really don't have in the context him telling us why he used that one. My guess is it's because that was something that was immediately being debated at the time. But we see this in Matthew 15, verse 2. He says, Why do thy disciples, the religious leaders come to him, they say, Why do thy disciples transgress the traditions of the elders? For they wash not their hands when they eat bread. Now, I know we teach our kids to wash their hands. And hopefully they're learning how to do that. And if they don't, they're gonna they're gonna get sick, all right? So we teach our kids to wash their hands. But this is not what he's talking about. This is really not about hygiene, this is about a tradition that was established by the elders and the Pharisees. This is a ceremonial cleansing that was supposed to take place. The Bible never addressed such an issue. The reason that we wash our hands is purely a hygiene issue. It's not a, you know, God commands us go wash your hands before you eat. Some of us are glad that that's the case. Some of us wish that was the case, right? But the whole point is they created rules. That were meant to do a couple of different things. Sometimes these were meant to excuse things. Sometimes these were meant to allow them to do things that God said you couldn't do. Or that you shouldn't do. Notice what he says. He answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandments of God by your traditions? That's the point. They had rules that excuse hatred and lust in the heart. That's why Jesus in the Sermon on the Mount says, if you look at a woman and lust after her in your heart, you've committed adultery. He's not saying you physically committed the act. He's not suggesting that. He's saying when God looks at you, he sees your heart and he says, that's the problem. It's not just the action, it's the intent, it's the desire. It's the willingness to contradict God's laws. Or when he talks about hatred, they had rules that were meant to excuse hating certain people. So they would say, I can't I can hate you because you're of whatever class or whatever background or you did this to me. So I don't have to love my neighbor because you're a neighbor who's against me, and so I'm against you. I can justify hatred. Jesus confronts it. They permitted, they had rules that excuse the dishonoring of elderly parents who were vulnerable. There are some people that they need to take care of mom and dad. And that was going to be a financial burden to them. So they said, you know, if you really don't want to take care of mom and dad, and that's going to be a financial burden to you, then what you can do is you can dedicate your money to God and then when mom and dad say, can you help us out? We say, I can't, because that's God's money, not mine. And he says, Uh-huh. What is that? That's a crafty rule, is it not? And I'm like, why who came up with these ideas? They also had rules for how people could get rid of their spouse if they didn't want to be married anymore. Amazingly, there were some people that were so hardened in their heart that if their wife so much as burned their toes, they could say See ya. You say, really? Yes, really? That was a discussion of the day. And there were people that they were just waiting for their wife to do something that crossed that line that the rabbis had taught so they could excuse their loss and excuse their covetousness, they could put away their wife, they could marry somebody else, and they could feel good about it. They could celebrate it. This is not a new problem. The very last book of the Bible in the Old Testament, in Malachi, this is what it says: Malachi 2:15. Did not he that is God make one? And wherefore, one? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore, take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth. What is Malachi saying? There are a lot of people that are being unjust towards their spouse. Rather than them being content at the stage of life that they're in, But the person that they have entered into covenant with, that they're raising their children with, rather than recognizing God's plan is one man, one woman, till death separates us, they say, Give me an owl, I want it. If you give it to me, I'll tell you this this situation works. They literally ignored the Scripture's clear teaching on the sacredness of marriage. By creating arbitrary rules to give covetous men a way to justify their treacherous behavior. The simple fact is, that is in the hearts of people. We find ways to balm our troubled conscience. We find ways to establish rules that give us out in all kinds of areas. And it's really easy for us to fixate on these people at this time in that illustration and say, how dare they? And then not ask the question, do we do the same thing sometimes? Second truth God knows our hearts God knows our hearts. Now, these men who were the scholarly type, having all these discussions about how to help people in their situations , Had created rules that God never addressed. And they elevated these rules for what they were supposed to do in these situations to being equivalent with what God had given in his word. And the reason they had done it is they wanted to excuse their own sinful behavior. And the reason they did it is because they felt the pressure in the eyes of other people People who wanted to excuse their sinful behavior, and they looked at these leaders as the ones that could give them the outs. This is a really important principle for us to understand. This is no old old problem. This is the current problem today as well. In verse 15 he says, But God knoweth your hearts. That which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God. God. First thing I want you to notice under this is that they had created ways to personally justify their actions and win like-minded friends. Now, we see Paul write about this when he's leaving his final thoughts to Timothy. We see Peter writing about this when he leaves his final thoughts. for those people that he was about to leave because he was going to die. And this is what they said. 2 Timothy 4. 3. The time will come When they will not endure sound doctrine. But after their own lust shall they heap to themselves teachers having itching ears. Now, we know what an itch is. An itch is something that when we're sitting there is like I gotta scratch it. And then when you scratch it, what do you need to do? Scratch it again. And then scratch it again and scratch it again. You know what I'm talking about. And basically what he's saying is, these are teachers who know what you want and they give it to you. As opposed to they know what you need and they speak it whether it makes you feel good or not. Not because they want to make you angry, but because there's a higher standard than all of us, and that's God Himself He says, these are people who after their own loss heap up teachers having itching ears. They shall turn their ears from the truth and shall be turned into fables. I mean the teaching of the rabbis was it was fabled. It had no biblical authority with it. It was just their opinions, it was just their rule that it didn't in any way give them some kind of a shield from what God had said at all. It just bombed their conscience and made them feel good around other people. 2 Peter 2, verse 1, he says, there were false prophets among the people. even as there shall be false teachers among you who will privately bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring on themselves swift destruction. He says, many shall follow their pernicious ways, by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of. And through covetousness, interesting word there, shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you? I mean, that is exactly what Jesus is confronting with these religious leaders. They were presenting these rules that were not true. They did not have God's authority. And they were teaching them, and people were embracing them, and they used those teachings to take advantage of the people. You say that certainly doesn't happen today. We have all grown past that. That is not true. That is not true. When I was a missionary overseas, The vast majority of churches in the city that we served in, vast majority of those churches preached what is called a prosperity gospel. You know what a prosperity gospel is? If you give me money, God gives you blessing. You say, well, why is it you? Well, because I'm the teacher, right? I'm God's spokesman, spokesperson, right? I'm it's it's I'm telling you what he said. Does the Bible teach that? No They would have never had room for a teaching that says all who live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution. They would never have room for such a teaching. They would never have room for some of the very clearly taught things in the scripture about the fact that God uses suffering and he uses heart and uses difficulty. To purify us and to mature us and to shape us and to grow us into Christ's likeness and to test us and to demonstrate the purity of our genuine faith. They would have never taught those things. Why? Well, because once you start teaching those things, there's people that don't want to hear that And it's very appealing for them to hear: do good, be good, look good, give me your money, and you get a blessing. And it's good for the teacher because they make a lot of money. Very prosperous, very wealthy people. This is not a modern problem. This is a since the fall kind of a problem. Very prominent in the time of Christ. Very prominent during the time of the apostles. Very, very prevalent in the time that we live in. And so this is what Jesus is getting at. Second thing you notice, they had created ways to get others to celebrate their sinful actions. He says, that which is highly esteemed among men , highly esteemed among men. Do we not live in a time and in a culture that celebrates things that God says are hate, hateful things? Evil things? Abominable things? Of course we do. And just because people say, hey, good job, doesn't mean, yeah, good job. Just because people say you're okay, it doesn't mean that you are. The fact is somebody can tell you smooth and kind words. And they're speaking to you because they're trying to take advantage of you. Lots and lots of situations like this. Why does the Bible warn against being cautious that we don't get duped by those who speak smooth words? Because smooth words are a form of manipulation many times. And people can take the word of God and they can twist it and say things that people want to hear. But in fact, what they're saying isn't true. And it's destructive. And if you embrace it and it allows you to bomb your conscience, you're not in a better place. You're in a far worse place. If a doctor tells you and you have a terrible illness that you're okay, And they know you're not okay. Or they tell you you're okay and they think you're okay, but you're not, there's a problem. Just the fact that you feel good after you walked out of that doctor's appointment doesn't mean that you are good. And the ends can be devastating. The people of the day commended these teachers. They celebrated their wisdom and their piety. These are people who became popular, wealthy, influential by their teaching. They may have also, this may also provide the explanation why Christ mentions a specific issue. Because this is a hot issue. And people wanted an answer that gave them outs. And these people gave them those answers that gave them outs. Do you realize one of the reasons that the religious leaders pushed to have Christ crucified was the word envy? Envy. You know, when they were having discussions amongst themselves, they said, it's necessary that one dies for the people so that we don't lose our position. That was what they said. It's almost like uh we we we have this opportunity to look into uh a whistleblower account of what was going on behind the scenes. Somebody spoke, somebody said, here's what the real motive was They wanted to kill Jesus because they hated him. Because they were greedy. They loved power. In fact, the scripture tells us that as Jesus stands before Pilate, he knew that's what Why. He knew that's why they had delivered him. And the reason that he bent to the will of the people was because he was afraid of them. And he didn't want to lose his position. He didn't want to lose his power. Third thing I show you is that God knows the heart. He says, but God knoweth your hearts. Folks, if you have a thousand people who can agree with your position, but God says otherwise, those thousand are wrong. You say, what if there's only a thousand people in the room? Doesn't change the fact. God doesn't determine right and wrong through democratic process Right and wrong is determined by who He is. He's righteous, He's just, He's holy. He has created things with a very distinctive purpose, and anything that's contrary to such a purpose, it falls short of His standard. And so when we think about this, even though people celebrated these people and they even benefited from it, God said, I know your heart. Matthew 23, 27, he says, Woe unto you scribes, Pharisees, hypocrites, you are like it unto white-walled sepulchres which appear beautiful outwardly, but within are full of dead man's bones. Even so you also your outward appear righteous unto men, but within you're full of hypocrisy and iniquity. Christ nailed it. Luke 12, 3, whatsoever ye have spoken in the darkness shall be heard in the light, and that which you have spoken in the ear in the closet shall be proclaimed on the housetop. What people think is irrelevant. The truth is that most of us think far too much about what other people think. We really do. We should be concerned with what God thinks. Because that is what is true. And that is what actually matters. But that's not the way people are inclined. We're inclined to value the input of others far more than we should. He says, God knoweth your hearts. What people celebrate is abomination in the sight of God. Though people celebrated these leaders, though they had profited immensely from their teachings, their abuse of authority and their mishandling of God's word had led to all kinds of injustices, and their actions, motives, and the fruit of their teaching was an abomination to God. Third thing I want you to notice is that the gospel is our only hope. Verses 16 and 17, it says, The law and the prophets were until John, since that time, the kingdom of God is preached. And every man presseth into it, and it is easier for heaven and earth to pass away than one tittle of the law to fail. Now the first thing I want to say about this statement is that based on the structure of this section, This is actually the primary point of what Jesus is saying. And this is the primary focus that Luke is trying to emphasize in this particular moment from Jesus' ministry. His point was not so much to expose the Pharisees, it was not so much to talk about their hypocrisy, and not so much to talk about The fact that this is what they were teaching, and they were teaching things that were ultimately leading people to make sinful choices. His ultimate purpose was: with all that going on, the gospel is being preached, and you need it. And by the way, until they humbled themselves and saw their sin, the preaching of the gospel wasn't something that they got. They heard it. They didn't experience its benefits. The scripture presents a unified story in every piece of that story. Here's what he said. The law and the prophets were until John, it is easier for heaven and earth to pass than one tidal of the law to fail. Now, this is something that some people don't realize about the Bible. This book is not just a bunch of stories, okay? This book is not just a bunch of rules. This is not a roadmap and it's like, well here's you know fifteen things you need to do so that you can make the right choices in life. Not to say that there aren't principles for us to glean and there aren't commands in the scripture and we're not looking at the the real life experiences of people. But the Bible from Genesis to Revelation is about the story of redemption and why we need it. So when we talk about Genesis, we have God being creator and we have Adam sinning. And we have the consequence of Adam's sin. By one man sin enters the world, and death by sin, and death passes on all men, for that all have sinned. And then from that point on, what do we see? We see God making promise after promise after promise pointing to Christ. And we see that this promise comes under attack and it appears that it's going to fall apart back tonight when we listen to the text that's going to be preached in 1 Samuel. David is about to go to the throne. He doesn't know that when these things are going on. And if it wasn't for God's very clear, providential interact inter uh stepping into this story and and working in in in behind the scenes. David doesn't go to the throne, and that completely messes up all these promises God made. But God works. And God moves. And so what is the scripture? It's the story of redemption. In Luke 24, he says, O fools and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken, ought not Christ to have suffered these things, to have entered into glory. And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself. That an amazing statement. So in this passage and then later on in Luke 24, what is the scripture saying? All of the Bible is to point to Christ. Third thing I note here is that the law presents a perfect standard. That points us to Christ. You see, how does it point us to Christ? Here's how it points us to Christ. In Romans 3 it says, We know that what things the law saith, it saith to them who are under it, that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become. Guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. You know why God gave us the law? To tell you you are not good enough to be saved. You see, I thought it was to tell me how to live. Well, I mean, it does tell you how to live if you want to conform your life to God, but here's the simple fact: it actually tells you you're guilty. It actually tells you you have no hope in yourself. It tells you that all your righteousness is filthy rags. And that's why he mentions the law and the prophets being until John. Because the law was saying You need a redeemer. Third thing is , fourth thing, the prophets presented the details that helped them to anticipate the Redeemer. and they'd be able to identify him. Think about Isaiah 53. When thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin , He shall see his seed, prolong his days, and the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many, for he shall bear their iniquities What is that scripture saying? It's saying you should be looking for a Savior who's going to die for your sins. Who's going to present himself as an offering for sin. Who through his death can justify many. Who when the Father looks at him hang on that cross, he's going to see his agony and say, I'm satisfied. It's finished. There's therefore now no more condemnation. Why? Because he took it all. Observation five John pointed people to the Savior in John 1 10. John seeth Jesus coming unto him and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sins of the world. You have the law saying you're guilty. You have the prophet saying you need the Savior. Here's who he is. Here's what he's going to do. Here's what he's going to look like. And John says, that's him right there. That's what Jesus is saying in these verses. The law says you need him. The prophets say here's who he is. And John said, that's him right there Next, we see that the preaching of the gospel compels people to repent and believe. He states in these verses: the kingdom of God is preached. You know what preaching is? Here's the truth. What are you gonna do with it? Here's the truth. Act on what you've heard He's saying redemption is possible because of Christ. The law says you are not righteous. Jesus came, he paid it all except him. That's what he's saying. But then the last little thing I want to mention is tragically, many people strive to enter through their own labors. He says, the kingdom of God is preached, every man presseth into it. Now that word presseth in. It's an interesting word. And there's actually a debate about how to interpret what he's saying. But what I think he's saying is this: as you are being compelled to respond to the gospel, People are saying, I'm doing the best I can. And he's saying, you're not listening. That word striving literally means they're literally trying with all of their might to enter this kingdom, and they're not good enough. In Matthew 23, he says, Woe unto you scribes and Pharisees, you shut up the kingdom of heaven, and you go in neither yourselves, neither suffer ye them to enter in. You compass sea and land to make one prosely, and when he is made, you make him twofold more a child of hell than before. He's saying the people that accept your teaching are further from the kingdom than they were before they heard. Why? Because they said, do good, be good, look good, and he'll be accept you. And he said the gospel is repent and believe. Your righteousness is a filthy rag. You're a sinner who has no hope outside of Jesus. Come to him. Accept what he did for you. Trust in his death and resurrection and righteousness. He will save you because of what he did. It's a gift. He said, My heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is that they might be saved. I bear record, as one who lived this, I bear record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge. They being ignorant of God's righteousness and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted unto the righteousness of God. Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone that believeth. You know what the point of this passage of Scripture is? The point of this passage of Scripture is God 's law stands and not one piece of it's going to fail. And the law and the prophets point to Christ and say, you can be saved. And John says, there he is. Believe on him. And instead of you saying, okay, you say, I'm trying harder. That's the true tragedy of this text More than the abuse of the authority of the Pharisees and the scribes is the fact that people were missing the kingdom because of what they taught. And they tried harder and harder and harder, and they missed because they accepted that message. You say, how do you take how do you apply this? Let me give you some brief thoughts. First, we've got to learn from the tragedy of the Pharisees. Heart sins manifest themselves in a lot of different ways. It does not matter how we feel or what people think about our actions. We cannot hide our hearts from God, but we can hide them from others. Even those who profit from lies will eventually face his justice That's what we need to learn from the Pharisees. They tried to hide their motives. They were celebrated by people, but they're going to stand before the judge one day. Secondly, humbly reflect on God's grace. God pursues sinners in rebellion. Think about that. God pursues sinners in rebellion. As I am saying no to God, he's saying come. As I am pushing away and saying, look at what I'm doing, he says, this is available. God pursues us in our rebellion. He keeps calling us to repent and believe on Christ. His grace is available even when we are dismissive. Our salvation is a testimony to his rich mercy toward us. In our sin. Every blessing we enjoy is from His good hand. Learn from God's grace. Lastly, turn to Him while there's time. You don't know what's going to happen tonight, tomorrow. Our life isn't guaranteed. You may live another 20 years, 40 years, 60 years. I have no idea. He may not live till tomorrow. And that uncertainty is something that ought to drive us to the cross. And ought to drive us to repent and believe. If you don't know the Lord Jesus as your Savior, when I close this service, I'm going to give you an opportunity to let me know that you need to talk. And I'd be very happy to take a Bible and show you how you can be saved. saved. Please let's bow together our hearts and close in prayer. With heads bowed and eyes closed, I ask this very simple question: Is there somebody here who does not know the Lord Jesus as your Savior? And you need to speak with me. I'm not going to call out your name, I'm not going to ask you to stand up and come forward. I just want you to raise your hand so I know that you want to speak with me, and I will make sure that I speak with you. Is there anyone that would just quietly raise up your hand and say, that's me, Pastor? I need to speak with you. Give you a second. Not going to call you out, not going to make a point, but I want to see if you if you need to speak, I want to speak with you you might say I'm not raising my hand but I need to. Okay. Send me an email. Send send a message through Facebook. Maybe you're listening on the live stream. Reach out. I want to be a help to you. I want to show you what the gospel is. Encourage you to believe in it. Please let's bow together for a prayer. Our Father, we thank you for the Word of God. We thank you for how pointed it is. Because that's what we need. Help us to respond in humility and to turn to you and trust in what you've done for us. Father, if there's one that does not know you as Savior, I pray that today they would humbly turn to you for salvation. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's turn our Bibles, our Bibles, in our hymn books to hymn 109. The song is Great Is Thy Faithfulness. 109. We're singing the first and the last verses together, and I'm going to ask you to stand as we sing it. Great is thy faithfulness. Must reflect on how faithful he is. I know I did my brain for the world and bring you God. Well I hope that you have been challenged from God's Word this morning. Do want to remind you that tonight we'll gather again and looking forward to our service. And I hope that you'll be able to join us for that. Just a clarification on the uh the the pregnancy walk, um our church has a team. We've done this for years and years. uh where we uh we go and we are part of that. And uh Joanna Snow a lot of times is the one who coordinates that this year, Kathy Donalin is. So if you have any questions, either Joanna or Kathy could could very easily answer the questions that you that you have. can And so um hope that you can participate in that if you would like to do that. I'd like to ask if Brother Ralph Pridgeon can close us in prayer. And if you're visiting with us today, I hope that you'll come by and greet my wife and I. And we'd love to be an encouragement to you. Let's pray. Our Lord Heavenly Father, we do thank you for gathering us here together safely and comfortably today. You pour blessings out on us that we don't even pay attention to, Lord. We thank you for your grace. We do thank you for your faithfulness. And we pray that you would give us an opportunity this week to share share something from your word or a truth from our life with someone that needs you as a Savior. And we give you all the praise and the glory in Christ's name. Amen.