Let's go ahead and turn our Bibles together, please, to 1 Corinthians chapter 10. 1 Corinthians chapter 10. And we are Looking at verses 23 through 33. And this section that we've been working our way through is one that deals with issues of conscience. And I think that these are some of the most practical topics that we can address as Christians. And so um depending on how our time is, I may even just open it up for some questions as well because I think it really lends itself toward that, and of course that might be dating. But we'll see what happens. Um the desire is just to be a help, to be an encouragement, and to think scripturally about issues of conscience. So, first Corinthians chapter ten, and we'll pick up in verse twenty-three. All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but all things Edify not. Let no man seek his own, but every man another's wealth. Whatsoever is sold in the shambles that eat, asking no question for conscience' sake. For the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. If any of them that believe not bid you to a feast, and ye be disposed to go, whatsoever is set before you eat, asking no questions for conscience' sake. But if any man say unto you, this is offered and sacrificed unto idols, eat not for the sake of him that showed it, and for conscience' sake. For the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. Conscience I say not thine own, but of the other. For why is my liberty judged of another man's conscience? For if I by grace be a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give thanks? Whether therefore ye eat or drink or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God. Give none offense, neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the Church of God, even as I please all men and all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved. Now, as I mentioned earlier, 1 Corinthians 8, 9, and 10 are dealing with one basic topic. And this is a topic that there's a great need for balance in. What I mean by balance is not like we find the middle ground between the two extremes. What I'm saying is this, there's some things in the Bible that This will be presented here and this will be presented here. And they're not in conflict with one another, but when they're set side by side, they're kind of pulling in opposite direction, okay? And we've got to make sure that we don't get an imbalance where we put too much weight on this and then we ignore this over here or we put too much weight on this here and we ignore this over here. Or we don't want to draw conclusions by reacting against something that's clearly wrong. Sometimes the person will say, I know this is wrong, so I'm going to run as far away from it and I'm going to go in here on this side. Okay? So we have to be very, very careful about that issue So when we talk about issues of conscience, it's not the person that draws the line in the strictest place that's always right. That's important for us to understand. What makes it right or wrong is it's actually following biblical principle. And whenever we get into these areas, we have to be gracious because there is some nuance and there are times that we can't be absolutely dogmatic about certain issues. And so I think it's important to just say that on the front side. Now, as we get into this issue of balance, what I want to do is just kind of remind you some of the big picture things that were talked about in the section The first thing that we talked about, obviously verse 1 of chapter 8, is the need to develop a healthy conscience. And this is how he puts it. Now as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth. Now when he says we all have knowledge, he's basically indicating the fact that There's a right way to look at this and you can look at it the right way, but you can hold that viewpoint in the wrong in the wrong with the wrong attitude And so the idea is that you need to have a healthy conscience, you need to hold these issues very carefully. The second thing that he emphasized, and this we see in verse 7 of chapter 8, we also see it state again in chapter 10, and then if we go to a similar passage of scripture that's dealing with issues of conscience, we see the need to not compromise our conscience. So in 1 Corinthians 8 7 he says Some with conscience of an idol unto this hour eat it as a thing offered unto an idol, their conscience being weak is defiled. In other words, their conscience is not healthy. They're not thinking clearly about it. Or 1 Corinthians 10, 28, if any man say unto you, This is offered in sacrifice unto idols, eat not for his sake that showed it, and for conscience' sake. For the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. Now we're going to break this down a little bit more tonight. But the idea is that this person is not looking at it correctly, but we're actually laying aside our right to eat that food because we don't want to compromise on the conscience here. And then in Romans 14, this is a little bit different, but he says, whatsoever is not of faith is sent. And so interestingly, in 1 Corinthians 8, 7 and 1 Corinthians 10. 28, he's talking about how another's person's conscience is not properly grounded. And so for their sake, we're going to lay aside our rights and we're not going to do that thing. When we go to Romans 14, he's talking about our conscience. In other words, my conscience actually isn't healthy on the issue, and if I was looking at it the way that I should then I would realize it's okay for me to actually do this particular thing. But because my conscience condemns me, it would be right for me to choose to restrain myself in that area because by by violating my conscience I'm doing something that's actually very detrimental to me. So he says, whatsoever is not of faith is sin. Don't Sin against your conscience and don't sin against the conscience of other people when your actions are actually affecting them. Then we get into another issue. We need to live in a distinctly Christian way. And what's interesting about issues of conscience is when I tell somebody, well You know, that that action is really not always right or not always wrong. They go, well, then you're telling me it's just gray? Not exactly. Okay. What it really comes down to is what's your attitude about the issue. That's what makes it right or wrong. But then sometimes we can go and swing the pendulum in the other direction and start thinking, well, I guess if there's areas where it could be right or wrong depending on the situation, then I'm just gonna throw caution in the wind and do whatever I want and not worry about it. And he addresses that one too. 1 Corinthians 10, 14, my dearly beloved, flee idolatry, run away from it. Verse 21, you cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of devils. You cannot be a partaker at the Lord's table and of the table of devils. And so what he's saying there is you still need to walk in a very distinctly Christian way. And then the last thing I'm going to mention under this for the issue of balance. is we need to be careful not to misapply general principles. And interestingly, in chapter 10, verse 23, he makes this statement twice. All things are lawful for me. He says it twice. Interestingly, if we go to 1 Corinthians 6. 12, he makes the exact same statement. All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful unto me, I will not be brought under the power of any in the in chapter ten, all things are lawful for me, but not all things are expedient, all things are lawful for me, but but not all things edify. Now why does Paul bring up that statement, four times all things are lawful for me. Well, it's because that was a statement that was being made in the church. And the statement was being made, and in fact, it's true that if you're under grace, there's no condemnation. That is true. But what is also true is just because we're under grace does not mean that we should just live any way we want to. And so he's taking this general principle. And he's saying you are misapplying it, and you're using this as somehow leverage to say you can do things that clearly you are not permitted biblically to do. So all of those things are a part of this discussion on conscience. So what are the last couple of principles that Paul will give the church that we need to focus our attention on as we close out this little topic? Well, we're going to look at five of them tonight, or at least some of the five. We'll see. The first principle that Paul is going to draw their attention to, and we find this in verses 23 and 24. is the principle that we are to be selfless people. Be a selfless person. Lots and lots of people want to know where the line is, and they want to know where their rights are, and they want to go as close to the line as they humanly pop as they possibly can. And they want to hold as hard to every single right that they possibly have that they can. You you ever dealt with somebody like that? It's like where's the line? Because I'm gonna go stand there. Where's my ground? I'm gonna conquer all of it. I I remember I was um several years ago I was listening to um a libertarian political candidate. I'm not gonna say his name. I think he's still alive. And he was in South Carolina and he was talking about a libertarian view of drugs. Now I happen to disagree with his view. I'm just going to tell you that right up front. But this is what he said. He said, if we were to legalize hard narcotics, would all of you in this room go out And start doing drugs? And they're like, no. He's like, just because you have freedom to do a thing doesn't mean you're gonna do it and doesn't mean that you should do it. I mean technically there's truth to that. Again, I I do think that we need the government to put some restraints, okay? So I'm not in uh politically in the whole viewpoint that he had. But the point that he was trying to make there was this Just because you can doesn't mean you should, and just because you can doesn't mean you will. In other words, freedom comes with responsibility. Just because someone says you can go do a thing doesn't mean a wise person's going to do it. And so when we talk about this issue of being selfless , What he's talking about is the fact that there are certain rights that maybe we could demand in certain situations. But for the sake of a brother or sister in Christ, or for the sake of trying to lead someone to the Lord. We choose to lay aside what is our right that we could maybe rightfully demand, and we say, I'm going to lay it aside for the sake of my brother. Notice how he puts it in verses 23 and 24. He says, All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but not all things edify. Let no man seek his own, but every man another's wealth. Now, that word wealth is uh is a little bit complicated. If you're looking, if you are reading in the authorized version you will notice that the word wealth is italicized. Do you know why that word is italicized? The reason is because the word's not in the Greek text. Anytime you see an italicized statement, word, phrase, then it's not in the text. In other words, it's an interpretation, and the translators put it there because in their view It was to help us understand. But when we think of the word wealth, we think of money. But that is not the way that this text is trying to present. The italicized word is actually giving the idea of someone's well-being or a rich quality of life And so when he says, let every man let no man seek his own, but every man another's wealth, what he's actually saying is, rather than putting your interest as number one in all situations , You should be willing to put other people 's interests, their well-being ahead of your own. I'll give you a great example of how people do this all the time. If you're a mother and you've raised a newborn, you have done this night after night after night after night after night. And hopefully your husband has also helped you some too in the process of this. And so you get up in the middle of the night and you feed this child. and you make sure their diaper is clean and you make sure that they're warm and and you and you rock them to sleep and you have spent hours upon hours, days upon days, week after week after week, giving of yourself for the good of a little child That's what you've done. If you have taught a Sunday school class, you have spent a lot of time Hopefully, you spent a lot of time in preparation so that when you go into that class, you're able to communicate to these children and you're able to teach at their level and You try to have your energy level up enough so that you can keep their attention and keep them engaged and keep them focused. And you know what? If you've taught a Sunday school class, you've given up a lot of time to do that. It's not just the time that you sit in the classroom and you talk about it, but there's preparation, there's thinking, there's working through those things. If you're the boss in a company, and not all bosses are good, but if you're a boss and you're a good boss, the truth is that you have way more responsibility than the people that are under you. Theoretically, that's why you get paid more. Because you carry a lot more responsibility. The buck stops with you. You're going to be the one who gets in trouble if things don't go the way that they're supposed to. My point is this. In life, there are lots and lots of scenarios where we put the interest of others ahead of ourselves. We put the interest of the people working under us ahead of ourselves. We put the interest of our children ahead of us. We put the interests of people that were teaching ahead of us. And you just go into all these different areas. You know what? That's how we're supposed to live the Christian life. We're supposed to be willing to set aside our rights for the good of others. Let no man seek his own, but every man another's wealth or another person's well-being. Invest your life so that someone else can be benefited for the rest of their life by it. What a huge thing for us to do. It means don't put your own interest first, put the well-being of others ahead of yourself. The second thing I want to mention here is that there's a reason that he does this. It's because our natural tendency is not to do this. I I think that some people are naturally more inclined to be compassionate than others. I'm I'm there's no question about that, okay? Um sometimes that's that's true when you have you know one parent versus another. One parent's, you know sort of the law side and the other's kind of the grace side or the the mercy side. And so um you know get if they get in trouble they always want to go to mom or they always want to go to dad, whoever is the more you know, gentle toward them person in that scenario. But our tendency is more natural to look for where the boundary is and to take all that land. Or to say, where are my rights? I'm going to demand all of them in this situation. Why is that? It's because we're naturally pretty selfish. We have to learn not to be. You have to teach children how to share. You have to teach them how to get along with others. It's not an easy thing. It's a challenging thing. A lot of times when people get married, they think that they're like, you know, the easiest person in the world to get along with, and then all of a sudden they find out that that's probably not the case. Actually they're gonna have to make some adjustments. That's a part of uh growing in marriage. Or then you have children and you start learning that, you know, you really are very selfish and self centered in certain areas. Our tendency is not to be selfless and To be the opposite. And so that's why Paul addresses it. And then I want us to notice the significance of this Corinthian slogan. Their slogan focused on the fullest extent of what was permissible. Paul's response focused on what was best for others. Do you see the difference between those? Where's the line I'm going to take it? Paul says, what's best for them? Those are two totally different things, aren't they? One's about me and one's about them. So how do you apply this first principle of be a selfless person? Rather than constantly looking for the boundary, Look for what promotes growth and edification in others. Be willing to give of yourself. Be willing to give of your time. Be willing to lay aside your rights for the good of another person. And sometimes the only way that that person is going to get where they need to be is for you or somebody else around them to be the person that's more mature and stronger and is willing to lay some things aside and go and meet them where they are and work through things with them. them. So principle number one, be a selfless person. Principle number two, do not overcomplicate your circumstances. Notice what he says in verses 25 through 27. Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, and that means the meat market , That eats, asking no question for conscience' sake. For the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. If any of them that believe not bid you to a feast, and ye be disposed to go, whatsoever is set before you, eat Asking no question for conscience' sake. Now, there are three basic scenarios that Paul is giving for these people. And I think each of them is very helpful to us. The first scenario is dealing with something that is actually a little bit before this discussion, and that's in verses 20 and 21. Scenario one is do not participate in pagan feasts. Now, we just got a missionary prayer letter from one of our missionaries, The Summers in Ghana. You should read it. It's very interesting. Because in this letter, they're talking about the Afesha season there in Ghana. And you say, well, what is Afesha season? Go read about it and uh and you'll find out it's a very interesting thing. And there'd be a lot of parallels between the kinds of things that go on during a festive season especially in the region where they are. It would have been true where we were serving as well. There would be a lot of similarities to the kinds of things that go on in those settings and the kinds of things that Paul is talking about here. This is what he says. The things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils and not to God. I would not that you should have fellowship with devils. You cannot drink the cup of the Lord and the cup of the devils. You cannot be partakers of the Lord's table and of the table of devils During this season when we were living in Ghana, actually be a little bit earlier than November, but during this season when they would have Afesha. It was a huge event in Cape Coast where we lived. I mean tour buses would come in by droves. It was like it was like leaving a football game. I don't mean a Navy football game. I mean more like a Ravens football game, okay? Or maybe we could be be like Ohio State or Michigan or one of those places where we're talking about the stands are packed and it's gonna take you hours to get out of that community. That's the kind of stuff that would happen. And people would flood in because of all the festivities and some of the things that would go on during those days would be You couldn't have any noise. They had a noise ban. You say, why? Well, because you don't want to disturb the gods during the festival season. You say, people really believe that? You better believe they do. They absolutely believe that Couldn't fish in the lagoon. Now it might have been more healthy for people if you'd see the the station uh the way that that lagoon was, but you were not allowed to fish in the lagoon. Why is that? Well, because it was a sacred lagoon. And it was especially sacred during that season. And then you would have all these different shrines around the city, and in those shrines there they would you know, poor libation and they would put food and pictures and flowers and all kinds of different things. And you say, well why did they do that? Well, because there were rituals that had spiritual significance to people. Those things are not just from that time period. They're even going on today. And so what he says is very simple. Do not participate in those things as a Christian. In a syncretistic society, people go, I can go to church, I can celebrate the Lord's table, I can sing the hymns, I can be a good Christian, and I can go to the festival, I can do whatever I want at the festival. I can live in both worlds. And the Bible says, no, you can't. You can't do it. Now it's easy for me to say this here because everybody's like, we don't have that in our society. We don't have to worry about that. We have things that are kind of in that category as well. If we just really stopped and we thought about it. Second scenario. If you go to the market to get meat, do not ask unnecessary questions. Sounds like something I would tell my children. Don't ask unnecessary questions. Now this is a really interesting principle. Verse 25. Whatsoever is sold in the shambles or in the meat market, that eat, asking no questions for conscience' sake. You say, well, wait a minute, what's that all about? Well, this is a scenario where it's totally okay to eat the meat, whether it's been offered to an idol or whatever the situation That doesn't matter. It's just meat in the market. It's being sold as meat in the market. When you cook it and you eat it, you're just eating meat. The background doesn't matter. It's almost like this. If somebody, if you're selling something on Facebook Marketplace and somebody says, okay, it's $150 and they pull out a $100 bill and they pull out a $50 bill and they hand it to you, you're not going to be like, Can I ask you a question? How did you earn that $100? before you gave it to me. Where's that hundred dollar bill been over the last two months? Who cares? It does not matter. Okay? It really doesn't. Now if they were like, well let me tell you how I got that money, all of a sudden you're like, whoa, I don't know if I want to know this. Okay? Well w what we're what we're talking about is actually a very similar scenario. It's just a dollar bill, it's just currency, or a hundred dollar bill, it's just currency. So what it was used for has has absolutely no implication on the fact that it's being used as exchange. in this particular scenario. In the same way, the meat that was being sold in that market, what the butcher did when he killed the cow or when he Cut the meat off of the cow and put it on the steak and it's sitting there in the market with flies all over it and it's got salt and all that good stuff. All of that is irrelevant to the fact that you're coming to buy meat. You're not participating in any pagan festival. You're not giving homage to a deity. You're simply buying meat. He says, when you do that, don't ask any questions. Just go get the meat. Third scenario. If you're invited to someone's home for a meal, do not ask unnecessary questions. That would be an interesting one as well, right? Verse twenty-seven he says, If any of them that believe not bid you to a feast, then you be disposed to go. Whatsoever is set before you eat, asking no questions for conscience sake. Interestingly, he puts this in the exact same category as going into the meat market. Now, if they are idol worshipers, you would probably be, if you were gonna guess Did they do anything with the meat before they prepared it for me? You could probably guess a yes. But he says, don't ask. Don't worry about it. You say, well, why does it not matter? It doesn't matter because all it is is meat. You are not participating in a pagan festivity. And you say, well, hold on a second. Let's go back a couple of weeks ago. He said, don't go into the temple, and if you eat this food in the temple, then you're you are you are paying homage to devils. And like, how is this different? It's different because you're going into a setting where it is known to be used for this reason and you're choosing to participate in that particular thing at that time. But interestingly, meat is meat. It doesn't change the nature of the meat in any way. What makes it significant is the setting and what is ascribed to it in the setting by the people that are there. And so he says, if any of them that believe bid you to a feast and you're disposed to go, ask no question for conscious sake. And he and he quotes from the Old Testament. In verse in in the verse he says, the earth is the Lord's and the fullness of earth. He actually says it twice in this passage of Scripture. You say, well, what's the point of that? Well the point is that we're to live consecrated lives, but not because God needs something from us or is lacking something. He owns everything. Psalm 24, 1. The earth is the Lord's, the fullness thereof, the world's, and they that dwell therein. Psalm 50, verse 12 says something very similar, similar. If I were hungry, I would not tell thee For the world is mine and the fullness thereof. What's the point? Everything belongs to God. And if He is giving it to me, I can enjoy it. Put it like this, since he owns everything, the meat is ultimately his meat, provided for our enjoyment, despite the rampant idolatry that's all around these people. Since he is the ultimate provider of this meat, it should be eaten with gratitude to him. The application is live a conscientious life, but don't overly complicate your daily tasks. And and I think sometimes we we we don't even think about how complicated it would be to live in a society that wasn't just like I mean we have things in our society that as Christians are difficult to navigate. There's no question about that. But but we have a lot of historic Christian roots that have influenced our society We still see the remnants of it in lots and lots of different areas of our society. That wasn't the case for these people at all. Their culture was thoroughly pagan on every single level. And so if you became a Christian, you were set against society in so many different ways. Principle three Make adjustments when necessary. Verse 28 and 29. But if any man say unto you, this is offered in sacrifice unto idols, eat not for his sake that showed it. And for conscience sake, for the earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof, conscience I say, not thine own, but of the other. And so he gives a fourth scenario here, and that is the issue of you're going into someone's house, the food is put before you. You haven't asked any questions. You're going to start eating it and they say, oh, by the way, I know you're a Christian. This might bother you. That meat has been sacrificed to idols. And you don't go, ah, whatever, who cares? You go, I appreciate you letting me know that. I think I'll eat something different. You say, well, hold on a second. What changed? I mean, it was the same chunk of meat. Smelled the same, cooked the same, would have tasted the same. What's the difference? The difference is something has been ascribed to it by that statement given by the person In other words, for their sake, I'm choosing to not partake because I know that when I eat that food, in their mind they're going to say, I thought you were a Christian. I thought this is something you would not participate in. Maybe I got it wrong. This is so interesting. In this fourth scenario , He is telling us that the right response is not to eat. Now, pause for a second and ask this question. Are you eating because the meat is defiled? Are you choosing not to eat because the meat's defiled? No, that's not the case. So why are you choosing not to eat? It says it in verse 28. It is for his sake. That showed it. It's for the sake of that person's conscience. And you know what that is? That's saying I'm going to lay aside the right to eat the meat. And to feel uncomfortable in this setting, I'm going to lay it aside because I care about your soul. That's what it's saying. And that is Christian love on display. It's not because it's inherently sinful to eat. It's not because our conscience is bothered by the action. It's for our neighbor 's good because it violates his conscience because he misunderstands the significance of the action or she misunderstands the significance of the action. Out of my love for them, I'm choosing not to do this. And then he makes this interesting reminder again. The earth is the Lord's, the fullness thereof. Conscience I say, not thine own, but the other. What he's trying to say is, don't forget, this is God's world. This is his food that he's provided for you. It's okay to eat it, but for their sake, don't. That's what he's saying. Make adjustments when necessary to promote edification. It's okay to change your mind about something. It's okay to be in a situation where you're going down a course of action and then the circumstances around, they change you say, you know what, at this point I think maybe I won't participate. It'd be okay if you know your kids are invited to something. And you didn't ask any questions and everything's good and and and you let 'em go and then and then that parent says, Oh, by the way, there's something that I forgot to mention. We're gonna be doing such and such. Are you okay with that? And you go, you know what? Now that I know that, maybe I'm not. You know what you need to do? Just say, I appreciate you sharing that with me. Why don't we do something different? You say, well, that's a little embarrassing. I get that, but that's the right thing to do. The fact that they raise the issue is an indication that they know it would bother you if you knew about it. And so vi and and by the way, i it's also true that sometimes when we're dealing with one another as brothers and sisters in Christ, I think we should just be deferential up front about these things with one another. In this room, there's lots of people with I mean, in the big picture, our doctrine is the same, but when it comes to our practical lives, there are certain things that are different, and that's okay. And so when we are dealing with those kinds of things, we have to learn to communicate lovingly, graciously on both sides of the issue. And that's the kind of stuff that Paul's talking about here. Very, very practical stuff. The fourth principle, do all to the glory of God. Verses 29 through 32, why is my liberty judged of another man's conscience? For if I by grace be a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give thanks? Whether therefore ye eat or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God, give none offense neither to the Jew. Nor to the Gentile, nor to the Church of God. Now, this is a really interesting series of statements that he makes here. He asks the question. It's a natural question for us to think about. Why is it that I'm being held captive by another person's conscience that's not even right about the issue? Isn't that a pretty natural question? And he answers, he he he he he he poses the question because he wants to address it. The reason that the question is being asked is because in verse 30 he says If I by grace be a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that which I give thanks? If there's nothing wrong with me eating this meat, why should this person hold me captive? And it's a very fair question. Paul knows that it's there. Here's the answer. Paul's reminder is this. Whatever you do, whether you eat, whether you drink, whatsoever you do, do all to the glory of God. Give not offense to the Jew or to the Gentile nor to the church of God. Why do you say, I'm not going to do this? Why am I being held captive by another person's conscience? It's because I want my life to bring glory to God. I would rather do what honors God in that situation than what pleases me in the immediate moment. That's really what he's saying. In other words, I don't have to demand my rights in every situation. It's okay to sometimes say, I can't do this in this particular scenario. That's a good thing for us to do. So what's the application? The application is we should desire to glorify God in everything we do. Sometimes glorifying God means putting our rights to the side to promote the good of others. Final principle I want to give tonight is Principle 5 and from verse 33. Desire what is best for your neighbor He says in verse 33, even as I please all men and all things, not seeking my own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved. Now this is kind of interesting. If you were to like step back and you you look at the flow of ideas that we find in these verses from 23 to 33, you'll find that Paul actually, as he's writing this, puts in what's called a chiassic structure. What that means is that he has an idea here to open up and he has an idea here to close, and they're basically the same thing. And then the second idea that he introduces, and the second to last idea that he presents, they're parallel as well. And then what's in the middle of them is what connects the two sides. It's a really interesting thing. It's almost a form of poetry. It's not the way that we do poetry. We do the rhymey thing, you know. But they rhyme ideas. In fact, it gives you an indication of what Paul's really trying to emphasize here. So liberty is limited for what? For the sake of edification. Verse 23. Verse 33. Liberty is limited for the glory of God. So I am I'm gonna say no to this, even though I have the right to do it, because I want this person to be edified, and I want them to be edified ultimately because I want God to get glory in their life. Those are the two ideas that are connected. Or then when we look at the middle, we do this for the sake of another's edification. That's why we limit our freedoms. And so it's really not about us. It's really about God's glory and that person's good. And so we should desire to see people be saved. We may have people that are not Christians, and the truth is that they're watching our life, especially if you got saved a little bit later. And so, you know, maybe your your brother, your your your parents, your aunts and uncles, your cousins, whatever, they've known you as a certain person your whole life. Then you become a Christian. They're like, okay, is this thing for real or not? And they might even like throw some little tests out there to just kind of like see how you respond. And those are tough situations. When we get in situations like that, we don't draw the line because we're like, oh I'm the good Christian that It doesn't do those things anymore. We just go, you know what? I want to maintain a Christian testimony. Obviously, the fact that they're asking me this question is an indication that in their mind they know I probably shouldn't do this. Or they think I shouldn't do this, or I should have a problem with this. And so understanding that, I want there to be a consistency that is demonstrated in front of these people. Or when I think about a person that maybe is a young Christian and there's an area that they're struggling with, and the truth is they probably aren't looking at this the right way. And um I got the bigger picture in mind than they do, but for the sake of their conscience to not wound them as a person, what am I going to do? I'm going to be very deferential toward them in that situation. Why am I doing that? Because I love them. Now do I want them to always look at it that way? Not really. Okay, but I can't control that. I'm not I'm not God. I don't have the ability to make them change in that particular area. So out of deference, out of love, out of desire not to wound that person I'm going to meet them where they are so that that does not become an unnecessary offense that causes them to stumble. That's the kind of stuff we're talking about. When he uses the word salvation, he really leaves it kind of general. It could be the salvation of a lost person. It could be someone who's a believer but is going down a road that they shouldn't. We're not talking about loss of salvation. I'm talking about the judgment seat of Christ and how that's going to affect them. I'm talking about their growth into Christ-likeness, their maturing. That's the kind of stuff that's on the line. We need to be very, very cautious about these issues. We should love people that God has brought into our lives. And to the very best of our ability, we should work to build bridges with them and be cautious that we don't undermine those bridges that are being built by our actions. So how do we apply it in the end? First thing I'll say is this. Work to cultivate a healthy conscience. We do not want to look at things in an in an unbiblical way. A healthy conscience is not the strictest conscience. It's also not the freest conscience. It's what's founded on Scripture. Two, refuse to compromise. If you know that something is wrong, don't don't go down that road. Don't play games with that. Third, be selfless. Just because you can doesn't mean you should. Just because you can doesn't mean you have to. Do not make things unnecessarily complicated. You don't have to ask questions in certain situations Leave it alone. But if the issue is raised, guess what? Make the adjustments because of the scenario that you're in. It's funny today I was at wrestling practice with my boys. They're wrestling. And this this one boy raises his hand. He's like, coach, I gotta ask you a question. He's like, how do you know what move they're gonna do? And the coach is like, You don't. You just react in the situation where it's like, hey, I'm gonna do a double leg takedown. I just wanna let you know that. That's not the way it works. You have to adjust in the moment. You know, it's not just true in wrestling and football and other sports. It's true in life. Sometimes you have to make adjustments in the moment. Do all things for the glory of God. Consider what's best for your neighbor. That's really what this whole entire section of Scripture is all about. And you know what the problem with the Corinthian church was? They were very proud, they were very self-centered, and they wanted to know where the line was, and they wanted to know what their rights were because they didn't care about how it affected their neighbor. And we need to be the exact opposite. May God help us to do that. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, I thank you for this passage of Scripture, and I pray that the things that we've discussed tonight will be helpful. I pray that you would give us wisdom, help us to have a spirit of grace and humility toward one another. When it comes to dealing with complicated issues, I pray that we would draw the line the right place. And I pray that we would desire the growth and the edification of others, even ahead of our own rights. Pray especially for those who are raising their kids. Just give them wisdom as they navigate these complicated areas, as we work with family members who don't know the Lord, or maybe are even watching our lives, wanting to know if we we're genuine in what we say. I pray that we would navigate these areas carefully Hopefully. May you be glorified in our lives through these things and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen