Well good evening. Good to see each of you. After a week of rain, it's uh I I saw the s the sun for five minutes this afternoon and it was It was wonderful. So anyway, welcome. Good to see each of you. Let's go ahead and uh bow together for a word of prayer, and then um uh we'll get started with our lesson this evening. Father, thank you for your care in our lives. Thank you for the protection that we enjoy. Thank you so much for the missions month that we're in and the emphasis, the focus that we're having. We thank you for uh the the various missionary families and the way that you are blessing each of them and working through them. And I pray that as a church we would be encouraged by the time that we're we spend together reflecting on what they're doing. And I pray that you'll bless us tonight as we study your word. Help me to communicate these truths effectively. Help us to be able to internalize it. And help me to just present the text very clearly. And bless our time together of prayer. May it be very sweet and encouraging. And bless the children in the back as they're studying your word. I pray that you would bless those who are working with them. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Ephesians chapter 5 is where we are this evening. Ephesians chapter 5. And uh as you're turning there, I wanted to tell you A a funny story, I don't know if a story is the right word, but we uh we've ordered more of our gospel tracts and these these gospel tracts have a little QR code on there. And so if you take a picture of the QR code, it goes to our gospel video. So we ordered a thousand of these and they arrived uh yesterday and we were really watching them because I was afraid that they were gonna like sit out in the rain and then you know that that wouldn't be a good thing. So anyway we opened up our box and as we were going through them the the coloring wasn't good on about maybe 15 of them or so. And so we were a little disappointed with that. And we decided to write the company and say we had problems with some of our tracks and uh so they're sending us an additional thousand for free So um anyway, I thought that was uh neat. Um the ones that we got, most of them are good. Some of them The quality's not the best, but I I'm really thankful for that. So uh a thousand of them for free. We might as well pass them out and get the gospel out into our county, right? Um So anyway, we're in Ephesians chapter 5 this evening. We're talking about the roles of men, and uh this evening we are moving into the area of the role of a husband. And so We're going to spend probably a couple of weeks here because there's a lot that I need to go through. And then obviously we'll go to the role of The wife next. So Ephesians chapter 5. We're going to read the entire section, verses 21 to 33, and then we're going to focus in on the sections that are dealing with husbands. It says the following, submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God. Wives, submit yourself unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, and he is the Savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in everything. Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it, that he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word, that he might present it to himself a glorious church. not having spot or wrinkle or any such thing, but that it should be holy and without blemish. So ought men to love their wives even as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself. For no man ever yet hated his own flesh, but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church For we are members of his body, of his flesh, of his bones. For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, shall be joined unto his wife, and they shall too be one flesh. This is a great mystery, but I speak concerning Christ in the church. Nevertheless, let every one of you in particular so love his wife, even as himself, and the wife see that she reverence her husband. Now the passage that we're looking at is really driving at practical Christianity in a very personal context. The summary for this section is that practical Christianity and the transforming power of the gospel are most practically realized in our homes. Ephesians 5 lays out what a spirit-filled life looks like in the context of the home. Now I know that the passage is primarily focused on men. And and and that is going to be the primary focus of of this study tonight. However, there are a lot of very practical things that we're going to see in these verses that don't just apply to men or to husbands. When we look at these verses, what we need to realize is that what he's really driving at is spirit-filled Christianity works itself out in the right kind of relating one to another. And so he's focusing on husbands, but these are are often principles that would apply to the rest of us. So the first thing I wanted to do is I want to begin with Some very basic truths that are kind of summaries. God created the family with a clearly articulated order Now I know that that's not popular for people to actually say or to look at today. There's a huge debate within Christian circles as to whether or not there actually is a clearly defined order. in the home and in the church. But I'm going to tell you the scripture couldn't be more clear on this issue. Let me read it again. We're just going to read verses 23 and 24, but I want you to see from lots of other scriptures that that the scripture is very clear on this matter. Ephesians 5 23, the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church. He is the Savior of the body. Therefore, as the church is subject unto Christ So let the wives be to their own husbands and everything. Let me give you a couple of important observations. Scripture is not ambiguous about the male-female distinction or the order that God has established within the home. There's no ambiguity here Let me read to you some other passages that help us to understand why Paul made such a statement. The first one is Genesis chapter 2, verse 18. The Lord God said, It's not good that the man should be alone. I will make him and help. So God created Adam and then he said Adam needs someone to come alongside of him and to help him in his work That does demonstrate an order. In fact, Paul's actually going to refer back to this when he talks about it in 1 Timothy chapter 2, and he talks about roles within the worship context in the local church. He's going to go all the way back to creation and he's going to make his application out of what we've just read in Genesis 2. 18. Another passage, 1 Corinthians chapter 11, which is talking about the role of women in the church and men in the church, says the following. I would have you know that the head of every man is Christ, and the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. Now, that particular passage is very important because it helps us to understand that this concept of order is not just a church matter, it's not just a family matter. It's actually a matter, even within the Godhead itself, there's a distinctive role and function and order Even within the three persons of the Godhead. And there's a lot of implication there that I want to kind of break down in just a moment The third passage is the passage that we just read, verse number three of chapter five. The husband is the head of the wife. And then in 1 Timothy 2, verse eleven, it says this. Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection. I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man. but to be in silence. For Adam was first formed than Eve. Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression. Now, that particular passage would need to be broke down quite a bit, okay? But let me give you the basic context. In the context, he's saying this. God has appointed men to be in the pastoral eldership, leadership roles within churches. So he's delegated to men, not all men, but particularly men who are in that that office He's delegated them the responsibility of leading the church, of teaching and instructing in the Word of God. And so what he's basically saying is those are the individuals that are to lead in the church. And here's the reason why he explains that. The reason that I bring this up is because there is an order that is laid out in Scripture. The second point that I'd like us to see is this. The modern attempts that some Christians are making to accommodate the world's view on the issue is both foolish and destructive. Now if you're going to look at 2,000 years of church history, here's what you're going to discover. This view has been pretty much the same view amongst all Christians until probably the last 50 years. So the question is, is it that in the last 50 years Christians have discovered something in the Bible that no Christian has seen for, you know. 1,950 years of church history, or is it that the modern Christian church has decided they don't really want to stand on this issue anymore? And the answer is, there's nothing new there, okay? It's an accommodation. It doesn't make sense for us to look at this issue and say, you know what, God didn't know what he was doing. Either we believe that God has the right to order his creation the way that he chooses to, or we make ourselves the standard. Does that make sense? Or we either submit to the lordship of Christ or we rebel against it. Or another way to put it is we either believe in God's wisdom and goodness. And that this is for our own good, or we distrust the Lord. So the bottom line is that when we come to these kinds of issues where we talk about order in the church in the home on these particular issues, either we say, God has the right as the creator to say, this is the way I design things. Or we believe that we have the right to kind of tell him what we think it should be. Or either we're going to submit to his authority or we're going to rebel against it. Or we're going to say, we know what's best he doesn't. We're not going to trust him. In other words, it's an issue of faith. It's an issue of submission to God. Now, I'm not going to just leave this here without some explanation. The fact is that this issue of authority is a delicate issue because it does get abused in a fallen world. And sometimes people will take scriptures and they will misapply them, they'll twist them to kind of protect themselves when they're doing things that are evil and that are wrong and that are an abuse of authority. So we are going to get into that a little bit as we move our way through this. But we need to recognize the modern accommodation is foolish, it's rebellious, it's wrong. Third thing I want us to see is this distinctive roles and order in relationship Do not necessitate or imply that there is an inferiority in someone's ability or in their value or in their position in that relationship. There is no necessity of this or implication of this. In other words, when the Bible says that a husband is the head of his house, he's not saying the husband has greater value than the wife in his home. He's not saying that. He's not saying, well, the husband is a more competent individual than the wife. There are lots of families that, when you talk about financial matters, the wife is far more competent than the husband When it comes to handling certain issues, some wives do far better than their husbands. This is not about ability, this is not about value This is about order. This is about where the responsibility ultimately lies in the eyes of God. And so I want you to think in those terms. When God is looking at a family, who is he saying is most responsible for the guidance of that home? It's not your kids, it's not the wife, it's the husband. That's really what it ultimately comes down to. Who does God hold responsible for where this thing is going? In a similar scenario, how does God look at the church? Who does God hold responsible for the shepherding of the church? It's not the deacons. It's not the individual members. It's It's those who teach the Word of God. It's those who are in that pastoral role. And so those are the individuals that bear the responsibility and will answer To God with the greatest accountability. And so that's an important part of this discussion for us to understand And so to understand how this works, go back to that illustration of the verse that we read in 1 Corinthians chapter 11. He says, I would have you know that the head of every man is Christ, the head of the woman is the man, and the head of Christ is God. Now when he Talks about the head of Christ being God. He's talking about the Son's submission to the Father within the Godhead. Question Is the son inferior to the father? Answer is of course not. When when the father says to the son, go do this, and he says, yes. Is he saying you have more value than me? Of course not. So what's really going on is that it's showing you there's a distinction of role There's a distinction of function. So even when we talk about this issue of our salvation, you know, our salvation begins with the Father's plan. And it is the Father sending the Son to go and die for our sins and to rise from the dead. And so the Father has the plan, and the Son goes to the cross and accomplishes that plan. And then the Spirit is the one who opens our eyes to our lost condition, brings us to see the truth so that there's repentance toward God, there's faith in Christ, and then the Holy Spirit comes and indwells us. There is no inferiority, superiority there. It's just different roles in one big picture. And the same thing would be true when we talk about our homes. The big picture is that God wants our household to honor Him. And so He gives husbands a certain role in that household. He gives wives a certain role in that household. And if we will function under the authority of Christ, and we are pressing toward his will, guess what happens? We as a family do the right thing. And when we don't, guess what happens? We have all kinds of problems. And then who does God ultimately hold responsible? Well, it's the person who's at the top. That's who He's gonna answer, that's who's gonna answer to him with the greatest culpability. So the Spirit isn't inferior to the Son or the Son to the Father. The order within the Godhead doesn't imply a kind of inherent deficiency Order is a matter of differing function. All three persons are working together in perfect harmony to accomplish a unified purpose. And by the way, don't miss this. When Paul gets into this issue of the home and how a husband is to relate to his wife and a wife is to relate to her husband. He actually goes back to gospel-related issues. And so he's saying that the roles within the home are supposed to picture something. They're supposed to teach something. And so when we have a dysfunctional family and we're not functioning like a husband should or like a wife should, guess what happens? The picture is blurred. God wants the picture to be clear. Fourthly, there are limits to all human authority. This includes the home. There are limits. to all human authority. This includes the home. When the Bible says that the husband is the head of the wife, It doesn't mean that he is a tyrant who can do anything he wants in his household, and his wife has to just be quiet and sit under that authority. That's not what it's saying He is answerable to God. And there may even be times within a home context that a husband abuses his authority, misuses his authority. And actually puts his wife in a position where she's got to submit to God and frustrate him. It can happen, okay? Delicate situations But it can happen. In 1 Corinthians chapter 11, verse 3, he says, I would have you know the head of every man is Christ. 1 Peter 5, 2 to 3. I love this illustration. I know we're stepping outside of the home and we're stepping into the church context, but there's a lot of parallel here. Because a husband's role is a shepherding kind of a role, and a pastor's role in the church is a shepherding kind of role. Here's what he says in 1 Peter 5. 2. He says, feed the flock of God. Whose flock is it? It's God's. Taking the oversight thereof. There is authority. There is a a role that that has responsibility to oversee, okay? Taking the oversight, not by constraint, but willingly, not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind. Basically he's saying, you're not in this for yourself You are submitting to the authority of somebody higher than you. He then says, not as being lords over God 's heritage, but being examples to the flock. Notice how he is continually reminding those who have authority they're answerable to God. That's really, really important. So when we talk about human authority, there are limits. There's limits to the government's authority, there's limits to a husband's authority, there's limits to a parent's authority, there Limits to a pastor's authority We are all answerable to somebody higher than us, that is God Himself. So let me kind of put it like this The husband's function as the head speaks primarily of his moral responsibility to God as the under-shepherd of his home And I use the term under-shepherd because he is shepherding souls, his wife's soul, his children's soul, but he's doing it under the authority of Christ. And he's supposed to do it according to Christ's authority, not his own. So as a husband, my job is not to say, you're submitting to me as much as I am pointing you to submit to him, and I'm the one that God's put in this relationship to continually point you back to that. That's what he's saying. Secondly, he carries the responsibility to continually point his family back to their duty to God. We talk about authority. In a home, we're not talking about a person having the self-serving position where he does whatever he wants, but someone who has the weight. of responsibility and the duty to point people continually to the authority of Christ. A husband needs to be asking the question, how does God want this family to function? And then his job is to make sure that it does that. Truth number two. And I don't know how far we will get beyond this. The church's focus on mentoring unmarried men foreshadows God's command to husbands. Now last week we went to Titus chapter 2. And we talked a lot about character of young men. And we were emphasizing the fact that we've got to teach our boys so that they become men of integrity. Here's what it says in Titus 2. He says, young man likewise exhort to be sober-minded, in all things showing thyself a pattern of good works indoctrines showing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity, sound speech that cannot be condemned, that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you. Now All of these qualities that older men are supposed to be pouring into and trying to see shaped in our younger men. All of these qualities are going to have implication on their role as husbands when they get to that stage in life. Notice the qualities. Sober-mindedness. Be sensible. Have self-control. Be clear-headed. God's going to command a husband to be, he's going to say, you're the head of the household, and your wife is to submit to your authority. And you're going to answer to me, guess what? If you're in that role, you need to be a clear-headed person. You need to be sensible. You need to be self-controlled. You can't be self-centered. So he says young men who are not yet married need to be sober-minded, sensible people. Why? Because then they'll be sober-minded, sensible husbands. Showing a pattern of good works, to live in a way that's observably commendable and worthy of being followed. The scripture talks about a wife having honor toward her husband. Well, guess what? If a husband is a disreputable person, she could have a really hard time doing that. If if a person doesn't have a commendable character, I hope no woman would marry him. I'm serious Because he's going to bring so much pain and so much suffering, so much trouble to that woman and whatever children they have. And so these young men need a pattern of good works, indoctrine showing uncorruptness. If a husband's supposed to have a shepherding role in the family, he's supposed to be pointing people back to the Lord, well, he better know how to handle the word of God. He better understand what is true and what is right and have good doctrine. So in good doctrine, showing uncorruptness means be a rigorous student of the Word of God. This is one of the reasons our young men need to be focusing on these things when they're when they're young men. Gravity, conducting yourself in a way that's worthy of respect and dignity. Such an important quality. Sincerity, being genuine. There's nothing more frustrating to a family When they know that a family member goes out into the public and presents himself in a way that's a complete farce That's really frustrating. They look at this individual and they say, Oh, everyone's saying, Well, what a great man. He loves the Lord. He's got good character. He really loves people. And you're like, not in his house, he doesn't. Lots of people like that. Guess what? Sincerity, being genuine. Sound speech that cannot be contempt. Speaking in a way that doesn't deviate from the truth. Edifying, enriching, and enriching. We're to talk not tonight so much about the idea that a husband is to cherish and to nerd nerd nourish his wife. And this is a really important concept of the shepherding role. Well, guess what? If a person's going to do that, then they need to know how to talk it away that edifies and builds up. And lastly, a blameless character. What's the point? The point is that these qualities and these disciplines And what comes out of this, these are an essential part of being a godly husband. Whenever we look at what the scripture commands, The scripture gives wonderful balance and wonderful continuity. God's saying, before you become a husband, this is the kind of man you should be. And when you step into this role, this is how you're to function in that role. And guess what? When a man is doing the right thing when they're young and unmarried, and then they step into that role, they become wonderful husbands who bless their families. So, truth number three. Our home should function in a distinctly Christian manner. Our homes should function in a distinctly Christian manner. And that's really what Ephesians 5 is all about. The first verse that I read to you says the following. Submitting yourself one to another in the fear of God. You say, what exactly is that all about? Well, if you look at where this falls in the Ephesians, in the book of Ephesians. He goes from this issue of a person being filled with the Spirit and walking with the Lord, and he goes from the theological concepts Into the practical realm. And so I would say that verse 21, submitting yourself one to another in the fear of God is going to get broken down into the family context. This is how a husband submits himself one to another in the fear of God. This is how a wife submits herself one to another in the fear of God. This is how a a a father submits himself one to another in the fear of God. And then children and then those who are servants and he goes into every single context. Of the way these people would have lived. Submitting to yourself one to another in the fear of God. Another way to put this is that you're supposed to defer your rights In a way that is ultimately pointing to his authority. That's really what it's all about. In fact, when a husband functions in the way that Ephesians chapter 5 calls us to function, guess what? It is sacrificial on every single level. And when a wife does it, it's sacrificial on every single level. And when a father does it, sacrificial. When a child does it, sacrificial. In other words, this person is laying aside their rights. And submission to God for the good of the people around them. That's really what it's all about. And so let's dig into this for just a few minutes, but we will not complete it. The first one is this. You know what amazes me about these verses is that God never commands the husband to take the lead. Read through the verse. It never says take the lead. It says love. It says here's how you love. But he simply states the husband is the head. In other words, being a head isn't something that you do as much as it's something that you are. I don't know if you you you you understand the distinction there. Something that I do is something that's I'm motivated to do this. Something that I am is something that God gave me In other words, when you get married, men, you become, in the eyes of God, the one who is responsible for that union. You initiated it. You convinced her to say yes. And she said yes. You're responsible to God. So when he says that the husband is the head, he's not saying, Hey husbands, you need to start being the head. He says, You are Some of you are great examples, some of you are poor examples, some of you are doing a really good job, some of you doing a really poor job. The point is, it's about how God views Who is going to carry the responsibility for that particular union? That's really what it's all about. The second thing I'm going to mention is that the gospel is the focal point for how the husband is to function as the head of his family. Notice what he says. He says the husband is to love his wife as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. So what is the analogy? It's going back to the gospel. He's saying, you want to know how you're supposed to love your wife, husband? You're supposed to love her sacrificially. for her own good, even if it's going to cost you. It's an amazing concept. It's it's it's a very high high calling It's a distinctly Christian approach to ordering our families and our family life. You know, people that lived in the ancient world who were uh who who watched Christians would have never thought in these terms. Okay? They wouldn't. They would have had a pragmatic way of ordering their homes. I would say, and certainly in a Jewish context, men had very strong authority in their homes. In the Gentile context, it depended on the city, and it depended on the culture, and it depended on the time. But their authority was really not about a Godward focus as much as it was about I'm stronger than you are. I have a stronger position in society than you do. I can make your life miserable if I want to. And so it was pragmatic and it was prone to abusiveness. But that's not what we see in this text. There is no pragmatic side to this. This is all about the gospel. This is all about our pointing back to the authority of Christ. It's a distinctly Christian approach to ordering the family. And so we see the first command. And this command is really what encompasses everything else we'll talk about. Husbands, love your wife. That's what it says in verse 25. If a man doesn't love his wife, guess what he's doing? He's rebelling against God. Now I didn't say, say that you love your wife. Pretend that you love your wife. Tell other people that you love your wife. You need to love your wife. They're different. I can't tell you how many times I've seen men, particularly in like you know, your counseling type type of context. And you ask him, do you love your wife? Yes, I do love my wife. And I'll be like, well then what about this right here? Well, I don't like her very much. Oh really? You don't like her very much, but you love her sacrificially. I'm I'm not seeing this connection here, okay? I'm not seeing this This is the command. And then he explains he puts a little bit of teeth to it. He says, even as Christ loved the church and gave himself for it. A husband's love for his wife is to be sacrificial after the example of Christ. Now, let me just say this When we talk about Christian love, we are all commanded to love one another after the example of Christ. We are. In fact, if we go to 1 John and we talk about brotherly affection and Christian love, we are reminded that we are to be patient with people because Christ is patient with us. We 're to forgive people because Christ forgave us. And so even when we talk about other areas of interpersonal relationship for Christians, he always goes back to the gospel and how God has dealt with us. But in this particular context, it's a little bit more. He's saying, like Christ laid his life down and died for you, you've got to be willing to pay the ultimate price for your own spouse. And there's a lot that we could say here. For instance, who is the one who initiated this love relationship? It was God. You know, we love him because he first loved us. He he pursued us and we were his enemies. So if that's the standard that I am responsible to maintain, that has a huge implication on how I'm supposed to behave myself in my household. This love was demonstrated practically and sacrificially. This love is very patient. One of the things that God really teaches us once we get married and once we have children is he starts teaching us a lot about his patience. He teaches us a lot about how he is willing to suffer long with us and how he meets us where we are in all of our weaknesses and all of our flaws and all of the areas that we struggle with. And he teaches that through the relationships we have with other people. So he initiates this love. And the way that we demonstrate love toward our wife is something that should actually enhance other people's ability to understand the love that God has for them. So, when a child grows up in a home that is very, very abusive, that's a very uh harsh environment. Lots of yelling and lots of vindictive things and a lot of threats and you look at the relationship in the home and they see a terrible example. Guess what? It filters into a certain area. You know where it filters into? How do you view God? It really does. There are some people that when you talk about the fatherly love of God, they look at you and they go, I don't know what that's like. Why is that? It's because of what they saw in their homes. But then you have people that grow up in a context where they see they see a rich Example of relationship between a husband and wife. And you know what it does? When you tell them that God loves them, they think about the affection and the warmth. And the relationship they see in their own household. And it presents this beautiful picture to them. Believe it or not, that's what God wants. One of the reasons that God ordained the home, amongst so many reasons, is he wants there to be a visible picture to help us understand healthy relationship. And as we understand healthy relationships, we begin to appreciate to a greater extent God's love for us. That's a very important concept here. The third thing I'm going to mention, and then I'm going to stop at this point, is we need to recognize the sanctifying purpose of this love. Notice the way he puts it in verse 26. He says That we are to husbands love your wife as Christ loved the church, gave himself for it, that here is the reason he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word. Now, you say, well, why does Paul talk about how God uses this love to basically mature us and grow us and sanctify it. Why does he use that analogy and remind us of that aspect of God's care in our lives in the context of the husband -wife relationship? It's a question we should all be asking ourselves. Do you know why it is? Because a husband's shepherding role is to do that for his family. In other words, the husband has a shepherding relationship with his kids, and even one with his spouse. When a husband is relating to his wife, he should be caring for her soul Christ's intent was to sanctify us through the word. Our relationship to our wife should have a shepherding dynamic to it. We are literally caring for our wife's soul. We are supposed to be creating an environment where she can blossom and flourish spiritually. Now, I'm not saying every household's like that. Lots aren't. But every Christian household should be like this. My responsibility as a husband is to be watching where my wife is in her own walk with the Lord. So that I am continually thinking about ways to help her to grow spiritually. I don't have the power to make her grow spiritually. That's not what God's called me to do. It's to help keep an environment where she can grow spiritually. One of the ways that I do that is I'm a good example. I keep the word in the center of our home. I do what's right. I lead by example. That's what we have to do, man. There might be times that our wife is getting overwhelmed and burdened with life because we're not helping enough. And we have to help eliminate that load on some level to help strengthen it. This is something that I've had to come to as a realization in my own life so many times. I have six kids. And I'm a pastor. The truth is, my wife carries a huge load. And there are some times that I have to step back and go, hold on a second. I've got to sort of lift her up and help her in these areas. And the truth is we all have to do that. We all have to be looking for those areas, leading by example, strengthening, encouraging, building up. This love is not like love your wife so that she'll make things better for you. And sometimes in counseling people do this They'll kind of say, hey, you know, there's a lot of problems in your marriage. Hey, if you'd start doing this, then you'd start getting this. And guess what? You're using the flesh to incentivize people, okay? You do what's right because it's right. You don't use the flesh as a carrot stick like, hey, let's incentivize people. No. Paul doesn't do that in this text. He says, just like Christ sacrificed for you, you need to sacrifice for your wife. Just like he is doing this so that you can grow and mature and thrive as a Christian, hey, your responsibility is to shepherd the soul of God. of your wife. And so here's the question, man. How are we doing in these areas This is not the end of the section. It actually gets a little bit more in depth as we get going, but that's why I have to stop here. He gets into some very rich concepts. It is our duty before God to be godly man. Who love our wife and are caring for her soul. Just like it's our duty as a father to be shepherding. our children. It's just like it's my duty as a pastor to be shepherding the flock of God. Just like it's our duty as those who are mentoring younger Christians to invest in them so that they can grow and mature spiritually. It's our duty in our homes to love our wives. And so let's ask the Lord to help us to do that. Our ability to love is something that is a fruit of the Spirit. If we're not growing spiritually, we're not gonna love. We're just not. It's not something that's like, oh, I got it when I was 25, and I could check that one off. Love is something we grow in. It's something we mature in. Till the day we die, all the different circumstances that we go through, God will use them to kind of continually mature us in these areas. May God help us to be godly men in these areas. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, it's a very high and heavy calling. I pray that you'd help us to be diligent in these areas. Be with our men. Help us to love our wives according to the biblical instruction. Help us to be strong and help us to be wise. Help us to be tender. Help us to be spirit-filled. Help us to be vigilant. Help us to notice where we need to step in and help and encourage and strengthen. I pray that you would help us have strong families. I pray especially for our young men who are not married and someday they will be. I pray that you would help them to develop these qualities. That will help them to lead their homes the way that you've intended them, to function in a way that honors you. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen.