And the rest of you, I want to ask you to take your Bibles and for a few moments this morning, I'd like us to look at Isaiah chapter 40 again. In fact, you may not realize this. But this morning, as you are watching the cantata, this passage of scripture was actually quoted. Now it wasn't being quoted necessarily in the context here, but it was being quoted uh in in part of the dialogue. Idea chapter 40, here's what the scripture says this morning. It says, Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God. Speak he comfortably to Jerusalem, cry unto her, that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned, for she hath received of the Lord's hand double for all her sins. The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God Every valley shall be exalted, every mountain and hill shall be made low, and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain. And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together, for the mouth of the Lord hath spoken it. I'd like us to bow together for just a moment and ask the Lord to help us to understand this passage of Scripture and how it relates to what we just witnessed this morning, which was really the retelling of the birth of Christ. This passage explains the significance of that story, what took place 2,000 years ago. Let's bow for prayer. Father, thank you for every person that's here this morning. It's a privilege to be able to host this moment, to be able to present. The retelling of the birth of Christ and the significance and the weight of all those things. Thank you for all the beautiful music that reminds us of your glory Music is a powerful gift. We can express worship to you. I pray that as we look at this text, you'd help us to understand it, understand why it's significant, understand why it matters. And Father, if there's someone here this morning that does not understand the gospel, that has never turned to the Lord Jesus, this Savior that died on a cross many years ago. That today will be the day they humble their hearts in your presence, they acknowledge their guilt and their sin, and they place their faith in the risen Savior who died for their sins. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The passage in front of us, Isaiah 40, is set in a fascinating context. In fact, whenever we're reading prophecy, we need to recognize that A lot of times being in the New Testament, we don't realize what's going on. In fact, it really would help us to go back to this passage of Scripture and understand the setting. in order to appreciate the words of Isaiah the prophet hundreds and hundreds of years before the Lord Jesus Christ was born and ultimately went to the cross. So I want to answer a couple of questions this morning from the scriptures to help us to understand what the passage is talking about. The first question I want to ask this morning is the question. Why is there a need for comfort? And really when we say a need for comfort, notice in verse number one he says, comfort ye, comfort ye my people. Obviously, that's what this passage is all about. It's all about people being comforted. The question is why? Why do they need to be a comforted people? Well, the answer to that question is found Not in chapter 40, but actually a few verses before in chapter 39, verse 6. If you look back in your Bibles, this is what it says. It says, Behold the days come that, and then he explains some things that are going to take place And the immediate context of this prophecy that God gave to the prophet Isaiah was a sobering warning that God was going to judge a group of people that had rejected his authority. They had rejected his holiness. They had rejected his laws. And they were living in a way that was ultimately a rebellion against their creator. In fact, Israel was a nation that was in great sin. In fact, last week we talked about a little bit about that. So if you're interested in a little bit more explanation, you can go back and look at what we looked at last week. But to appreciate it, let's go. back in history to understand who was on the throne right before this event took place To find that out, we have to go to 2 Kings 21, and we're introduced to a man named Manasseh. Now, Manasseh was the longest ruling king in all of Israel's history. He ruled 55 years. So it's a pretty amazing thing. There are very few people that have done the same thing for 55 years. This man Manasseh ruled Israel for 55 years. Manasseh was born in the last 15 years of a man named Hezekiah. Hezekiah is the person that Isaiah is talking to. And Isaiah is predicting what's going to happen after Hezekiah dies. And actually, Hezekiah's son, Manasseh, is going to be a really big part into why God was going to do what he did. In 2 Kings 21, this is what it says about Manasseh. It says he was twelve years old when he began to reign, and fifty and five years he reigned in Jerusalem. Now listen to the way that God's word describes this man 's life. The way he ruled the people. It says that Manasseh seduced the people to do more evil than the nations whom the Lord destroyed before the children of Israel. Now, if you're familiar with biblical history, you'll understand that God drove out groups of people who were living in that region. because of the tremendous abominations and the evils that those nations were involved in. If you want to know what those things are, Go back to the Old Testament and just read about the history. Or you can actually go back to ancient history and you can find about some very terrible things that went on in those ancient civilizations. These verses tell us that Manasseh led the people of Israel, God's chosen people, to be far worse Than the people that God had judged before they came into the land. He says, therefore the Lord God of Israel says, Behold, I will bring such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah that whosoever heareth of it, both his ears shall tingle. What he's basically saying is if you hear about what's going to happen, you won't even believe it. Now when we study history, if we read the biblical history, We'll see, that's exactly what happened. And he explains why that happened. He says, It's because that which was evil was done in my sight, and they have provoked me to anger since the day their fathers came forth out of Egypt. He says, Manasseh has shed innocent blood very much till he hath filled Jerusalem from one end to another. So what's the point? Well, the point is that God's saying, I'm going to judge these people. A lot of people don't realize this, or maybe we realize it, but we don't think about it. God is a holy God. He is righteous. He doesn't watch evil and say, ah, whatever. He's gonna deal with evil. Now he is slow and he's patient and he reaches out to people and he extends his hand of mercy, but he doesn't do that indefinitely. And that's really what's ultimately at play in these verses. In Jizaiah 39, 3 to 7, he explains that because Hezekiah has been proud, has been arrogant and his offspring are going to go far beyond where he did. God is going to judge that nation. Well you might say, well I'm glad I'm not one of them. I'm glad I'm not too However, one of the things that we learn as we read the Bible is that the Bible doesn't just talk about people who lived back then. It talks about human nature. And human nature is very consistent from one generation to another Whether you realize it or not, people are fundamentally no different today when it comes to our core principles and value, who we are as people. We are no different than people who lived thousands and thousands of years ago. You say, well, we don't do the barbaric things that people did in past generations. Really? There will be people who will judge our generation like we have judged the generations before us. I promise you it's true If God tarries, Christ does not return in our lifetime, there will be generations who look at our generation and the things we permitted and the things that we celebrate in our societies. And they will think of us like we think of some from past generations. It's true. Human nature is no different today than it was in those days. And one of the things that's so constant about human nature is that we are masters of seeing others sin and ignoring our own. If you have children, you know what I'm talking about. I love my kids. I love them dearly. But the reality is that my kids are really good about saying My brother did this and by the end of the story you realize it was both ways a hundred percent. It's true How many times do I have to sit down and have to work through an issue with two individuals who are at odds? And by the end of the story, I kind of start getting the sense that maybe the fault is a little more on one side than the other, but there's a problem on both sides. Very, very common. We are masters of seeing fault in others, but not ourselves. And the truth is that the same kind of pride that governed Hezekiah's heart The same kind of pride that governs our hearts too. Listen to what the Bible says in Romans chapter 1. It's very pertinent to this discussion. He says in chapter 2, verse 1, he says, We're sure that the judgment of God is according to truth. Thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest those which do such things and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God? Despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance? After thy hardness and impenitent heart, you are treasuring up for yourself wrath against the day of the revelation of the righteous judgment of God. Who will render to every man according to his deeds. Notice what it's saying. We're really good about seeing others' sins. And the Bible says, while we look at other sins and we can point them out very well, we're also guilty. We are also guilty. When we call someone out for being dishonest, guess what? We've got a long history of examples of dishonesty in our own life. We call someone out for being proud. We call someone out for being self-centered. We call someone out for being uh whatever. We are very good about noticing the sins of others. and completely ignoring our own. And this passage of scripture is saying, you don't get to compare yourself to other people. You're held to the standard of God's perfect righteousness. And God gives us time and his patience so that we will recognize we've got to answer to God. They don't have to answer to us. There's a big difference. And then he says that as God is patient with us, there's a case being built against us if we reject God's offer of salvation. That's what he's saying. And so there's this massive case of guilt against all of us, and if it's not for the grace of God and the work of Christ That case will be brought against us, and we will be judged righteously forever. Our sins in the presence of a holy God ought to sober us. It ought to terrify us. So why did the people need comfort? It's because they were in trouble. And the fact is, we're in the same position. We are not the Jewish people of old. But we have the same fundamental problems in our own hearts that they had. That led to God's judgment visible. We deserve his judgment eternal. Second question I have. Well, who's going to be the one who brings the comfort? Well, the answer is actually in these verses. Notice what it says. It says, comfort ye, comfort ye, my people, saith who? Saith your God. Who's the one who is going to comfort? It's God Himself. The same God who says you're guilty and I'm going to judge you is the same God who says, I want to comfort you. Isn't that an amazing thing? Now we tend to not be that way. When people wrong us, we want them to get it. We want to see them get crushed. We want to see justice turn heavily on those who have wronged us. And here is the God of the universe, the holy, the righteous one, who sees and knows everything. And he says, You deserve my wrath and my judgment, but I want to comfort you. And the question is, how in the world? Can a holy just God do that? Before we answer that question, let me say this. God cannot compromise his justice. It says in Proverbs chapter 17, He that justifies the wicked and he that condemneth the just, even they are both an abomination to the Lord. You know, to put this in another way, if you go into a courtroom and you know that a person is guilty and everybody knows that the person is guilty, they violated the law, you know what They deserve according to the law. And the judge smiles and they say, Today I'm feeling really generous and I'm just going to let you off the hook. Whoever that person wronged is looking at them going, What? That's not your position. You're the judge. They're guilty. Where is justice? God establishes human government so that human government establishes human justice is supposed to reflect his justice And when people are unjust, God hates it. So can God be unjust? And no, he can't. There are certain things that God's nature is incapable of doing. One of them is being unjust. Being sinful against people. God cannot be unjust. It's against his character. It's against his nature. But there's a second truth that comes right alongside this principle. And that is that God's grace is beyond our comprehension. You know what the word grace is? It means giving somebody something that is good that they do not deserve. And the question every person should be asking here is: how does a God who is just not violate his justice? And show grace. That doesn't seem like they're compatible. And if that's what you're thinking right now, you're thinking correctly. If you don't understand one simple point: that God established a basis To grant grace. This is what the scripture says in Ephesians chapter 2. It says this But God who is rich in mercy for his great lover with he loved us Even when we were dead in sins hath quickened us together with Christ, by grace ye are saved, that in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace. And his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. The same God who says you're guilty is the same God who wants to offer pardon and forgiveness and cleansing. He wants to declare you righteous. So here's the question. How has he established a basis to give that comfort? He obviously says in the verses, he says, Comfort ye my people. So how does God do it? And I want to answer that question right here. And verse number one, he says , My people saith your God. The word my is personal, isn't it? Yes, it is personal. Okay? My is personal. Your is personal. Do you know what God is saying in these verses? There's a people within these people. Who are personally mine. I own them. They belong to me. There is a relationship with us. And that is the ultimate basis for me to say, I come from. Psalm 130 verses 3 to 4 says, If God, if the Lord should mark iniquity, O Lord, who shall stand? And the answer is nobody. He says, But there's forgiveness with thee that thou mayest be feared. There's only two kinds of people in the world. Two. You know what they are? They're people that are in Christ and people who are not That's the truth. In fact, there's lots and lots of scriptures that describe this concept of only two kinds of people in the world in a couple different ways to kind of give us the fullness of an appreciation for that concept. One of the ways that it's described is in Adam or in Christ. Under wrath or under grace? Condemned or redeemed. Every person in here is in one of those two positions. You say, well, can you tell looking at us? The answer is no. This isn't a physical characteristic. This is a positional reality in the eyes of a holy and righteous God. God knows who is in Christ and He knows who is not. Listen to some of these scriptures and how they describe, helping us to understand this concept. 1 Corinthians 15, 21 says this. By man came death. By man came also the resurrection of the dead. He's talking about two people. You know who brought death into the world? His name's Adam. You know who conquered death? His name's Christ. As in Adam all die, so in Christ shall all be made alive. Do you see that distinction? There's in Adam, there's in Christ. Romans chapter 5, verse 10, it says this. When we were the enemies of God, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life. He says we were the enemies of God, we are now reconciled to God. Do you see the distinction? One who is an enemy and one who is reconciled. One who's in Adam, one who's in Christ, one who's under death, one who is in life. That's a very clear distinction. Romans 5. 12, it says, by one man sin entered the world, and death by sin, so death passed on all men, for that all have sinned. Verse 19, as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous. Do you see the distinction? There's those who are righteous and those who are unrighteous, those who are under the disobedience of Adam. And those who are under the obedience of Christ, those who are under the death of Adam, and those who are under the life in Christ. There's a distinction. Two kinds of people in the world John chapter 5, verse 24. He says, Verily, verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word and believeth on him that sent me hath everlasting life. And shall not come into condemnation, but is passed from death unto life. Here's the great news. Just because you're in Adam doesn't mean you have to stay in Adam. Did you get that? Just because you're in Adam doesn't mean you have to stay. In Adam. He tells us how a person passes from death unto life How one goes from being in Adam to being in Christ, from being God's enemy to being redeemed, under God's wrath to being forgiven, being unrighteous to being righteous. How is it happening? It's by hearing these words. and believing on the Lord Jesus Christ. Listen to what it says in Romans 8. 1. It says that there is therefore now No condemnation to them which are in Christ. That word now is really important. Because it means that there was a time that your identity was different. Your identity was condemned. And your identity now is no condemnation because you are in Christ Jesus. Second Corinthians 5. 17, therefore if any man be in Christ, he is a new creature. Old things are passed away. Behold, all things are become new. Folks, the comfort is available because God has provided a means through which one and Adam, under wrath, under God's judgment, An enemy an enemy of God can pass from death to life, and it's all rooted in the person that He's talking about in these verses Christ took our place so that we could be redeemed. Galatians 3. 13, Christ hath redeemed us from the law by becoming a curse for us. First Peter three eighteen, Christ also once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God. First Peter 118, you are not redeemed with corruptible things a silver and gold from your vain conversation received by tradition from your father. Fathers, but with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot, who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, manifested in these last times for you. You know how a holy and righteous God can pour grace on a sinner? It's because Christ has paid our debt God's justice is not being violated when he forgives a sinner. God's justice is not being violated when he puts us in grace, in Christ, forgiven, free, and cleansed. He has poured out his justice on his perfect son. And Jesus willingly went to the cross to take our sin debt on himself. So the final question I want to answer this morning is this. How does the Messiah practically comfort his people? And the rest of the passage tells us. I'm going to just highlight this very quickly. The first thing that he mentions is that he sent someone to announce his coming. Isaiah forty verse three it says, He's the voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Do you know who that is? His name was John. John came preaching, prepare to meet the Messiah. In fact, this is uh if I remember this by next year. As I was driving in this morning, I was already thinking about what I want to do next year for the cantata. It's true. I know it's the weirdest thing in the world. We hadn't even done it yet, and I was always already thinking about it. And in my mind I said, you know what would be really neat? Remember this, Chanel. It's on the live stream. What would be really neat is to look at Elizabeth, the mother of John the Baptist. And to think about how these two were listening, they were reading through the Old Testament, and they believed in the coming of the Messiah, and the heaviness of heart that they felt because they weren't a part of the story. They were part of the story. They're part of the story because they were waiting for the Messiah. They were redeemed people. Because the story was really about God redeeming people like them. And they became a part of the story because God in his mercy allowed Elizabeth to conceive a child in her old age It's a great story. Next year, come back. Number two, he announced that his coming would establish a basis to right our wrongs. This is a fascinating statement. In chapter 40, verses 4 to 5, he says Every valley shall be exalted, every mountain and hill shall be made low, the crooked shall be made straight, the rough places plain, and the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together. Now you might go, what in the world does he mean? A mountain is made flat, a valley is lifted up, something that's crooked is going to be made straight, and what's rough will be made smooth. Well, a lot of times in prophecy, he would use figurative language to describe concepts that were coming about. And he's basically saying, there are people that are high, they're exalted, and God's going to bring them down. There are people that are lowly and they have nothing, and God's going to exalt them. There are things that are crooked , twisted. And God's going to correct them and straighten them out. They're things that are rough. It's going to make them smooth. In other words, Christ is coming to establish a basis, to give us forgiveness, and to establish a relationship with us as our shepherd. Number three, his announcement This announcement was based on the promise of God's work. I love this statement. Chapter 40, verse 5. He says this. Now think about this. When this was written, it was hundreds of years before the Messiah's birth. We are reading it thousands of years after the Messiah's birth. What was going to comfort and strengthen the people then was God said he was going to do something and his word is sure. What comforts us today is when God says he's going to do that, his word is sure, he accomplishes it, and I look back at the promise. That's what he's saying. He says, The mouth of the Lord has spoken it, the voice saying, Cry, and he said, What shall I cry? He says, All flesh is as grass, the godliness thereof is as the flower of the field. The grass withers, the flower fadeth. But the Spirit of the Lord bloweth upon it. Surely this people is grass. The grass withereth, the flower fadeth, but the word of our God shall stand forever. If God says he's going to do it, he does it. It's that simple. But perhaps the most unique of all the things he says is the last thing we'll say here. That's what we find in verses 9 through 11. He's going to redeem us to shepherd us. It says, Behold your God. Behold, the Lord God will come with strong hand. His arms shall rule. He shall feed his flock like a shepherd He shall gather the lambs with his arm and carry them in his bosom and shall gently lead those that are with young. You know, there was a time when Jesus made a statement. He says, I am the good shepherd, and I give my life for the sheep. You know what he's talking about? He's talking about that. In Psalm 23, I've I've read this with many people going through difficulties. Says the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He maketh me lie down in green pastures, he leads me beside the the waters. He restoreth my soul. He leads me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake. And then by the end of the Psalm he says, yeah walk through the valley of the shadow of death I'll fear no evil. For thou art with me. And he says, Surely goodness and mercy will follow me all the days of my life. I will dwell in the house of the Lord forever. You know what those verses tell us? The God who redeems us shepherds us. So when you go through a difficult water, a health crisis, your Heavenly Father strengthens you in that. When you go through a situation where you don't have wisdom and strength and you don't know what to do, guess what? Your heavenly father comes alongside. He strengthens you in that. When you're facing death, which we all will face one day, it brings to your mind all these truths to strengthen your heart as you face that final struggle of life. When somebody that you love dearly passes and you're there thinking about what it'll be like apart from them for a season, he comes alongside and he strengthens. There's so many different examples of how God allows us to pass through troubled waters and he shepherds our soul. You know why we come to God for comfort? Because there's no other place to go. And that's what the story was about this morning. It was about the fulfillment of that prophecy. The Lord came. He went to the cross. He took on our sin. He rose from the dead, and he offers to us forgiveness through himself. And he says if you're mine, I shepherds you. He says if you're in Adam, you can come and be in Christ. I invite you to place your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, what he did for you on the cross. Here's my question. Very simple question. Is he your shepherd? Do you know him as your savior? Does this story, which is not just a fairy tale, it is an historical fact With theological significance. Is this story personal? So personal that everything that you are identified as a person is rooted in that savior. He is your savior, your redeemer. He is your comfort. He is your shepherd That's the encouragement this morning. If you don't know the Lord Jesus Christ personally in such a way, then today's the day to make him your personal Savior. To trust in his finished work. Have you done that? It's a time for us as believers to remember what we have in Him. What incredible weight was accomplished for us. Let's bow together in prayer. Father, we think about the Christmas season, the greatest story ever told. Having the greatest weight of significance in all of history. If there is one that does not know you personally as the Lord Jesus Christ, their Savior, their Redeemer, They've never faced their sin and placed their trust in their Savior. I pray that today they'd do that. That pride wouldn't get in the way. Fear wouldn't get in the way. They would turn to you home. Humbly and trust in Christ. Father, for every Christian that's here, the Christmas season is sweet and bitter many times. People who've lost dear family members. People who are facing tremendous pressures. I pray that you will strengthen and uphold as the shepherd of your people, these dear brothers and sisters in Christ. Work in our hearts through your word this morning in Christ's name. Amen