Huh? You're ready. All right. Good evening. Like to welcome you to our Bible study tonight, and we're going to forego our opening song and uh just uh bow for prayer, get into the scriptures. And then have some prayer time together. So let's bow for prayer, and then we will look into the scriptures again tonight. Let's pray. Father, we're so grateful for the Word of God and the opportunity tonight to open the scriptures. I pray that as we look at this very difficult topic that we have been spending several weeks on, That you would help us to understand what the Bible teaches about this issue. Help us to recognize that all who live godly in Christ Jesus will suffer persecution and When a believer suffers for the sake of Christ, it's an indication that, in fact, their life is being transformed by the power of the gospel. And so I pray that tonight as we look at these truths You would encourage us and build our faith and build our strength and help us to be better equipped to face the challenges that we deal with in life. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen Okay, Matthew chapter 5 is where we are tonight, and we are looking at part number two of the second uh Sermon that we've been doing in the Sermon on the Mount on this section. And so this will be our third message on what is such an important topic. Again, it's Matthew chapter 5. We'll read verses 10 to 12 together. Here's what it says. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my sake. Rejoice and be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. For so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now, if you can remember back a couple of weeks, the first thing that we talked about is the fact that there are some Christians who who teach a false uh message called the prosperity gospel or prosperity theology. And what we mean by that is they basically teach that if you do good, then you're going to experience all good. Or if you give your life to Christ, or if you give financially, then God is almost obligated, because you have met certain criteria to bless your life, to give you And there really is tr some degree of truth to the fact that the way that we live our lives it does affect the the downstream outcomes. It's true that when you make good decisions Generally speaking, those good decisions end up giving you good outcomes. If you make good financial decisions, typically you have good financial outcomes. If you make poor financial decisions, typically you have poor financial outcomes. A person who walks with the Lord. There are certain blessings that flow out of that walk with the Lord. But there's also a side to the Christian life where we have to recognize that this is not a formula that we plug in. And when we when we meet these certain criteria, then everything plays out exactly the way that we expect it to. In fact, that's just not how life works. And when we deal with a topic like this one, a topic of persecution, what we recognize is that the believer, the person who's walking with God, who's actually growing in their faith, they actually are being transformed through the power of the gospel, and their lives are very distinct and they're very different than the world around them. That believer in certain contexts is going to suffer far more than someone whose life bears almost no resemblance to the cause of Christ. In some ways it's a complete paradox. And so I want to remind you again of what we talked about last week because Each of these details is important as we move our way to the end of this section. The first truth we saw last week is that it is possible to be both blessed and to suffer. At the same time. And we saw that in verses 10 and 11. Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you. And shall say all manner of evil against you falsely for my name's sake. Obviously, when he makes those statements, he's making statements that are saying, you are both blessed and you are suffering at the same time. So blessing does not necessarily mean that we won't suffer, won't be lied about, or that we won't experience difficulties in the The second truth that we saw last week is that this blessedness is found in the root of a very particular kind of persecution. Now, just because someone is a Christian and they are suffering or they are being lied about or they are being treated wrongly does not mean that they are being persecuted for righteousness' sake. Okay? Those two things may not actually be happening at the same time. There are some Christians that are very contentious in their disposition. And so in their work environment, people don't like them. And the reason they don't like them isn't because they're a Christian and isn't because this person is living a very distinctive Christian life. Because they're just not a very nice person and they're very difficult to get along with. Or if a person has a very condescending spirit or they're very contrarian. Just because a person like that is experiencing difficulty and they're a Christian doesn't mean that they're being persecuted for righteousness' sake. This is a very particular kind of situation. And there are two pieces to that. We looked at this last week. The first piece is it is for righteousness' sake. The idea is that it is for an ethic that is conformed to the character and the design of God's righteousness. And so when a person says, I'm going to live according to God's standards of what is right and wrong, I'm going to live in a way that is distinctly Christian as opposed to distinctly worldly, well there's going to be some time where they're going to come in conflict with the world around them. But then there's a second piece to that. And that is for Christ's sake. In other words, their allegiance to Christ, which is above all other allegiances, is something that's going to cause them to have contention with people around them. So it's not just the way that they live in the sense that their life is distinct, but it's also because of their allegiance. There is no rival to Christ. This can bring contentions within a family context. So let's say that you have a person who has grown up in a community where people believe a certain way, they believe the same way that their mom and their dad and their brothers and their sisters and their aunts and their uncles, they've all held the same belief system, whether it's uh some form of so-called Christianity or a different faith system. And all of a sudden, this person comes to a place where they understand the gospel, they place their faith in Christ, and now their allegiance is to Christ alone. And their dad says, hold on a second, you cannot follow Christ because we don't believe in him. And all of a sudden the son says, well, actually. I serve Christ before I serve you. Guess what that does? Creates contention. It can happen between a husband and a wife It can happen between children and parents, or parents and their children. It can happen in lots and lots of different scenarios. But the idea is that this person is being faithful, submitting to Christ's authority, they're walking in a very distinct way, their allegiance is to Christ alone, those good things are actually leading to a conflict with other people The third thing we saw last week is that this persecution is a mark of genuine conversion. Now, listen carefully to what I'm saying here. What I'm saying is not that a person becomes a Christian by being persecuted, or that a person becomes a Christian byse doing good or that a Christian becomes or a person becomes a Christian by being transformed as an individual. That is not what I'm saying. What I am saying is that a person who is genuinely converted is a new creature in Christ. And old things have passed away, and all things have become new. And if a person is a genuine believer and they're a new creature in Christ, It is impossible for that new nature not to begin to manifest itself in that person's life. It's going to manifest itself in the way that this person thinks about all kinds of things. And by the way, it doesn't manifest itself equally in all people or immediately in all people in the same way. But the idea is that the way a person thinks, what they value, the things that they're comfortable doing, what bothers their conscience versus what doesn't bother their conscience, what they believe at the core, what they believe they should or shouldn't do, all of those things are going to be shaped by this new disposition. That's inside of their heart. And so what the statement is saying when it says, For theirs is the kingdom of heaven, it is an affirmation that these are the kinds of people Who are true believers? People who are persecuted for righteousness' sake and the sake of Christ's name And I also mentioned this last week that it is the combination of these two pieces that's very important. We're not talking about a person who's just a moralist. Or they're a conservative in the culture. We're not talking about a moralism or a conservatism. It's not just for righteousness' sake. There are lots and lots of people in our Congress. Who like the votes of conservative Christians. And they will proclaim that in fact they are Christians or that they hold certain traditional values. But the fact is that their claim to hold those values has nothing to do with being a new creature in Christ. It has everything to do with the fact that they're trying to win votes from a certain block of people in Mississippi or Kentucky. or Alabama, probably not Maryland, and probably not California, and probably not, you know, one of those northern states. But the fact is that they have this moralism that they are proclaiming. Oh, I'm persecuted because I'm a conservative. We're not talking about that. We're not talking about a cultural Christian. In fact, if you were to go to some cultures, you ask them, you know, what is your religious faith? And they'd say, well, my birth certificate It tells me that I'm a Christian. And what that means is that my mom and dad, when when I was born and I was given the birth certificate, they say, Well, are you a Muslim? Are you a traditionalist? Or are you A Christian like, well, you know, we were sprinkled when we were little. We're we're Christians. Uh call him a Christian. That's not what we're talking about, okay? We're talking about a person who has genuinely understood the gospel. They have placed their faith in the finished work of Christ. They are a new creature. They are regenerated. They've been born again. And that new position and that new nature has transformed how they live. And so now they walk different. Those two pieces coming together is exactly what Jesus is talking about. So this is an ethic that flows out of one's allegiance to Christ. It flows out of being a new creature in Christ. And I love the way it's put in 1 John 3, verse 10. Listen to what it says. In this, the children of God are manifest. This is how you can see visibly that a person who says I'm a Christian really is. He's not talking about how you become a Christian. He's talking about how you believe that somebody who says they're a Christian actually convinces you In this the children of God are manifest. Then the children of the devil. Whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother This is the message that you heard from the beginning, that we should love one another, not as Cain, who was of the wicked one and slew his brother, and wherefore slew he him, because his own works were evil and his brothers righteous. Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hates you. We know that we have passed from death unto life because we love the brethren. It's a fascinating statement, isn't it? How do you know somebody's a Christian? Oh, if they tell you are, then you just assume it. Uh that's not actually true. They tell you they're a Christian, and you see that there's a convincing case to be made. Their life actually demonstrates the mark of someone who has truly believed. Their life's actually been transformed. They're growing in the Lord. You see the evidence of that. So the Christian faith is a living faith. It's one that actually changes people's lives. So that moves us to truth number four. And this is actually where we stopped last week. God promises to reward faithful endurance. Now, this particular principle that we're talking about in the context of persecution is a principle that actually covers every single area of the Christian life. So, you know, there are times as Christians that we experience difficulty when it comes to something like a a a certain sin that so easily besets us. Okay? I'm sure every person in here, you have some kind of sinful pattern that you struggle with often, and it bothers you, it weighs you down, it discourages you, it wearies you And the person who says, you know what? I know it's wrong, and I'm going to continue to strive to walk in obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ, and I'm going to endure the challenges of such a situation. Did you know that that faithful endurance is something that one day God will reward? It's true. Or maybe you have a person that's gone through a terrible health crisis. And the fact is that they have some kind of debilitating health issue. They did nothing to get that. It was something that they experienced and it's a hardship of life. And they pray and they plead with God, take this away from me. I don't want to deal with this anymore. They call the most godly people that they know and they say, pray with me that God will remove this. God doesn't do it. It's like Paul when he says that he had a thorn in the flesh. And he says, three times I said, God, take this away. And he says, Paul, my grace is sufficient. For you. My strength is made perfect in weakness. And what did Paul do? He says, Most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmities, that the power of God may rest upon me. He basically says, you know what? I'm going to accept that this is what God wants me to endure. And so Paul accepted that, and he walked with this strength that he was drawing from God. the grace that he needed to be enabled to be faithful in that situation. There are all kinds of potential scenarios that we can experience in this kind of a way. And so the principle goes into lots of different places. But in this context, it's very specific. Here is a person who is doing what's right. They are submitted to the Lordship of Christ who has saved them from their sins. Their life is being transformed by the power of the Spirit of God who indwells them, and it's brought them in conflict with non-Christians or maybe people who claim to be Christians, and there would be absolutely no evidence that they actually are. And they're suffering and they're struggling. Here's what he says in verse 12. Rejoice, be exceeding glad, for great is your reward in heaven. Now, don't misunderstand what he's saying. He didn't say, rejoice and be exceeding glad because your pain doesn't matter. He didn't say that. He didn't say rejoice and be exceeding glad because your pain's going to be gone after a couple of months or something like that. He didn't say that. He says, Rejoice and be exceeding glad because your reward in heaven is great. You say, well, I might have to endure this for 40 years. That's potentially true. He doesn't give you a time frame on this side. But he says, are you a Christian? Do you believe in the gospel? Do you believe that you're going to heaven? You're going to spend eternity with God Well, guess what? A little bit of struggle and a little bit of suffering, a little bit of difficulty on this side of eternity, if you endure it and you're faithful, there is a reward that you will be able to enjoy forever. That's what he's saying. And you know the scriptures are full of exhortations to faithful endurance that are coupled with the promise of everlasting blessing. Now listen, we do not go to heaven because we earn it. There are certain things that we are going to receive in heaven simply, purely by the grace of God, has nothing to do with anything that we've done. But there is a judgment seat of Christ. And the judgment seat of Christ is not just some idle threat or some, hey, you you you hope you hope you can go there and you might, you know, get something you get to wear, a little medallion or something like that. Like you get at a wrestling tournament. That's not That's all he's talking about. The truth is, we don't even understand exactly what he means. But what we do know is that at the judgment seat of Christ, there are certain blessings that will be given to believers. That are a direct result of whether or not they endured faithfully in this life. It's got nothing to do with heaven. It's got everything to do with blessing that they will experience as a result of faithfulness. You say, Are you sure, Pastor? There's a lot of scripture that doesn't just back this up, it teaches it. And I want to go through some of these scriptures so that you can get a sense, a flavor of this, because I'm sure in this congregation tonight. Or on the live stream. We have folks on the live stream. But there are people that are enduring in certain situations. And the things that you're enduring, they're very painful, they're very frustrating. They're debilitating. You feel like quitting, you don't feel like continuing on. You say, what's the point? These verses are truths from Scripture that God wants to bring alongside you this evening and strengthen you. So the first one is Romans chapter 8, verse 18. Here's what it says. I reckon Paul wasn't a southerner. He's saying, I'm calculating something to be true. That's what he means by reckon. I reckon that the sufferings of this present world are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. So Paul is not saying that we don't suffer in a fallen world. He's saying if you compare the sufferings of a fallen world. Their nature, how long they last, all those things, what can be taken away from you, what can be lost, what you can feel that's difficult. You compare that to the eternal glory that awaits you. And the implication is not just the glory that awaits everybody, but the glory that awaits you specifically connected to how you endure such suffering. He says there's no comparison. Now you say, I don't feel that way right now. That's why we walk by faith, folks Because walking by faith is saying, I believe what God says, even though I don't feel it at the moment. What what I what I'm when I'm when I'm looking at the balances, the scale doesn't seem to be tipping on the side of God's word. It kind of says Seems to be tipping on the side against God's word in my experience. Walking by faith is saying, if God said it's true, then I have to accept it. I need to walk in the light of it. I need to live like it's true. That's what he means by I reckon. He says, I'm living like I believe this. A second scripture, 2 Corinthians 4. 17. Our light affliction. Which is but for a moment. And when he says but for a moment, he's making a good comparison here. He's saying the amount of time you suffer in this world versus eternity, it's a moment. You know the story of Jacob when he wanted to marry Rachel, and he talks to Laban, his father-in-law. And he says, I want to marry your daughter Rachel. He says, Oh, no problem. Let's work out a deal. Let's talk about a dowry. And he says, how about you work seven years for me? Jacob's like, that's a great deal. Rachel's gonna be some wife for me. And Laban goes, yeah, you really she really will be. He gets married and well, Laban tricked him. Gave him Leah. How can you do this to me? He says, No worries. Give me another seven years of work and I'll I'll let you marry Rachel too. And you know what the Bible says? It seemed to him like it was it was nothing He just he went and he did it because in comparison to what he wanted and what he was giving in the the struggling and the suffering and the working for his father-in-law, that trickster Laban. To him, it seemed like a good deal. It's pretty amazing to think about. That's kind of the language that Paul's using here. Our light affliction, which is for a moment It worketh for us a far more and exceeding eternal weight of glory. Do you see how there's a connection between what we're dealing with right now and what's coming later? He's not talking in relation to the cross and justification and glorification. He's talking in relation to certain rewards that await the Christian who is faithful. The third passage, Hebrews 6. 10. God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labor of love which you have showed toward his name And that ye have ministered to the saints and do minister. Now it's important for us to recognize that the context of the book of Hebrews Is you have Jewish Christians who are suffering immensely at the hands of Jewish non-Christians And so these Jewish believers, I mean, they're they're diaspora, so they're spread all over the Roman world, and they're living in communities that are primarily Jewish communities because that's their ethnic background, that's their that's their religious system, all those things. And so when a person becomes a Christian in that context He's got the pagan culture outside, and then he's got his Jewish brothers and sisters who are not believers, and you know what this guy's feeling like? He's feeling like he's on an island. Because if he walks outside of his Jewish community, he's got all these Gentiles, he's gonna have trouble with them. But if he stays in his Jewish community, he's gonna have problems with them because he's a part of the church, because he's a Christian. And so when he says that God is not unrighteous to forget your work and your labor of love, how you've showed this toward his name and you minister the saints to do Minister. That ministry is going on in the context of suffering, persecution, because they're identified with Christ. Titus, or excuse me, 2 Timothy 4, verse 5. He says, watch thou in all things. Endure affliction. Do the work of an evangelist. I think being a pastor is hard to be an evangelist. I don't know. You just blow in and you blow out, right? Sorry. Anyway. There. Think about somebody who gives the gospel in their community. But he says, make full proof of your ministry. I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. Now listen to the way he describes his ministry. I have fought a good fight. He's a boxer, right? I have kept the face. I finished my course. He's a runner. I've kept the face. There is laid up for me a crown of righteousness which the Lord the righteous judge shall give me in that day. And not to me only, but unto all them that love his appearance. Now, why do you think Paul talks about his ministry as fighting a good fight? It's not because he was a combative person. It's because he was trying to use an analogy that the people who loved athletics in the ancient world could understand They understood what it was like to go to the games and see people battle in what was like a like a like a mixed martial arts type battle or boxing or wrestling. He understood what that combative sport was like And the endurance and the blood and the sweat and the pain and the training and everything that went into it. And so what Paul is saying is that's what living the Christian life is like. You get beat up in the Christian life sometimes, especially if you're trying to do the right thing and you're trying to actually be involved in the Lord's work. He says I finished my course. He says it's like running a race. Anybody here like to run? I know we have a couple runners in here. Now, I ran when I was in high school and I hated it. I absolutely hated it. I ran because my mother made me to to to check out my brother to make sure he wasn't getting in trouble. If he my brother doesn't watch the live I could say this, right? But but the truth is that I I would run cross country and I love running down those those trails when I saw what was around me. When I started thinking about how I felt Like the the stitch in your side and and and how your legs just felt like jello and then when you got done you just felt miserable. But really is not fun. Not fun at all. But he uses this analogy. Why? Because there's an endurance side to this. The fact is that if you run a race at some point, you know, kind of kicks in where you just you kind of hit this stride and you just go and you feel like you go forever. Maybe, maybe you've experienced that. I don't know. But if you're if you're an experienced winner, you understand this. And you just you keep going. You keep going and you keep plotting. And he says that's what the Christian life is like. Sometimes like a battle, sometimes it's like enduring a race. But then he says, There's laid up for me a crown of righteousness. Which the Lord's going to give to me. And not just me, but other people who are doing the same thing I'm doing. That's what Paul's saying. He's talking about a reward at the judgment seat of Christ. Matthew 19, verses 27 to 29. These are the words of Christ. He says, Verily I say unto you, that ye which have followed me in the regeneration. When the Son of Man shall sit on the throne in his glory, you shall also sit upon twelve thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. Everyone that hath forsaken houses, some of you wish you could just forsake a house, not houses, right? A house, houses, brethren, sisters, father, mother, wife, children, or lands. For my name's sake. He's not just saying you forsake those things. He's saying you forsake them for my name's sake. These are people who came into conflict With dear people, friends, family, people they love, because of the gospel, because of the distinctiveness of the Christian life, because of their allegiance to Christ. For my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold and inherit eternal life. What does that tell you? There are rewards awaiting the children of God who are faithful and enduring. First Corinthians nine, twenty-four. Know ye not that they which run in a race there's that analogy again. There's that know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but only one receiveth the prize. So run that you may obtain. Every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate. That means he is going to control himself. He's going to control his appetites. He's going to restrain his desire to quit. He's going to endure. He says, they're temperant in all things. They do it to obtain a corruptible crown. Ironically, in those days, it was a wreath. It was like a little wreath they'd put on their head. And after a couple of weeks, that little wreath was just a brown piece of sticks all wrapped together. They did all that for that little wreath. And the reason is because of what it represented. The glory of what it represented. He says athletes endure all these things to get dat, but we an incorruptible crown, something that doesn't fade away It's not a little wreath that you put it on your head and you receive all the glory and then it sits on your table and then a couple weeks later it's dead. That's not what it is. It's incorruptible. He says, I therefore so run not as uncertainly, so fight I not as one that beateth the air, but I keep under my body and bring it into subjection lest by any means when I have preached to others I myself should be a castaway. Paul says, I want to make sure that I live the Christian life as someone who knows what's coming. And I don't want to tell people this is how you live the Christian life. And then one day they watch me and they say, What happened to Paul? What happened to Paul? He says, I want to be the person who completes my race. And I stand before Christ. And when I stand before Christ, he says, well done. He says, here's a reward for your faithfulness, your endurance. The fifth thing that we see, and this is the final thing, is that the persecuted Christian is in good company. In verse 12 he says, so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Now, if anybody's read the Bible, especially in Old Testament, uh the Old Testament, you'll see that the believers who lived at difficult times in Israel's history, they suffered. I think about somebody like Jeremiah. Jeremiah was thrown in prison. They wanted to kill him. Think about somebody like Joseph. We could argue about why Joseph's brothers hated him, but part of it was because he was obeying his dad and they weren't. It was really that simple. We look at somebody like Daniel. Here's this very righteous man who is going through so much difficulty, and all the people around him, they hate him, they want to destroy him, they want to ruin him, they want to get him killed. And they do everything in their power to make sure that it happens. Jesus says, don't be surprised when persecution comes, because you look at the history of believers throughout all of the centuries. And throughout all the thousands of years, you'll see when they lived in difficult times, their faithfulness and their endurance brought persecution upon them. And so Christ encourages the suffering believer, rest in your future reward. Look at those who endured before you. And so I want to turn I want you to turn to one final scripture because I think this captures so very well what Jesus is saying. And it is it is given in a context of people suffering and they feel like quitting and they feel like walking away from the church and they don't want to continue and and the writer of this book says don't do that. Hebrews chapter eleven, verse thirty two. Listen to what What shall I say? The time would fail me to tell of Gideon and Barak and Samson and Jephthah, of David and Samuel and the prophets. who through faith subdued kingdoms. They obtained promises. They quenched the violence of fire. That's Daniel, or Shadrach, Meshach, and Abendigo. Out of weakness they were made strong. They waxed valiant in fight. Their women received their dead, raised to life again. That's the story of people like the Shunammite woman. But then he says this and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance that they might obtain a better resurrection, and others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, and moreover, of bonds and imprisonments. They were stoned, they were sawn asunder. They wandered in sheepskins and goatskins. They were destitute, afflicted, tormented. Now Just think for a minute. You you're sitting there, you're you're one of these Jewish Christians and you're like, I don't want to go to church anymore because I don't like being associated with the Christian church. And he's like Think about Daniel and think about Gideon and think about Samson and think about David and think about Samuel and think about people who are cutting to And wandered and were tormented and afflicted and were stoned and were mocked and were scourged. You say, why not? Why not just stick with the first ones? Why bring the second ones in? Well, because you don't know what your situation is going to be. You don't know. You have no control over what your situation will be. Do you remember the story of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abend? They go, there's Nebuchadnezzar, and he's blowing with anger. And he says, How dare you guys mock me. I'm the most powerful man in the world. You need to worship this statue. I'm going to give you another chance. And they look him in the eye and they say, Well, Nebuchadnezzar, we don't know what our God's going to do here. We know he has the power to save us. But we're not going to bet on your idol. Can you imagine? The most powerful man in the world? An evil man Ruthless man, a brutal man. You know what's going on in Israel right now? I mean horrific things. That's what Nebuchadnezzar was like He was a person with the mentality of the people that came across that border and just decimated communities. That's the kind of person that these men looked at him and they said, well, you know, God can heal, God can save us, and if he doesn't, we'll just, we're willing to die. That's what they said. In other words, he says this. He says, God's able to deliver, and he may choose to deliver. But he may not. He may say, Faithfully endure. And you and I do not get to pick which of the two they are. What we do get to pick is how we respond to God in circumstance. Because this is what he says, of whom the world was not worthy. You know what the writer Hebrews is saying? He's like , this world doesn't deserve to have people like this. Somebody is willing to stand up for what's right and say, I don't care what happens. I'm not afraid of the consequence. And now when I say not afraid, I mean they could be shaking and they could be feeling terror in their heart, but they're willing to stand there and say, I'm not going to back down. I'm not going to compromise. I'm going to do the right thing. He says, these are the kinds of people the world is not worthy of. And then in chapter 12 he says, seeing we have also been compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses. Let us lay aside every weight and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and run with patience the race that is set before us, looking into Jesus, the author and finisher of our faith. Now, this is what he's saying. Do you see all those people that I just talked to you about? All those people are witnesses. And by the way, the Greek term is the term martyr. It really is. If you transliterate that term witness, it's martyr. These people are testifying to the fact that you can be faithful. No matter what you're faced with. And he says, seeing that you have this cloud of witnesses, take the sin that's keeping you from doing right and put it away. Get up and run with patience the race that's set before you. And that's the encouragement to all of us this evening. When we read Matthew chapter 5 and he talks about persecution, The fact is, none of us are experiencing that. I can't promise you none of us will ever experience that. But we're not. But the command is very simple. We need to run with patience the race that's right in front of us. And we need to look to Jesus, the author and the finisher of our You say, well, Pastor, how would you conclude this? Let me give you some final thoughts that I hope we can really take home with us tonight. Persecution, sadly, is a part of living in a fallen world. There are certain kinds of conflicts with non-Christians that we cannot escape. I hate to say it, it's not just non-Christians. There are also professing Christians who create lots of problems for people too. In fact, the vast majority of those who suffered persecution in church history were suffering at the hands of people who called themselves Christians. That's the honest truth. But sometimes we're going to have conflicts that we cannot get around. These conflicts are unavoidable because they're ultimately clashes related to non-negotiable values. There are certain things that I cannot, as a Christian, in good conscience, being consistent, say, I don't believe this. I can't do that. Now, do I have the ability to say I don't believe that and still be a Christian? Yeah, I do. But I'm not being consistent. And I've compromised my conscience. And there'll be a day that I regret that And there are people in church history that there's stories about them doing that and then the going back and saying, I'm willing to die as a martyr because I lied to you and I do believe this and I'm not going to recant. Their conscience plagued them. But there's certain things that as Christians we just we cannot do them in good conscience. There's certain beliefs that we cannot affirm in good conscience and be consistent with our position in Christ. Christ and the righteousness of God. Christians have an exclusive belief system, and that encompasses every aspect of life. Being a Christian isn't just praying a sinner's prayer, and that's the end of it. Being a Christian is being born again, becoming a new creature, someone whose faith is rooted in the finished work of Christ. And someone who from that point is going to grow in a new relationship with God that is literally going to encompass every single part of who they are. A true Christian is someone whose life is being transformed daily through the renewing of the renewing work of the Word of God. We cannot compromise on Christ, the nature of the gospel, or God's standard of righteousness, and still have genuine Christianity in its consistency. When Christians suffer in a way that Christ describes in these verses, they actually should be encouraged. Our life is really being transformed by the by the gospel. And that transformation is actually making a difference. If someone does not like What God is doing in our lives, well, we should be encouraged that God's doing it in our lives. That's just the honest truth. We should be glad that our character is different than it was ten years ago. That our dispositions change, that our beliefs have changed, that the way we look at life has been radically changed. That's actually an encouraging thing. There is a daily supply of God's grace available to help us to endure these difficulties. And there's a future reward to those who endure faithfully. And so I leave you with that encouragement tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about these truths, we are sobered because they are very heavy. But we are also encouraged because they are very rich. And Father, I pray that if somebody in our midst today Is suffering that you would strengthen them through the things they've heard tonight. If someone is suffering persecution Because of righteousness in the name of Christ, I pray that you would strengthen them through these words. If someone is enduring a health crisis, or there's something internal that they're dealing with that is a Heavy weight to their heart or set of circumstances that are weighing them down. I pray that these words would encourage them. Father, help us to endure as seeing him who is invisible. We ask Ask it in Christ's name, Amen.