Well, good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our study tonight, and uh let's go ahead and get started with prayer. And then we'll jump into the text that we're working through. We're in the Sermon on the Mount, and we're going to be closing out the section dealing with the Lord's Prayer tonight. So let's go ahead and bow for a word of prayer. Lord, thank you for the opportunity to gather tonight. Thank you for each person that's here, whether physically here tonight or on the live stream joining us. I pray that as we dig into your word, that you speak to our hearts. Help us to have a tender spirit. Help us to understand the intent of these scriptures. And as we reflect on the time we've spent looking at the Lord's Prayer, I pray that you'd help us to have hearts that are shaped by your word when it comes to this issue. And bless our time together as we lift up these requests. Help our fellowship together to be very sweet. Bless the children in the back as they're doing Inchor Adventure Club tonight. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Matthew chapter 6 is where we are tonight, and we've been working our way through the Sermon on the Mount, and this will be the seventh or eighth, I think it's the eighth lesson that we've been looking at dealing with the Lord's Prayer. And so let's read again the text, and then we will jump into a couple of reminders about where we've been over the last several weeks, and then look at this last little portion of the prayer. So Matthew 6. 5 says this. And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are. They love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, they have their reward. But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet. And when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy father, which is in secret. And thy father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly. But when ye pray, use not vain repetition as the heathen do, for they s for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking Be not ye therefore like unto them. For your father knoweth what things ye have need of before ye ask him. After this manner, therefore, pray ye, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come, thy will be done, in earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. For thine is the kingdom and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now, over the last seven weeks, we have considered several truths about prayer. And what I want to do is remind you of those things so that we can kind of see the continuity in the Lord's Prayer. So in the first week, we saw the way that we approach in this issue of prayer should be radically different than the way that the world views prayer. So if you were to walk into A congregation of people that do not understand the gospel, a group of people that are religious, but their approach to God is not through an understanding of a grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone gospel. Well, the way that they approach prayer is going to be very different than the way that we do as believers. And we can see the emphasis of it in these verses. For instance, in verse 5, he says, Thou shalt not be as hypocrites. Those are people who are wearing a face. They're presenting themselves in one way, but in fact that's not who they are. And then he says that these are people who love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets that they may be seen of men. Literally, they are trying to present themselves as godly people when in fact they're not. And they're using prayer as a means to establish that reputation, and the reputation is not who they are. Then in verse 7 he says, use not vain repetition. They think they shall be heard for their much speaking. And I think that a lot of times we can fall into this category where the idea is we think, well, if I say this enough times I'm going to get God's attention almost as if I have to twist his arm and convince him to do what I want him to do He says that's how pagans pray. They don't understand that uh that who God is, and they're approaching a God that's been created in their own image, and they believe that they can manipulate him and coerce him and convince him to do things That they want that maybe are against his will. And he says, that's not how you pray. And then in verse 80 he says, Your Father knoweth what things you have need of before you ask him. So when I pray and you pray, God knows before I open my mouth what I need. He knows what's best in that situation far better than I do. I mean, how many times have you gotten on your knees before God and you lift up your request? And the bottom line is when God does something different in your life than what you asked, you go, well, that probably was a lot better. In the end, I mean he knew things that I didn't know. Well the point is that when we pray, we're talking to someone who knows. He knows what's best. He knows what's good. When God gives us something, he's going to give us something that's best. And when he chooses not to, he has a reason for that And so that's the first thing we look at. The second week we saw was that prayer should start with a healthy view of God, and that leads us to praise. And in verse 9, we see two statements. Our Father in heaven, and the second is hallowed is your name. In other words, You are my father. That's a relationship. And my desire is that your name would be set apart and reverenced. And it's important for us to notice that the way the prayer starts and the way that it closes has some similarities. We're going to look at that in just a minute. But we see that prayer starts with the right view of God. If I understand who he is, I'm going to pray. If I understand who he is, it's going to affect how I pray. And if I don't understand who he is, I'm not going to pray, or it'll affect the way that I pray. Then the third week, those who know God will desire him to set all things right and long for people and circumstances to conform to his design. Verse 10: Your kingdom come. Your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. What does he want? He wants the advance of God's kingdom, God's rule. And he wants God's will to be accomplished. What God says is right, He wants done. What God says is wrong, he wants to not be done. He wants things to follow the course that is absolutely best according to the purposes that God has. And so prayer is not about me demanding my rights and my desires and what I want. It's about me asking God to do what he knows is best, me desiring his will even above my own. And so we saw that. Week number four, we need to ask him for our daily needs, reminding ourselves that our lives are continually sustained by his provision. Verse 11. Give us this day our daily bread, we really broke this down. The fact is that our lives are sustained by God, whether we realize it or not And our lives are sustained by God even to a greater degree than we understand and appreciate. And so we need to remind ourselves every day by saying, God, give us today my daily bread. That I am actually entirely dependent on him for that provision. Then in week number five, we saw that we need to regularly remind ourselves that we are forgiven in one sense. in need of forgiveness in another sense and constantly being called to forgive others. Let me say it again, because I know that was a little complicated. We need to regularly remind ourselves that we are forgiven in one sense, that is, the judicial side. We are justified. We are forgiven. There's no condemnation of them which are in Christ Jesus. We need forgiveness in another sense, that is, we need the restoration of fellowship when communion has been broken, 1 John 1. 9, confessing our sin and being forgiven and cleansed. And then we constantly need to forgive others because people wrong each other. Happens in our marriages, it happens between siblings, it happens between parents and their kids and kids and their parents. We all Are going to need to forgive people and ask for forgiveness because we're sinners. And so he says in verse 12, forgive us our debts as we forgive our debtors. So a believer is someone who's a forgiven person and understands because I'm a forgiven person, I'm needing to be a forgiving person, and this is a regular part of life Coming to God, confessing our sin, reminding ourselves of the cleansing and forgiveness that's established through the work of Christ on the cross, and then forgiving other people because God is dealing with us. in such a way. And then week six and seven. We dealt with this in two sections. The need to remind ourselves daily that we are dependent on God for protection. And deliverance in the realm of temptation. We dealt with this in two parts because it's such a deep topic, and there's a lot to talk about here. But in verse 13, the two phrases are lead us not into temptation. Deliver us from evil. Protect me from situations that will lead me into temptation. If you permit it, which obviously God's jurisdiction covers these areas. Then deliver us. We talked about the means that God has established, and there are a lot of things that we looked at there. So that leads us to our final question that we're going to answer tonight, and this is the and the question is this. Well, why do we pray? And here's the answer one more time. So let's dig into this topic. The preliminary observation I have for you tonight is this. We should pray to him because of the way the prayer is introduced, opens, and closes. So, he starts out with multiple reminders in verses 6, 8, and 9 of our relationship to God. First is look down your Bibles at verse 6. He says, Pray to thy who? Father, which is in secret, and thy what? Father, let's try this again. Pray to thy what Father, which is in secret, and thy who? Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly. So what is our relationship to God? He's our what? He's our Father. And in verse number 8 he says, Your what? Your Father knoweth what things you have need of before ye ask him. And then verse 9 he says, after this manner, therefore, pray ye our what? Father which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. Do you think he's trying to emphasize something? I mean he's only stated how many times in this small little section of scripture, pray to your father, your father who sees in secret, your father knows what you need. Therefore, pray after this manner, your father, our father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. There's a reason he says that. It's because there's some reason why God should answer your prayer if there's no relationship Okay? I mean when I pray and I say and I close in Jesus' name, Amen. That's how a lot of times we pray, we almost like tack it on. We don't even think about what we're saying. We're saying, I'm coming to you with this request As my Father through the work of Christ. So it is because of Christ's work I have access into your presence and I bring this request. The relationship of a father to his children is a huge emphasis in these verses. And so that's how he presents it. And that's how he opens it. The very first thing he says: pray to your father. Then notice how he closes it. He closes with a reminder of his power in verse 13 he says, For thine is the kingdom. and the power and the glory forever. Amen. Now, at the beginning of the song of this prayer, he says, after this minute, pray. Therefore, and then in the last verse he says, For thine is the kingdom. In other words, he's telling you, these are the reasons that you pray. That's what he's saying. So you pray because of the relationship that you have to God And you pray because of the character of the God who is your father. That's really what it comes down to. I pray to God because I know he's my father. And I feel comfortable coming to him and I trust him, and I believe he's going to hear my request. And I believe he's able to do it because of his nature. His character. His is the kingdom. It's talking about his sovereign rule. His is the power. He is able to do whatever he desires. And the glory, he accomplishes things for what is according to his glory. And it's forever. There's no limit. There's no end to this. And so that is how he starts out these things. So from that, I'd like to give you several reasons that I think flow from these verses. That are why we should pray. And I and I my encouragement is that tonight as we get together in our groups and we pray over these requests here We'll think about this. It'll actually shape the way that we come into the presence of the Lord. So reason number one, we should pray to him because he is our what? Our Father, if I didn't emphasize that enough because it's clearly in the text, and then of course that's right behind me. Um we should pray to him because he's our Father. Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. But there are a couple of sub Truths that are under that statement, he is our father. Now, I have to preface this sometimes. Because we live in a fallen world, some people don't have good fathers. It's just the bottom line. Okay? Even the best fathers are not perfect fathers. Okay? They just aren't. So I love my dad. My dad is the person who actually led me to Christ. They're in his My mom and dad's bedroom when I was a little boy, you know, five, six, seven years old, right in that age, that time period. He's the one who led me to Christ. He's the one that took me to church. My parents had incredible influence, but you know what? My dad's not a perfect guy. Things I can look at in his life where I go, well, he fell short there. My kids can do the exact same to me. Everybody in this room falls in that category. And so when we think of the word father, some of us we think of a great example, and some of us we don't think of a great example. And so it's important for us to break this down a little bit so we think about it carefully. So, first of all, because he's our father, he feels the weight of our care. Did you catch that? The weight of our care. Now you could say that God's care for us really comes on a couple of different levels. For instance, we exist because He made us, so we are creatures, and He cares about us in that sense. But he cares about us on an even deeper level because we are a redeemed person who is his child. I want to read you a couple of scriptures that remind us of God's fatherly care. The first one is one that may not bring a lot of comfort to you, but it should. And that is Hebrews 12, verse 6. It says, whom the Lord loveth, he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth. Now notice a couple of words here. One is the word loves. Okay? He's telling us what the motivation is for God's action toward us as his children. He does this because he loves us, not because he hates us, not because he's angry with us, not because he's cruel and vindictive. God disciplines us because he loves us. In fact, in the book of Proverbs, it says if you don't discipline your child, you hate them. That's what he says. Discipline them early, because if you don't, you'll regret it down the road. So God disciplines his children. But that word chastening and that word scourging actually have two different kinds of senses to this issue of discipline. The chastening word has more of the sense of the training side of raising our children. In other words, it's not just about having a heavy hand and dealing with them when they're wrong, it's about teaching them. It's about coming alongside of them and saying, I expect more of you here than you're doing. You can do more, and as your father, I'm going to make you do it because I don't want you to become crippled in life. In other words, it's not just discipline in the sense of correction and there is some punishment associated with doing wrong. That's the scourging side. That's the restraining of the evil that we have in our own hearts and actions. This is the training side. Like in Ephesians, where he talks about fathers not provoking their children to wrath, but to bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. The word nurture in that text is the same word as chasten in this text. And then the statement is, every son whom he receives. So God loves us. And he disciplines us and he receives us. Why does he receive us? Is it because of what we have become, or is it because of who we are positionally? It's because who we are positionally. In fact, God's love for us is all about his grace. It's all about his goodness. It's not about our goodness. God doesn't love us because we're lovely. He loves us because he has chosen to set his love upon us. And he's done that in grace and goodness. And because of that, he takes the burden of weight of caring for his children seriously. John chapter 10, verses 27 to 29. He says, My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. And I give to them eternal life, they will never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. My father which gave them to me is greater than all, and no man is able to pluck them out of my father's hand. Now what's the emphasis of these verses? The emphasis of these verses is security. God holds us in his hands. So the first verse talks about his love. His correction, how he receives us. And John 10 talks about how he holds us in his hands, our security. But what does all this say? The burden, the weight, is on the hands of God. It is not our strength that holds our salvation. It's his strength. He takes the burden upon himself. And then Romans chapter 8, verse 14. We dealt with this in our Roman study on Sunday school. We've spent a lot of time here actually. It's a great text, but I want to mention it tonight. He says, as many as are led by the Spirit of God. They are the sons of God. He says you have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear But he has received the spirit of adoption whereby we cry, Abba Father. And so the idea in these verses is that your relationship to the Holy Spirit when you become a Christian changes. So before a person is a believer, the Holy Spirit is convicting them of sin and righteousness and judgment. He says, you fall short of the glory of God. You're a sinner. Your righteousness is filthy rags. You have no hope outside of God. Turn to Christ. Trust in the finished work of Christ. Conviction. Spirit of bondage. He says the law says do this and you don't do it. You're guilty. You're spiritually dead. You're under the law's dominion. That's what the Spirit says. When you trust Christ, it changes just like that. There's therefore now no condemnation of them which are in Christ Jesus. He's called the spirit of adoption. He is the comforter who comes alongside. builds us up, strengthens us, encourages us, reminds us of our position in Christ. And what does the spirit of adoption do? He reminds us we can cry out to him when we are grieved and we are troubled and we are hurting. Abba Father. Abba Father. It almost seems like it's treating God as if he's too personal. It really does. I mean like the first words that a child learns is dada mama. Well if you were speaking Arabic or not Aramaic, it was Abba, Daddy. It almost seems too personal, too tragic. It's like we're treating God like he's a peer. That's not what he's saying. What he is saying is he's near. He loves us. We have this sense because of the Spirit of God who comforts us. All of these passages point us to this very simple fact that God carries the weight of the care of our souls because we're his children. Fact number two, because he is our Father, we are his dependents. Everybody's dependent on God, whether they realize it or not. I said that earlier. But we're dependent on him in a very unique way. We're his children. In Acts 17, 28 he says, in him we live and we move and we have our being. Lamentations 3. 22, it is of the Lord's mercies. We're not consumed, his compassions fail not, they're new every morning. Psalm 103, 13, like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. He knoweth our frame, he remembereth we are dust. Great is thy faithfulness. What's the point? We're dependents. And he knows that. He cares about us. Colossians 1:17, he is before all things. By him all things consist. He literally holds it together. If God were to just turn the world loose and to let it go off on its own, guess what you'd have? Total chaos. You know what Romans 1 is? Romans 1 is God saying, when people are in rebellion against God and they push and they push and they push and they push and they say no, no, no, he finally says, go ahead, you take what you want and see what happens. That's what Romans 1 is. But God holds things together. He takes care of us. He provides for us. We're dependents. And then fact number three, because he is our Father, he has a tender affection for us. Now again, I want to remind you of this. God's affection for you has nothing to do with how good you are. If it was, he'd hate us. He'd hate me and he'd hate you. Why is that? Well, because we're sinful people. Miserably sinful people. I mean think about how many times our attitude against God is just, it is wicked and it is callous, it is rebellious, it is so, so self-centered. He still loves us. I mean think about when people treat you like that. If you were to treat your own mother or father or your kids or your grandfather, your grandmother, somebody that, you know, a teacher at school, you were to have the same attitude towards them in a classroom that you have towards God sometimes in your heart. Could you imagine how they look at you? God still loves us. Because he's good. That's a testimony to him, not to us. And so in Colossians 3. 12 he says, put on as the elect of God, holy and beloved. That's what he calls us beloved. John 16, 27, the Father himself loveth you because ye have loved me. 1 John 3. 1, behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed on us, that we should be called the sons of God. We could go to a lot more scriptures than this, but the bottom line is God cares tenderly and affectionately for his children. And so all of this drives us to a very simple truth. If that's the God that we serve and that's our relationship to Him, well then we need to pray. That's what it tells us. Reason number two. We should pray to him because we are living in his world and are citizens of his kingdom. He says, for verse 13, thine is the kingdom. 1 Chronicles 29, 11. He says, Thine, O Lord, is the greatness and the power. And the glory and the victory and the majesty. All that is in heaven and earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as heaven above all. Those verses sound so similar. It's almost as if Jesus is thinking about the words of David in 1 Chronicles 29, and he says, that's how you close your prayer. Yours is the kingdom. Psalm 147 verse 5, great is the Lord of great power. His understanding is infinite. The Lord lifts up the meek. He casteth the wicked down to the ground. Daniel 4 I blessed the Most High and praised and honored him that liveth forever. This is Nebuchadnezzar. I mean, he's like the most powerful man in the world. Well, he was until he until this moment, I guess I would say this. He was the most powerful man in the world until God humbled him. And now he's coming back to his senses after this period of time that he's living like an animal in the wilderness. He's like he's become a crazy person. He's lost his senses. And God returns his senses to him. And not only does he do that, but he literally puts him back in his position as the king over this mighty empire. And Nebuchadnezzar says, I bless the Most High. I'm not the Most High. He is. I praised and honored him who liveth forever. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. His kingdom is from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing, and he doeth according to his will in the armies of heaven. Among the inhabitants of the earth none can stay his hand or say unto him, What doest thou? Do you get the power of God in those verses? His authority. His jurisdiction. Nebuchadnezzar understood it. He understood it better than we do. He says, those who walk in pride he's able to abase. Why did he say that? Because that's what he did. You know what God did? He put him down. He picked him back up. God does that to us too sometimes. One of the kindest things God could do to an arrogant person is bring them down. Why is that? Because it's impossible to get back up until you've been brought down. It's impossible. And so for God to bring this man Nebuchadnezzar to a sense , He had to humble him in the most amazing of ways. But when he picked him back up, Nebuchadnezzar was a different man. And God does this in our lives as well. There are people in this room you got saved because of that. That's the bottom line. There are people in this room, you were a believer who was not walking with God, and God brought you to your knees and humbled you, and that turned you in the right direction. There are people in this room, God might do that. Because you're not humbling yourself. The bottom line is we go to him because we understand who he is relationally to us. Number two, his power. This is his world. Reason number three. We should pray to him because he is a God of infinite might. Verse number 13, he says, and yours is the power. Going back to Daniel 4, he says, all the inhabitants of the earth are imputed as nothing before him Think about that story of David and Goliath. We were teaching through this in ABBI classes a few weeks ago. And I said something like this. If you read through that passage of scripture, what you're going to see Is the story of David and Goliath isn't really about a little boy getting a rock and throwing it at a big man and watching him fall. That's really what it's not about. I mean that's what happened, okay? But you know what it's really about? It's about a man who is huge. He was the champion of the Philistines. And all the Jewish soldiers were terrified of him all the way up to the king. But that man was foolhardy enough to say, I defy you by my gods. David was bold enough to say, I come to you in the name of the Lord. What's the difference? The difference is it was a battle of gods. That's really what it came down to. And here's David, the most unlikely person in that army, to go out and kill the giant, and guess what? He's the one who did it. It's because he said, you defied the God of the armies of Israel. And he said, I'm going to defeat you today. And he used pretty good language right there by the way. He says, I'm going to defeat you. I'm going to feed your carcass to the birds of the air, I think is how he put it. So that all the world will know there's a God in Israel. That's what he said. What's the point? God's power. He can pick up anybody and put anybody down. He can put somebody in power. He can take them out of power. He can bless someone. He can make their life lean and miserable. And he's every right to do it. He knows what is right. He knows what is best. 1 Samuel chapter 2. I love this story, the story of Hannah. She's the mother of Samuel, such an important figure in the books of 1 and 2 Samuel, because he is like the connector between the judges and then the kings. And she's barren and she can't have children. What does God do? He has mercy on her. He gives her a son, Samuel. This is what she says: she says, There is none as holy as the Lord. There is none beside thee, neither is there any rock like our God. The Lord killeth, and the Lord maketh alive. He bringeth down to the grave and he bringeth up. He maketh poor, he maketh rich, he bringeth low, he lifteth up, he raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the beggar from the dung hill to set them amongst princes. And to make them inherit the throne of glory. The pillars of the earth are the Lord's, and he hath set the world upon them. And what is Hannah saying? There's nothing that God is unable to do if it's in his desire to do it. He is able to accomplish whatever he chooses. The strongest man can't stop God. The weakest and most insignificant person who you know nothing about in history could become one of the most significant people in all of history if that's what God wants it to be. And that's the story. Psalm 113, verse 3, he says, From the rising of the sun to the going down of the same, the Lord's name is to be praised. He is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens. He humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven and earth. Think about that. He humbleth himself. He literally lowers himself to look at what's going on in our lives. And what does the Bible say? The Word became flesh and dwelt among us. He took on human nature. The Lord Jesus Christ, Emmanuel God with us, he took on the frailty and the weakness of humanity to go to the cross for us. And that's the powerful God that we serve. Reason number four. We should pray to Him because He will bring glory to Himself. Now you might say, well, that sounds a little pompous. Well, look If he's God and he is almighty and all powerful and he's righteous and he's holy and there is none comparable to him, well who is this who is he supposed to glorify? I mean think about that. Who is he supposed to exalt? One individual himself. You say, well, why does that matter? Why that matters is because what brings glory to God is what is good. And what is right, what is righteous. And so when I come to God and I pray to Him, I'm reminded that He is the King over all. I'm reminded that he is all powerful, and I am reminded that he answers in a way that is going to bring glory to himself, and that is what is right, and that is what is good. Listen to some of these scriptures. Revelation 4. 11. Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honor and power. Thou hast created all things for thy pleasure they are and were created. Revelation 5. 12, worthy is the Lord, the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches, wisdom, strength, honor, and glory and blessing. Psalm 115, I love this Psalm. It says, Not unto us, O Lord, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory for thy mercy and thy truth's sake. Wherefore should the heathen say, where is now their God? But our God is in the heavens. He hath done whatever whatsoever he pleased. God does according to his will. Isaiah 48. 9 , for my namesake will I defer mine anger. For my praise will I refrain for for thee, that I cut thee not off. Behold, I have refined thee not with silver. I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction. For mine own sake, even, for mine own sake will I do it. For how should my name be polluted? I will not give my glory to another. Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my called. I am he, I am the first, I am the last. Mine hand laid the foundation of the earth. My right hand hath spanned the heavens. Say, why do we pray? It's because he's our father. Because he's our father, he loves us. He takes upon himself the burden of our care And he has a tender affection toward us. Why do we pray? Because this is his world. This is his world. We're in it. Why do we pray? Because of his power and his might. We pray to someone who is able to answer according to his purposes. Why do we pray? Because he answers according to his glory. That which is righteous and right and good is going to bring glory to God, and that's how He's going to work in our lives. So, what do we take away from this? Well, prayer should be a regular part of our daily communion with God. I hope that you have a regular practice of prayer. You say, well, how many hours am I supposed to pray in a day? The Bible never says that. How much time am I supposed to spend in prayer? It doesn't say that. It says pray without ceasing. It means always be in communion with God. We should take time to separate ourselves under the Lord and commune with him according to the things that we see in these verses. When we do pray, we need to pray to him because of who he is. We need to pray to him because of how his nature shapes how he deals with people. You don't need to be afraid to ask God to work in your life. You know, some people they're afraid. If I ask God, He's gonna make my life miserable. He's gonna do things in my life that are that are gonna make me unhappy and it's it's not gonna be for my good. And I go What kind of God are you praying to? Don't you read the Bible? Don't you know who he is? He's good. We prayed him because we know his nature shapes how he deals with us. We pray because of what we are. We're creatures. We don't have the power to save ourselves. We don't have the power to take care of ourselves. If God were to allow us to stumble physically or to lose a job, He upholds us on a daily basis. We pray because of how he has brought us into this relationship with himself. Think about what it costs for you and I to be able to have access to the Father, the death of Christ. His blood sacrifice. We literally come into his presence through the work of the mediator, the Lord Jesus. So as we spend some time together in prayer tonight, let's take what we've learned in this portion of the Sermon on the Mount, specifically the Lord's Prayer. And may it shape how we lift one another up in prayer. Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to help us to do that. Lord, thank you for your word. Thank you for the last several weeks we've been able to spend in the Lord's Prayer. Help us to be a praying church. Help us to be a church that walks in fellowship with you. I pray that the truths that we've seen in the Word would really, truly shape how we approach you. As we spend time in fellowship this evening in prayer, I pray that You would help these things to shape that time. Father, we have great, great needs in our church. There are many people who are carrying heavy burdens recently, having family members who have passed away. People have family members who are in hospice care, people who are dealing with great burdens, you know all of them. And so we ask that you would uphold and strengthen these individuals and help us as their church family. to uphold them in prayer. We ask all this in Christ's name, amen. Okay, if you have your prayer sheet, let's up