Isaiah chapter 1 is where we are this morning, and as I said earlier, we're going to be working our way through several different messianic passages in the book of Isaiah. And if we're to read the book of Isaiah, one of the things that we'll find is that out of all the books in the Old Testament, it is probably one of the richest of all the books when it comes to what it says about the Lord Jesus Christ, what it says about who he is. What it says about what he was going to come and do, and as New Testament believers, we look back at the fulfillment of these things But actually not everything that's been written in the book of Isaiah is yet fulfilled. And some of these things we even we look forward with great anticipation to the completion of all of these things. And so the book of Isaiah is a rich, Christ-centered Old Testament book. And I'm very excited to start what will be a very short series through the book of Isaiah. through the month of December. I also want to mention that next week we are planning to have our cantata and so the choir has been working very hard for quite a few months at this point. And so there are many different selections that they will be doing. We have several folks in our congregation who have been memorizing their parts for this cantata. There's going to be scripture reading. I'm really looking forward to this, and you're going to get a wonderful taste of the Christmas story, the story of the incarnation in song and scripture reading and then getting to hear actually a presentation. So that would be a great time to bring family or friends who maybe don't normally attend church. and say, hey, we're having a special Christmas program, a cantata, this next Sunday, uh ten thirty. Why don't you consider coming? And uh maybe they wouldn't want to physically come. You can you can share the live stream with them. They can watch that and of course It's always on there after the live stream as well. So that's a great opportunity for you to bring friends and family and neighbors and invite them to that very, very special time. Isaiah chapter 1, we're looking at verses 2 through 19, but we're not reading all those verses in our initial scripture reading, but we will refer back to the entirety of this section. Here's what it says, hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth. For the Lord hath spoken. I've nourished and brought up children. And they have rebelled against me. The oxen knoweth his owner, the ass is master's crib, but Israel doth not know. My people doth not consider. Ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquities, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters, they've forsaken the Lord. They've provoked the Holy One of Israel into anger. They've gone away backwards. Verse 18, Come, now let us reason together, saith the Lord. Though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. If you could, let's just take a moment and ask the Lord to quiet our hearts. so we can focus our attention on the very important truths that we find in these verses. Ask the Lord to help us to understand the weight of them, the significance of them, and then how we should appropriately respond to the scriptures as they've been laid before us. Let's pray. Father, I ask that you would take the word and that you would do that very necessary work in our heart of opening our understanding to the significance and the weight of these truths May the Holy Spirit shed light on truth and press it on our souls. As we look at the nation of Israel in one of its darkest moments. I pray that we would recognize that the heart of that people was no different than the heart of all humanity apart from the work of Christ. Father, help us to see the incredible promise that though they had sinned, they would be cleansed. And help us to understand how that is accomplished through the promised Savior who has come and has risen, and we rejoice in this morning. We ask all this in Christ's name, amen. Isaiah chapter 1 reveals how God in His Holiness views people. He loves them, even though they're rebellious. And even though they're complacent, even though they don't understand the full expanse of his riches, the exhaustion of his grace, I say the exhaustion, the extent of his grace. That's going to be extended to them in Christ. These people did not understand that. And I'll submit to you this morning that that's humanity Apart from the gracious work of God, the Spirit of God working through the Word of God, we all are blind to the weight of God's love and the riches of His grace. And this passage of Scripture is going to lay it out in a very vivid way. And so as we read these verses, I think the Lord will be showing us a very simple fact. If it wasn't for the incarnation, we'd be a hopeless people. If it wasn't for the cross, we'd be a hopeless people. The cross is necessary. The incarnation is necessary. And this passage shows us why it is necessary. So in order for us to see that, let's kind of work our way through the passage and see what God said to his people, the nation of Israel, and then think about how it applies to us as we sit here this morning. The first thing I'd like you to see from the text in front of us is that people are painfully ignorant of God's perspective People are painfully ignorant of God's perspective. Now, I'm not suggesting that people are purposing to be painfully ignorant. That is the natural inclination of every single person. We are all by nature spiritually blind. We don't understand how pure and how holy and how righteous God is. We don't understand how sinful we are as we stand in the presence of a holy and righteous God. But there's an even greater side to this that we're going to see laid out in these verses. Let's notice, first of all, the people that he's writing to. The Jewish people were God's covenanted people. In fact, when we read through the Old Testament, we're reading their history. We're reading about how God sent them countless prophets. But really it's the story of God calling out a people through a man, Abraham, and God giving to this people some incredible promises. He had promised to them that he was going to do some things that if it wasn't for his grace, they would never have been accomplished These were the people that had the law. They had the prophets. They received these covenant promises. They had a very rich history of God's providential working. visibly revealing from one generation to the next generation that he's going to work through this people. It's a fascinating thing for us to see. We see a generation rise up, we see the rebellion, we see the ignorance, we see the disobedience, and God continues to send his prophets. Isaiah was one of those prophets. If we were to compare the Jewish people to the Gentile peoples of their time, and you were to compare the amount of knowledge that the Jews had to the knowledge of the Gentiles, it didn't even come close. The amount of focus that God gave to these people, it didn't even come close. Yet, with that in mind, notice what God says to these very privileged individuals. A generation that had the law and the prophets and the rich history that we read about in the scriptures. Here's what he says in verse number two. He says, Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth, for the Lord hath spoken. Now you might go, why in the world is God calling the heavens to listen and the earth to listen? What is the point of that? Well, in order to understand that, you actually have to go back earlier in the Old Testament to the book of Deuteronomy. In fact, you may not realize this, but the book of Deuteronomy is like a legal document, and if you were to read the way that it's laid out, it would be very similar to the way that covenantal arrangements would have been laid out in the time period in which it was written. Now the king who was establishing a covenant with a people was God himself. And I want you to hear exactly what God said to the people, and it's recorded in Deuteronomy chapter 4. He says, Take heed unto yourselves, lest you forget the covenant of the Lord your God, which he made with you, and make you graven images or likenesses of anything which the Lord thy God hath forbidden thee. For the Lord thy God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God. When thou beget children and children's children, you shall have remained long in the land and shall corrupt yourselves And make graven images and the likenesses of anything, and shall do evil in the sight of the Lord your God, to provoke him to anchor. I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day. Kind of an interesting statement, isn't it? Well, all these generations are going to rise and fall, and the generations that follow them will rise and fall. The heavens and the earth continue. And so he's going to say to a generation, I'm calling the witnesses of this original covenant to hear my words and my complaints and my charges against you as a people. That's what we're looking at in these verses. And I want you to notice the charges that he brings. There are several, I won't tell you how many, because you'll get weary when you think about it. But we're going to move quickly through them. The first charge is this: you are an ungrateful. Group of children to your father. Verse number two, this is an amazing statement. He says, I have nourished and I have brought up children, and they have rebelled against me. It's an amazing thought, isn't it? We have lots and lots of parents in here. And if you're a parent You have made some tremendous sacrifices so that your children survive and they grow up. Is that not true Okay, you've not only made some tremendous sacrifices so that they survive and they grow up, but so when they go into adulthood and they establish their families and all those things They're not only going to survive, but they're going to thrive. They're going to be people that can actually function in this kind of a world. You have made great sacrifices. But no parent in this room has risen to the level of what God has done for his people. Nobody In fact, one of the things that's great about being a parent is it starts giving us a little bit of a better sense of how God misviews us when we are ungrateful. And when we're selfish, and this is what God says, his first charge is you are an ungrateful people. I have raised you up, I have nourished you, and you've rebelled against me. Amazing charge. The second thing he says, the beasts who lack the ability to reason have more respect for their master than you do for me. Here's how he puts it. The ox knoweth his master, but Israel doth not know. My people does not, and I think this is a great word, this is a great word, the word consider The word consider means that I'm thinking about the significance of this particular situation. He says there are animals that know where to get food, and they know where it is warm, and they're affectionate towards their master. Who just gives them food and a place to stay warm. And he says, you don't even do that for me. And you're a rational person. You have so much to process and you don't consider it. His third charge. They were completely corrupt on every single level. And verses 4 through 6 he says, Ah, sinful nation. It's like it's a lament. It's like you watched your football team get crushed, and you're like, ah, what's going on here? He says, ah, sinful nation. Not that God is surprised, okay? He's expressing this weariness when he sees this rebellion. He says, ah, sinful nation, a people laden with iniquities, a seed of evildoers. Children that are corrupters. They have forsaken the Lord. They have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto wrath, unto anger, and have gone away backwards. Why should you be stricken anymore? You'll revolt more and more. The whole head is sick, the whole heart is faint. From the sole of the foot even to the wounds and bruises and putrefying sores, they have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with ointment. He says, every part of you is corrupt. The next charge Even though I have brought things into your national life that should have humbled you, you've not turned to me. Now if you look back, he says, Why should you be stricken anymore? You will revolt more and more. And verse 7 he says, Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire, your land and strangers devoured in your presence. It is desolate. As an over as overthrown by strangers, the daughters of Zion are left as a cottage in a vineyard, as a lodge in the garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city. What he's basically saying is Usually, when people suffer, they start realizing their limits. When they go through difficulty, they start saying, wow, I've taken a lot for granted. Doesn't that make sense I mean many times we get sick and we're laying on our bed and we're sitting there going, you know what, there's a lot that I've enjoyed over the last six months of my life or the last several years of my life and I can't do them anymore. I really took them for granted. Anybody ever thought kind of like that? Or, you know, you you have a situation that something that you've enjoyed is taken away and all of a sudden you didn't realize how much you enjoyed it And then you start realizing, I don't deserve that. Where did that come from? It comes from God. So what God is saying is, I have brought hardship into your lives to humble you, and it doesn't matter, you don't listen. A fifth charge. The only reason that this group of people still exists It's because God has graciously intervened to preserve this small remnant of people. Verse 90 says, Except the Lord of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom. We would have been like unto Gomorrah. Hear the word of the Lord, ye rulers of Sodom. Give ear unto the law of your God, you people of Gomorrah. But there's really kind of two things that are at play here. I think on one side he's talking about the level of corruption that takes place in a society if there are not some restraints that are established in that society. In fact, we had a question during our question-answer time with our parents yesterday, and one of the things that we talked about in that Q<unk>A time was the fact that God establishes government to limit evil, He establishes the family to limit evil, He gives you a conscience to limit evil. He's left the church here so that there is kind of this standard that people are looking at and going, hey, this is what righteousness is supposed to look like. That's what Saul enlightened. That's the function of the believer in the world. And the point is he's saying, if that group of people did not have a small remnant that I in my grace preserve, they be like Sodom and Gomorrah, where he says, if you can just find ten righteous people in that city, I'll spirit. And there were ten. That's shocking to think about. There weren't even ten. The most righteous person in the city was Lot. Whew! And his daughters were preserved, and his wife had an opportunity. Wow. But there's another side to this too. Like if you were to look at a family tree and you kind of see the branches of the tree, you know there comes a point where some of the branches end. You know why they end? Because there's no offspring that go from that branch Okay? But you could have a tree that you cut everything off and you just leave one branch. You know what? That tree it blossoms again A couple couple weeks ago I I got the itch to to cut back my my fruit trees, my apple trees, my peach trees, and I really hope they come back in the spring, because I really cut them back But by faith I believe that they will. But you know it's really amazing. You cut off all these branches. And and actually in the spring The ones that you cut off won't come back, but the ones that are left, they will thrive more. And I think that's really the sense of what he's saying. I've preserved a people within the people to be this restraint on some level, and so that when all the dust settles, there can be a thriving generation again. That's what he's saying. It's God's grace. His sixth charge. They are a people that are full of self-righteousness in spite of their sin. Now this is a pretty shocking thing to consider. Notice what he says in verses eleven and twelve. He says, To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me, saith the Lord? I'm full of the burnt offerings of rams. And the fat that is fed of beasts. I delight not in the blood of bullocks and of lambs and of goats, when you come to appear before me who have required this at your hand, to tread my course. You say, well what is what is God saying there? This is what he's saying, and this is an amazing thing to consider. The way that he's described the nation of Israel is really bad. And in spite of where the nation was, they still were sacrificing to God. They were still following the Levitical system. They were celebrating the feast. Things were going on in the temple itself. In fact, even we talk about the destruction of Jerusalem uh during times like A. D. 70, okay? Do you realize that the final battles that were fought in Jerusalem in A. D. 70 between the Jews in the city and the Romans were fought inside the sacred Holy of Holies itself. In fact, one of the omens, and I use that word in the sense that they would have thought of it, one of the things that really made the people very fearful was when there were no more animals to sacrifice, and they said Now we're in trouble. Actually, they were in trouble when they rejected Christ. It just took 40 years for it to come to fruition. But here's the point. These people, as evil and as broken and as blind as they were, they still thought they were pleasing God through their sacrifices. It's a stunning thing to consider. We don't stop being moral, rational creatures when our conscience is diluted. It's off, but it's still there. And these people were spiritually blind and self-righteous. His seventh charge. Don't worry, we're almost to the end of this. Their self-righteous acts were not just something that didn't appease God, they were offensive to God. This is really important. Verse 13 he says, Bring no more vain oblations and incense. It is an abomination unto me. The new moons, the Sabbaths, the calling assemblies, I cannot. Away with it. It is iniquity, even the solemn meetings, your new moons, your appointed feasts, my soul hateth them. They are a trouble unto me. I am weary to bear them And when you spread forth your hand, I will hide mine eyes from you. Yea, when you make many prayers, I will not hear. Your hands are full of blood. Now don't miss what he just said. Their hands are what color if they're full of blood? They're reds, scarlet, okay, crimson. That's really important because he's going to refer back to this in just a moment. Folks, this is not just a Jewish problem. It's not just a problem that was only happening during the years of Uzziah to Hezekiah and that group of people. This is a universal problem. Now I know that the way that it looks in every society and in every generation is going to be a little bit different. But what is fundamentally at the root is the same. And you know how I know that Because in Romans chapter 3 he tells us that. He takes all the things that we've just heard and he literally applies them to all humanity. Listen to what he says in Romans 3. He says, There's none righteous, not even one. There is none that understandeth. There is none that seeketh after God. They're all gone out of the way. They are together become unprofitable. There is none that doeth good. No, not one. That's universal. That's not just them in that time. That's everybody. That's you. That's me. In fact, we see this illustrated in Matthew chapter 19. Jesus is talking to this man who comes up to him and he says, Good master, what good thing shall I do that I might inherit eternal life? He said unto him, Why callest thou be good? There is none good. There is none good but one. That is God. In Luke chapter 18, there was a parable that Jesus told. Of two men who went into the temple to pray. One was a Pharisee and one was a publican. And it says this in verse number nine. He says, He spake this parable unto certain who trusted in themselves. That they were righteous and they despised others. Folks, apart from God's gracious and often painful confrontation, we would all continue in this deluded state So the question is this, does God just leave us there? The answer is no. He didn't leave them there. He doesn't leave us here. Because the next several verses are very interesting. In verses 16 and 17, we see that God graciously confronts them in their ignorance And might I say their self-righteousness and their rebellion and their stubbornness? He does that. Verse 16, he says, Wash you, make you clean, put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes. Cease to do evil, learn to do well, seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead the widow. We could kind of Break this down by saying he calls them to attention to recognize where they violate his laws. And they violate his laws in so many ways. Now, the question we should be asking is why is he doing that? Because sometimes we answer the question wrong. Because he's not just calling their attention to where they violate the law so that they can get their lives cleaned up. There's something else that's got to happen. But they have to see that they have a problem before the solution to the problem can be applied. Very, very important. In fact, in John chapter 16, it says that when the Holy Spirit has come, he is here, but when this statement was made, it was prior to the Holy Spirit's coming. He will reprove the world of sin and of righteousness and of judgment. The Holy Spirit's role in bringing someone to salvation is to convict us that we are sinners. It is to convince us of the righteousness of God. And it is to show us we're going to stand before him. Sin righteousness judgment. That's really at the heart of what God is doing to the nation of Israel in these verses. He's saying, make yourself clean, wash yourself. Can you do it? The answer is no. Walk according to my ways, put away your evil of your doings from before mine eyes. Do we have the ability to change our nature and stop doing all these things? The answer is No. Here's the problem. In fact, in the New Testament, he talks about this. I want you to listen carefully to these verses because this is a very important part of where the application of this text comes. Romans chapter 8, verse 7, it says that the carnal mind is enmity, another word he uses at war with God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be. So that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. You say, well, who's the carnal mind? Oh, that's all of us. That's the people that he's writing to. We are universally, by nature , people in this position. We don't submit to God's laws, and we are powerless. To obey God in these ways. We fall short, so far far short And so you may ask the question, well, is there any hope for us? And the answer is, yes, but it's not in the law God uses the law to help us to see there's a problem, but the law is not the solution to the problem. Romans chapter 3, this is what he says. We know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law that every mouth may be stopped. And that all the world may become guilty before God. Therefore, by the deeds of the law, there shall no flesh be justified in his sight. And here's the key. For by the law is the knowledge of Sin. justice When God said this is what you need to do It wasn't his way of saying, this is how you get right with me. It was saying, this is how you realize that you have no hope unless I do something for you. That's actually what it was. And so we continue with this thought. We cannot change our nature. We cannot eliminate our former sins. We're powerless to do that Why is that? Because our hands are are guilty. They're dirty. In fact, the great picture of what he is ultimately saying is, here you are, you're going into the temple. And you're making sacrifices to me and I don't want to see them. You're praying to me and I don't want to hear it. That is an offense because you're trying to come to me through your own efforts, through your own righteousness. Why is the incarnation necessary? It's because we are unable to come to God through our own merits. And our own righteousness. And our own deeds. Listen to what it says in Romans chapter 8, verse 3. It says, what the law could not do, and that it was weak to the flesh, God sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin Condemned sin in the flesh. Whose flesh? His own. That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. That verse tells us that when the person whose mind is set at opposition against God And does not submit to his laws, and in his own strength and might could never follow the law of God and establish a basis of righteousness. God said You can't do it because you're a sinner, but Christ will do it for you. That's what he's saying. Galatians 4, 4. When the fullness of the time was come, God sent forth his son, made of a woman, made under the law. to redeem them who were under the law that we might receive the adoption of sons. The third truth is God delights in the miracle of redemption before it's even realized. Now, if you look back at the way that he puts this, it's really important. In verse 18, he says, Come now, let us reason together. When you were a kid, did did uh you ever get in trouble and your dad said, Go wait for me in your room. I don't think my sons are raising their hands this week. Go wait for me in your room. I come up there I sit down, I say, son, come here, sit down. We have a talk about what you just said to your brother. We need to have a talk about the way you just responded to your mom. We have a talk about The work that you just did for homework. Or should I see the lack of work that you did for your homework? And I'm calling their attention to where they fall short. And I'm explaining to them how it can be resolved. That's what I'm doing. That's what God's doing here. He's calling these people, he's saying, I need to talk to you. You need to see your sin. You need to see your absolute inability to come to me through your own righteousness and your keeping of the law and all those things. But I want to tell you something really sweet and really good. He says, though your sins be as scarlet, that is what they are right now, they shall be as white as snow. Though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool. Now, why do you think he uses the picture of crimson red? Because he just said your hands are full of blood. That blood is a stain that you have no ability to wash away. But he said, though that is your current position, that will not always be your position. There's going to be a day that your sin will be removed. The stain of your sin Will be removed. God delights in the future reality that our sin debt will be entirely, fully removed once and for all. God pursues us before we have any clue that we need salvation, before we have any heart for salvation, before we have any desire to actually embrace the gospel. He comes to us when we're stumbling in the darkness. It's his grace. He delights today in the future reality of your sins forgiveness. It's an amazing thought. That's really what we're looking at in these verses. When God takes a sinner and he forgives his sins and he cleanses his heart and he declares him righteous, he remembers his sinful deeds no more. He his sin has happened, but God no longer remembers it. You say, how does this how does a an omniscient God not remember our sin? He chooses not to remember our sin. That's what it is. Listen to what he says in Psalm 103, verse 12. He says, As far as the East is from the West, so far has he removed our transgressions from us When do east east and west meet? When you tell me or when you find out, come tell me. I don't think we'll ever have a conversation. Because they don't. Hebrews ten, seventeen, their sins and their iniquities will I remember. No more. Folks, if you're a believer, if you've placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, that is your position. Well Pastor, some days I don't feel like that's position my position. Yeah, that's that's true. You probably don't sometimes. It doesn't change it Oh, some false teacher has been teaching this, teaching this, teaching this, teaching this, and I'm starting to hear it, and I'm starting to hear it, and I'm starting to The fact that you're hearing it doesn't mean it's true If every single person in this room votes on the wrong side of truth, it doesn't change it. Truth is truth. And so as far as the East is from the West, so far as he removed our transgressions, his sins, his iniquities, he'll remember them no more. And so the question is, is how does that happen? Because what's amazing is in this text he doesn't tell us. That's what the rest of the book's for. The rest of the book of Isaiah. It's just chapter after chapter after chapter of God saying, the Messiah is going to be. The Messiah is going to do. Here's why he's got to be this. Here's why he's got to do this. Here's what he's going to secure for you because of who he is. And what he's going to do for you. That's what the rest of the book of Isaiah is for. It is the expounding of the answer as to how is this cleansing accomplished? Because it's beyond the ability of the people that are there. It's beyond their ability to keep the law, it's beyond their ability to give the sacrifices. They cannot cleanse themselves from their own sin. And so I want to read to you the answer to that question from the book of Hebrews. Hebrews chapter 1, verse 3, it says, we already read this this morning. Christ being the brightness of his glory, the express image of his person. And upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down , was done, on the right hand of the Majesty on High. The book of Hebrews is a sermon. Pretty heavy sermon, might I tell you. It's a sermon. That's what it's all about. Christ Christ fulfilled the law. The old system is gone. The old system pointed to him. The old system is inferior because of its inability to accomplish what Christ accomplished in one moment of time. Hebrews 9. 26, he says, Now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. As it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment, so Christ once offered to bear the sins of many, and unto them that look for his appearing the second time without sin unto salvation. Jesus paid it all. This text in front of us shows us why he needed to pay it all. This text in front of us shows us why there's nothing that we could do, or nothing that we could give to God. There is no favor that we could give him, no payment that we could lay at his feet. That could make this happen. It could only happen by the payment of the sinless sacrifice of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Promised, fulfilled, and we look back at it. And here's my question. Do you see yourself the way that God sees you? I mean, there's so many implications here. Yeah, yeah. Some of us, the problem is that we have too high an opinion of ourselves. Let's just be really honest. We don't see ourselves as the sinner. We don't see ourselves as the unrighteous one. We don't see ourselves as the one who could never merit God's forgiveness and faith or in God's salvation. And we somehow believe, like the guy in Matthew, who says, What good thing can I do to inherit the kingdom of God? We have this mentality. We're like the people who justify ourselves that we're righteous. And Jesus has to say, let me tell you about two people who went into the temple. You go, oh, maybe my view is wrong. That could be the problem. That we have in our pride and self-righteousness rejected God's offer of salvation because we feel we don't need it. We can fall on the other side too. Well, we say there's no way God would ever love me. There's no way God would ever accept me. There's no way that God would ever forgive me. There's no way that He cares about me. And I ask the question. Did you not see the way he described these people? Did you not see how he talks of them? And his love for them didn't change. He wasn't showing them these things to say, let me tell you why I hate you. He's saying it's who you are. But I love you anyway. That's what he's saying. That's what grace is. So he asked the question: do we see ourselves the way that God sees us? Do we realize the depths of our sin 's offense before his holy nature? Have we been gripped by the brokenness and the unworthiness of ourselves before a holy and righteous God? Do we see our complete inability to earn his favor, appease the demands of his justice, remove our sin debt? Do we realize the infinite depths of his love? Do we realize why the incarnation was absolutely necessary? A lot of people say, that's a great story. I'm glad that he did that. That's not how you get saved. You get saved by saying, that's my only hope. And I embrace it. I personally turn from my self-righteousness and my pride, and I humbly place my faith in the finished work of this Savior. He is my Savior. My only hope. That's where salvation is accomplished. Do you realize this issue? Have you placed your faith in Christ? And I ask this question. Do we delight in this? I mean, I don't know about you, but I I think about the congregational singing that we had this morning and the rich truths that we are expressing in song. We should walk out of this place having our hearts uplifted and strengthened and energized. Because all this is true. And it's true about us, not because we deserve it. But because he accomplished it for his own demonstration of his goodness. May God help us to To think deeply about this throughout the rest of this day. And may these truths start just saturating our hearts and shaping us in our thinking. So we think biblically. Let's bow for prayer. Before we close in prayer, I'm going to ask just a simple question. Is there anybody here this morning? Say, Pastor. I hear this message and I'm telling you, I've never understood this. I've never understood that I could not earn my way to God. I always thought the law was how you get to how you get to heaven. I thought you give money and that's how you go to go to heaven. I thought you keep the law and that's how you go to heaven. Or you you you turn over a new leaf and do a better job. And today I've seen from the scriptures through faith in Christ, depending upon what he did for me. I've never understood that today I want to make that decision. I want to place my faith in Christ. Is there anybody that raise your hand quietly? I'm the only one looking. Say, Pastor, that's me. Never trusted Christ. This morning want to do that. I want to place my faith in what he did for me on that crossing bay at all. If there's anybody here that say, Pastor, I've never done that. I want to talk to you after the service. Stop by and say, Pastor, can we speak? Either now Maybe throughout the week, I'd be glad to set up a time, take a Bible, and show you how you can be saved. Let's bow together and thank God for these wonderful truths Father, thank you for your word. It's power. These incredible promises. Help us to just get a little bit more of an appreciation today for the riches of your grace and the depths of your love. And the depths of our unworthiness. And Father, may those rich truths affect how we think about ourselves , each other, and you I ask it in Christ's name. Amen.