Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we're going to get into our Bible study. Our Father, thank you for your word. As we open up the Bible tonight, I pray that you'd help us to understand the balance that is presented in your word on these issues about how our families ought to function. Help us as parents to raise our children wisely in the fear of the Lord and to point them to Christ. I pray for our children. As they are under the authority of parents, I pray that they would respond appropriately in that position. And help us to just take your word this evening and allow it to convict us, to confront us, to encourage us, to challenge us. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Ephesians chapter 6 is where we are this evening, and we are looking at the third part on this issue of bringing up children biblically. And uh last time we were together, we were looking at several proverbs that talk about the importance of how we raise our children. And tonight what I'd like us to do is I'd like us to look at the two key New Testament passages that we have on this issue of raising our children. And so the title is God's House Rules. In fact, if we look at the section that we'll see in Ephesians 5 and 6 And then in Colossians chapter 3, what we're going to see is that after dealing with all kinds of doctrinal issues, the Apostle Paul says, here's how you practically live out this position that you have in Christ, and this is how you practically live in the light of the doctrines that I've expounded to you. The first passage we're looking at is Ephesians chapter 6. Here's what it says in verse number one. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest live long on the earth. And ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath. But bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord. Colossians 3. 20 says, children, obey your parents in all things. For this is well pleasing unto the Lord. Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged Now the two passages that we're looking at are foundational to how we are supposed to relate to our children and how children we are supposed to relate to our parents. I am still uh to relate appropriately to my mom and dad. My parents were here uh just a few days ago and uh this passage speaks to how I'm supposed to relate to my parents This also relates to how I'm supposed to relate to my son and my other children and how my children are supposed to relate to me. God's instructions are very well balanced, and I want us to Analyze that for a few minutes this evening. But before we get into that, I want us to take a couple of cautions that I think are important for us to consider when we come to these passages Whenever we talk about family, the fact is that every family comes with certain baggage, certain challenges. Nobody grows up in a perfect home And because of that, that means that when it comes to raising our own children, there are certain things that we're going to bring into those relationships. And so when we come to this passage, there are some warnings, some admonitions I want to give you before we actually dig into the content. The first thing I want to say is that we need to be careful about blind spots. Every single one of us, when it comes to certain areas, has a blind spot. A blind spot means we don't even realize that we have a problem in an area. And so sometimes when we read the Bible, we kind of read it with kind of this area where we are not getting it. The reason we may not be getting it is because of the way we were raised. It might have something to do with the experiences that we had. It may be that we've been unwilling to process certain things that we've lived through. And so I want us to be very cautious when we come to the scriptures that we recognize we may have blind spots. We may have some baggage. It's going to cause us to read into the passage something that is not there or to overlook something that it's clearly stating. The second thing I want to say as a warning is that we need to allow the scriptures to examine us. When I come to this passage of Scripture, it's very easy for me to say, you know what? My children need to obey me. And in fact, that's exactly what the Bible says. Children obey your parents and the Lord for this is right. The passage also says that I'm supposed to bring up my children in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. It also says I'm not to provoke them to wrath, and I'm not to provoke them to discouragement. And it's very easy as a parent for me to completely ignore that portion of the scriptures, to completely focus on the fact that my children need to obey me. My children need to to honor me. Or if you're a child and you're living through some frustrations in your relationship with your parents, it's very easy to say, well, you know, if my parents would be a little more honorable, I'd be, oh, you know, more likely to be honorable to them, to honor them. And so we need to allow the scriptures to examine us. We shouldn't read them and say, boy, I really wish that mom was listening to this or dad was listening to this or I wish my oldest son was listening to this or my youngest daughter was listening to this. We need to say what is the scripture telling me? What am I supposed to do in the light of the scripture that is before me It's also very important that we are careful not to use the Scripture as a tool to bludgeon people. It is possible for someone to take the Bible and to use it like a weapon against another person. In particular, if I'm a parent, it's really easy for me to do that with my children. If I'm a husband, it's easy for me to do that with my wife. We've got to be cautious that we don't allow self-centeredness to create an agenda where we ultimately miss the clear balance of Scripture. The last thing I want to say is that we need balance when we look at this issue. Raising children is difficult. Now I don't want you to get the impression that I think it's not worth it. Or that we should throw up our hands and say, oh, it's too difficult. But raising children is hard. It has the potential to become one of the richest blessings we enjoy. Rich rewardment of investment of time and energy, but it's also extremely humbling. It's also emotionally very draining. It can be very difficult. And so I wanted to kind of make those statements on the front side before we dig into this passage because I want us to read the text to ask what's it saying I need to do? Not what does my wife need to do? What does my husband need to do? What do my children need to do? What do I need to do? Very, very important. Alright, Ephesians 6. 1. I'm going to read it again. And what we're going to do is we're just going to work verse section by section, phrase by phrase through these verses so that we really understand what they're saying. Ephesians 6. 1, children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right. Honor thy father and mother, which is the first commandment with promise, that it may be well with thee, thou mayest live long on the earth. Ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath, but bring them up in the nurture and in the admonition of the Lord. Well, let's focus in on the very first phrase that we see, and that's the phrase, children what? Obey. Children obey. Now, I I shouldn't have to say this, but it's true that in a lot of homes today Parents don't actually believe that their children need to obey them. Or maybe they do believe that their children need to obey them, but they absolutely have no way of understanding how they're supposed to get their children to obey them Now I want us to recognize something. When we talk about this issue of children obeying their parents, there is a time in the life of a child that they are no longer under their parents' authority. We have to recognize that. If you've established a new home and you're no longer under the authority of your mother and father, you are not under the biblical obligation to obey them like you did when you were a dependent in their home. I think it's important to state that on the front side. But when you're under their authority, you need to obey them. And there are a lot of reasons for this. Now in the text it doesn't give us, well, here's five reasons why you're supposed to obey your parents. But let me give you just some really common sense reasons that really we should obey our parents when we are under their authority, living under their roof, because God created us in that context. The first is this. We are our parents' offspring. If it wasn't for mom and dad, you would not exist. You wouldn't have life. Now, your parents aren't perfect. Some people have terrible parents. Let's just be honest. But if your parents did not exist, neither would you. If God had not brought your parents together through whatever circumstances were involved, you would not exist. And so the very fact that you were the offspring of that man and that woman means that there is some form of obligation that you have to them. That is just a natural understanding that we all should have. I want to say this as well. Our parents have materially sacrificed a tremendous amount for our well-being. Now, you don't really realize this until you become a parent. But when you have a child, you start realizing, wow, it takes a lot of energy to raise a child. There are a lot of nights that you do not sleep many hours. In fact, my wife has probably not slept more than five or six hours in ten years. It's the truth. As long as we've had small children in our house, there has been a constant waking in the middle of the night, whether it's nursing, whether it's a child that's sick, all kinds of different issues. Our children demand a lot of attention. And it's not necessarily that they're doing it out of selfishness. If a child is in that very vulnerable position, then the fact is they need to be fed, they need to be taken care of. That's a tremendous sacrifice that's involved Parents are concerned about their children's education, they're concerned about their clothing, they're concerned about their financial means, they're concerned about so many things. And so the fact that you are the offspring of that man and that woman, the fact that they have materially sacrificed for your well-being in so many ways, gives you an obligation to those two people. The third, and this is really the focus of this passage, is that you are a member of a household. And within a household, there is an authority structure. Now that authority structure is something that God ordained. Now if God didn't care about the authority structure of a family, he would have never said things like, husbands, love your wife as Christ loved the church. Wives, submit yourselves unto your husbands. Why does he do that? It's because he cares about the order of the home. God would have never said something like, children, obey your parents. Or fathers, bring up your children in the nurture and admonition of the Lord and don't provoke them to anger if he didn't really care about the structure of the home. The fact that he addresses those issues means That there is an authority structure that he expects to be recognized and observed in the home. So it's not just that we are the offspring of these two people. It's not just that they have sacrificed for our material well-being, but we are members of their household and we're under their authority. Those things are all very, very important. Now that doesn't mean that a parent can do anything they want and say anything they want, and they can abuse their children. That's not what the text is teaching. But what it is teaching is that we are under authority when we live in that house. A fourth uh point that I want to make. Is that we should have, as parents, tremendous experience to pour into our children's lives. Now, the caveat here is that every parent is wise. Not every parent is godly. Not every parent has the right interest in mind. But in particular, if you have godly parents. They have a tremendous amount of experience to pour into your life. And whether you like it or not, you will forever be linked to the name of your parents. Now, because of those things, God puts it very simply, children, obey your parents. You are the member of the household, you are under authority, you have a responsibility to submit to their authority. So the question becomes, well what happens when that relationship changes? What happens when you no longer live under their jurisdiction? What happens when you establish your own independent household? That is what God created us to do as children, to grow up and to establish our own homes and to be independent on some level from our parents It doesn't mean that we're not linked to them anymore. It doesn't mean that the sacrifices that they've poured into our lives have changed. It doesn't mean that we stop being their offspring. But the relationship does change. How are we supposed to relate to our children? Well, he gives one simple word, and that's the word honor. The word honor means to give weight to an individual. It refers to the spirit in which we should relate to our parents, and it goes beyond the stage of dependent. Now, listen, when I am under my parents' jurisdiction, Not only am I supposed to do what they say, but I'm supposed to do it in an honorable way. But what about when I move outside of that jurisdiction? The command to honor stays the same. And there's a lot that we can say about this issue. Not every parent is equally honorable. But that does not change the fact that we have responsibility to show weight and honor to our parents. The scriptures are clear that children were not given to parents to be their personal lifelong possessions. Children are to be raised to go out to establish independent households. Where they will in many ways reflect the homes that they were raised in, but they're also going to become a blend of homes because they're marrying a new person. Now, you know, the way that I uh am a father in my home, in many ways it reflects the kind of home that I grew up in I mean, for many, many years I watched my dad do things a certain way. I learned so many things from him. But there are certain things about the way that I was raised that frankly I don't follow all of it. And that's not a slight to my parents at all. But the reality is I've had to make adjustments as a husband and as a father because you know what? My wife didn't grow up the exact same way that I did And so she brings into this marriage certain mindsets, and I bring into this marriage certain mindsets And together we establish a new and independent home that reflects the homes that we grew up in in a lot of ways. Hopefully it's building on the shoulders of the good and learning from the bad. But the fact that I'm in that independent household doesn't change the fact that I'm supposed to honor my parents. The authoritative relationship Is temporary, the weight of that relationship never goes away. The truth is, we need to ask ourselves the question: how do I as an adult Continue to honor mom and dad. I think it's a fair question for us to ask ourselves. And I think that this really comes to a head as our parents begin to age. And our parents can no longer physically take care of themselves the way that they did. All of a sudden, the roles begin to reverse. And when my mom and dad were taking care of me as a little baby, they were giving all kinds of energy to my care. And there's going to be a day, very likely, that that rule is going to reverse You know, there are a lot of people as they get older they say, I don't want to deal with that. I don't want to take the time and the energy and I don't I don't want to have to exhaust my time and be bogged down with those things. I ask the question, are you gonna honor your parents or not? All the investment of time and energy, are you going to honor the Lord? The responsibility that is given to you The fact is that we need to be deferential towards our parents. We need to be willing to sacrifice our time and our energy, our material possessions. We need to have a weighty appreciation for the investment that our parents have made. When it comes to this issue of honor, probably more than anything else, it's about appreciation. It really is. The concept will likely come to a head in those latter years. There's a third phrase that I want to draw your attention to. And that's the phrase father and mother. I don't know about you, but I'm sure in every single household, one of the parents tends to be a little bit stronger on the authoritative side. Okay? Some people some families it's mom. It really is. Dad's laid back, he lets you get away with whatever, and mom, she she brings the hammer, okay? And other households is the exact opposite Dad is the authoritarian and mom is the one who takes a little bit of a backseat. It may be as people get a little bit older, all of a sudden this 14 or 15-year-old boy He looks at his mother, he doesn't he doesn't respect her the way that he used to and the way that he should because he's looking down and he's looking across instead of up. And all of a sudden he thinks, Well, you know, I'm bigger than mom now. I can treat her differently than I did. The fact that he says father and mother is actually pretty significant. Because your mom is your authority when you're growing up, and so is your dad. It's not just the parent who is the most likely to demand your obedience or who's the most likely to actually execute punishment. Execute might be the wrong word to use. Uh institute punishment. Execute, that's a tough word. You may have uh naturally gravitate towards one parent and you you have a closer relationship with the other. And if if if mom was to correct you, you're so much more likely to not get into a confrontation with mom because you have this close relationship or maybe it's with dad The fact is, it doesn't matter who you're closer to. It doesn't matter who is the more likely one to discipline you or who's going to make your mind more carefully. You have a responsibility to submit, to, obey, honor, mom, and dad. Now all of this has been focused on the childs. And if, you know, we there actually aren't too many children in here. My son is over here. Okay. Anyway. But that's not the end of the text. In fact, you may not realize this, but he actually has more to say to the parent about how the parent Is is going to I almost use the word execute again. How they're going to apply this passage when it comes to this issue of discipline and the rearing of their children. He actually gives more warning. to the parent than he does to the children. Now we wouldn't necessarily think that, and that's not certainly the way it tends to be preached and taught, but that is the way that the passage is laid out. The next phrase is very, very important, and it's directed towards the father, but I would have to assume It's also directed to the mother, though the father is probably, in many situations, the more likely one to be the offender in this situation. He says, Do not provoke your children to wrath. What does it mean to provoke your children to wrath? Well, the word provoke means that you're inciting something. In other words, there's something about the way that you are functioning as a dad or as a mother That is actually causing your child to rebel against you. Now, that's not to say that a child needs a cause to rebel against mom and dad. They're sinners. And sometimes they just chafe at the authority that's there. They can chafe at your authority, they can chafe at God's authority. But he's saying that there's a caution, that in the way that we go about raising our children, we need to be cautious. That we don't provoke them. Another word to use is the word exasperate them, make them angry, that we incite a response that is wrong. What that tells me is that many times the conflicts between parents and children are not just a problem on the side of the child. I didn't say that it's never the case, but we have to ask the question, is it possible the reason that I'm having an issue with my son or with my daughter? is that I am causing the problem to erupt by the way that I am treating them as parents. This is a very delicate matter. It needs to be carefully considered. And it provides the necessary balance to the parent-child relationship. As a parent, I have a very high responsibility I have a weighty authority in the home. But I need to be careful that I don't abuse that authority. This command doesn't just apply to parents when their children are small. It most likely is going to come to a head when children begin to establish their own identity as young adults and can certainly drift into that period where the child has established their own household. So really what happens is when our children are very small, we kind of get away with behavior that is crossing the line. And then as our child gets a little bit older, all of a sudden they start rationalizing and they start thinking and they start analyzing and they start watching what we're doing and all of a sudden that child's going, well you told me not to do this, but I'm watching you do it. What's the problem here? All of a sudden we start kind of experiencing this pushback. And that pushback is something that we need to ask the question, why is it there? We need to understand that it's possible it could be there because of the way that we're treating our kids. Let me give you a couple of suggestions. That we should ask ourselves, is it possible that the reason I'm experiencing conflict is because of these things? One example is unreasonable expectations. It's possible for us, and by the way, I think that we should sh cause our children to shoot high, okay? I want my children to to be excellent in everything that they do. I want them to do well in school. I want them to love the Lord with all their heart. I want them to have a strong work ethic. I want them to learn how to relate to people properly. I want my children to shoot high. And that's good. And excellence is a good thing. But we have to be cautious to make sure that in our desire for excellence in our children's lives, that our Expectations are reasonable with the period of life that they're in, how much experience that they have, all kinds of different things. We should ask the question, are my expectations selfish, or are they really for my children's good? By the way, a child can begin to recognize, you know, I think that mom and dad want me in football because it's all about them. It's not really about me. They're living their life through me and that's why they're doing that. And all of a sudden a resentment can build up. And I'm not suggesting that that resentment, oh, we can just justify. So I'm not saying that at all. But what I'm saying is it's possible But we are inflaming it ourselves. Inconsistency in what we expect. I tell my child, this is what I expect you to do. And then I come back and I change the rules. Now you can get away with that when they're six and seven. Not when they're sixteen. They're gonna look at you and say, Dad, this is what you told me you're gonna do. And that's not what you that's not what you're saying now. What's going on? Oh, don't talk like that to me. Don't be rebellious. It's true. We shouldn't talk like that to you. But is what he's saying true? Hypocrisy. It's really easy for us to say this is how you should live, and then not do it ourselves. Going back on our word, failing to prepare them adequately for their future. This is something that I have seen. And a lot of young people, they get into college and I ask them, how did you feel about the way you were prepared as a child? How did I feel about the way you were prepared in your high school years? And one of the dangers that we have, and I we we are homeschooling our children, and we're all about homeschooling. But in homeschooling, we can really do a great job, we can do a really poor job. And preparing our children for their future. And the fact is that once our children get into their careers, they're going to look back and they're saying you know what, mom and dad prepared me so well, or they're going to say, they really dropped the ball and I'm suffering right now. We've got to be careful about how we prepare our children for their future. Harshness, responding in sinful anger. mocking or belitting belittling our kids. You know how many how common it is in a household for people to just shred each other apart And everybody's kind of laughing when they're in the room. But there's some kids they walk out of that room and they're like, my parents have no respect for me as a person. They don't value me. And the fact is that that mocking and that belittling can really torment them as they get older. Now, it's kind of quiet in here, okay? This isn't something we talk about very much, but here's the truth. As parents We have to be parents who are spirit-filled. That means we need to treat our children the way that we would treat any other person with dignity, kindness. What is best for them. So he warns, don't cause your child to become angry. And then he goes to the other side and he says, but here's what you're supposed to do. And this is really important. Rather than causing your child to become anger and bitter and discouraged, you need to bring them up. in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord. And actually that phrase, bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord, it actually has several parts to it. The first part is the part bring them up. It has the idea of nourish them into maturity. You know, some parents, they badger their kids. They beat them over the head. They don't prepare them well for life. They belittle them. And then they grow up and they're angry. They don't love their mom and dad. They rebel against God because their view of the church and God is all mixed up because of the way that they were raised. That's one side. There's other kids that they say, you know what, my mom and dad love me. I'm standing on their shoulders. They have poured into my life. They've invested in my life. I'm indebted to them in a way that I cannot even begin to communicate. Nourish them into maturity. Rather than exasperating your children, invest in their future wisely. Instead of being unreasonable in expectations, be reasonable in your expectations Instead of being inconsistent, be consistent. Instead of being a hypocrite, don't be a hypocrite. Be consistent. What you say and what you do be consistent with what they say. Give them the tools that they need to be successful in life. Be gentle in the way you approach them. Learn to control your temper. Treat them with dignity. What we're seeing is this contrast. And really what it comes down to is on the one side you have a parent who is walking in the flesh. They're abusing their authority. They're crushing their child. They're hurting their future. On the other side, you have a parent who's walking in the spirit, walking in wisdom, strengthening, nourishing, building up their child, preparing them for their future. You know what it all comes down to? Are you walking with the Lord or not? It's really what it comes down to. Are you drawing from his wisdom or are you just reacting in the flesh? That word nurture is a powerful word. It has the idea of the entire training process. In fact, in another passage, he talks about chastening, and I'm going to deal with this in another week where we talk about God's example as a father. And how we really need to pattern our parenting after the example of our Heavenly Father. But that word nurture means the entire training process. So we talk about someone being a shepherd, we talk about someone being a teacher, we talk about someone being a coach, an encourager, an authority, an example. All of those things are really bound up in that word nurture and admonition or nurture. And then the last word, such an interesting word, is the word admonition. Now, I know that you've heard the phrase neuphetic counseling probably in some place. But that word newetic, okay, it comes from a Greek term. And what you may not realize is that word admonish used in this passage is actually the Greek term that we get the word newetic counseling from. It has the idea of coming alongside somebody, calling their attention to their sin, confronting them with the Word of God, helping them deal with what is wrong so that they can get it right and they can start moving in the right direction. Really, another way to put it is you're supposed to be a counselor for your children. But there's two very important warnings that I think we need to consider when we talk about this issue of counseling. If I'm going to counsel my children, I've got to be in a position to do it. Matthew 7, verse 2. With what judgment you judge, you shall be judged. With what measure you meet it shall be measured to you. Why beholdest the moat in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam in thine own eye? How wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull the mote out of thine own eye, and behold a beam is in thine own. First, cast out the beam in thine own eye, then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the moat in thy brother's eye. If I want to counsel my kids , I better make sure I'm dealing with my own heart first. If I want to be a guide to them and I I want to be one And I need to be one, and God calls me to be one, I've got to make sure , that I'm dealing with me first Galatians 6. 1. Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such a one in a spirit of meekness, considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted. Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. So as the scripture calls us to bring our children up in the nurture and the admonition of the Lord rather than provoking them to wrath and discouragement. We've got to make sure that we're not blinded by our own sin and that we are walking in the Spirit so that we have the wisdom and the grace to guide them in the right direction. The last phrase we want to draw your attention to is the phrase of the Lord. God is the ultimate authority in the home. The reason that I have authority as a dad isn't because I'm the biggest one in the house. Now in my house I am, but not in every house. It's not because I'm the strongest. It's not because I'm the most forceful It's not because I'm the one who's inflexible. The reason I have authority in the house is because that's what God gave me. And if God gave me that authority, it's delegated and I'm responsible to Him for the way that I. Exercise that authority, not execute that authority. I got that in my head. The way they exercise that authority That means that as a father, I need to humbly consider the expectations that I put on my children. I need to humbly consider: is this my opinion or is this what God says? That's really important. It was really easy for us to look at somebody who's preaching the Bible and we say, you know, that pastor He really takes a lot of scripture out of context, and I don't like it when he does that. He's abusing his authority as a pastor, and you'd be right if a pastor is doing that. There are a lot of parents that do that. There are a lot of parents that will say, Thus saith the Lord, but if you dig in your Bible, you'll find out He didn't say that The authority that I have as a dad, the authority that you have as a dad or as a mom, it's delegated by God And that means we have a great responsibility to make sure that we are always commanding and always expecting under the authority of God Himself. It's very, very important. It's important for me to say things to my children like, the reason that I'm telling you you need to do this is because this is what the scripture says, and I show it to them. I'm constantly pointing them to God's authority. I am a channel through which I'm pointing them to God's authority. This is very, very important. And by the way, as your children get older, guess what? They will really respect that. They're going to look back and they're going to be like, you know what? Mom and dad weren't perfect. But what they expected was clearly from the Bible. And that's really important. There are a lot of kids that grow up in homes, but that's not the case. And they just throw off everything that mom and dad said. And what's sad is they they metaphorically throw out the baby with the bathwater. Well, mom and dad may have been wrong in the way that they administer certain things. They also help to the truth in a lot of ways, but they don't see it because they get caught up in all the trappings. The second passage is the Colossians 3, and I won't spend much time here, but it says this: Children, obey your parents in all things, for this is well pleasing unto the Lord. Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged. Two phrases I want to draw your attention to. One is in all things. This means that it covers every area of life. Our limitation would only be. When a parent is stepping outside of their God-given jurisdiction and putting an expectation on a child that would put them in conflict with the Word of God and God's higher authority. Lest they be discouraged is very important. The idea is they would become resentful or disheartened. Now, you know, if I'm provoking my children, And my child is a by nature assertive child. This is what's going to happen. We're going to have conflict. That child will look you in the eye and say, nope. And you have all kinds of conflict. But not every child's like that. Not every child is assertive. There's other children. They get crushed. They get crushed. They will not push back. But that compliant child will eventually be a person who can't take those assertive steps One of the reasons sometimes that our children are defiant is because of the way we raise them. One of the reasons our children sometimes seem to have no drive. And they don't want to make decisions, and they don't have any confidence in life. It's because we crushed them along the way. And that's really what the passage in Colossians is warning. Be very cautious. that the way that you relate to your children doesn't provoke anger or discouragement. So the question is how do we apply all this? Let me throw out some things for you to consider. And then let's ask the Lord to help us to do this. First thing is this. Raising children is challenging, humbling, and sometimes is overwhelming. It's actually hard for me to address a passage like this. And the reason it's hard for me is because I know everybody's family is different. Everybody's experience is different. You know, there's some people who say, I've got a great dad. My dad never was overbearing and he never provoked me to anger. When I responded wrong, it was all on me But there's others that grew up in abusive homes. Dad was a drunk. Dad cheated on mom. And dad was an alcoholic. He was a drug addict. He was someone who lived a horrific life. The fact is, everybody's situation is different, and I understand that. Raising children is hard. Two, being under the authority of parents who are imperfect is difficult as well. 3. We should rejoice in God's grace as He has the power to strengthen us in this great undertaking. Mending hurting hearts, restoring what has been stolen through fleshly living. Even if in your past you've experienced difficulties within your family, that does not mean that God's grace is unable to restore what is broken. It doesn't mean that. I'm not giving you any promises and guarantees today, okay? But what I am saying is this, God's grace is a powerful thing. There are many, many people as they get older. They look back and their parents go, man, the way that I handled that season of life was so wrong. And son or daughter, I'm so sorry. Their children, they grow up and all of a sudden they start raising their kids and all of a sudden things start coming home to them and they say, Mom and Dad, that was a stubborn, rotten teenager. so sorry. And all of a sudden there's there's the the the ability for this brokenness to be restored The fact is, God can pour grace into the most difficult of situations. We need to keep Christ's authority the center of our homes. This is really important. As our culture deviates more and more, our kids are asking more and more questions. And if our answer is, well, it's because daddy said so, they're going to go, oh really? We need to get back to the Bible. We need to show them what God says. We need to be mature enough Christians that we can give them biblical answers and point them to Christ's authority. We should approach conflict in the home biblically just like any other relationship. Just because that's my wife, or just because that's my son or my daughter, doesn't mean that I can somehow put it in another category and I can treat them any way that I want. The same rules apply, whether it's wife, husband, child, parents. We're expected to walk in spirit. And to obey God when it comes to his instructions on interpersonal relationships. We need to deal with some some some of us may need to deal with some baggage that we've brought into the relationships we have with our kids. What I mean by dealing with this, I don't mean that tonight you need to go home and say, hey son, I just I just gotta like pour out all this dirty laundry on you and tell you all these things from my past. I'm not saying that. But what I'm saying is this, the way that we raise our kids may very well be affected by things in our past. That we really haven't dealt with. We just kind of ignored those things. The fact is, those things are like the beam in our eye that's keeping us from being able to deal with matters of purpose with our kids. I want to encourage you, if you've got baggage, deal with it before the Lord. We might need to repent of rebellion as a child or as a parent for abusing our authority. Again, I'm not suggesting that we all have confession tonight, but what I am suggesting is that you let God do a work in you. If as a child you've been a rebel, then deal with it before the Lord. And perhaps you need to go and talk to mom and dad about it. If as a parent you have really abused your authority, I don't mean that you belong in jail or anything like that. What I'm saying is you've not exercised your authority in a biblical way. You need to let the word of God settle in your heart. You need to repent before God, and you need to decide I'm going to function differently as a parent. I'm going to start doing it God's way. We may need to have an honest conversation with our parents or with a child, particularly those who are older, if we're at odds with them. By the way, Before you decide to have a conversation like that, get good counsel from somebody that's objective and loves Christ and ask them, how do you think that I should handle this? I mean, really. Your kids may not need that load on their shoulders. Your parents may not need that load on their shoulders. So go to an objective and godly person. Who has some experience and ask them, is this the kind of thing that I just need to do with the Lord and start turning in a different direction? Or do I really need to actually have a heart-to-heart conversation with my parent or my child? But if there's an obvious contention between you and your child or you and your parent, it may be that that conversation needs to be had. But like I said, advisably, we might need to appeal to someone with spiritual authority for insight into how to navigate a complicated situation in a way that honors the Lord. I think in particular, as we get older, we stab establish independent homes. There are all kinds of different challenges that we can encounter. It is helpful to talk through these issues with godly people. Who love the Lord, who have, you might say, no skin in the game. They're not emotionally attached to the situation. They just love Christ and they love you and those who you are dealing with. And lastly, we need to recognize that God gave us our parents, and God gave us our children, to be tools in his hands to grow us into the image of Christ When God gave you kids, he didn't just give you kids so that you could shape them. He gave you kids so that they could shape you too. It's true. It's really easy for us to look at it one-dimensionally. It's really easy for me as a parent to tell my kids, God gave me to you to shape your life. That's true. It's also true that God gave them to us to shape us. There's a lot of pride in us that needs to be weeded out. There's a lot of self-centeredness in us, and it needs to be weeded out. There's a lot of fleshliness that's in us and needs to be Weed it out. The fact is, God put us in families so that in those relationships we could apply the scriptures and we could grow into Christ-likeness. And so God gave us families so that we can grow in spiritual maturity. May the Lord help us to take these truths and apply them practically tonight. Let's bow for prayer. Father, the scriptures in front of us are so very, very practical. They're very personal. Perhaps even a little painful. And I pray that you'd help those who are here tonight, those who may watch this on the live stream, and those who may come in contact with this message in the coming weeks and months. Help each of us to open up the word and to let it examine our hearts. Help us to be willing to turn to you in humility and repent of sin Help us to be willing to make things right if necessary. Help us to deal with baggage we may be bringing into our relationships that are causing us to be very harsh. or not to handle things appropriately. Father, help our children to learn, to submit to their parents, to draw from their wisdom, to honor them. Help us as parents to invest in our kids, to pour into their lives, to see them grow up into godly men and women who love you with all of their hearts and establish strong and vibrant homes We ask all of this in Christ's name, Amen.