Good evening. Like to welcome everybody tonight. Hope that you're having a great week. And uh if you're tired of the heat, don't worry. Tonight it's gonna cool down the low 60s and then next next date, low 50s. So So I'm excited about that. I'm looking forward to fall. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we will get into our topic tonight from Matthew chapter 5. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we're so very grateful that we can gather together with like-minded believers, people that uh we worship with, we are raising our families together, we are growing together in the Lord. We're seeking to reach our community together. And I pray that you'll help us. This evening, as we look at this passage of Scripture, help me to communicate it in a way that is consistent with what Christ was saying in these verses. And help us to understand the very rich doctrinal truths that are a part of what we have here in this text. Then as we gather for prayer, I pray that our hearts would be knit together, that we would bear one another's burdens, and as we lift up these requests. I pray that we would just recognize that our tremendous need to depend on you and that we would be able to rejoice in how you work in these situations. We ask all this in Christ's name, amen. Okay, Matthew 5 is where we are again, and we've been there for a while. The guys at the sound booth, they laughed and they said, How many weeks are we going to be on verse number nine? I said, well, the plan is only two. So uh we have two parts and I think that the topic we're going to address here is an extremely important one. And if you're reading through the Beatitudes This is actually kind of like a culmination of what has been stated in the Beatitudes. I'll draw this out on part two, but I'll mention it tonight, that if you take each of the Beatitudes Each of those pieces comes together to be able to effectively do what Jesus is talking about here in Matthew 5, verse 9. So let's read through the whole section, and then we will look at this last verse together tonight. It says, and seeing the multitudes he went up into a mountain. And when he was set, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth and taught them saying Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Now, this is the verse that we're going to focus our attention on tonight, and Lord willing, next week as well. And it says again, Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Now, before we dig into these verses, I want to ask you, not to raise your hand and tell me what you think it is, but in your mind, I want you to ask yourself the question: what is a peacemaker? What does it mean to be a peacemaker? Does it mean that a person is just passive and whenever there's a conf a conflict, they always avoid the conflict by Just giving in to a person and doing whatever they demand that they should do? Is that what he means by being a peacemaker? Uh does it mean that you're just a gentle and a kind and A nice person to interact with because we all know that nice people never have conflicts with other people because nobody would ever take advantage of a nice person. Is that what he means by peacemaker? But we're going to dig into what he means. And then we have this other statement. He says, for they shall be called the children of God. And you might be going, hold on a second. You mean that a person is called a child of God by being a peacemaker? What in the world is Jesus saying there? And so there is a lot that we're going to have to say about that. And I think that after we get into the text And we see some parallel passages of Scripture that really kind of flush out what Jesus is saying. I think it'll make sense, at least I hope it will So first of all, let's look at a summary statement of the verse in front of us. And it will tell you a little bit where I'm going with this. It says, when a believer cares enough about the ministry of reconciliation They will engage in gospel-centered resolutions. Others will recognize that their claim to be God's child is a credible claim. I'll read it again because I messed it up. When a believer cares enough about the ministry of reconciliation that they will engage in gospel -centered resolutions. Others will recognize that their claim to be God's child is a credible claim. Is it possible for a person to say I'm a Christian and in fact they're not? Absolutely, it's possible. Is it possible for a person to say, I'm a Christian, and nobody believes them, but they actually are? Yes, that is possible as well. Is it possible for a person to be a genuine Christian? They claim to be a Christian, but the people around them at least have a question mark in their mind. Yes, those things are all possible. You say, well, why are those things possible? Well, it's possible because of the content of what we're going to talk about this evening. And so as we look at this passage of Scripture, we're going to see that God wants us to live consistent with our position in Christ. And part of us living consistent with our position in Christ is that we will reflect the character qualities that are mentioned in the Beatitudes. And out of all of those that he's mentioned, they are kind of culminating with this one of being a peacemaker. Someone who is actively involved in helping people who need to be reconciled to somebody be reconciled. And it's a lot to say there. So first of all, an introduction. How does someone identify a particular plant? Well, by its fruit could be one thing. By the kind of leaves that it has? You can almost identify a citrus plant by smelling it. You walk by and you just you rub the leaf and it smells like lemon. It smells like some kind of a citrus plant. You can look at the bark of a plant. So some somebody walks out into a forest and they can say, that right there is a red oak tree. That right there is and they'll just go through all these different kinds of trees. They make that identification based on what they're seeing. Okay? If somebody is going to examine a certain kind of animal, they do the exact same thing. They look at physical characteristics. But when someone asks the question, how do you identify someone who's a child of God, how do you make such an identification? I mean think about that for a minute. You could have two people, one's a Christian and one's not a Christian, they're sitting on the same pew and Physically they look no different. There's nothing that really identifies the one as a Christian and not. It's not like he has on his head something that says, I'm one of God's children, and the other one doesn't have that. That's not there. I mean it's true that you could have a person who has a a vibrant personality say, wow, that person, they seem like they have a vibrant personality. Maybe they're a Christian, but there's people that have vibrant personalities that are not Christians. You can't even identify whether or not a person's a Christian simply by the way they dress. Go to Utah and ask yourself the question, is somebody a Christian or a Mormon based upon the way they dress? And the answer is you have absolutely no idea. And so when we talk about how we identify someone as a child of God, this is not a physical issue. This is something that has to be broken down and understood. And it really is at the heart of what Jesus says in this Beatitude. So let me work through it this way. The first observation should be in the realm of belief. If someone is articulating a belief system that is contrary to the true gospel, then all other factors are irrelevant. Okay? So someone may have a very gentle personality. They may live a very morally clean life. You may never hear them use profanity. They're never unfaithful to their spouse. They treat their children very well. They live a very high and morally upstanding life. They're willing to put away things that a lot of Christians indulge in, and there are things that they are willing to do that some Christians aren't willing to make such sacrifices. But if this person's belief system is not built on the true gospel message, then those issues are absolutely irrelevant. The second observation would be in the realm of confession or profession of that faith. So if I can articulate the gospel, that does not necessarily mean that I believe the gospel. You you do realize that there are people who have grown up in gospel preaching churches and they they get to uh their twenties and their thirties and their forties and somebody knocks on their door and says, Hey, do you know for sure that when you die you're going to heaven? They say I don't believe in heaven. Really? I don't believe in hell. Well, would you like to know what the Bible says? And they say, I know what the Bible says. Oh yeah, go ahead and tell me. And they say, well in in Romans in Romans 3. 10 it says there's none righteous, no, not one. Romans 3. 23 it says all have sinned and come short of the glory of God. Uh Romans chapter 3 it says uh by the deeds of the law no flesh shall be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. And they can just walk through the whole gospel and you say, You know that message, don't you? They say, I know it Do you believe it? Not a chance. No, I don't believe it. It's fiction. I don't believe it at all. There are people that that is truly the way that they think So just because someone can articulate the gospel with clarity doesn't mean that they actually believe in the gospel. There's a difference between knowledge of the truth and faith, dependence, trust in the truth And so if we're asking the question, is someone a Christian, and they do not articulate the true gospel message, everything else doesn't matter. If a person can articulate the true gospel message, but they do not claim that they believe the gospel message, again, everything else is they 're relevant. There's a final piece that is very, very important. And that is a piece that we can't easily evaluate. Is their profession of faith credible? Now, when I ask this question, I'm not suggesting that God determines if a person spends eternity in heaven or hell. based on what you and I think of their profession of faith. Okay? What you and I think of somebody's profession of faith is completely irrelevant on the judgment day. Okay? There's a lot that you and I cannot see in a person's heart. But it is true that when someone says, I'm a Christian, you and I are going to make a judgment about whether or not we actually believe that is true. And you say, well, that's not fair. Well, the Bible is full of lots of examples that say that that is exactly what would have taken place. And so it's very difficult to judge this because it's an issue of the heart. However, there are practical pieces that either strengthen our conviction that a person is yes, truly a believer, or they undermine it. We say, you know what, I really have serious doubts. About whether or not this person is actually a Christian. Now, I want us to keep this in our minds as we think about what Jesus is saying when he says, Blessed are the peacemakers. For they shall be called, called the children of God. So I want to begin tonight with explaining what the statement actually is saying, or what I believe that the text is saying. And so I want to begin first of all by saying or by looking at the words peacemaker. Okay? Now a peacemaker is not someone who is simply And a peaser, okay? Someone who just always gives in. So you have this one person, they have a very, very strong personality. It's like you're going to uh you're going to a a theme park and this guy because you know he is the strongest person in the group everybody ends up going to the ride that he decides they're going on and everybody's going to eat at the place that this person decides because they have the strongest personality. Nobody wants to fight him and say, no, I'd actually rather go to this place to eat, or I'd rather go to this place and ride on that ride. That's appeasement. Being a peacemaker is not an appeaser. Being a peacemaker is not another way of saying that someone is weak. Or that someone is passive, or that someone is just naturally agreeable. We talked about this uh uh really we've we've talked about it several times as we've been looking at these verses, and we've seen that this is not a natural inclination. You know, some people are by nature more passive than others. Some people are by nature more agreeable than others. Some people are more naturally inclined to dig in their heels and say, no, I'm going to demand my rights in this situation. And I'm just going to tell you you're wrong and I'm going to do what I want to do. Being a peacemaker doesn't fall into that category. You say, well, what is it? Well, first of all, you have two people that are at odds. And you desire to see them restored. But it's more than just seeing a problem and saying, I really wish this could be resolved. Because there are lots of people that are like that. Lots of people at home, they see their parents fighting with one another and they say, man, I really wish mom and dad didn't fight all the time. I wish that they got along. Parents look at their kids and they see their kids fighting and squabbling about things. You can take it into any kind of context. It's very natural to wish that people were not arguing and fighting and contentious. But it goes beyond just the desire. There's actually a willingness to initiate a resolution. I see there's a problem. I want it to be resolved. And I don't walk away from it. In fact, I'm willing to take a step into trying to get the matter resolved. But it goes even deeper than that. Because it's not just the willingness to initiate, but it's having the skill to work out the issues that are on the table. Most people don't have that ability. Either they don't care, or they care and they're not willing to take the step, or they care and they're willing to take the step, but when they step into the situation, they make it worse. And so a person who's a peacemaker has the skill to resolve issues between people. And I'll also mention this. They have enough patience to stay engaged and complete the process. So when Jesus says, blessed are the peacemakers, he's talking about people that are not common in the world. There are very few people that you and I interact with that could honestly be called peacemakers Because it involves a desire, it involves a willingness to step in, it involves the skill to actually resolve the issue, it involves patience. It means sometimes you're gonna get attacks, you're gonna have to work through issues, you're gonna have to learn what the root causes are, you're gonna have to learn how to communicate with people, you're gonna have to find a middle ground bridge between people. You've got to stay in the process till it's resolved. And a lot of people here tonight are saying, well, I guess I'm not one of them. So I guess I'm not going to be called a Christian. Well, let's keep moving. Don't come to that conclusion just yet, please. The second part is this. They shall be called the children of God. Now, this is an important point for us to not miss. Being called a child of God is different than becoming a child of God. Did you catch that? Okay? If I call you a child of God, that's my assessment. It could be right, it could be wrong. If you become a child of God, that's God's assessment, okay? And he's right. So what he declares And what you and I declare are not necessarily always the same thing. Hopefully they are, okay? But the idea is that he's not talking about how someone becomes a Christian. And this is a piece that we have emphasized many times in the Sermon on the Mount. You don't become a Christian by being merciful, or you don't become a Christian by mourning, or you don't become a Christian by being pure in heart. Those are qualities that follow someone who is a Christian. Those are fruits that flow out of a healthy and vibrant Christian experience. So when he says they shall be called the children of God, he's not saying they become a child of God by being a peacemaker. He's saying if they're a peacemaker, there are people that recognize that person is a Christian. And they make that declaration. So they are being identified as a child of God. And that really leads to two questions that I think are also important. Who makes the declaration? I've kind of already said this. And what is the basis of their declaration? Well, the person making the declaration is another person that is observing their life. And the one is making that assessment based on what he sees. that he believes is credible evidence that this person truly is living consistent with the position in Christ. That's ultimately what is there. And so there's a passage of scripture that I think can be very helpful for us on this issue. I want to ask you to turn with me to James chapter 2 James chapter 2. And this is an observation that I've made as I've been working my way through the Sermon on the Mount. And if you if you read the book of James Alongside the Sermon on the Mount, you will notice that many of the statements that Jesus makes in the Sermon on the Mount are really expounded by James in the book of James. Lots and lots of statements that we find in the Sermon on the Mount are dealt with in that way. And I think that there is a connection between what we see in James chapter 2 and what we see in Matthew 5, verse number 9. And I know that there are a lot of Christians that when they read James 2, it makes them nervous because they say it sounds a lot like James is That what James is saying is not this is how you become a Christian, but this is how your profession of faith is validated by people who are observing you. That's what James is saying. And so let's read through these verses, and then I want to draw your attention to some details so you can see the parallel here. He says, What does it profit, my brethren? Though a man Does that really mean anything? And he says, well, it kind of depends on what follows that statement. And he says, what is it if a man say he hath faith and hath not works? Can faith save him? If a brother or sister be naked and destitute of daily food, and one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be wormed and filled, notwithstanding, ye have given them not those things which are needful for the body. What does it profit? Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone. Yeah, a man may say, that word's important, thou hast faith, I have works. Show me thy faith without thy works. I will show thee my faith by my works. Thou believest that there is one God, thou doest well, the devils also believe and tremble. But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead? Was not Abraham our father justified by works when he offered Isaac his son upon the altar? Seeing thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect? The scripture was fulfilled with said, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness. He was called the friend of God. Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, not by faith only. Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works when she received the messengers And sent them out another way. For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also. Now let me just clear the air right quick. James and Paul are not in conflict Okay? They're not in conflict. When James talks about justification, and when Paul talks about justification, they are talking about a concept that is in two separate realms. When Paul is talking about justification in Romans 3, 4, and 5, the realm that he is talking about is the courtroom of God. How a person is declared righteous in the presence of a holy and righteous God. And Paul makes it very clear that the way that you're justified in the presence of a holy and righteous God is by the imputed righteousness of Christ alone. The righteousness of God, which is by faith of Jesus Christ. It's unto all and upon all them that believe. When we come to James chapter 2, James is not concerned with the same question that the Apostle Paul is concerned with in Romans 3, 4, and 5. James's concern is not how do you become a Christian, but how does someone who is a Christian and who claims to be a Christian, how are they taken seriously by the people that are around them And so the realm of Paul's question is justified in the presence of God before his holy courtroom And Jim's, his sphere or interest is how are you vindicated before other people when you say, I'm a Christian. We can see those pieces when we read the details carefully. So, first of all, I'll say this. Not all people who profess to be Christians are actually born again. Verse 14, what does it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith and hath not works? Can faith save him. Now, it is important to notice that when he says this, he doesn't say, What does it profit, my brethren, though you say you have faith? He doesn't say that. He makes a general statement. If a person says, I have faith, but there's no evidence for it, then what's the point? Does it have any value? That's what he's saying. And so the focus of these verses is the profession of faith. He says he has faith. And this is a very specific kind of situation. When he says, can faith save him, you can't see this in English because underlying the Greek text, it has this kind of sense to it Can the kind of faith that we're talking about here, a faith that is simply professed, can that kind of a faith save a person? That's what he's saying. I'll give you an illustration of this. It's like a person who is sitting in a last night we were at the uh the rescue mission. And if I said to everybody in the room, I said, Hey, I want you to pray a sinner's prayer with me tonight. Okay, I want you to pray this prayer. And I say, here's what you need to do. Say, God, I know that I'm a sinner. I believe that Jesus died for my sins. He rose from the dead, and that through faith alone in him I can be saved. I want you to pray that with me right here, right now, tonight. Ask God to save you. And every person in that room prayed that prayer. Would they all be saved? It's an interesting question. Well, it kind of believes that what was going on. It kind of depends on what was going on in their heart. Because it's not about words that we say. It's not about saying the right thing. It's about believing in the heart that salvation is by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. So saying a sinner's prayer is actually completely pointless if it's not connected to genuine faith in Christ. Or a person could pray a very sloppy sinner's prayer And the person sitting next to them goes, I have no idea if this person really understands the gospel. But they understand. I'm a sinner. Christ died for my sins. He rose from the dead. I need to be saved. They can't quite articulate it the way we'd like them to, but you know what? They really believe that and they've asked God to save them. With a heart, one believeth unto righteousness. And so the point is that what you say means nothing if it's not connected to an actual understanding of the truth and genuine real faith in Christ. And in the same way that that is true, if a person says, I'm a Christian, but there's no regeneration, there's no faith in the heart, they've never understood the gospel, they've never depended on the work of Christ. And the evidence of that is in the way that they have this casual arrogance toward God. They could care less about the Christian faith in the practical working out of those things. Guess what? That profession of faith means nothing. It's empty. It's invalid. And so he's thinking about a very specific situation. This is a profession that has no evidence of the converting power of the gospel. That is associated with it. It is not a credible profession of faith. What I mean is, if you have doubts, that makes sense. That's what it means. His question is asked with a presupposition that just saying a person is a Christian does not automatically make him one. You can only verify someone's profession of faith. With true criteria. And in verse 18, we see this. A man may say, Thou hast faith, I have works. He says, Show me thy faith without thy works. I will show thee my faith by my works. What James is saying is the only way that you can know if somebody really means what they're saying is if there's something that follows after it. That's what he's saying. So, what you believe matters, and the fact that it has actually changed your life actually matters. And so the entire discussion is focused on the credibility credibility, or I could use the word the justifiability of one's profession of faith before other people. Show me thy faith. I will show thee my faith by my works. That is what James 2 is saying. Now, my desire is not that anybody in this room would walk out of here going, man, I really kind of like wonder if I'm a Christian now, because I thought salvation was grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. And it is grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. But it's important for you to recognize that if you are truly saved, you're not the same person that you were before you trusted Christ. You are a new creature. Old things have passed away. All things have become new. The Holy Spirit now indwells you. And you are now growing Little bit at a time, you are growing in the grace and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. And so you say, well, what are the implications? Well, here's the implications. Christ's statement Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God, is really parallel to what James is saying in James chapter 2. In both situations, a person's way of life either strengthens or weakens the validity of their profession of faith before other people. The way that I've worded that is very, very, very important. We're not talking about how you become a Christian. We're talking about how when somebody asks you, are you a Christian, you say, Yes I am, whether or not they take you seriously. That's really what it is. Both passages are saying nothing about how you become a child of God. The focus of both passages begins with the presupposition that someone's profession of faith can be validated or undermined. This belief is built on another presupposition that conversion fundamentally changes people. God not only saves people from the penalty of sin, he also gives them a new nature, sets them apart as holy unto himself. and begins relating to them as his children who are in a lifelong school of growth into Christ's likeness. I want you to realize that there are two passages that you see this very, very clearly. And I'm going to draw your attention to both of them. The first is Ephesians chapter 2. So if you have your Bible, please turn on it for just a second. And I want you to see how it's saying the exact same thing. There is a consistency here. He says in verse number one, he says, and you have he quickened. That word quickened means he's made you alive. Okay? You say, well, if I'm alive already, how can I be made alive? Well, you are physically alive but spiritually dead. Okay? Physically alive, spiritually dead at the same time. That's how we're all born into this world. Separated from God And then what he does is he talks about what we could say are the marks that kind of help people to see that in fact what he's saying is true. He says, you were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past, ye walked according to the course of this world. A course is a path. Anybody did anybody run cross-country in high school? I did one year. It was miserable. It was absolutely miserable. I was tricked into it, okay? I I ran cross country one year. Actually I I preferred running cross country to running around a track. Let's just be really honest. Okay, so you're you know you're running down this path in the woods and you get to see scenery changes. It's not as hot in the woods as it is running around this track. But a course is the way that everybody's running. I mean if you're not running on the course, then you're out of the race. And you're disqualified. And so when he talks about the course of this world, he's saying, you were just going the same way everybody else was. Why is that? Well, because you all had the same nature. Spiritually dead, physically alive, walking in conformity to the ways of the world. He says, according, I'll keep going, to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. That's talking about Satan Among whom also we all, and Paul says we. He didn't say, oh, you guys, I'm like an exception here. He says all of us. We all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lusts of the flesh, the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. Well, that is a very clear description of how unsaved people live their lives. Now, are we saying that every single unsaved person is involved in the exact same sins? The answer is no, they're not. Is everybody as equally trapped in debilitating sins who's an unbeliever? The answer is of course not. I mean you go to Baltimore City, there are some people that they are drug addicts. And and they are they are addicted to some narcotic and they just they just they they take a substance and they just lay on the street in the gutter and And when they come to because somebody narcandom, then uh they they continue on their life. And they just do this over and over and over again And there's other people they work in banks and they work in very professional settings and they go into those places and they dress very neatly and they take good care of themselves and guess what? They're both equally spiritually dead, but they're not expressing it the same way. But then this is what he says. But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great lover with he loved us, even when we were dead in sins. Hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace you're saved. And hath raised us up together and made us sit together in heavenly places. That in the ages to come he might show the exceeding riches of his grace and his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus. For by grace are ye saved through faith Not of yourselves, it is the gift of God, not of works, lest any man should boast. Is that the end of the thought? No, it's not. For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them. So what is salvation? Salvation is taking a person who is spiritually dead, separated from God, walking according to the course of this world. They have absolutely no hope of rescuing themselves, and God in his grace Meets them where they are, he saves them from sin, he declares them righteous, he places them in Christ, and then he forgives their sin so that they can walk in newness of life. They are now his workmanship. And so from the point of salvation until the day this person dies, God is continually shaping them into the image of Christ. And guess what? If God's doing that in your life, that can be seen. It can be seen. And the same way That every lost person is not equally debilitated in the eyes of the average person. Not every Christian is equally strong, equally mature Equally vibrant. They're not. In the same family, you could have some that are vibrant Christians and some they're saved, but they're really not vibrant Christians. But they're all equally saved in the presence of God by grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. But there will be some evidence of the fact that this person is truly saved. And when they save, I'm a Christian, you're not going to laugh and go, are you kidding me? You're going to go, well, I can see that. There's another example, Hebrews chapter 12. Verses 19 through 4 9 through 14, here's what he says. We have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us. And we gave them reverence. Shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits and live? For they fear it verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure, but he for our prophet. And this next statement is very important. That we might be partakers of his holiness. Now, if you are a Christian, you are a saint. You are declared righteous. God calls you righteous in Christ. But that doesn't mean that you live saintly every day. It doesn't mean that. And so what God does is he deals with you as his child because that's what you are. And he chastens you. And that chastening isn't just the discipline. It's correcting, it's instructing, it's encouraging, it's the entire process. Of changing you as a person to someone who reflects the position that you have by the grace of God alone. And so he says, he does this so that you will be our partaker of his holiness. He says, No chasting for the present seemeth to be joyous but grievous. Nevertheless, afterwards it yieldeth a peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down and the feeble knees, make straight the path of your feet, lest that which is lame is turned out of the way. Let it rather be healed. Follow peace with all men. Hmm, there's that peacemaker idea right there. Follow peace with all men, and holiness without which no man shall see the Lord. You say, well, Pastor Joel, what's the point? The point is this. What Jesus is talking about in Matthew 5. 9, blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. is the exact same thing that James is talking about. You want people to know you're a Christian? Don't just tell them you are. Live like you're once. So that when you tell them that you're a Christian, they won't go, well, if that's what a Christian is, I want no part of it I don't believe that. I know what the Bible says. You don't live like that. Instead, they look at your life and they say, you know what? I see some things that I can't explain. That's not who you used to be. You're a different person. The way you think is totally different. Your disposition towards people is different. You care about people in a way that you didn't. What happened to you? That's the question people should be asking. Now, am I suggesting that you get saved by words? Not a chance. Not a chance at all. But what I am suggesting is this. Jesus is saying, you want somebody to believe you're a Christian? Then live like it. Then live like it. And one of the clearest ways that a person lives like it is in how we deal with people who are at odds with one another. And how we deal with people that are at odds with us. One of the clearest ways that you can see the fruit of the Spirit come out is in tension. It's one of the clearest ways. And so, Lord willing, next week, we'll look at part two, practically, how does this work out? And we're going to look at several examples. of how this issue of being a peacemaker is connected back to the gospel and how a person who is walking with the Lord and understands his position in Christ and is growing and maturing, how That comes out in this particular area. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Our Father, I pray that you help us this evening to understand what the scripture teaches about this very important issue. Help us to recognize that when we claim to be a Christian, people are going to make a judgment about our claim. And what they see will either cause them to mock and doubt, or it will leave them with no choice but to say, it is true. Indeed, you are a child of God I pray that you would help us to be a people who walk consistent with this wonderful position that we have in Christ by your grace alone. Help us to enjoy this position. Help us to live vibrantly in this position. And help us to be a maturing people. So that when we interact with others in the world, they will be drawn to you through the powerful change that they've seen in the life of a sinner saved by grace. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Case we could let's put