Okay, you guys ready? Oof, here we go. All right, good evening. Welcome to our study tonight. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer, and then we will get into the word of God together. So let's bow for prayer. Lord, we're so very grateful for this opportunity to gather in the middle of the week. I pray that as we dig into your word, that you would speak to our hearts, help us to have a sensitive spirit to your word, help us to uh think deeply about what is in front of us, not just the content, but also the approach to how the Apostle Paul addressed this issue. And I pray that as we spend time together in prayer, that we would Just be knit together as a body, that we would have good fellowship together, and just pray that you'll bless that time. And we ask it in Christ's name, amen. Okay, 345, is that correct? 345 is our song. We'll sing the first and the last verses together, please. Querido , todos los primeros días de todo. All right, cute thing. Okay, well if you could turn in your Bibles once again to First Corinthians chapter six, and what we're going to do tonight is we're going to uh kind of rehash a little bit of what we talked about last week. And then we're going to keep working our way through this passage of Scripture. And one of the things that I wanted to do when we come to 1 Corinthians 6 is not just dig into the actual content, but I also want us to pause And I want us to look at Paul's actual approach to addressing the issue. And I think that's very helpful for us because it shows us a pattern. In fact, we see this pattern in Scripture quite a bit. So we're going to read this passage, make a couple of comments and introduction, review a little bit, and then dig into the continuation of this passage. Here's what it says, 1 Corinthians 6, verse 12. All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient. All things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any. Meats for the belly and belly for meats, but God shall destroy both it and them. Now, the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. The Lord for the body. And God hath both both raised up the Lord and will also raise up us by his own power. Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid. What? Know ye not that he which is joined to a harlot is one body? For two, saith he, shall be one flesh. But he that is joined into the Lord is one spirit, flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body. But he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost, which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own, for ye are bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body and in your spirit, which are God's. Now Last week I started out with a couple of things about our overall approach to preaching and teaching in the church. And when I when I when I mention this, I don't mean that this is the only way that we preach and teach. There are uh topical series is that we do from time to time, especially in Sunday school. But the general approach to preaching and teaching in this church is what we call expositional preaching. What we mean by that is that God's word, being the supreme authority, is what guides the sermon entirely. So we I when I look at a passage of scripture, I'm not just looking at some of the details that are there and go, well, what can I springboard into over here and what can I springboard into over there? Or I have this thing I really want to talk about, really need to talk about it. Where can I find it so that I can preach that point? That is not the kind of preaching and teaching that we try to do in our church. What we try to do is we just take a book of the Bible and we work our way through it. And what's very interesting about that And I've even had people that have complained saying, well, why don't you address this issue or that issue or this issue? And I say, well, why didn't Paul address it as much as you wanted it addressed? Why didn't Jesus address it as much as you wanted to address? Whatever you hear, how often you hear it, is a reflection of how much We read it in the scriptures. And so if God really wants to say a lot about it, He's gonna say a lot about it, and you're gonna hear a lot about it. And what you find out is that we get down to a lot of foundational matters And from those foundational matters, then we drive into various applications. And we even see the structure of a passage of scripture and the primary theme that's being driven at in that passage. That's what comes out in an expositional message. So what the text says is what hopefully you get when you go home. And so that's the emphasis, because the scripture is the authority. It's not just what it says, but it's also the approach that is taken. So let me give you an example. This Sunday, this is going to be like a little sermon teaser for you. This Sunday we're going to be in Luke chapter 20, verses 1 through 8. So you said, I thought we were done with Luke. We're kind of going back and we're filling in those details between the triumphal entry and the cross because there's a lot of content that we skipped over so that we could focus in on the cross and the resurrection and uh the emails road and all those things. But one of the things that you're going to see about the way that Jesus handles the argument of the Pharisees is he asks them questions. And he asks them questions because he's trying to drive down to the point of why they are saying what they're saying. Why do they believe what they believe? And so he's getting to the heart. That's exactly what Paul's going to do here. He's going to go to the heart by asking questions. He's going to push back against the common misconception misconceptions, the common justifications for these sins, and he's going to do it by asking questions. So expositional The second I mentioned was distinctly Christian. What I mean by that is that it's not just about giving you a bunch of morals. Do this, don't do this. It's about focusing in on the gospel. And this passage of scripture is a great example of this because before he addresses the topic, he's going to take them back to the fact that they are in Christ. That their bodies belong to him. He says you have been bought with a price. That is a gospel-oriented statement. You have been redeemed. There is a payment that has been made for your soul. Distinctly Christian. You might have a person who's not a Christian and a person who's Christian, but both agree that this is wrong, but they do not approach it from the same foundation. So it's not just about what we do, but it's why we do it, Christian. And then thirdly, not moralistic, not just a bunch of rules, and then pastoral in the approach. Pastoral theology, what I mean by that is that rather than Paul saying, here are a bunch of doctrines on the Holy Spirit, and he lays out all of these arguments for this particular view of the Holy Spirit, this particular ministry of the Holy Spirit, like you would do in a systematic theology study. He says, here is your problem, and here is a biblical theology, and here's how it practically applies to that issue. Pastoral theology. That is the way that the scriptures are written generally. And so that should be distinct in the way that we preach and teach. The other thing that I mentioned last week in introduction was Paul's dominant concern. And the dominant concern was why is it wrong for Christians to be engaged in temple prostitution? Now, we're sitting here going. We don't have uh temple prostitutes in our culture, thank goodness, at least not that I know of, all right? So this doesn't seem like a big concern for us today, does it? However The principles that are driving to how to approach this issue, they are extremely applicable today. And when we look at this issue and we see how Paul approaches it, We could take this approach into lots and lots of different areas. And so in verses 13 through 15 he says, now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. Know ye not, your bodies are the members of Christ. Shall I then take the members of Christ and make them the members of a harlot, God forbid? You know what's interesting? Paul's line of argumentation here is not just focused on the one issue of temple prostitution. This goes into all kinds of areas as to how we view the human body. How we view this issue of what is sexually permissible and not permissible, how we look at this issue of marriage. Even when we talk about this issue of the transgender uh push in our culture today. The truth is that those questions can actually be addressed from the principles that Paul lays out in the passage of Scripture right here. And even how we look at the body of Christ and our relationship to God. Lots and lots of things that we could look at there So what you can see is that he has a moral concern, but he's going to go to it with a theological undergirding that's going to drive to it. And then the last thing I wanted to mention here is that he takes a much more, you could say, scenic route to his answer than just saying, don't do it. He addresses excuses that are being made. He addresses the foundational issues. And ultimately what he's saying is this. Your position, if you understand it, should motivate you to walk with God. That's what he's saying. So, what did we look at last week as far as the breaking into the text? The first truth we saw was that self-deception is a powerful motivator. There are four statements that are made in this text that are highlighting common statements in the church, in the culture at the time that were being used to justify sinful practices. The first statement was in verse 12. It says this, all things are lawful for me. Now, let me just ask this question. Don't give me an answer, but think in your mind. Is it true that the believer is no more under condemnation? Yes or no? Yes. There's therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. Clearly true. Is it true that we have passed from death to life? Yes. The Bible clearly states that. Is it true that we have been justified? Yes. Is it true that we have been sanctified? Yes. Is it true that our sins have been washed away and we are cleansed and we are forgiven? The answer to all those questions is yes. So, since that is true, is it okay to do anything I want to do? And the answer is, well, of course not. Of course not. In Romans chapter 6, he says, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? He says, God forbid. That's unthinkable. How in the world could you come to such a conclusion? How shall we who are dead to sin live any longer And so the Corinthians are saying, you know, I could do anything I want because I'm under grace. I'm forgiven. I'm cleansed. I'm in Christ. It doesn't matter what I do. And his his whole point is, since we're under grace , It actually still does matter what we do. Still does matter. The second, verse 13, meets for the belly, and the belly's for meat. And this is actually a very common I think justification that people use in our culture today, they say, well, my natural desire is I was born with this inclination. Everybody in this room was born with the inclination to sin. And when it comes to things like lying, nobody in this room taught your children how to lie. You naturally do it. Why? Because it's a part of our fallness. Nobody had to teach you how to be self-centered. You naturally do it. Nobody had to teach you how to fight and be cruel and mean to other people. You didn't have to do it. You know kids get bit in the nursery? Kids get punched in the nursery? It's true. Really bad stuff happens in the nursery. Could you imagine? So you're like, in fact it's true. Could you imagine if that behavior was Was consistent up to an 18 or 20 year old? Well, actually it is in some some places. Okay. But but but the fact is this nobody teaches kids how to be self-centered. Nobody teaches kids how to sin. It's in them naturally. So when somebody says, well I just have this natural inclination, so it's okay, I go, so then it's okay to lie? Because you have a natural inclination to do that. And we can just go down this whole list. The bottom line is That just because I desire it doesn't make it right. And so their argument was bodily desires are natural, so they need to be satisfied. If I want to do it, if it feels good, I'm going to do it because God made my body and this is what I want to do. And he says, well, God made your body with certain function and he put certain, we could say, parameters, and you're supposed to obey what he says. We'll see how he addresses that a little bit later. Third statement. God will destroy both it and them. This body is going to be destroyed anyway, so why does it matter what I do with it? Somebody will say things like that. It's like you tell your kid, go brush your teeth. They're like, well, one day my teeth are going to fall out anyway. That might be true, but they'll fall out a lot sooner if you don't brush your teeth. I'm gonna send you to bill when you gotta go to the dentist, right? And so the point is this: you actually need to take care of your body. And the body has value. And we're going to see how Paul pushes back against that argument. And then the fourth, every sin that a man doeth is outside of the body. If it does not affect my inner man, then it really doesn't matter. If you ever have heard of what we call Gnosticism that was a very common false teaching in the early church It put this distinction between the physical and the spiritual and and basically in that uh form of thinking it was like, well, if it's in my body it doesn't matter, or if it's not with my body, it doesn't matter. And they kind of put this the separation. Well the point is this every culture, every culture finds ways to justify sin. Ours does it? There 's did it. If you go to a mission field, I remember people would ask me questions like, you know, when I was a missionary, they'd like, are the people in the country where you're serving, are they more open to the gospel than people here? And I'd say, nope. People equally reject the gospel everywhere in the world. It's true. They're not more or less inclined than people are here. I do not believe that. Do not believe that. There are struggles anywhere you go. Ministry is hard no matter where you go. Giving people the gospel is hard no matter where you go. Raising a family is hard no matter where you go. There are going to be struggles. Every culture finds ways to justify sinful behavior. And so we talked about that first part. Second truth, ideas have to be critiqued and confronted with truth. We need an absolute standard. The absolute standard isn't how I feel. The absolute standard isn't what I want. And the absolute standard isn't what other people are saying. What is the predominant viewpoint? Let's take an opinion poll and whoever wins that's truth. That's not the way it works If everybody is voting against truth, does it change the fact that it's truth? Doesn't change the fact at all? And so Paul answers each of these objections with statements of truth. For instance, verse 12, all things are lawful for me, but Not all things are expedient. That word expedient means profitable. In other words, the way that God designed things to be, this goes against that purpose. But I will not be brought under the power of any. Another word we could use there for power is I will not be enslaved by any of these things. Or I'll not be brought under the domination of any of those things. God saved me to walk in newness of life And he saved me to live as his servant and to take this body and to use it for his glory and redemptive purposes, not my selfish, self-centered fleshly desires. And so Paul says, just because you can doesn't mean you should. And just because you can doesn't mean it's profitable. And just because you can doesn't mean it isn't going to enslave you and ultimately keep you from being the person you're supposed to be and doing the things that you're supposed to do. That was his first objection. The second two, meat's for the belly, and the belly's for meat. God will destroy both it and them. He says, but the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord. God could have, when he saved you, just taken you to heaven immediately. He could have done that. Some people ask me, they're like, why doesn't God just take us to heaven when we trust Christ? Well, one of the reasons is because he wants us to use this body with the time that he gives us on this planet for his glory. I mean, that's really the truth. He wants us to grow into Christ's likeness. He wants us to have children. He wants us to raise children. He wants us to point them to the Lord Jesus Christ. He wants us to shape the lives of people that are coming behind us. Maybe not our children. Somebody else's children. He wants us to use our body for his glory. The second statement he says is, but the Lord is for the body. This is a really interesting statement. It's not just that he wants you to use your body for his glory, but he actually wants you to use your body in the way that is best for your body. It's kind of an interesting thought. Think of it this way. When you exercise your body, it actually makes you healthier. You know what I can conclude by that? God created your body to be used Kind of makes sense. When people just sit back and they veg and they don't do anything, their body begins to begins to decline. And what does that tell you? Well, God created the body to be moved, to be active. to actually do stuff. The same thing would be true with our minds. And the truth is that when people take their bodies and they abuse their bodies, especially when we talk about Sexual sin, which is obviously a big part of what is talked about in 1 Corinthians 6 and 7. There are a few ways you could destroy your body quicker than being involved in sexual sin. It's really true. In fact, even if you were to just look at it from a purely scientific and a purely mental and emotional state, you will recognize that sexual sin is extremely destructive to your body. To your mind, to your emotions. It's extremely destructive. And so when he says that the Lord is for the body, he's saying, I am actually for you, not against you. When I say don't do something, I'm telling you that because I care about you. I want you to actually live the way that I designed you to live. And then thirdly, he says, but God will raise up, raise us up by his power. And again, we could a we could look at this issue realizing that when we get saved, God doesn't just immediately take us to heaven. What's also true is that when he takes us to heaven, to heaven, he actually gives us a body. We're going to have a physical body for all of eternity. That's the whole point of 1 Corinthians 15. This corruptible must put off in corruption, and this mortal must put off immortality, and then will be brought to pass the saying death is swallowed up in victory. And so the idea is that God's going to give us a new body, a glorified body, and we're going to live not as spirits, but as people with physical bodies for all of eternity, glorified bodies. Thankfully bodies that aren't getting old Aren't deteriorating, aren't falling apart, aren't getting sick, aren't being tempted. But physical bodies. When Christ rose from the dead and he came back and he talks to his disciples, he sat down and ate meals with them. What does that tell you? Well you had a physical body, okay? You and I are gonna have a physical body. And so the point that he's making here is that the physical matters. It's not just the spiritual, the physical is important as well. And so what you do in your body actually matters to God. It was his idea for us not to be spirits floating around, but us to be embodied humans, body, soul, and spirit. That was his idea. And then verse 18, you say, every sin that a man doeth is without the body. But he says, he that committeth fornication sinneth against his body. He says, but your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost. But you are not your own, but you are bought with a price. Do you see how he makes all of these arguments? He says, you say it's outside the body, but I tell you, you're sinning against your body. That body that you have isn't really yours. It's the dwelling place of the Spirit of God, a sacred place. You don't belong to yourself. You have been purchased by Christ's death on the cross. And so he reminds them of all those things. What does this show you? Obviously, these are all theological concepts. What it shows you is the argument is pushed back against with truth. And this is practical theology. He's driving at how they are to respond. So that moves me to a third truth. We've got to live a consistent biblical worldview. I'll put it like this. All moral choices are built on some kind of foundation. This is true about everything people do. Now, that doesn't mean people are thinking it through. Okay? In fact, most people really don't take the time to sit down and ask the question, what is my worldview? If someone says, I don't believe in such and such, and you ask them, well, why not? And they're like, uh, because I think it's dumb. Based on what? I just don't think it's true. I don't believe that Bible Well why not? I I there's just no it's but written by man and have you ever read the Bible? No, why would I waste my time doing that? Well, don't critique it if you don't know anything about it. Don't critique it if you've not taken the time to dig into it. But the truth is that what we do is the result of some kind of moral framework. And so there are three words that I want you to remember here. The first is the word consistent. We should strive to live with a consistent correlation between what we say we believe and what we actually do. I'm reading in James right now, and in and in James he says that we're not just to be hearers of the word, but we're to be doers also. And he says that a person who hears the word but doesn't do the word is like someone who looks into a mirror and he walks away and he forgets who he was. He says, don't be like that. The idea that what we say we believe should correlate with what we do. If I say that I don't believe this, then why do I do this? If I say this is wrong, then why am I okay with it? If I say this is something that's important and I should do it, then why don't I do it? We need to be consistent. But consistent isn't enough. You know, you can be consistently wrong. Okay? Anybody remember when you were a kid playing sports and they would say practice makes perfect? Anybody ever heard that? Is that true? No, it's not. Practice makes permanent. So if you are practicing something that is wrong, you are making very, very bad habits. And you're gonna have a teacher or you're gonna have a coach Or you're going to have somebody that's going to sit down with you and say, we've got to break this down to the basics because whoever taught you, whoever didn't teach you, taught you wrong, and you've developed horrible patterns, and if you don't fix this, it's going to give you long-term problems. So practice doesn't make perfect, it makes permanent. And so it's important that we're not just consistent, but it's that we're biblically consistent We got to go back to the right standard. We need to be built on the foundation of truth. The gospel and our position in Christ has to be the root of all these things. The enabling to walk in the power of the Spirit is something we need to be reminded of constantly. And the third word is the word worldview, how we approach life. Who's in charge of the universe in your worldview? A lot of people would say it's Satan. A lot of people think it's themselves. A lot of people think it's just random chance. It's just the way the ball bounces. It's just how it works out. When I read the Bible, I see God's in charge. He's in charge. He rules and he reigns. Even Satan has to plead with God, can I do this? Look at the story of Job. And there's this interaction between God and Satan, and Satan says, Well, if you would just take away this protection from him, he'd curse you. And he said, Okay, you can go ahead and do it. But here are the limits. Here are the limits. It's hard for us to wrap our minds around that, but the reality is that Satan is bound by what God permits him to do. How does God mediate his rule? Are we just a bunch of robots walking around and whatever's been predetermined is going to happen no matter what I want to do? We're not robots, folks. You really do have decisions you need to make. And what you do with the opportunities you have, um, it's gonna be really good or really bad. Decisions have consequences. Is God really good? Is God really consistent? Is he really all-powerful? What are the things that he has promised? What are the duties he has given us? What motives have we been given to do the work that we do? What tools has he put at our disposal? What is the ultimate goal of what we do? How do we reach that goal? All of those questions fall under worldview And we want our worldview to be consistent, we want our worldview to be biblical, and we want to live practically in the light of who we are and what we know to be true. So we've got to cautiously critique with sharp minds and humble hearts with Scripture the things that are all around us. And look at Paul's example. Our actions have to be weighed by sound doctrine and the principles that are connected with it. So our bodies are the members of Christ. Look down in verse 15. Know ye not your bodies of the members of Christ? The next time you're tempted to do something you know is wrong, you better stop and go, hold on a second. This body belongs to my Savior. Why am I doing this? Why am I contemplating this? Why do I think it doesn't matter? My body belongs to him. The second statement that he emphasizes, verse 16, the sexual union is sacred. What? Know ye not that he which is joined to a harlot is one body? For two, saith he, shall be one flesh? What is Paul saying? God's the one who made male and female, and God's the one who created marriage. And God is the one who gives life. And the bottom line is that when people don't take God's ways seriously, they're willing to enter into unions that are unspeakably foolish. And shameful and destructive. Thirdly, our bodies are God's temple. What does he say in verse 19? What? Know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God? Ye are not your own? What's the point? The point is that this body is where the Spirit of God dwells. I mean, think about in the Old Testament when people went up to the temple. The only person who was permitted to go into the Holy of Holies was the high priest. He was not permitted to go at any time. He was permitted to go once. And there are some very specific rituals that he had to follow to the T if he was going to go into that Holy of Holies and not die. They literally would tie a rope to the guy and put little bells on his skirt, I don't know what you want to call it, his robe, we'll use the word robe. So that when he went in there and he's moving around, they could hear ding ding ding ding ding. You know, he's still there. He's still alive. Why? Because if he didn't do what he was supposed to He could be dead in an instant. I mean, read through the Old Testament. There are people that died because they didn't take seriously the approach to a holy and righteous God. And they weren't going to go in there and get him. They were going to have to drag him out. That's the way it was going to work. And then as Christ is hanging on that cross and he's paying for our sin. The Bible says that from the top to the bottom, that massive veil, this veil is probably 80 feet tall. Huge veil was ripped from top to bottom, and it shows you that you now have access to the presence of God because of the sacrifice of Christ. There is no more offering for sin. Christ is the offering for sin. And what's the point? Not only do you have access to him, but now he dwells you. It's an absolutely incredible thing for us to contemplate. And what does it tell you? What you do in your body matters. People wouldn't have gone in and desecrated the temple while they did in Ezekiel's day. Didn't turn out very well. Yet we can do things in our body and never think twice about it. And so what's Paul doing? He's saying, you need to know truth. You need to know doctrine. You need to know sound practical theology. You need to understand the implications of what you're doing. And his example and how he approaches this issue can be very, very helpful to us. So how do we apply this text? Let me give you a couple thoughts to close. The first is this. We need a firm grasp of the sound doctrine and a sound approach to interpreting the Bible. What I mean is this, when we read the Bible, we need to get past Letting how we feel guide what we think it's saying. Or what we want it to say guide what we're saying. We need to look at the words. We need to understand what the words mean. We need to consider the context. And we need to ask, what is this passage of Scripture telling me about God? It's about him more than it's about you. Now secondarily it gets to us, but it's primarily about him. And so when we read the Bible and study it this way consistently, what it's going to do is going to shape our entire perspective about God. It needs to be sound. Secondly, we need a biblical view of human nature. And this really comes out in this passage of Scripture. Why does he bring up these four issues? Because these people are saying these things to justify their sin. I think it was uh Martin Luther said that humans are idle factories. We are great at creating idols in our heart. We are great at making excuses, justifying our sin. And we need to be honest about it. We need to be honest about who we are as people and realize that if it wasn't for the grace of God and the cross of Christ, we we'd have no hope. Thirdly, we need to develop discernment when interacting with cultural ideas. We've got to learn to listen with careful discrimination at the things that we are hearing. When we're having a conversation with some , I don't I don't mean we need to sit there and be like, ha! I hear false doctrine right there, and just like boom, jump right on. I'm not I'm not I'm not saying that Bible saying we need to be filtering, we need to be judging, we need to be considering what's going on. We hear ideas and we need to we need to be asked, is that really true? Is that really what the scripture says? That very common idea, is that accurate? What's the implication of that? What's going to happen if I follow this to its natural end? We need to be people who develop discernment. Sometimes we can get to this position where as long as somebody's really loud, really forceful, and pushes their point, we just accept it. And we can't do that. Don't let people sell you some doctrinal viewpoint, like they'd sell you a vacuum cleaner on your front porch. Anybody, um somebody that's uh easily duped by salesmen People knock on our door all the time. I don't answer my door. I do not want somebody to give me a sales pitch. I don't want to waste their time. I don't want to waste my time. I don't want to feel like I gotta be nasty of them to tell me Now, I don't want to talk about it anymore. Okay? So I just I don't answer the door. I just I don't do it. I just sit there and let them do their thing, right? So But but the point is this, we have to be discerning We have to understand the implication. Next, when we discover errors, we need to be able to rightly apply scripture and sound doctrine to confront those errors. One of the things that a pastor is supposed to be able to do is defend sound doctrine. But it's not just pastors. Everybody in the church needs to have the ability to defend sound doctrine. I'm not saying we need to be debaters. I'm saying we have a good handle of the scriptures. We understand what they say We understand how to handle it accurately, and we have the maturity to be able to confront error if we are in the position where we have to do it. Lastly, we need to live consistent lives as the people that we are in Christ. And so, Lord willing, over the next several weeks. We're going to go through and we're going to dig into each of those concepts that he addressed. But what I wanted to do tonight and also last week was I wanted to take note of Paul's approach. Because it's an excellent pattern and it helps us to understand. We see this over and over and over in Scripture. When there is a problem, this is how they tackle it, how they address it. And we need to learn to do the same. Let's bow together in prayer, and then we'll take prayer quests. Our Father, we thank you so much for the Word. Pray that you'll take it and use it in our lives. Help us to be skillful in the use of Scripture. Help us to have the ability to Discern what is right and what is wrong. Help us to have the skills to be able to take the scriptures and defend sound doctrine. Help us to live practical lives that are consistent. With a sound biblical viewpoint. Help us to have a well-formed, thoroughly biblical worldview. And we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.