Well, good evening. Hope you guys had a restful afternoon and uh good to have you guys out here this evening. Uh we're gonna go ahead and get started here with a word of prayer and then uh uh they'll come up and lead us into some singing. So let's bow for a word of prayer. Father, we are so grateful to you for the privilege to be in your house. The opportunity is to fellowship with our Uh, brothers and sisters in Christ, I pray, Lord, our time together would be a time of sweet fellowship, great edification, and most of all a glorifying experience in you. And I pray, Lord, that you would be with us as we lift our voices. That it would honor you and reflect the goodness that you have given to us. And may you be with the many who are uh unwell tonight, unable to make it out. And I pray you would heal their bodies, you would touch them. And allow us to be a blessing to them through the live stream and however means you see fit. We ask that Lord you would be with us in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening, Anchor Baptist Church. We're going to ask you to take your hymnals as we start our song service off Turn to page 363. Stand with me. Page 363, and we're going to sing all four verses. of at Calvary. So sing out with me, make that joyful noise. Years I spent in vanity and pride, Caring not my Lord was crucified. Knowing not it was for me he died on comedy Mercy there was great and grace was free. Hearden there was multiplied to me. There my burden, soul found liberty had calvory. By God's word at last my sin I learned Then I trembled at the law I spurned Till my guilty soul imploring turn to kelp Mercy there was grace and grace was free. Hearden there was multiplied to me. There my burden, soul found liberty had come on. Glory Now I've given to Jesus everything. Now I gladly own him as my king. Now my raptured soul can only sing. Mercy, there was grace, and grace was free. Hearden there was multiplied to me, there my burden soul found liberty. Caly on the last Oh the love that drew salvation 's plan Oh the grace that brought it down to man Oh the mighty gulf that God did And for me, mercy there was great, and grace was free. Heart and there was no reply to me. There my burden souls had liberty that calorie Turn a couple pages over to page 371. We're going to sing both verses of a passion for thee. All verses, both verses. Set my heart, O dear Father, on thee and thee only. Give me a thirst for thy presence divine. Lord keep my My focus on loving thee only work me from birth, turn my heart after passion for thee. O Lord, set a fire in my soul, and a third for my God. Give out my prayer, Lord, thy power implied. Not just to serve, but to love thee with all of my hearts Father fill with thy spirit and pitch me for service that love for Christ every motive inspire teach me to follow. Follow in selfless submission, be thou my joy, and my soul's wonder for thee. O Lord set a fire in my soul and a first for my God Hear thou my prayer, Lord, thy power impart, not just to serve, but to love thee with all of my heart. Go ahead and have a seat. And as long as you keep singing like that, you'll stay seated. But now we're going to turn to page 391. Page 391, good, strong song to sing out on. All four verses of I Am Resolved. Sing it out I am resolved no longer to linger, Char by the world delight Things that are higher, things that are nobler, these have allured my sight. I will hasten to him, hasten to wide and free. Jesus, greatest, I yes, I will come to thee I am resolved to go to the Savior, leaving my sin and strife. He is the true one, He is the just One, He has the words of life. I will hasten to him, hasten supplied and breathe Jesus Greatest highest, I will come to thee. I am resolved to follow the Savior, faithful and true each day Heed what he says, do what he will, he is the living way I will hasten to him, essence of God and free Jesus, greatest, I yes, I will come to thee I am resolved to enter the kingdom, faithling the path of sin Friends may oppose me, foes may beset me, still will I enter in I will hasten to him, hasten so glad and free. Jesus, greatest, highest, I will come to thee. Amen. Good singing. Pastor Chris. All right. Sunday nights we take up prayer request or prayer requests. Okay. First verse, it is well with my soul. Amen. Let's hear those parts. When he 's like a reverend my way, when follows like sea bells roll. Whatever my life thou has called me to say It is well, it is well with my call. It is well with my soul. It is well, it is well with My snow. Okay, grab your blue book. Turn to page 93. That's right in the middle. Page 93. Page ninety-three, ninety-three, bow the knee. Excellent. Good. Sing out What a privilege to come here got forever us to linger with the water says we say As I let my eyes and see his autumn glory, when I read and bow the knee, bow the knee. We are being all the bhavni, God of Aliton, see a high me. You before him, I'll adore him, as you live love him for me. Still in the blue book, let's go back to page 80. Page 80, page 80 Okay, wonderful, merciful Satan. Wonderful merciful Satan. Precious remainer and friend Who would have felt that all that 's with us? Oh you rescue us all the home that we pray. Okay, let me see page four just four eighty-two, a couple pages over. Oh man. Okay. We'll make this the last one before the message, and uh there is a special offery or whatever what we've got to deal with. So stand with me. Can't sit on dwelling in Beulaland. So let's sing all three verses. Far away the boys, a strike upon my ears away, Then I know the thin that birth deep that 's on every hand. Underneath the found the sky, praise God by great easy fountain that we 're dry on the From about the full supply while he lay let the stormy pleases well there crying out. I think we shelter protected by God's hand in the side of a night, near the God 's hand. I am safe forever in new land I'm sitting on the mountain underneath the sky sky And I'm drinking at the fountain that there shall run down. Yes, by beasting on the man of the body. Welling and you are when I left, you will hear the words of God, I think it might be now his lesson. Voice I did always Welling in the Wolf shall be shot when they will I carry I lived in the mountain, I believe the southwest guy , my great being about the Well, people saw my Amen. Have a seat. That's one of my favorites. All right, well tonight we have uh Josh Josh Zacharias. that right. Uh God Zacharias uh will be preaching for us tonight. If you haven't had a chance to uh talk to him, meet with him, he is uh on his way as a missionary to Australia. He has uh all your support, right? And uh just a matter of time now before he heads out. And we're so blessed to have him uh staying with us and visiting so we decided we'll put him to work and uh looking forward to hearing you preach, brother. Come on up. Please open your Bibles to 2 Timothy chapter 1, 2 Timothy chapter 1. It's good to be with you all this evening. Thank you so much for the opportunity. to use a prophet's chamber while I'm in the area uh working with the church plant up in Baltimore. And it's very uh kind of you all to allow me to do that I was talking to one of the ladies earlier before the service and she had mentioned just asking some questions about uh me and my ministry and so I thought I would just say a few words real quick uh just so you know a little bit more about me and uh what I'm up to Uh but uh I want to thank the Lord a group in a Christian home in South Alabama or Lower Alabama. Somebody was I think we were talking about that at lunch with uh brother Jerry Mr. about Um I I grew up in LA, lower Alabama. Uh so that's where I'm from. Uh praise the Lord grew up in a Christian family, got to uh go to my my family's church, my grandparents helped start there in Lower Alabama, and uh I remember asking the Lord saving when I was around nine years old. Um Struggle with assurance of salvation, but I'm glad that we have the word of God to help us deal with those doubts sometimes. And I'm thankful for the verse Romans 4, 3, Abraham believed God and it was counted to him for righteousness. And uh what a great reminder that was, just uh the simplicity of the gospel, just like Abraham accepting the promise of God for himself, we accept the gospel message for ourselves, and we can have assurance of salvation in Jesus Christ. Well, uh grew up in a Christian family, it's very easy for me to get involved in ministry and uh so the Lord put that on my heart even as a young person. And uh when I went away to college at Pensacola, I uh I surrendered to full-time ministry while I was there. And God began to give me opportunities for service and a couple of those opportunities were mission trips. And in 2018, I went on my first mission trip to Australia. And the Lord used that to uh then lead me to Australia. And so uh prayerfully uh this fall, uh waiting on the visa paperwork, I'll be down there in Australia getting ready to start the work there, uh working with the church and then long-term goal of planning church in Australia. Alright, well you are in uh second oh I almost forgot. I have a special deal. Special offer for you tonight. I have a authentic genuine. And you you can have this for your very own self. Joshua Zachariz prayer card. Okay, but uh seriously if you would like to get a prayer card, uh I definitely appreciate your prayers. And uh I even have, I even have, okay I have one for the kids, okay? It's it's got a cool picture of a preacher writing a kangaroo. Have you ever seen a prayer card with like a preacher writing a kangaroo on it, okay? Uh but hey, this is it's got a a neat little um A reminder for you as you pray for Australia, pray that the gospel, like this preacher carrying his Bible on the kangaroo, that the Word of God will have free course. through the country of Australia. I believe it's 2 Timothy chapter 4 admonishes us to pray that the Word of God would have free course. And so as we pray for our ministry, just pray that God would open up opportunities, allow the gospel to go throughout their ministry into the country where they are. So if you would like to have a prayer card just as a reminder to pray for Australia, I'd definitely love to get you one of those. All right, we are in 2 Timothy chapter 1. And we're going to be looking at primarily verses 6 and 7. So let's go ahead and read that for a second, and then we'll have a word of prayer. Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands For God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of love, power and of love and of a sound mind. Let's pray, ask the Lord to speak to us tonight. Lord, we thank you for your word. What a precious gift it is. What a treasure that we hold, this treasure of truth that we hold in our hands. And Father, we are mindful that we must approach this word carefully. We must study to show ourselves approved. Uh we're mindful, Lord, that we need the Holy Spirit's guidance as we look into your word. And so, Father, we pray that tonight uh this would not just be a mere religious ritual uh a a habitual thing that we do on Sunday evenings, but that your Holy Spirit would meet with us and that you would use your word in our hearts to conform us to in the image of Jesus Christ. We pray, Lord, that you have your will and your way in this service. And it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. When I was interning for my home church in the summer of 2020, uh things were a little different. Okay, so it was uh it was COVID time and uh ministry wasn't normal, all right. We we heard that word so much uh since twenty twenty normal, right? Um and and uh when I was interning at my home church, the the youth pastor though, we still had uh Wednesday night uh youth group, he asked me to preach a message for him to the youth group. And it just so happened he was going through a series on emotions, and the emotion that he had me preach on was fear. Now how applicable was the topic of fear for 2020? It was pretty applicable. And uh I don't know about you, but when I think of fear, one of the first verses that comes to my mind is 2 Timothy 1, 7. God hath not given us the spirit of fear. And so I thought, oh man, I've got my text ready, you know, I'll I'll preach on Second Timothy one seven. I said, sure, I can do that, no problem. And and and I preached on that I I preached the message on fear for for the youth group. But as I got into the study there I I realized uh that verse number seven uh really I I don't think is the main point of this passage, verses one through seven. Uh I actually think the the main point is found in verse six. So what we want to do tonight to get started is just to read down from verse 1 down to verse 6 and 7 and kind of get a feel for what is going on here, what the Apostle Paul is talking about through the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. and see what is the major emphasis here in this passage and then see how it uh it applies to us as well. So let's start in verse one. It says Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ, by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus, to Timothy, my dearly beloved son. Grace, mercy, and peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. So we see Paul the Apostle is the author, and he's writing to Timothy. Now notice he says, My dearly beloved son. So there's a very close connection here, a very close relationship. The Apostle Paul met Timothy on his second missionary journey. And it says in Acts chapter 16, verse 2 that It was well reported of. Timothy's testimony. It was well reported of. He had a um a good reputation in the church there. He was a f apparently an upstanding young man in the church. And uh Paul took him if so to speak to to be his apprentice, his to be his intern. And so Timothy began helping the Apostle Paul in ministry. Uh 1 Timothy 1 verse 2, Apostle Paul identifies Timothy as his son in the faith. And so there is a very close connection here. We also know from Scripture that Timothy's mother and grandmother are mentioned, but his father was a Greek, and we don't know much about his father. Possibly his father was absent from his life. We don't know. So maybe even the Apostle Paul, not merely just being a fit a spiritual mentor, a spiritual father in a way, Maybe he even helped to fill that uh physical father role in Timothy's life. But regardless of how their relationship was, we know it was very close. And at this point of this writing, it was probably a 15-year-old relationship, maybe longer. So they've known each other for a while. And they've developed a close connection here. And so he refers to Timothy, my dearly beloved son. Then look down at verse 3. He says, I thank God, whom I served for my forefathers with pure conscience. That without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears that I may be filled with joy. When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois and thy mother Eunice, and I am persuaded that in thee also. And so he he he refers to Timothy, my dearly beloved son, and then uh he it says essentially, I thank God for your salvation. You see that verse 3 says, I thank God, and then there's some uh Other phrases here, but then he finishes up his thought there. When I call to remembrance the unfaint faith that is in thee, I am thankful to God, Timothy, that you are saved. That's what he's saying there. And then look back to verse 3. He says that he without ceasing, I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day. So Timothy, I'm thankful you're saved. Timothy, I'm praying for you constantly. Verse 4, greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy. Hey Timothy. Not only am I praying for you, I wish I'm longing for you. I wish we could be together again. I remember that last time we had to part, and I remember how how tearful it was So you see here this very deep, close connection between these two men, the Apostle Paul and Timothy, his beloved son. So what is the Apostle Paul doing? Well, he is building up Timothy. He's encouraging Timothy. He's trying to strengthen Timothy. Say, Timothy, I care about you. I'm praying for you. I love you, Timothy. And then we get down there to verse number six. He's building up Timothy, he's encouraging Timothy, and then verse number six. Wherefore, now with all this in mind, Timothy. My beloved son, all we've been through, all we've gone through together, I'm praying for you. I love you. I'm on your side. I'm rooting for you, Timothy. Wherefore, with all this in mind, I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands. Stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on of my hands, for God hath not given us the spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of sound mind. So you can see as as we look at this passage why I believe that the main thrust, the main emphasis in this passage is actually verse number six. Not verse number seven. Paul is driving at this idea of Timothy, stir up the gift of God. And then verse number seven, it's seven is more of a subpoint. helping to explain or to um expand on verse number six that idea of stirring up the gift of God. So I would say that the main point of this passage that that it speaks to Timothy and then by application it speaks to us is that we need to stir up the gift of God that is in us So let's first look at this idea of stir up the gift of God in us. Verse number six. What does it mean to stir up the gift of God? What does it mean? Well, uh let's think about what what does it mean for Timothy? Uh wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God which is in thee by the putting on my hands. So the apostle Paul is saying, Timothy, I want you to remember I want you to remember your ordination. That's what he's saying. He says, this is a gift of God, the gift of prophesying or pastoring or preaching. Because he mentions the putting on my hands, that's referencing his ordination when the Apostle Paul himself Made a statement to the church essentially saying, hey, I am putting my confidence on Timothy. I believe that God's called him, that God's equipped him to do the work of ministry. And so verse number six, he is saying, Timothy, remember, I have confidence in you that you can do the work of a pastor. I'm confident that God's called you. I'm confident that God is going to do a work through you. And he says, Timothy, I want you to remember that. I want you to stir up. This gift of God that's in you. So that term stir up, what is that getting at? Now I I I grew up uh in the country, so we we would do bonfires, different things like that. Everybody here vents to a bonfire, a good old-fashioned bonfire. I I hope you have. I think that's pretty American, right? Um we we like to to grill out hot dogs and marshmallows and all that. You know in Australia? They don't have s'mores in Australia. I'm like, these people, they are missing out, but Uh so you so you've all done the the whole hot dogs and marshmallows and everything. Uh so so when you start off with that bonfire, okay, that fire is blazing, right? It is, it's just throwing up embers flames and and it's hot you have to stand back because it is too hot. Okay. So as the night goes on, right, uh the fire gets down, okay, now you can come closer, you can gather around, you can start cooking your hot dogs And then as it dies down even more, then you get the marshmallows out and you uh you do your s'm'ores. Uh but you know, as the night continues to go on, what happens to that fire? As and it gets a little chillier around and then all of a sudden somebody is sitting there thinking and and then then there's a little breeze that comes by whoa it got a little cool so let's let's throw some more logs on the fire. So what do you do? You start poking around in the embers. You start throwing on a couple more logs you get that fire rekindled. And so that's the idea here, this term, to stir up, to rekindle this gift that God has put inside of you. Rekindle that, stir that up, get it going again. Bring it back to life. That word rekindle. It has the idea of a living thing and fire. And so this is a living fire. This is not just a little dying little flame. This is a living f uh living fire. And so Our fire, we need to rekindle this flame that God has put in us. And when we do that, notice what does a fire do? A fire, it affects its environment. The heat emanates from from the the the logs, right? It sends out light. It it influences its environment You know, if we're not rekindling our fire, then we fail to influence those around us. The people that God has put under our ministry. You know, fire also attracts attention. You know, when we stir up the gift of God in us, we draw attention to the glory of God and what he's doing. In our church, in our life, in our ministry. And it brings people to the gospel. It's so critical that when we serve God, that we are serving God stirred up. So let's stir up this gift of God that's in us. Let's make that a point as we serve God. We could say it like this: the main point of verse number six. To serve stirred. Serve stirred. That's what God wants us to do. That's what the Apostle Paul is telling Timothy, and that's what we ought to do as well. So the main point here that the Apostle Paul wants Timothy getting going in this book, and the first admonition he gives Timothy is serve stirred. But then notice verse number seven. He says, For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power and of love and of a sound mind. You know, he is explaining now to Timothy in verse number seven why it is That we are to serve Stird. Why is it that we should serve Stird? Well, one reason is because God has not given us the spirit of fear You know, fear is like uh it's like a fire extinguisher for your your spiritual flame. The moment you allow fear to take control of your heart, then you're you're limiting your service for God. You know, fear paralyzes. Fear paralyzes. When you allow fear, when you allow worry, when you allow doubt and anxiety to control you, you don't know what to do, you don't do anything It's impossible to move the ministry of Christ forward when you are paralyzed by fear. Fear dampens our spirit. It makes our service timid. Fear will put out our fire. So if we're going to serve stirred, we have to put away that fear. We have to put away that fear. So what is fear? What does uh the word fear here mean? Well, it has the idea of timidity, uh, fearfulness, want of courage, or boldness to face danger. Habitual cowardice. It's a lack of courage. Here's another description of fear. Fear includes anxiety, dread, and loss of courage in the face of an unpleasant or dangerous situation. Again, that idea of loss of courage. This main emphasis of this word is it's a lack of courage, or it is cowardice. That's the idea here. And so when we allow cowardice, fear to take control of our hearts, then we limit our service for Christ. But we cannot live in fear. We cannot allow ourselves to be guided or controlled by fear. General George S. Patton has attributed the saying, I never take counsel of My fears. The moment we listen to our fears is the moment we stop serving God. So let's think about let's think about fear for a minute. Let's think about some potential fears that Timothy had to face, even right here in this book. First of all, look at verse number 8. Verse number 8 says, be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord. nor of me his prisoner, but be thou a partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God. You know, Timothy was faced with the very real fear of ridicule. Here the Apostle Paul says, Don't be ashamed that you are my partner , your partner with the Lord. But accept the affliction. You know, this is a very fear very real fear that we have in our culture, this fear of reject of ridicule People making fun of us for for believing in uh Christianity. You know, I was out uh going door to door one day in Ohio. and uh I was saw a man on his front porch and he was out there smoking a cigarette. I went up to him to give him a a packet from the church and uh he told me he was an atheist and uh he got to the point in his life where he he realized he wanted to stop believing fairy tales. You know, he uh he's ridiculing Christianity, right? The truth of Scripture. You know, if we're not careful, we'll allow that fear to paralyze. I'm gonna stop going out telling people about Christ because I don't want to put up with that ridicule. What else was Timothy potentially dealing with? Go to verse 15. Verse 15 says, This thou knowest that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me. Timothy could have been faced with the very real fear of rejection. Here the Apostle Paul makes mentions to a group uh people in Asia, these these folks that have turned away from him. And the Timothy Could be facing a similar similar possibility. Maybe he's thinking, oh, these people that have turned away from Paul, they're they're gonna cut me off because I'm with Paul. Who else is gonna cut me off? But already these people have cut us off You know, if we're not careful, we'll allow this this fear of rejection to keep us from being effective in service. I just want to make people happy so that way we can get along and so that way uh you know nobody will reject me and then we start to compromise and we start to We start to minimize our our service to Christ. Our flame starts to go out because we're more worried about serving people than we are about Christ. How about this? 2 Timothy 2 verse 3. The fear of rigor. Verse 3 says this Apostle Paul talking again to Timothy, thou therefore endure hardness as a good soldier of Jesus Christ. So Timothy could have been thinking, you know what, I'm just I'm done with this ministry life. It's too hard. The rigor of life is just it's overwhelming. So ridicule, rejection, rigor, uh verse 16 of chapter 2 through 18, false teachers. Timothy could have been fearful of false teachers, verse 16, but shun profane and vain babblings, for they will increase unto more ungodliness. And their word will eat as doth a canker, of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus, who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already. And overthrow the faith of some. Timothy could have said, you know what, I I struggle to answer these heretics and and these people that have turned away from the truth of the gospel and the I'm tired of dealing with uh false teachers. I'm tired of arguing and apologetics and standing for the truth. And so I'm just, I'm out. Go over to chapter four, verses six and seven. Here we see The Apostle Paul, coming to the close of his ministry, for I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand. I have fought a good fight. I have finished my course. I've kept the faith. How about the very real fear of loss? As Timothy now gets word from the Apostle Paul that he is soon to depart this world. This father figure for this young preacher, Timothy You know, he could have been thinking, how am I gonna continue on in ministry without my mentor? Although a at this time he's probably not uh just a young preacher anymore, but uh he he's definitely still not to where the apostle Paul was. He might have been thinking, you know what? I'm so inadequate. How am I going to continue on in ministry? Uh I need the Apostle Paul's encouragement. I need his prayers. Uh he might have been tempted to think, you know what, I'm I'm I'm set set up for failure now without the Apostle Paul to give me counsel or guidance. These are thoughts that really could have been going through his mind And if he had allowed all of those fears to overwhelm him, he would be ecstatic in ministry, he would be ineffective. And so here the Apostle Paul in verse 7 is saying, Timothy, don't take counsel of your fears. Don't focus on the fear. But rather, we need to focus on what God has given us. We'll get to that in verse 7 in just a second. But before we move on, let's take a second to think: what are our fears? What are the fears in our life that are keeping us from serving God effectively? That are keeping us from serving with passion, with zeal, with fervor, in that stirred up, rekindled sort of manner. That excited sort of manner. I'm excited to serve God. What are the fears that are keeping us from exercising? Really, it's exercising the gift that God has given us. We've all been given a spiritual gift. Uh have you allowed something into your life, a fear into your life, that has caused you to to hold back on exercising that spiritual gift or has caused you to hold back in serving God to some capacity? It could be in the area of witness. It could be in the area of serving in church. Some people might think, well, there's uh too much hassle nowadays with with youth ministry. And so I'm I'm done with that. I 'm I'm tired of the headaches there. I'm fearful of what could happen to me when I step out and do this for Christ. I don't want to put a a target on my back and and and have the world and the devil come at me, and so I'm I'm just gonna stay on the sidelines. What fear is it You know, we have a lot of things to fear in our our current situation, whether it's uh politics, uh just a few months ago uh riots were happening in the streets I I guess a couple of years ago. Um w we see an anti-Christian sentiment rising in our nation Maybe there's a person in your life, a neighbor, a co-worker, but what is it that is causing you to fear? Could I encourage you? Tonight, that God has not given us the spirit of fear. If you have that fear in your life, it is not of the Holy Ghost. You can know that for sure. So we don't need to listen to those fears. Here's a quote from Dr. Stanley Jones, I am inwardly fashioned for faith, not for fear. Fear is not my native land, faith is. I am so made that worry and anxiety are sand and machinery of life. Faith is the oil. I live better by faith and confidence. than by fear, doubt, and anxiety. In anxiety and worry my being is gasping for breath. These are not my native air, but in faith and confidence I breathe freely. These are my native A John Hopkins University doctor says, we do not know why it is that warriors die sooner than non-warriors, but the fact is, that's the fact. But I who am of simple mind think I know, he says, we are inwardly constructed in nerve and tissue, brain, cell, and soul for faith, not for fear. God made us that way. To live by worry is to live against reality. Think about that. God created us to live not by fear, but by faith. What fears are keeping you from serving God excitedly? Energetically. Let me encourage you to talk to the Lord about that and acknowledge to Him that Lord, these are not from you. This is not the way you designed me to live. I want to live in faith. So let's let's not live against reality as Dr. Jones said, but let's live in faith. So to serve stirred, we need to keep that fire extinguisher of fear away. But rather, we need to put fuel on our fire. So we looked at verse 7, that first phrase, for God hath not given us the spirit of fear. So why should we serve stirred? Well, because God's not given us a spirit of fear. to to go around timid and and and cowardly keeping our little flame to ourselves. That's not of God. But but why should we serve serve? Because God has given us a spirit of power and of love and a sound mind. God wants us to explode in service to him. So let's put on These fuels and fuel are fire. And if we look at the these three fuels, if you will, they're going to show us this is this is really this is how we serve stirred. This is how we serve to the fullest of our capacity is by allowing the Holy Spirit to implement these characteristics into our life. So let's begin looking at these three fuels for our fire. First of all, the fuel of power. For God has not given us a spirit of fear, but of power. Power. That word power, it means ability. This is ability for service. And if God has given you a spiritual gift, if you know Christ as your Savior, God has given you at least one spiritual gift. And so you know what that means? It means that God has given you the power, the ability to serve him in some capacity. Think about that. God has equipped you. He is enabled, he has enabled you to serve Him. Let that soak in. Realize this. God has given you the power to serve Him. Romans 12, 3. God has dealt to every man the measure of faith. And then he gives a list of spiritual gifts. God has given you A measure of faith to do a work. Do you believe that? If you believe that, say amen. Amen. That's the Bible. So God has given you the power. He has given you the ability. You know what that should do for us? That should give us confidence. Hey, God Almighty is enabling me to do a work. Hey, I can't fail as long as I am allowing Him and His power to work through me Do you believe God fails? Raise your hand if you believe God fails. I don't see any hands, alright? So we can't fail if we are serving God using his power that he has given us to do the job he has called us to do. So we ought to rely on God and we ought to do it. We ought to jump in and do it. We ought to say, all right, Lord, stir up my flame. Get me going. So first of all, we need to realize that God has given us the power. He has given us the ability Alright, so that's the first fuel for our fire. Second of all, God has given us a spirit of love. So power is ability. It gives us motivation. Second of all, he's given us a spirit of love, and that is, sorry, God's given us power, that's ability, and that gives us confidence. Second of all, God has given us a spirit of love, and that gives us motivation. Motivation for service. What motivates us to love and to serve God? Well, because he first loved us, right? We love him because he first loved us. When we stop and think and truly consider what God has done for us, That ought to motivate us to reciprocate that love. Think about this. You would not exist if it weren't for God, your creator. You wouldn't be here. Don't you think you ought to show him some love and respect for that? And second of all, if it weren't for God and Jesus Christ, our Savior We will be lost, separated from God in our own sin, headed to eternal separation from God. But God made a way for us to be redeemed back to Him. Don't you think you ought to show God a little bit of love and sacrifice? Absolutely. And you know what? God has given us a spirit of love. Think about Ananias in Acts chapter nine. And I might be reading in between the lines here a little bit, but but consider this. Ananias, I believe, allowed love To motivate him to do something, even though he could have been fearful. I mean, God comes to him and says, Hey, there's this guy named Saul. He's on Strait Street at the house of Judas. I want you to go there and heal him so he can receive his sight. And Anonis is thinking, Saul, I've heard that name before somewhere. Wait a minute. He's not a he's not a nice guy. Um he goes around putting Christians in jail. So he says, God, I I've heard of this guy named Saul, and uh he's he's got permission to lock Christians up. And God says, I want you to go so that you can receive his sight. I've got a work for him to do. Alright, so no, I 'm human, and and I know Ananias is human, so I I think Ananias Unless he's some super Christian, he is probably thinking, I don't know if this is a good idea. That that temptation to have some fear? Who's with me there? Would you be would you be eager to go um get on a plane and fly over to uh China and lay your hands on the leader of China, President Z or whatever his name is? And so that he can receive sight because he's all of a sudden have a miraculous change of mind. Alright? Who's on that neck who's on that plane? I don't think so. So Ananias , he's confronted. Am I going to give in to fear? Or am I going to allow the Holy Spirit giving love in my heart to motivate me to obey God? Am I going to allow that Holy Spirit given love for this man who formerly persecuted Christians to cause me to go down the straight street to the house of Judas and Lay my hands on him so he can receive the sight. You know, I'm thankful that Ananias allowed love to win over fear. Otherwise, we wouldn't have a text tonight. Think about all the people influenced by the Apostle Paul. You know, sometimes the Holy Spirit puts it in our heart, He draws us by these cords of love to do something. And you might think, it's just giving a cup of cold water or something, it's not that big a deal. I don't have time, or and you quench that fire And you just go on. I've done it. I wonder how many times we have missed influencing someone's life. Because we didn't listen to the Holy Spirit and that message of love. That He wanted us to step out and act and do something. We allowed our service to be ineffective. We didn't allow that love to stir up our service for God. So let's pour that fuel of love on our flame so that we can serve stirred. So we need to put the fuel of power and of love. And then thirdly, the third fuel is a sound mind. If we're going to serve stirred, we need to put on the fuel of a sound mind. So if power is ability, it gives us confidence. If love is a motivation and it moves us to action. Sound mind is stability. It gives us stability in service. That uh word here for sound mind, it's actually not a common word. I believe this is the only time it's used in the New Testament specifically. There are some related words that are used elsewhere. Uh so uh to give us a little bit of uh understanding what this word is getting at, if you go to Mark chapter 5, verse 15, I'll read it for you. Uh uh uh a related word is used in Mark 5, 15. And they c and they come to Jesus and see him that was possessed with the devil and had the legion sitting and clothed in his right mind. Okay, so Jesus, after he had just healed the the maniac of Gadera This guy who was out of his mind. He was insane. He was possessed of a devil or many devils. It says that he was clothed in his right mind. So the idea here of sound mind , you're in your right mind. You are controlled of mind. You have control of your faculties. That's the idea here that we need to be in control of our thinking. Or rather, the Holy Spirit should have control of our thinking. Hey, when we allow fear to run away with our thoughts, sometimes our thoughts are pretty insane, aren't they? We can allow them to run all over the place and end up in some pretty bizarre um some pretty bizarre places. I mean think about it. Have you have you ever r cause yourself a lot of anxiety over something because you allow a fear to kind of run away with you and then you get to the to whatever it was and it was nothing. I y I've done stuff like that before, I'm sure. You know, Timothy, he had all those things that he could have worried about. We have a whole bunch of things in our life too, I'm sure, that we could worry about. We could fear But we cannot allow fear to drive our thinking because it really it ends us up Really almost insane, out of control of our thinking. Worry has so many negative consequences. Let's think about worry can waste a lot of time. It will waste a lot of time. Man, I have spent so much time worrying. Um I could probably have a doctorate in worrying, okay? It waste time. Worrying is wasting today's time to clutter up tomorrow's opportunities with yesterday's troubles. It's just a waste of time. Why worry when you can trust? Worry is like a rocking chair. It gives you something to do, but doesn't get you anywhere. Why worry? Here's a neat little story. For several years a woman had been having trouble getting to sleep at night because she feared burglars. Um one night her husband heard a noise in the house, so he went downstairs to investigate. When he got there, he did he did find a burglar. Good evening, said the man of the house. I'm pleased to see you. Come upstairs and meet my wife. She has been waiting ten years to meet you. But think about that. All the sleep she lost over ten years of nothing. Worry wastes a lot of time. Worry can cost us a lot of peace of mind. It can cost us peace of mind. Here's a couple strategy uh here's a one couple strategy for dealing with their worry. Here's what they did. Uh the the husband says, to act out the principle of turning prayers over to God, we took a paper bag. wrote God on it and taped it up high on the back of our kitchen door. As I prayed about matters such as my career, my role as a father, my abilities to be to be a good husband I would write down each concern on a piece of paper, then those pieces of paper would go in the bag. The rule was if you started worrying about the matter of prayer that you've turned over to God, you have to climb up on a chair and fish it out of the bag I don't want to admit how much time I spent sifting through those scraps of paper. Hey, if you need help with worry, maybe that's the solution for you. I don't know. But worry, it costs us. Peace of mind. And this man here, he said that I don't want to admit how much time I spent sitting through those scraps of paper. Because he he allowed those worries to get back in after he went to God in prayer, and he allowed it again to affect his thinking. Isaiah 26, 3 says, Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee, because he trusteth in thee. Philippians 4, 6 and 7. Be careful for nothing, but in everything by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving. Let your request be made known unto God. And the peace of God which passeth all understanding shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus. Why worry when you can trust God? Which is better? Then why is it? Why is it we so often tend to fall back on worry? Worry, it wastes time, it costs us peace of mind. A worry can keep us from accomplishing things for God. Can you think of a time where you allowed a worry or a fear to keep you from stepping out and serving God? I want to challenge you tonight. If you can identify a time where worry kept you from stepping out, fear kept you from stepping out to serve God in some capacity. especially if it's in the capacity of using your spiritual gift. I want to encourage you to make that a matter of prayer. Talk to God about that and say, God, why is it? Why was I, why did I fail to step out there? What do I need to change in my thinking? In my faith, so that the next time I'm in that situation, I will step out. I will meet the challenge. I will serve you. Because worry can keep us from accomplishing things for God. And if we never deal with the worry of If we never deal with the fear, the next time the same situation comes along, we're most likely to repeat it. This gets me when it comes to witnessing all the time. That fear of going up to someone. And sharing the gospel, or even if as simple as handing them a track, inviting them to church. And sometimes we allow that fear to overcome us. And we don't step up, we don't follow through. Oftentimes, probably because we haven't preceded the situation in prayer. We haven't been on our knees. We haven't been living a life of faith Trusting God, making God an integral part of our life, so that when we come to the situation, we're worried, we're fearful because we haven't done what we need to do to be confident. You know, I I look at me and I say, you know what, if I would be more prayerful If I'd be more mindful about praying for divine appointments, praying that God would give me opportunities to share the gospel, when those opportunities came along, I'd probably be a whole lot more confident, a whole lot a whole lot more bold. in stepping out and actually sharing the gospel because I would realize this is what God is doing. I heard a preacher say one time that oftentimes we treat prayer like the precursor to the battle. But Jesus Christ treated prayer like the battle. You know, if we don't if we do not get on our knees, if we do not fight the battle on our knees, Then I don't know that we'll have the power, the love, and the soundness of mind to win the battle. God has not given us the spirit of fear, but of power. And of love, and of a sound mind. Hey, our day, our age is scary time for Christians. It's uncertain times for everybody. Fear, worry, anxiety is rampant all around our world. It really wasn't that much different in Timothy's days though, I I I would imagine. He had a lot of things confronting him. And you know what? We still serve the same God that Timothy served. Who has the same power, the same ability. We still have the same Holy Spirit that's giving us that spirit of love and giving us that soundness of mind. So that we can serve stirred. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word tonight. Lord, I pray we take it to heart. Lord, I need it. Our country, our our country needs it, Lord. Lord, the believers in this country, Lord, we we need to serve stirred. I pray you'd fill us, Lord, with your power, your love, and your soundness of mind. Thank you for drawing our attention to such a very practical and important text. And You know, God in his providence puts us all in a place to serve him and to be faithful. He gives us duties that we're supposed to be be faithful in and that's a very sobering thing. It's a very fearful thing. And we will always have Um a remembrance of our own limits. We're always gonna remember there'll be people that don't like what we're doing. Um there's gonna be hardship that we will face, and fear is something that is It's easy to grip all of our hearts. But God would never call us to something He would not enable us to do. And He is never going to call us to do something that He won't give us the grace. uh to serve and love in. And uh he always wants to order our thinking so that it's biblical, it's consistent with the truth, it's clear-minded. And so those are graces. God pours them into our lives And uh so where we are, what God's called us to, the duties that we are responsible to uh follow through with, He's going to give us everything that we need to do it. But we've got to believe that. And we've got to actually live as if we believe that. And so it's an extremely important concept. Let's go ahead and turn our hymn books, please, to hymn 397 Higher Grounds Higher ground, we're going to sing the first and the fourth verses of this hymn together. So let's stand, please. You can't sit down if you're going to sing higher ground. Let's stand it. Let's really sing it out. I 'm passing on the upward wing , I started. Every day, so praying as I onward round, or with my feet on higher ground, or fit me on my hand, my teeth on him and But by a faith that I am found, Lord let my feet on higher. I want to scale the undead and tend to sleep a for me price, but still a failure that I fell, for me on his higher ground, or the Up and let me stand, my feet on standing table and the higher wave that I have found, or with my feet on my ground. May that be our prayer. And let me encourage you that there is no living person that does not face fear and anxiety. at times. And there's no person that doesn't go through moments where they feel pretty crippled and they don't think clearly and they think pretty irrationally. We are all made of the same stuff. But God has given us everything we need to be able to serve Him in spite of the fears and the anxieties. and the difficulties. And sometimes one of the best things that we can do is just to sit down and have a good conversation with a godly Christian brother or sister. That is so very important. And uh sometimes as we share what we're thinking and we hear it ourselves, we go, that's not true. That's not true. That's not what's really going on. I have no idea if that's gonna happen. Sometimes just hearing us say that kind of like kind of gets our thinking clear. You know what I mean? And then sometimes letting a a a dear brother or sister just share with us. They're not emotionally feeling it the same way we are. They love us, and so they're feeling it as we tell them how we feel, but it's not the same. And they're able to just share with us some things. And so many times, I've experienced this many times that as someone shares with me, and I'm listening, I'm going I know that's true. I know that's true. I know that's true. And it just brings clarity. And so that's why we need the body of Christ. That's why we need each other. So thankful. Thank thank you for that encouragement. And let's uh be willing to have these conversations and let's be willing to listen and uh just be uh a a blessing to uh those who need that in those times. Brother Hansel, so good to see you. Welcome back. He's now engaged. And this week we're gonna start pre marriage counseling. Ooh, that's big time right there. You better listen well. Uh that's a blessing. Good to have you. I'd like to ask you to close us in pre-maring. Prayer and uh good to see each of you out tonight. I hope that you can make it back Wednesday as we continue our series uh through so many foundational issues and relation to family and as you've seen in these studies they're not just family but they they're lots of foundational principles and I hope that they'll be an encouragement and help to you but it's also Heavenly Father, we thank you so much for a wonderful day you've given us, Lord. Um peace be with us, Lord, and that we may enjoy the fellowship afterwards. And thank you, Lord, so much that the teams were able to go to the wilds and enjoy a wonderful service. That hearts were met, needs were filled up, and minds were turned around. Please be with all the adults here as they have a long week of work and things are going on, Lord, but help us Christ remember, Lord. That you have not given us the spirit of fear. Help us, God, to push through and just pray and rekindle our fire every day. We love what we thank you. In Jesus' name, amen.