Good evening. We're continuing with our Christmas series and Christmas thoughts this evening. But instead of Matthew with the wise men, we're actually kind of going backwards chronologically, and we're going to look at Luke chapter 2. As you open your Bibles to Luke chapter 2, this evening we're going to look at shepherds, a sign, and a savior. Shepherds, a sign, and a savior. Now I'm going to read our text. I will begin in verse 8 of Luke chapter 2. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord showed round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign unto you. Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace. Good will toward men. And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which is come unto to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste, and found Mary and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all they that heard it wondered at the things which were told them by the shepherds. Let us pray Father, we are so thankful that we can gather this evening, that the roads can be dry, we could be warm, and yet our hearts can be filled as you use the Word of God this evening in the hearts and lives of your people. Would we have soft hearts, attentive ears, as we listen to the Word of God? Father, we are just so thankful that Christ put on flesh. To dwell among us. And we have the privilege of celebrating this and focusing on it every year. But Father, really, we can meditate and think about your birth Your death, your resurrection every day that you give unto us. But we are thankful for this evening that we can gather together and would your Son Jesus Christ, just be exalted as we look at how you brought him here to dwell with us. And we come to you through Christ's name. Amen So we're looking at shepherds, a sign, and a savior. And as I shared last Sunday night, this is where my family is going to start off on Christmas Day after we eat our cupcakes and sing happy birthday. Jesus, we will turn to Luke chapter 2. And here is where the birth of Christ begins, the night that he was born. Born. A lot of people like to include the Matthew, and we went over that last week. That was the wise man, they came later. But tonight we're gonna look at the actual day he was born. But first, we're gonna look At shepherds abiding in the field. We're going to see this in verses 8 through 11. Shepherds abiding in a field. And we'll look at these verses quickly again. And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord showed right about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for I behold , For behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy. And as we read these opening verses here, we see that, okay, yeah, verse 8. Yeah, there's shepherds in the field. They're they're keeping a watch over their flock. But what's interesting, what I've been reminded of, is when you have these shepherds in the field, they're in Bethlehem, what are they doing here? These shepherds are just guarding their flock. Nothing special, nothing spectacular. It's like a kid going for the candy. You just expected. That's what's going to happen. Nothing special. And here's what I've reminded of as I put this with the rest of what we're going to read. Sometimes we just expect God to just go out of his way sometimes, to work in us and through us, and we expect something special to happen. We want something exciting. We want it written in the clouds. We want the verse highlighted when we just randomly open our Bible. All these different things. But sometimes what we really need is just to do what we're supposed to do. each and every day. These shepherds were having a normal, regular day in the field, watching sheep. That's what a shepherd does. Nothing special, nothing glorious about it. Something to note that is good is that they weren't sleeping on the job. These shepherds, it says they were watching, they were keeping, they were doing what they were supposed to be doing. That's what we need to do each and every day. And sometimes as I talk with teenagers, I work with them, they have big decisions in front of them. Do I go to college? If so, which one? Where am I going to work? Am I going to get a house? Who am I going to marry? All these big questions. I was like, don't worry, just some of the smallest decisions you ever make in your life. Life, it's okay. No pressure. But what I tell them is, listen, just do what you're supposed to do every day. God will sort those things out. You just wake up, brush your teeth, make your bed, go to school, do your homework, obey your parents. Just do the everyday things you're supposed to do. to do. And then sometimes as you're obeying and you're doing what you're supposed to do, God can use those everyday things and put together something that is amazing. So here you just have shepherds. They're just in the field, watching their sheep, protecting them, guarding them, doing what they're supposed to be doing. They're not sleeping. They're guarding them. What are they guarding them from? Thieves. animals designed to eat those delicious sheep. They're protecting them. And they're doing this in Bethlehem where those sheep were raised for sacrifices. And so they're just minding their own business, doing what they do each and every day. And then we get to verse 9. And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord was around about them, and they were sore afraid. This is kind of a little funny little phrase and they were sore afraid. Yeah, if you're just sitting there watching your sheep, your white fluffy sheep, and then you see this bright light and this sub that something comes in and that you're unexpected, it would startle you. And they were very afraid. Out of nowhere in front of them. I imagine if I was a shepherd just watching my sheep. They're probably in a mix between, uh, do I fight this thing? Do I discuss this thing? Do I start running? Do do what what do you do? This is way outside the normal. They didn't hear normally you'd probably hear something rustling in the bushes. You might see shadows. This was outside the ordinary. There was something different. They probably had no clue what to do. So to say that they were so afraid, I think, is probably an understatement. They were probably very scared and had no clue what was going on. But God was just using something special in their ordinary life. They were just doing what they're supposed to be doing, and God is stepping onto the scene. and show them that they are going to be privileged. They're going to see something that most people will not. And here's the instruction they're given in verse 10. In verse 10 it says, and the angel said to them, Fear not. So the angel said to tell them, Don't be afraid. Relax. It'll be okay. I'm not an enemy. Don't be afraid. For, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy which shall be to all people. So not only do we have shepherds doing what they do each and every day, we have this amazing announcement, but here's what I think is also amazing with this text that he's going to give them good news. Joyous news, and this news is for everybody. So when Christ's birth is being announced I find it very humbling that he chose to go to shepherds, the lowly men, those who are not wealthy, probably not well known. unless you wanted to go through and buy your you know lamb for the sacrifice. Very little known. Very humble. He didn't go to the high priests. He didn't go to the elders. He didn't go to anyone else. He went to the shepherd. And this also reminds me as we think about this, sometimes we think that we need to be someone special. We need to think God can only use those people. God can only use those that have a name, that have a reputation. That have so many likes or follows and all those whatevers. God here is announcing something very special to those that you not expect. Shepherds. And they are going to get this news and this great announcement that's going to benefit everyone. These men are going to be used to share great news as we come back to the shepherds at the end of this text. So what do we draw from this for you and I? Don't think to yourself, I need to be like that person. I need to make a name for myself You just need to obey God, obey your parents if you're younger, do what you're supposed to do to today And let God work out the details, and you do right, and then you share in turn what He has done for you. So I know it's very simple. You just have shepherds abiding in the field. And as we think about it, I think it's very privileged and humbling to know that God can use anyone. God is not looking for the mighty, he's not looking for the great name, he wants to use you. He's going to use the shepherds. And he can and he will. And now let's look at verse 11, where we see that a savior is born in verse 11. A savior is born. For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. So here is a message. He is telling them that someone is going to be born in the city of David. The city of David matters because obviously it's where David was from. David was a shepherd as well And this is going to be the lineage of David, which is also very important. And going back, this codes all the way back to 2 Samuel in chapter 7, it says, And thine house and thine kingdom shall be established forever before thee. Thy throne shall be established forever, according to all these words and according to all this vision. So did Nathan speak unto David. There's a promise being fulfilled here, and here it's happening in David's city. A special birth. Not just another baby. There's babies born all the time everywhere. But what's different about this is they're telling him it's for all people. He's telling you this day, right now, tonight, in this city, there is a savior. There is one who has been long waited for by many. Some are not expecting him. Some are going to reject him. But he is Savior, which is Christ the Lord, the Messiah. Someone that's going to save us from our sin, from your sin. In some ways, you think it would have been nice for him to go to the high priests and to the elders of Israel and those things. But yet we are all sinners. We all need this good news. We all need this great joy. And it is to everyone. So this is telling about and the Savior. They, these shepherds, are getting a great and wonderful announcement. And it's awesome to think that uh when they're being told this. The angels aren't singing. They're more telling them. They keep saying. It's like an announcement. And we always say, angels, we've heard I know this they're singing. We always sing about angels singing. But here, I think they're telling. This is what is happening, and you have the privilege to see it. And as pastor dealt with this morning in Isaiah 9, verses 6 and 7, for unto you A for are unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given, the government shall be upon his shoulder, and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counselor, the Mighty God, the everlasting Father, the Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and the peace there shall be no end. For upon the throne of David and upon his kingdom To order it, and to establish it with judgment, and with justice, and from henceforth even forever. The zeal of the Lord of hosts Will perform it. All this is taking place right now in the city of David where a Savior is being born. And he is not just another baby. He's coming to rescue. He is coming to fulfill. He is doing all these things, and he's doing it humbly as putting on flesh to dwell among us. So we've looked briefly at the shepherds abiding in the field. We've looked at a savior being born. Now let's look at verses 12 through 15 at a sign unto you. And that's how it starts in verse 12. And this shall be a sign unto you, the shepherds. Ye shall find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger. And when you read this, I've thought many times, okay, a sign. There's something special here. There's something unique going on, and that is the idea of a sign, a token. You can go all the way back to Cain and all these different things. But here, what's the sign these shepherds are going to see? They're going to see a baby that's born in swaddling clothes and in a manger Once again, this is a special announcement. These angel, this angel that gave this announcement, and they were sore afraid of everything that was taking place. With them suddenly appearing here and telling us a wonderful announcement, and then they're supposed to find a babe wrapped in swaddling clothes. Basically, this is every day how a baby would be born and how you care for a child. This is not what you would expect from him who is creator of the world. This is not what you would expect from the one that would be king of the Jews. This is not whom you expect anyone being born in a wealthy family or have a name for themselves. It's just a regular baby. It appears, wrapped in just swaddling abigless. They wrapped him tight, just like you would any other baby, coming out of the womb and to be wrapped tight feels very comfortable for them. That's what they were seeing. Just a normal, humble, regular birth. And it reminds us of Isaiah 7 in verses 13-14. It says he said, Hear now, O house of David, It is a small thing for you to weary men, but ye will weary my God also. Therefore, the Lord Himself shall give you So what we see here in this text in Luke chapter two is fulfilling Isaiah 7. And here when we do this, it is a virgin conceiving bearing a son. And who is it? It's Emmanuel. It is God with us. And how does God come to earth? Not with big fanfare, not with big announcement. He comes on a night where shepherds are greeting him, just as a normal baby in swaddling clothes, nothing special. In a very humble way. Not grand and glorious to anyone special or exciting this night, but shepherds just doing what they do. A baby wrapped in what they'd normally be wrapped in. And as we think about this birth of Christ, I kind of want to take our minds and jump a little bit to the end of his life when we think about Philippians 2 and how he came onto the sea. and how Christ was born and what the purpose of that was. And in Philippians 2, 7 and 8, it says, but he made himself of no reputation. And took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. That's what we're saying We're seeing God, Emmanuel, God with us, fulfilling prophecy, born in a manger, born of the virgin, announced to the shepherds, they're coming to see it. And what do they see? They see God putting on the likeness of men. But then here in verse 8 it says, and being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself. Now in verse 8 of Philippians 2, I understand here, we're going to read it, it's good talking about his death. But that is how he came, not just humble in his death, but in his birth. The rest of Philippians 2. 8, and he became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. So here, even in Philippians 2 and Luke 2, what we're seeing is how Christ came was very humble And as we did , I mean God could have come in any way he wanted. But in who he's reaching out to and who he's using and doing every day. They're doing everyday things to everyday people, and yet he's doing an absolute miracle through coming to earth, the humility , the everyday circumstances that are taking place. To bring someone so special as our Savior into the world. If he came with great fanfare and if he came with great excitement and all these things, do you think the shepherds and everyday people, if you will, would have had a chance to feel so special special and to know what was going on. Some probably would have hidden the truth. Imagine if some of Nicodemus's friends and their Sadducees and Pharisees, all of them, they heard about this and they knew what was going on. Or wait, or you know, how did King Herod respond to that? Someone of great position a little while later. How did he felt threatened? He was not excited. He was not looking forward to oh yeah, he said he ought to come worship him, but we know how that was going to go. But in his coming was very humble to reach all people, not just those who are of a certain status He's not coming just for those who think they're special. And I thought of that passage in Philippians 2. Trying to bring his birth all the way through his death. Our Savior came as a suffering servant. When he put on flesh. It's assuming that hey we he is God. Now he's going to show us that he is man. And as man, he is born. And as man he will live, he's going to cry. He's going to hunger. He's going to thirst. cry He's going to get lost. Well, his parents are going to think he's lost. However, you want to look at that. He's gonna have those that lie about him, that cheat him, that mock him. He's gonna go through everything in a sense that you and I would, yet without sin. So that he could be our Savior, so he could show that he is the Messiah, so he can do wonderful miracles, so that we could know who he is, that he is God. He was coming to take our place on the cross. Going all the way back to Genesis 3. His birth is leading to his death. Even the fact that he is born in the city of David, where these sheep were raised to die. They were raised for a sacrifice. And that is our God, who created everything, who just spoke everything that we know into existence. Yet he humbly came. To serve and to die for us. And definitely rise again the third day So he went to the shepherds. They were not expecting him. They were just doing what they were supposed to be doing. Guarding, watching, not sleeping, not falling asleep on the job. They get the announcement of a savior that is going to be born. There's something special. They see this sign. Now they are to me that the the obvious part was, okay, we have this announcement, okay, something special is going on, but when they see this baby But they knew who it was by the announcement. Not something that would be expected. And then he was joined with others. When they get suddenly there was an angel in verse 13, a multitude of heavenly hosts praising God and saying, Glory to God in the highest on earth, peace, good will toward men. So not only did he come humbly here, but it's glory to God and on earth peace, goodwill toward men. Sometimes when we think about peace, and he's the prince of peace, we think about, wait a minute. But this world is not experiencing a lot of peace. There's always war, cancer. Loved ones are lost. It seems like the wicked can be prosperous. What do you mean peace? And I think sometimes we get distracted from the fact that when Christ came, he was coming, not so that we could have peace with each other, which could be an application. But that we can have peace with God. We get distracted, I think, sometimes, oh, we need to have peace with one another and we want world peace. That's not gonna happen happen. As long as there's sin on this earth and in our hearts and in yours and mine, we're not going to have peace. Oh yeah, it'll be times and different seasons. And the more we agree with God, the more we can have peace. But here it says, glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace. Goodwill toward man. Through Christ as the Savior, as the Messiah, this little baby that's wrapped in swaddling clothes in a manger, he is going to do for us what we could not do to himself so that we can come to God peaceably. That he can take our sin, God's wrath upon himself for us. That's what this peace, that's part of this. That's what makes it good news. So that's why with glory to God, and on earth there could be peace and goodwill toward men. Verse 15, and it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, can you imagine the conversation they just had? I mean can you see this talking about I mean this was amazing. This wasn't just a thief. Oh yeah, we got that guy or you know we spared another sheep. Yeah, they tried to do it again or did you see that animal? Yeah, it's just a little one, you know, I got him. But this time, that the conversation they would have had with each other, let us now, verse 15, in the middle, go even unto Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass. Which the Lord hath made known unto us. They were just doing what they're supposed to do each and every day. And they know that there is a message from God that's going to change their life, and this message is for all people. Sometimes we just expect God to do great amazing things and light up the clouds and highlight it in pink. Sometimes it's a matter of just opening up God's word. And read what he says for you and me. We don't need fireworks. We don't need all this fanfare. I mean, we just need, I mean, God is telling them, hey, this is what the Lord has made known unto us. This is what God has made known to us. We're not going to have a special angel. The room's not going to light up, and you're probably not going to be afraid. But you can open up the very Word of God and know what He has for you each and every day. And as you piece those days together, as you spend time in God's Word, not just because it's a ritual or something that you do. That's a tendency I think that we can have. But here, God has made this known unto us. Just like God spoke the worlds into existence, he spoke these very words. Well, Greek and Hebrew, but he spoke them and preserved them. So they rushed to see this thing which has come to pass that the Lord hath made known unto us. Then lastly, so the shepherds have been abiding in the field, doing what they do. A savior is born, assigned unto you. Now let's look what the shepherds do. The shepherds are gonna see We're going to see this in verses 16 through 18. And they came with haste and found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which is told them concerning this child. And all they that heard it wondered at those things which are told them by the shepherds. Isn't it good to know that God is using these everyday shepherds to they're supposed to do and he is going to use them to make this great announcement and that's what they do. They heard about it. They get this wonderful announcement. Then they go see it and they see it for themselves. And when this happens, they came with haste. They found Mary, just as they said, and the by the babe lying in a manger. They see a little baby in swallowing clothes just as it was announced. They've heard it, and now they've seen it. A life-changing event is happening in the lives of these shepherds. For us Does Christ he change who we are, how we think, and what we're going to do? Does it motivate us to want to share with others? Look here in verse, it says they see it, they're confirming it. Verse 7, and when they had seen it, They made known abroad the saying which is told them concerning this child. I think sometimes We get so used to just the normal every day and even with Christmas. I try and make it a point at Christmas time. I know it's that this is a smaller thing, but when people say happy holidays, Do you ever catch yourself just saying, yeah, yeah, have a good day or happy holidays yourself? Are we just so used to just responding or are we excited about the birth of our Savior? Is there something about knowing that Christ is the Messiah, who redeemed me from my own sin, who is giving peace towards all men to God? But yet sometimes we can't even muster enough. enough to say Merry Christmas. We just get caught with the happy holidays. I don't think that's what the shepherds are doing here. These shepherds see what they were told about. They've seen the sign, they've seen the baby, and after they see it, it becomes real to them. Sometimes I think God does not become real to us because we treat it like a checklist. I was in God's Word today, checked, done that, prayed, amen, done. Okay, now I can do what I want with my life. Oh, it's another Christmas. We're just going to, you know, give more presents and you know spend time with family. And you uh there's I'm not saying you can't do presents And so time with that, that's all part of it. What I am saying is, are we teaching our children, are we teaching our grandchildren, our family, the purpose of Christmas? Christ being born, God putting on flesh, and we can get excited about it, we can share about it. We have this good news. This is not just good news for them then. This is good news for us today in a world that is hurting, a world that is trying to carry their own sin, a world that has no answers, and they're looking for everything, their hope in anything but Christ. These shepherds were so changed by this. They see it. They couldn't help but tell it. And I think this is one thing where Satan is really just having I think we're getting too silent. And I'm raised my hands. Sometimes we just need to be true. Does this ever happen to you? You're talking to someone. And I'm around church people a lot. And then sometimes you're talking to someone outside of your normal circles. And you just want to say something like, yeah, I've been praying about that. And you catch yourself though. You're saying, oh, you know, the Lord will do this or Lord willing. And but you catch yourself. And you can't even talk normal how you normally would to this person because you feel like maybe they'll be offended, maybe I don't, whatever the situation may be, it might be awkward. We catch ourselves in these situations. I think we get caught with being Silent. We've seen it. We even see God work in our lives. We've seen how God can do amazing things. Saved our soul. We've seen lives change. But yet we want to be silent. We want to keep it a silent night. These shepherds saw They couldn't help but tell it. And they went, they quickly found Mary. They seen these things. And then look what happens. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad saying which was told them concerning this child. So they're sharing everything probably from the announcement to it being fulfilled of what they were told to them. And if this is God's son. They are convinced. And they're sharing this. And then it gets to verse 18. And all they that heard it wondered at those things which are told them by the shepherds. You know what part of the wondering might have been? Did you ever get so excited about you ever talk to a little kid that's really excited about a birthday or a present or a gift? Especially if you're talking to a toddler and maybe the toddler that may not even be yours. And they're talking kind of fast and you're like, uh, I got two words of that. God, all of a sudden you can't tell what they're saying. They're so excited and they're just jabbering and you get and you start talking stuff a little bit faster because you're excited. You want to tell this and you want to tell this. You don't know what to say first I imagine that's probably what the shepherds were doing. And so the people going, what in the world? This guy, this guy hardly even talks. And now he is so excited about this is the shepherd that usually hangs out there. Yeah. You know that guy? No, not tonight I don't He's talking up a storm. He's telling about these amazing things they saw this this angel and the person. What is going on here? They were probably wondering all kinds of things. These guys were so impacted by what they had heard and then what they had seen. But sometimes we only hear the word of God and we're not consistent in prayer to live it out and to see it come to pass. To be faithful to God's word. These shepherds, these special ones, they're just doing what they do every day. They're watching, they're guarding, they're protecting their sheep, staying awake at night They get this special announcement. They see the sign and it changes their life and it motivates them to change their life, to change their speech, and to speak to others. If we if we just stay quiet and don't say anything How shall they hear? And I just don't mean in Romans 10 with the hearing, you know, how should they hear without a preacher? Okay, you need a preacher to hear the word. And by preaching That's you and I sharing the good news of who Christ is, who is going to tell them. This is a great season. People are usually more open. People are usually more kind. Unless they're the last-minute Christmas shoppers and they're trying to find that gift and then they might not be as kind. Forget about the roads. We we know they're gonna be eating on the road. Done. Okay, we know that. But people are gener they're more kind, they're more open to talk to neighbors. To invite them at this point to our uh maybe a candlelight service on Christmas Eve. We should be able to be so excited yet gripped by the truth of who our Savior is. that we should be able to share it like these shepherds. These are not amazing orators. These are not who you'd expect. These are the people who you expect to share of Christ and the birth. I don't think so. It's kind of like the resurrection. You wouldn't expect it to come from ladies as the first ones to start spreading word about the resurrection. If you're trying to spread a rumor in the day, that's not how you would have done it. You probably would have started with the apostles. You probably started with Peter. But that's not how it worked. Here, he's using shepherds. And so all they that heard it, more than one, more than two, I get the idea that they're telling everyone that they see. This is incredible. And they wonder those things which are told them by the shepherds. Probably guess who the shepherds were? It's not your typical messenger. Maybe they're not so talkative and chatty. And the things that they've seen. Both from what the angel and from this baby, okay, that's different. There is something unique about this. Maybe you ought to look into this. And they began to wonder. And sometimes too, when we're sharing and we're loving on family, we have some unsafe family that we're gonna Over Christmas. Sometimes you want so desperately just to give them the whole gospel, and then you want to like force them to believe it, and you can't. You lovingly share it, and maybe they need a time to just wonder. Or maybe they're looking at us and thinking, well, I don't know. If that's what a Christian is, I'm not so sure. But these shepherds were there was something different with these shepherds. Would there be something different about us? We're just everyday people. Would we do what God wants us to do every day? Sometimes we complicate it. Let's just do what we're supposed to do. Each and every day. And when we see Christ for who he is and what he's done for us, and he's given us this sign of a savior, a miraculous birth, could we see it? And could we share it? Because this is a message to all people, and God has given us the privilege to do it. And this is a great time of the year to share about our Savior. Father, we come before you this evening. What a great day we've had in your house. The streets. were mostly clear, the beauty of the snow, which went well with our text, just being reminded that you can wash us as white as snow. As wool. Fathers, we look at you becoming a man, Jesus Christ putting on flesh, announcing it to shepherds It happened exactly as you said it would, and it changed these men's lives. They couldn't help but share of the truth of who you are. and what they'd seen. So much that others were left wondering, could that be true about us this Christmas season? Starting with our family, our loved ones. Neighbors, maybe some co-workers. Father, we would get excited. Be reminded of who you are, who we're not, and that we can share of one. who has saved us from our own sin. And how you went out of his way in a humble way, not only being born, but all the way through to how he even gave his life for us. Us. We thank you for these many blessings and ask that you would work in our hearts and our lives to bring honor and glory, to exalt the name of our Savior Jesus Christ, in whose name we pray. Amen.