I hope that as you've joined us this morning, you'll find the service to be just a rich Christ-centered blessing, and uh that this missions month will be a time of tremendous encouragement as we think about the needs all around the world. And if you look around this auditorium, you see flags from all kinds of different nations. Most of the nations that you see flags of in the auditorium itself are nations where our church is currently supporting or has uh supported missionaries in those countries. And then as you walk down the hall you're going to see flags as well. And when you see those flags, remind yourself it's not just about a nation. These are people. These are souls And in each of these nations, there are great needs, there are great challenges, and there are people that need to hear the gospel, churches that need to be planted. and uh people that need to uh be taught all things that the Lord has commanded them. So let's remember that and as we spend time together this next month. And we focus on the needs around the world. Let's really pray for our missionaries. Let's be attentive to what God has for us. And let's allow the Spirit of God to just stir up our hearts. I also want to mention that we have our Missions Month booklet, and in this booklet you will find the different speakers that we have each week. There's a little section to take notes If you are inclined to do that. And also later on there are some quotes from different missionaries that are well known in history, church history. We also have the missionaries that we currently see support and we have their contact information. There's also some details about our financial giving over the last many years so that kind of gives you an idea of what our financial investment has been in church planting missionaries. And so my desire is that you'll pick this up, you'll utilize this. Do remember that when you are communicating with missionaries, some of them are in sensitive areas. And so if in the book it says to be cautious in your interaction with them, please keep in mind that if if we are not careful about the way we interact with some of our missionaries, depending on where they are. It could compromise their ability to do what they're doing. So let's be very cautious about that. And that is why on Sunday nights, some of our nights we will not actually live stream. the missionaries that we have. You'll have an opportunity to meet the missionaries in the morning Sunday school time. They'll come into my class in here and then they'll come into the other class. And also on Sunday night, there'll be a time where they present their ministry. Some of them will have videos that they that we show at the beginning of our services. Others will not. A lot of them will have displays that they set up. And I know that the kids really enjoy that. But not just the kids. Some of them they have sign-up sheets. And so if you would like to get their updates on their email distribution list, take a moment to sign up for that. Just get to know them. And uh missionaries are normal people, uh, but they're also people that have um that have suffered a lot sometimes for the sake of Christ. Sometimes they've really experienced a lot of challenges where they are, and this is a great opportunity for us to minister to them and just be a blessing. to them. And Lord willing, maybe some of these missionaries that come through this year will be able to look at potentially taking on for support as well when we when we pick that up in our next quarterly business meeting. So really looking forward to that. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service time. Father, we're so grateful for this opportunity to gather as a local church. And as we open up the word of God, I pray that the Spirit of God would move in our midst, that our hearts would be made tender to the Word That we would think deeply about the things that are read and expounded. As we sing these great hymns of the faith, I pray that we would think deeply about the truths that are expressed in these hymns. Father, help us to sing from our hearts and to really encourage one another in the Lord. And Father, as we think about missions and the missionaries that will be with us and the missionaries that we're currently partnered with. And those who we would love to, but we're not able to, for various reasons, I pray that our hearts would really be engaged in the work that you're doing around the world. world. And uh pray you'd work in our young people especially. And we ask all this in Christ's name. Amen. Before we sing our hymns, just want to call your attention to them. The first is rejoice, the Lord is king, and we're going to emphasize in that hymn the fact that he is the Lord. He is the sovereign over all creation. And we need to rejoice in him. The second hymn is not in our regular hymn book. It's in the rejoice hymn book, and that is for the sake of his name. This is a mission song. Also, the words are going to be here in your missions booklet, and I really love that as a response to rejoicing that the Lord is King. Let's take his name to the nations. And then the third is a psalm, Psalm 100, or excuse me, in the blue book, For Me to Live is Christ. And that's also a great song for us to think about when we think about the sacrifices. of missions work. So let's think about these songs as we sing them together as a congregation this morning. Rejoice, the Lord is King. Rejoice, the Lord is King, your Lord and King. Thanks and sing and cry up ever lift up your heart Lift up your voice, rejoice again, I say , rejoice Jesus Savior, rains, the God of truth. And uh when he had heard your stain took his lift up your heart up Your voice rejoice again, I say , rejoice, this kingdom cannot fail still rule the head. The seeds of death and hell are through our Jesus gave lift up your heart Live up your heart. Rejoice again, I say, rejoice , rejoice and glorious of our Lord the God shall die. And take service up to very turno. Lift up your heart. Lift up your voice. Rejoice again I say rejoice Amen. All right. The next song is it Mm. Look up above page Mayo. Doesn't matter what page it is. So Rejoice for the sake of his name. I can't get off that first song. For the sake of his name. To every nation, his glory proclaim. That the spirit will go from their darkenes, branding their light, to display Jesus. In Jesus , which cries to the Lord Jesus. Drop is used and grace let 's like be wait. For the sake of his name. Light Christ be friend whose head hanging shame Jesus did not condemn was condemned. And for them trust God will have for weak ones where the same in Jesus Christ. Christ the Lord for Jesus Gory but laws gather promise. Every place , draw these of sovereign grace, let 's night be wasted exam Jesus Christ. For the sake of his name as Christ comes out of the Tell that when Jesus died, God 's wrath was satisfied , urged them to flee to the Lamb who was like in Jesus I will reach prize to the laws for Jesus. Gory can all else for cause , gather from every grace , cover sovereign grace. Let us might be raised the example Jesus Christ for the same God. Of his name of the throng will share in his reign Song for whose souls we pray. We'll share our joy that day, joining us long for the sake of his name in Jesus. Jesus reached Christ hurt from all the Lord Trop these are. Let's wipe the waste and explore Jesus Christ. Page one oh five for me to live is Christ In life or death of our despair. Open him , all the share, to his Christ, to die his day, I seek to magnify his name for me to His price for me to live is prize pursuing him my highest price for me to live. Christ he came to earth his word to bear the cross saying the score this mind of Christ I'll make Take my own to serve with the heart alone for me to live his prize for me to live his prize Pursuing him my highest prize for me to live his prize to know my lord's surface. Press for him my single goal to know his victory or the case, to know his mighty power, to send to me. Live his prize for me to live is prize pursuing him my highest prize for me to live his price. Christ on the land so joy with Christ and says God to him to bring straight peace continue. And all his tonight is grave for me to live his prize for me to live his prize. Amen. That's a good singing. This time we'll have reading of Scripture, going to the book of 1 Peter, 1 Peter chapter 2. Verses 1 through 12. 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 1 through 12. And the scripture says Wherefore, laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisies and envies and all evil speakings. As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the Word, that ye may grow thereby, if so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God and precious Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house and holy priesthood to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone, elect, precious, and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded Unto you, therefore, which believe, he is precious, but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient, whereunto also they were appointed But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, and holy nation, a peculiar people, that ye should show forth the praise of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul. having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that, whereas they speak against your you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, Glorify God in the day of visitation. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. Care for the dying, snatch him in pity from sin and the grave, weep for the airing blood, lift up the Tell them of Jesus the mighty to save. Review the perishing, care for the dying. Jesus is merciful. Jesus will save though they are slighting him still he is waiting waiting the pinnacle child to receive worship them earnestly We plead with them gently. He will forgive if they only believe. Rescue the perishing, care for the dying. Jesus is mercy. Jesus will save out in the human heart, crushed by the tempter, feelings like berries that grace can restore. By a loving heart, waken by kindness. Portrays are broken, will vibrate once more. Rescue the perishing care for the dying. Jesus is merciful, Jesus will save , rescue the perishing duty, demands it. Sake for thy labor, the Lord will pray. Provide after the narrow way patiently win and tell the foe the savior has died. Rescue the perishing carefully For the dying Jesus is merciful, Jesus will save Amen You know, do I need to pick up a mic, a handheld mic? Yes. I do. All right. I guess I'm not loud enough, huh? I hear myself just fine while I'm up here. And uh you folks are sounding wonderful this morning. But anyway, we'll do this one-handed. Here we go. All right. The next song, all the pe people that on earth do dwell should be focused on the Yeah, but I forgot we were supposed to do a greeting in the last song. Okay, well the way you guys fellowship at the start of the service, uh we'll we'll just have to double up at the end, okay? Please though please do stand with me on this all the people that on the earth do dwell. So I was worried about having to handle this microphone and I forgot to have you guys do what you're supposed to do. Okay, all people that on earth do dwell on the third verse will go a cappella, and musicians will come back in on the last. Here we go. All people that on the earth do dwell. All people that on earth do dwell , send to the Lord with. Cheerful boys , served with joy, his praise worked out. Come near before him Out our head, we are the population piece, the people by his hand. With joy within his portrait , proclaim that Make both songs, your tongues employ , all bless and magnify his name because the Lord my God. His mercy is foreversion, his proof from the biggest God. And shall from H to H Please be seated. Oh God in heaven, God on High Master of all the sea and sky, stretch forth his mighty hand to make. All of the world he did react. Yes, this great God did choose to give His only signs so we might win, gave everything for love of man. He came to build my birthday for the wonders of his love. Oh no wonder but his love, or he's not my place of an increase. Oh God , do it. Joy to the world, for he has come. Pardon my sin, the work is time warmer than all have you walk in. Kim pressure flyers that were my flood For you not my birthday crayon for his love. All right in heaven God on wonder Thank you so much for the app Our children who are junior church aides can be dismissed to the back for your class. And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to invite you, or I'd like to invite you to take your Bibles out. Let's turn to 1 Peter chapter 2. And uh you probably can't read this from where you're sitting unless you're sitting really close. Uh but this uh banner that we have, our focus for the month of October, and I know today's not October. But our missions month is from 1 Peter chapter 2. And uh we already read this entire section together this morning, and I'm not going to read the whole thing again, but I wanted us to kind of get a sense of the context before we jump into what we're going to focus in on this morning. And that is the importance of us showing forth the praises of Christ. Showing forth the praises of Christ. And so let's go ahead and we'll pick up in verse number six of 1 Peter chapter 2. Here's what God's Word says. Behold, I lay in Zion a chief cornerstone. Elect precious. And he that believeth on him shall not be confounded. Unto you therefore which believe he is precious. But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense, even to them which stumbled at the word, being disobedient. Or unto you also they were appointed. But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people. that ye should show forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light, which in times past were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Dearly beloved, I beseech you, as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts which war against the soul. Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may, by your good works, which they shall behold. Glorify God in the day of visitation. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to really help us to understand this very important text of Scripture. Father, I pray that as we've just read the word, you would take it and impress it upon our hearts. Father, help me to communicate this text with clarity in a way that's very simple, easy to follow. And really hits at the heart of what Peter is writing to these believers who have been spread all over the Roman world and were facing persecution. Father, help us to see the wonderful truths that are being laid out in this text of Scripture. And as we observe them, I pray that you would take them and really press them deeply into our souls. Father, help this to be a time of instruction and a time of great worship as we reflect on the glories of Christ, what He's accomplished for us What he has given to us and how we are to function in this world as strangers and pilgrims. We ask all this in the name of our Savior Jesus. Amen. Text in front of us is a simple passage. It's a bit lengthy. Twelve verses is uh kind of a large chunk of an epistle for us to look at, but I want to give you a simple summary. Here's what the text is all about. Peter is contrasting the stumbling of a disobedient world with the glorious ministry of the Church of God, so that we, as his people, will be faithful functioning in the point that he has for us as his people. So what we're seeing in these verses is we have the world and we have the church. We have the who the world is and what the world does and what the world's going to end up experiencing and we have who we are, who were once in the world, but who we are now. And how we are to function in this world, drawing people to the Lord Jesus Christ as ambassadors for Christ. That's really what this text is all about. And when we think about missions, missions is really us as Christians, we as Christians just being who we're supposed to be in this work that God is doing of reaching the nations in every single generation. And you know, this is a new and fresh thing for us to do in every generation. Because every single day there's a group of people that are being born into this world. And every single day there's a group of people that are passing into eternity. And so from this point all the way back to the cross and from this point all the way forward to the return of Christ, in every single generation there's going to be a need. for Christians to be involved in this thing called missions, reaching the nations with the gospel. And so as we look at these verses, I think what we'll see is that God's simple desire for us is to understand who we are in Christ and be faithful to point people to him. That's what it's all about. So let's dig into this passage together. First of all I want to notice a couple of introductory thoughts. And initially I was going to talk about a lot of things that are in these verses, but I really wanted to focus in on just two things to help kind of put the text that we're looking at into perspective. First of all, this passage describes the radical contrast between Jewish Christians and those who rejected the Messiah. Now It's important for us to understand that when we read these verses, these verses were written probably in the mid-60s. So this is right before the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70. So it was a time when the church was experiencing persecution primarily within the Jewish communities in the various places where these churches were being planted. Now that was going to change after 80 seventy, because in 80 seventy Jerusalem and the temple are going to be completely destroyed. The sacrificial system is not going to be practiced because they don't have a temple to go to. And then the persecution isn't going to be from the Jerusalem the Jewish context in these communities as much as from Rome and those who were ruling the Roman world. But I want you to notice what he says in verses seven and eight that kind of help us to see the point of contrast. First of all, in verse seven he says, unto you, therefore, which believe he is precious. But then we see the next statement. But unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallow, that's an important word for us to understand later. The stone which the builders disallowed, the stone is a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. He's talking about Christ. So there's a group of people that love Jesus, and there's a group of people that stumble at Jesus. He's looking at those two contrasted. The second thing we see in these verses is that it describes the function of the church in the world. And so if you look back at verse number five, he says. Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, a holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God by Jesus Christ. Then in verse number nine he says, ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, that you should show forth the praises of him which hath called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. Now there's something you saw in those two verses. You are lively stones, a part of a spiritual house. so that you will offer up spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God. Verse number nine, you are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a peculiar people, so that You will show forth the praises of him who has called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. You see the contrast. Here's who you are. Here's how you're supposed to live. So keep those two thoughts in your mind. The contrast between those who reject the gospel and those who embrace the gospel And then who we are as Christians and how we're supposed to live as a result of that. Keep those two things in your mind as we work our way through this passage of Scripture. Because that is ultimately what is going to help us to be involved in missions the way we're supposed to. So, truth number one. The world stumbles in spiritual darkness. Let me say it again. The world stumbles in spiritual darkness. Now, we could go to lots and lots of New Testament texts. to lay out what what Peter is writing in these verses, but I want us to kind of keep it focused on what he says in these verses so that we can really understand what he's driving at. And verses 7 and 80 says, unto them which are disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner a stone of stumbling, a rock of offense, even to them which stumble at the word being disobedient. Now what Peter is talking about in verses 7 and 8 Are the way that the world responds to Jesus. But earlier in the text, in verses 1 and 2, he talks about how the Christian used to live and how the Christian is now supposed to live. So there's really kind of two pieces to what Peter is saying. The first thing that he's saying about the world stumbling in spiritual darkness is that the world is full of contentious and self-absorbed people. Now, before we all get smug and say, that's how people out there are, let's stop and think about it. That's how the world Let's stop and realize something. That's how we once were. And if not for the mercy and grace of God We'd still be living and thinking and acting in such a way. And if not for the grace of God working in us to help us to mature into Christ's likeness, we would continue to live in such a way. Notice what he says in the verse. He says to lay aside, and then he gives a list of things that they're to lay aside. The first thing he mentions is malice. You know what malice is? Personal animosity. People who have this loathing and this hatred, this intense hatred for other people Let me tell you in the 21st century that we're living through right now with social media and uh Twitter and all that kind of stuff, I guess not called Twitter anymore, but I mean you want to know what people think about other people, read that stuff and you know what you'll see there's a lot of malice in the world. He says, we as God's people put that away. The next word is the word guile, dishonesty, or craftiness. People who are masters of taking a message and twisting it and manipulating it so when people hear that message, they get a perception that's completely outside of what is actually true. Guile. The next word is the word hypocrisies. Putting on a mask, playing a role. So when you see that person and you hear what they say and you see how they move and the way they present themselves, it's a mask. It's a facade. It's a game. It's like somebody who's who's playing a role in a movie. This is not the real person. Hypocrisy. Put it away. Envy. Lusting after other people's possessions, positions, reputations. And the last statement is evil speaking or the defamation of others Now, the fact that he says you've got to put this away is an indication that the church is made up of people who did all those things. It might even add, still do it. They still do it on some level. And he says, this is who you were. That's not who you are. Put it off. What's the point? The world around us is a world that's full of self-absorbed people. And it's only the grace of God that changes that in the lives of people. Second thing that he draws our attention to is he says, you know, we were once an arrogant and godless people. Now the focus of this text isn't so much on what they do as much as what they believe, or what they reject, who they love and who they hate. in the person of Christ. And we see this statement. It is all toward the chief cornerstone, the Lord Jesus. He says this is their attitude towards Jesus. He is disobedient. That means that in the eyes of the world, he is not worthy of our submission. He is no Lord. He is no master. He is no God. He is no judge. He is not a person that I am to bow my knee to and say, you're Lord and I'm not. You're master and I'm not. You're God. I'm just a creature. The world says, no, that's not me. Disobedient, unworthy. Oh, this is an interesting word. The idea is that as a And we come back to that word in just a minute. As we read in Isaiah 53, he talks about how people would respond to Christ. But the third statement is this he is a stone of stumbling. The idea is that when people heard him teach It kind of triggered them. They had a response like, oh, I don't like this guy. I don't like what he has to say. And think about everything we've been talking about in the book of Luke. We've been working our way through that that section where Jesus is having this controversy back and forth with the religious leaders. And he says something to them, and then they respond in anger, and then he gives a parable, and then there's all this contention that's building. What's that showing you? These people were triggered by the teaching of Christ. They didn't want anything to do with it. They hated him. The fourth is a rock of offense. They were literally offended at Christ. Now, when we think about the world, that's the world. The world is living for self. The world is saying no to God. And the world is saying, I don't need Jesus. And he says, that's who you once were. You used to be a part of that group of people. And Isaiah 53 says, who had believed our report, to whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? He shall grow up before him as a tender plant, as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness. When we shall see him, there's no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised, rejected of men, a man of sorrow is acquainted with grief. And we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised and we did not esteem him. That is exactly, that is exactly what the people of that day did with Jesus. And it wasn't just them. It's still the way that the world looks at Christ. In Ephesians chapter 2, he says, You were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. According to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit who now works in the children of disobedience. We had our conversation in times past fulfilling the lusts of the flesh, desires of the flesh and mind, and were by nature the children of wrath. So before we move into who we are, let's not forget who we were. And let's not just forget who we were. Let's remember this is a description of the world in every generation Every single missionary that we send out of this church, every single missionary that we support from this church, every single missionary that we pray for. They are working in a context that is a mission field because it's very, very, very, very dark. There is very little light. And this is the disposition of the people that they minister to. Might I add, this is the disposition of the people that live in this county, folks. It's not just an out there thing, it's a here thing as well. The mission field starts in our own communities and it reaches to the nations. Let's not forget that. Second thing I want you to notice in the text is that we have been mercifully awakened to the beauty of Christ. Now this is an amazing statement in verse number 7. He says, unto you therefore which believe he is precious. Now this is a very important statement for us to understand. The fact that you have a person who lives a self-centered, self-absorbed life. Who wants nothing to do with God? Who rejects his authority? Who rejects the person and work of Christ? That that person could become a lover of Christ. Who says, this man is precious? It's a miracle. It is the grace of God Through the preaching of the gospel, that an arrogant heart is softened under the ministry of the Spirit who convicts of sin and righteousness and judgment. And he shows that sinner Jesus paid it all and he's your only hope. That's what's really being stated there. Go back and think about this When he says unto you, therefore, which believe he's precious, he's saying, that's who he is to you now, but that's not who he was to you before you knew Christ. You saw him as unworthy. You saw him as repulsive. You saw him as offensive. Just like the world does today. But something has changed in you. The gospel. The gospel has changed you. We now see him as he is, and I love that way to put it. He's always been precious. He's always been a glorious savior, but we didn't see it. We were like somebody who is walking through a room that's completely dark, and there's all this stuff in the room. might be your house tonight if you have little children and you're walking down the stairs and you're like, oh I stepped on something and stuff and I don't even know where it is. Get to the light. I gotta step on something to get to the light Stuff's always been there, but once the light's on, you know where it is. You can navigate it. Hopefully it's not too hard to navigate when the lights are on, right? So it's not that Jesus became something, it's that you saw him. You didn't see him before. Why do we send missionaries? Why do we support missionaries? Because the only thing that causes a person to see Jesus is the preaching of the gospel. It is only the preaching of the gospel that causes people to see the beauty and the glory and the greatness of Christ. And the way he describes it is fascinating. He says, He is chosen of God. I think he's referring to the fact that he's the Messiah. He is the one who fulfilled all of those Old Testament passages. We could sit here for days talking about all these Old Testament messianic prophecies. And now these people who read the law over and over and over again in their synagogues, who never understood who Jesus was, they ceased him. He's the chosen one. He's Messiah. He is precious. He's a glorious savior. They say there's no other place for me to turn I have no other hope. I think of that song. I need no other argument. It's enough that Jesus died, that he died for me. And these people who loathed him love him. He is the foundation of every spiritual blessing. He's the chief cornerstone. Get in your mind this picture of a of a massive building. And this massive building is on a foundation. And that foundation is built from a corner. And the corner of the foundation is Jesus. Everything is built on him. Everything is brought back to him. Everything is tied into Christ. He says, now you see him. as Messiah, as a glorious Savior, as the foundation of everything. And you used to scorn him. Isn't that awesome to think about? We see the contrast all over the New Testament. 1 Corinthians chapter 1. We preach Christ crucified. Unto the Jews, he is what? He's a stumbling block. Same word that he uses in the text in front of us. Unto the Greeks, he is foolishness. But unto them which are called, both Jew and Greek, Christ, the power of God, the wisdom of God, the foolishness of God is wiser than men, the weakness of God is stronger than men. You know what he's saying? You had people that they folded their hands and said, Jesus, I have disdain for him. And through the preaching of the gospel They said, the foolishness of God is wiser than the wisdom of men. You know who who did that? That's the Apostle Paul. The Apostle Paul says, I persecuted the church, but I did it in ignorance. We see in Ephesians chapter 2 verse 4 he says, but God who is rich in mercy. For his great love wherewith he loved us, even when we were dead in sins, he hath quickened us together with Christ. By grace we are saved. That is why people love Jesus. That is why people say he's Messiah. That is why people say he is the foundation of everything. But God who is rich in mercy. 2 Corinthians 4, God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. So when we look at this passage of scripture, we see who we were, we see who we are. Now the question is. What is the application? Actually, it's uh it's part of the application. We're not quite to the end application, but I want you to notice where he's driving. He talks about his contrast. He's like, this is who they were This is who you are. This is who you were. This is who you are. This is who they are. This is who you are. This is now your function. Third truth we see is that we've been mercifully granted a glorious function in this world. In verse number 10, he says, which in times past were not a people, but are now the people of God. which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. Now, he is talking about the church here. I know he's talking about individuals, but you're going to notice that as we work our way through the things that he's saying, he talks about individuals within the context of a body. And he's going to use illustrations that are corporate over and over and over again in this text. We as individuals function as the the the the place of the Holy Spirit resides the temple of the living God, but we as a body are as well. This week as I was reflecting over this passage, And as I was thinking about us gathering together in this congregation, as I prayed about it and thought about it, I said, God , I know your spirit indwells every person in this room. Everybody that's going to be here, assuming you're a Christian, all right? I'm making that assumption. But when we gather together You're in our midst in a very unique and profound way. And this text is going to talk about this. Notice what he says in verse number five. This is so profound. He says, you are lively stones in a spiritual house. Lively stones in a spiritual house. Now What house is Peter referring to? He's referring to the temple, which was going to be destroyed in just a couple of years. But that temple was the location. Where the God who is over all things, the transcendent God, chose to meet with people at a point in time over the mercy seat in the Holy of Holies. And so on the Day of Atonement, when the high priest would go into that holy of holies and he would sprinkle that blood on the mercy seat, he would see the Shekinah glory. And he would go into that place where the presence of God dwelt in a very unique and special way. Do you realize that when he says, you are lively stones in a spiritual house, the immediate thought that would have gone into the minds of these people was How in the world can you say that we are a temple that God dwells in? Can you imagine that? That's exactly what he's saying. Literally, when we gather together, he meets with us in a very special way. Say, why does that matter? You'll find out in a second. Not that I hope you can understand that 's significant. Secondly, he uses us to bring people to himself. He says that we are a holy priesthood. Now what was the function of the priesthood? We have a holy and righteous God who cannot come in contact with sinful humanity. So God establishes a means through which those who function in the priesthood would do things that God said will make you acceptable that I can meet with you and you can meet with me. And that priesthood fell short because they had to do it year after year after year after year. And it was pointing forward to the once and for all sacrifice of Christ. The writer of Hebrews says that we have a covenant that is far greater than the one that you had in the Old Testament. But think about what he's saying. He's telling people who are not Levites, people who do not work in a temple, they are the temple. And he's telling people who are who are not Levites and had had no ability to function in the priesthood, you are a part of the priesthood. In fact, in another text of scripture, 2 Corinthians, he says that you are ambassadors for Christ. God beseeches you by us, in Christ said, be reconciled unto God. He's given to us the ministry of reconciliation. Folks, we have this incredible ministry because we're the people of God. Thirdly, he says we are the eternal church of the living God. The words that he uses in verse 9 are you are a chosen generation. I think this is kind of interesting. He didn't say generations. Generation. I mean, in this room right now, there's quite a few different generations. We have some small children that are in the nursery. And we have some people that are, well let's just say, pretty close to ninety years old. Over ninety years old. There are people who've lived through a lot of different history, and I would ask you the question, are we a part of the same generation or not? Well, humanly speaking, we're not a part of the same generation. Gen Zers and Gen X and baby boomers and I don't know if we have any World War II generation anymore in here. But there's a few that live through that. But he says you're a chosen generation. One. You know what he's referring to? The fact that we're all begotten the same way. To Christ. Every person that's been born again in this room is a part of the same generation. And if we're talking about that spiritual generation, the Church of the Living God, we are a part of this body that's going to last for eternity from every kindred, tribe, and nation, from every time in human history. Verse number nine, we're set apart as God's people. He says, you're a holy nation. Verse number nine, he says, you're called to be a distinct people. A life that is oriented towards God. You're a peculiar people. The way that we think and live as Christians is supposed to be so distinct from the world around us. What's fascinating is we see this parallel to Israel's function under the Mosaic covenant. Now this is not Peter saying Israel doesn't exist anymore, and all those promises God made to Abraham, to Isaac, and Jacob, they're all null and void now. I mean you read Romans 9, 10, and 11, you're going to see that that's clearly not what we find in the scriptures. God's going to fulfill those promises. But at this moment in history, we, the Church of God, function in a role. That is similar to what we see in the Old Testament with the nation of Israel. Listen to some of the wording that's used in the scriptures in Exodus 19 He says, if you will obey my voice and keep my covenant, you will be to me a peculiar treasure above all peoples, for all the earth is mine, and you shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. That was right before he gave the Ten Commandments. What happens when he goes up to Mount Sinai? They weren't keeping the law when he came down. He broke those commandments and he was furious at them Isaiah 43, 21, this people have I formed for myself. They shall show forth my praise. Malachi 3:12, all nations shall call you blessed, and ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the Lord of hosts. What's the difference between Old Testament Israel and us today? It's the obedience of Christ. It's the obedience of Christ. In him We function in this amazing role of going to the nations to bring people to our Savior. The fourth truth I want you to notice this morning. Is that when the church is present and vibrant, it is a powerful tool in the hands of God? When the church is present, it is a vibrant and powerful tool in the hands of God. God 's work is happening in every generation. But when you talk about the localities and you see the visible effects of the gospel, there's no question that not every culture is the same. The kind of opportunity that you have today as an American is very different had you been born on a different part of this planet. Had you grown up in Asia? Had you grown up in a European nation that is very secular Your access to the gospel will be so different. You would not have grown up in a home where mom and dad opened up a Bible and said, Hey, this is the text of scripture we're going to read for family devotions. And they start talking to you about those passages. You would not have grown up in a family where they would have brought you to church. You would have grown up in a very different context. God is working uniquely and profoundly wherever the church is. is planted. And in verses eleven and twelve, I want you to notice what he says. He says, I beseech you, as strangers and as pilgrims, to abstain from fleshly lusts which were against the soul. Having your conversation honest amongst the Gentiles, that whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works which they shall behold glorify God in the day of visitation. Now notice the duty of the church of God. And by the way, if we were to step back and walk into the first chapter of the book of 1 Peter, We would understand that he's writing to people who have been scattered all over the Roman world. You know why they were planting churches in various parts of the Roman world? Because of missions conferences, right? No. It's called Jerusalem persecution. Jerusalem persecution. There's a lot of stuff that goes on in the world from generation to generation. I'm not happy about a lot of it. Neither are you, right? But God's going to use it all to push the gospel to other nations. And the fact is that we as Christians in this country, we ought to be going so that God doesn't have to push us. Okay? Because he does it. He's done it in many, many generations. But these people were spread all over the Roman world in very dark communities, experiencing a lot of isolation. Why? Because God, in his merciful providence, pushed them into those places. And their duty was a very simple one. Number one, maintain your distinctiveness. Verse number 11, he says, you are strangers and you are pilgrims. You know what the number one distinction between a Christian and a non-Christian, other than what they believe about Jesus, should be? What they believe about the world they live in. Is this all there is? Is it all about power and is it all about money? And is it all about pleasure? And is it all about getting as much as you can out of this world? Or is it about the one coming? Is it about investing in eternity or investing in the now? A stranger and a pilgrim is someone who says, you know what? This is not my ultimate destination. This is not all there is. And by the way, strangers and pilgrims doesn't mean that we don't care about the time we live in. But the way that we approach it is radically different than the world about us. Secondly, it must maintain its purity. Verse number 11, abstain from fleshly lust which war against the soul. The fact is if you're not a Christian, you do what you do because you don't know any different. You do what you do because in your mind it's totally acceptable. But when you become a Christian, all of a sudden your conscience is awakened. And the word of God drives the truths and the principles of Scripture into your heart, and your conscience is awakened to things it wasn't before. And all of a sudden you go, that's a problem. I shouldn't do it. That goes against God's design. That's totally contrary to his purposes for me. You say I'm not going to participate in such things. Well, when the Church of God lives like the world around them, guess what? That distinctiveness is lost. And the power of the witness of the church is compromised. God can take the gospel to anybody in any way he uses. God can use vile people to get the truth to other people, despite themselves. But there's something very powerful about instruments in the hands of God who are faithful and walking in obedience to Him with a conscience that is void of offense. Thirdly, we must engage in the culture which we are planted. And this has been a great problem for Christians throughout church history. It would be a lot easier for us to create a commune. Well, maybe it wouldn't, but if we were to create this commune and just live there and let's just like live off of the land, you know I don't know if Montana is really a good place. Colorado's not anymore either. I don't know where you'd go in America. Maybe it's Idaho or something like that. But anyway, you know, just kind of like move off the grid. Let's live in a commune. Let's raise all of our families and let's just Let's be a faithful church in this little place in the desert. Hopefully not a desert, right? But that's not what he tells Christians to do In verse number 12, he says, have your conversation honest among the Gentiles. You know what that means? You're supposed to live amongst the worldly people around you. In other words, work around them. In other words, allow yourself to interact with people who have a different worldview, who don't understand the gospel. Why? Because they need Jesus. And we have to be willing to move around these individuals. And I understand there's wisdom, especially with our children. And we need to be so cautious about how quickly we allow our children to be exposed to certain things. I understand that. And there's there's a need for prudence, unquestionably. But we cannot go to the other extreme where we remove ourselves and we isolate ourselves from a world that needs Christ. We've got to rub shoulders with people. You know why missions doesn't go to the undermost parts of the world sometimes? It's because parents don't want their kids to go. They do not want their children to move to some really rough area in the world. They don't want them to experience deprivation. They don't want them to experience hearting. They want them to become very wealthy. They want them to take care of them in their old age. They want to be able to sit amongst their grandchildren. And that's fine. But listen If God puts in the heart of a person to go to a very tough place, don't, as a Christian parent, ever keep them from that. Let God work in them. The fact is a lot of Christians are very comfortable with the way things are, where they are. And you know what? They don't want it, there are Christians that don't even want their churches to grow. 'Cause they like the people that they know, okay? And and and they're very comfortable not seeing anybody come in. They're not seeing they're not they're very comfortable not sending anybody out to go serve in other place There are lots of pastors that do not want those who work under them to go to a mission field or to go plant a church. Why? Because they like the way things are. It's a lot of people that don't want to work in a secular context, which is very challenging. But guess what? As Christians, we've got to do it. We have to be strong. We have to be wise. We have to be principled. We have to be willing to engage in the culture that we live in. We need people who are going to go into tough places. And so we as parents ought to be raised in the next generation to be able to do such a thing. Fourthly, we've got to be willing to endure the baseless criticisms of our culture. In verse number 12, he says, they speak against you as evildoers. Now that is making the assumption that what they're saying is not true. That it is a baseless claim. Well, guess what? If you're gonna stand on the side of principle and truth, there are gonna be people that don't like you. And if somebody doesn't like you and they're an unprincipled person, guess what they're gonna do? Well they're gonna do the things we talked about earlier with malice and hypocrisy and guile. What are these people gonna do? They're gonna do everything they can to destroy you. And so he basically says this, be ready if you're going to engage in a nasty culture, to experience baseless criticisms. They speak against you as evildoers. But there's another piece to this that I think is so important. He emphasizes the ultimate result of that kind of living. And verse 12, so that they may by your good works which they shall behold glorify God in the day of visitation. What's he saying? You will witness the transforming power of the gospel when you're engaged in those things. The people that go to hard places, who do endure great difficulty in those places. But they stay faithful and they they stay at what God has called them to do. And we uphold them in our prayers and we encourage them when we come in contact with them. Those people see things that God does in ways that you and I may not see. I just think about I think about people gone up. Think about their lives. How God has changed them I would never know that. Had it not taken my family. And you shouldn't go because you want to see that. You go because God puts it in your heart. But I tell you, when you engage in those things, you see amazing things. And you may not realize this, but you can see those here too. There are people in this church today who have been saved by the grace of God. Their lives have been transformed, and they're growing as disciples of Christ, and they're very young Christians. And the fact is that we will not see those things if we don't step into the arena. We will experience eternal fruitfulness. There are people that your life may touch that you will know for eternity. Because of choices you made today. So how do we apply this? How does it relate to missions? We've got to be gripped by the state of the world around us. Too many Christians like to fold their hands and say, oh, that world. We were once that way. By the grace of God, we're not today. We've got to be gripped by the greatness of God's mercy. You didn't get saved because you're smarter than your neighbor, folks. You got saved because of God's mercy and grace at work in you. We've got to be gripped by the great privilege we enjoy as his people. Folks, we don't think about The significance of the gospel in our lives enough. We don't think about who we are in Jesus. Far, far less than we should. We've got to purpose to live as a body with conviction. If we rub shoulders with the world and we compromise, guess what? The witness is tampered. We've got the purpose to engage in planting churches where the witness has been diminished. Every single missionary that comes in here this month either is has or is going to go into a context that is very dark. And there's a great need in that context for churches to be established. And I tell you, 25 % of pastors today will not be in ministry. in the next five years. You know why? Because they're going to retire. Or they're going to be dead. Do you think that 25% of the churches in America have people ready to step into those roles? I doubt it. The fact is, we're in a big time problem in our own culture. And churches have to be faithful and churches have to be diligent in the things that God has called us to do. May God help us to take his word and really put it into practice. Let's bow for prayer. Father, I thank you for this text. May it minister very richly to our souls. May the things that we have talked about drive deeply into our souls, convict us if necessary , warm and comfort us. Challenge us, motivate us. Lord, help us this month to be deeply stirred by the things that we are exposed to. Help us to pray for missionaries in a way we haven't before. Help us to be more engaged financially in missions endeavors. Help us to do the work that you've called us to do in this location with diligence. I don't know how you might speak to a heart today, but I pray that whatever you're doing would really grip souls. For your glory. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's turn in our hymn books to 396. It's a dangerous song to sing after a message like that. Lord send me anywhere. The answer to that might be go to work on Monday, by the way. Anyway, 396. Let's stand together, please, and let's sing the first and the last verses. Of this song. Oh Lord, since thou hast our To give thyself for me, no sacrifice could be too great for me to make For thee. Send me anywhere. Oh we go with me. Let any burden on me. Oh sustain me, shaver any time Save the tie that binds me to thy heart for Jesus my King. Consecrate my life, Lord, to thee. I follow thee, my Lord, and glory in thy cross I gladly leave the world behind and count all kin has lost voice send me anywhere Oh legal with me, let any burden on me, oh several. Any tide, save the tie that binds me to thy heart, Lord Jesus My king, I consecrate my life for to thee Well, I hope that this has just been the beginning of what will be a really wonderful month of the Lord working in our hearts. And I tell you that mission starts with churches that are strong and vibrant. And this isn't just about us thinking about what's out there. It's us also doing some real heart search ourselves and saying, you know, we as God's people We need to really be faithful in our own duties, in our homes, and in our church. So just know that some of the messages that come this month are going to go in that direction. And I'm really going to challenge our church that we don't just think about out there, but we think about doing things right in our own homes and lives and in this church as well. And uh what what this what this country needs is churches all over the country that are going to do that. And so uh pray for us. Pray for those who we will hear from, pray for those who we are partnered with. I'd like to ask for the case of Intola if you could close us in prayer. Riclers, if you guys could stand, I remembered. If you could stand out there to greet folks as uh uh they have joined the church today. I'm so thankful for that. And uh if you're visiting today, hope you'll come by and greet my wife and I. We'd love to be uh just an encouragement to you. I guess we 're gonna be a little bit more than a little bit.