First Peter chapter two. This is a really interesting portion of the book of First Peter. It has two illustrations. One that has been near to my heart throughout the summer months and one that will be near to my heart in the fall months. We're gonna see that Peter talks about God's word and he uses two illustrations. The first illustration is the illustration of the gardener planting a seed, and the other is the illustration of a mother nursing her child. First Peter chapter two, we'll look at verses one to three together. The scriptures say, Wherefore laying aside all malice and all guile and hypocrisy And envies in all evil speakings. As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby. If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious When we come to a passage of Scripture like this one, it's important for us to keep this text in light of the overall flow of this book. And so In order to kind of see why Peter is talking about the Word of God, we have to kind of go back a little bit a few weeks into what we talked about in 1 Peter 1, verses 22 down to 25. I'm going to go ahead and pick up in verse 23 and then read through and kind of show you how this thought from the last passage we looked at in 1 Peter and the one we look at today are connected. 1 Peter 1. 23 says, being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass, the grass withereth, the flower thereof falleth away, but the word of the Lord endureth forever. And this is the word Which by the gospel is preached unto you. Now, the last time we looked at this portion of Scripture, we saw that Peter was emphasizing the relationship that our spiritual lives have to the Word of God. There's no person here today that has new life in Christ, that was regenerated, that stands righteous in Christ, who is there by their own deeds or by their own wisdom or by their own In fact, the reason that we are in that position is because God's word was planted in our heart, and when God's word was planted in our heart That seed germinated and that seed gave us life in Christ. Notice exactly how he puts it. We are born again. not by corruptible seed, but of incorruptible by the word of God which liveth and abideth forever. You know, it's kind of interesting in another portion of Scripture, Jesus gives an illustration, a parable. And that parable was the parable of the sower. And that sower goes out and he begins to throw the seed out into the soil. And as he throws that seed out, some of the seed lands on really hard soil. It doesn't penetrate the soil. It doesn't get any any water or any kind of uh ability to germinate and the birds come, they snatch it away and it's gone. Some lands and soil that is really shallow And when it lands in that soil, it begins to germinate. It shows the sign of life, but it doesn't have the ability to take root, and it doesn't have the ability to produce anything because the soil is so shallow. It's unable to produce that fruit bearing life. We have the third soil where the cares of this world and the deceitfulness of riches, the thorns come up and they choke out that life and it's not able to produce fruit. But the last is the good soil, what the farmer is wanting. He's wanting that field to produce a harvest. And so when that seed lands in that soil and all that water begins to soak into that seed, it germinates, it produces life. And as that life matures and grows and gets stronger, it produces fruit. That's the picture that Peter is using in this passage. God's word is a seed. And when it's planted in our heart and it germinates, it produces life. And when a person places their faith in Christ, they are born again, they are regenerated, and they have life in Christ, and it's all connected. To the seed of God's word. If God's word is not planted in the heart, there's no life. There's no faith. There's no salvation. There's no forgiveness. That seed has to be planted in the heart of the person. And so he goes on to talk about the nature of this word of God, this seed. It's not like human flesh, like the grass that comes up quickly and it burns away when it's hot. But it continues and it doesn't wither. It doesn't come and go with time. It stands firm. It says it endureth forever. Well, this evening or this morning we're going to look at the continuation of that thought. We're going to look at simple, healthy Christianity and how it is rooted in the Word of God. I want to ask you a question today. Are you a person whose life is saturated with Scripture? Is the Word of God the center and the core of your being? Is this something that that permeates throughout your entire life? Or is it something that you come in contact with once a week or once every two or three weeks when you come to church? God's word is something that needs to be constantly in our minds, constantly in our hearts It needs to be shaping our worldview. It needs to be developing our affections. It needs to be strengthening us in the faith. It needs to be producing fruitfulness in us. In fact, the purpose of this passage in front of us The purpose of these verses is to emphasize that Christians must have a longing for God's word so they will have a healthy, growing Christian walk. If we don't have a longing for God's word, we will not have a healthy, thriving, growing Christian walk. We won't be fruitful Christians. We won't be productive in the things of eternity. God wants us to have this longing. And so I asked the question this morning, how can you and how can I, as we sit here today, as we sit under the ministry of this passage and think about this topic? How can we have the longing for God's word that we need and that this text commands us to have? With that question in mind, I want to answer it with some truths that are presented in the passage. The first truth presented in the passage is a command. I need to realize that this is a command. God commands me To have this kind of an appetite. Once you think back when you had small children, if you don't have small children anymore There were things that you gave your children that today as adults or as teenagers they love to eat. But the first time you put it in front of their lips and they tasted it, they went, just like that. Anybody remember that? I mean you don't remember it happening to you. You remember it happening to your child, right? When we are introduced to something, many times we don't really have a taste for it. An appetite is something that often is developed, and it's interesting how over time things that I did not enjoy eating, I actually really like to eat them now. Things that I used to love to eat, some of them I don't really enjoy eating them as much anymore. Appetite is something that is shaped The fact is that you and I are commanded by God to have an appetite that is shaped towards God's word. We are by nature not people who love God's word. In fact, the natural man doesn't receive the things of the Spirit of God. They're foolishness to him. Neither can he understand them because they're spiritually discerned. But when a person becomes a new creature in Christ and all things pass away and all things become new, there is something inside of them that is there that wasn't there before. It's a life they didn't have before. It's a new life. It's a life that is hungering and thirsting to know God's. That's exactly what the text is telling us. We are to have. We do not by nature have an appetite for God's word. But I think that a new Christian by nature does have an appetite for God's Word because of the freshness and the newness of life. in Christ. Notice what the verse says in verse 2. He says, desire the sincere milk of the word that ye may grow thereby. It's interesting when we look at verses 1, 2, and 3, the heart and the soul of everything that's said in those three verses is summarized by that statement in verse 2 Desire the sincere milk of the word. Everything else in those verses is connected to that statement. Let me explain to you the sense of the statement. It's an absolute must. It's a command. And it's the way that it's written is it's something that is extremely important for us. The second thing I want to emphasize is the context of the statement. The word that's used for desire, and nobody in here really speaks Greek, so don't worry about the Greek term, but that word is used multiple times in the New Testament. In every example that I looked up, that word for desire is found in the context of relationship. It's very interesting. When you go to each of those passages, if you have a strongest concordance, I want to encourage you go home, look up that word desired, the Greek word that's used there, and look up all the New Testament references, and you know what we'll find out They're all talking about somebody longing to be with a person that is extremely dear and extremely important to them. The context is not only a command, but it's relational. Then I want to talk for a moment about the nature of the object, the Word of God. The word used to describe the Word of God, the first word, is the word sincere. God 's word is without any mixture of error at all. You know, when I open up the Bible and I read it, yes, I'm reading the words that Paul wrote. Yes, I'm reading the words in this particular scripture that Peter wrote. Yes, when I go to the Psalms, I'm reading the words that David wrote. And when I go to the Proverbs, I'm reading the words that Solomon wrote. Those men were the instruments through which God breathed his word to us. And all those people were fallible. But I want to tell you something. The product of what God gave through those individuals is sincere. It is without any error at all. God's word is perfect. In other words, though Peter is a flawed individual, and we can find his flaws when he gives us this word as God speaks through him as he writes those details down. Yes, his mind is engaged, but the product is God's perfect pure word. There is no error in what God gave through these men, though he used people who were fallible creatures. I also want to notice this other word that's very interesting. The word that is used, that we translate the word word, is not the typical word that we find in the New Testament when we talk about God's Word. I know a lot of people have heard the term logos. In fact, my Bible program is called Logos, and the word logos means word. It's the most common word used for word in the New Testament. And I remember when I was studying the passage, I thought, well, that's the term I'd expect to see here. That's not the term that Peter uses. In fact, the term that Peter uses is only found one other place in the New Testament, and it's found in Romans 12. I want to read to you That context so you can understand the sense of what Peter is trying to communicate about God's Word. Romans 12. 1 says this I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your what? Reasonable service. Believe it or not, the word that is translated reasonable service is the exact same term that is used here in 1 Peter chapter 2. In other words, that word has the idea of it's something that is logical. It's something that's reasonable It's something that makes sense. In other words, if you sit down and you calculate what you know to be true, as you make a decision about it, you go, it makes sense that I should do this. For instance, in Romans twelve, he's saying this, because God has saved you and he loves you and he's given you new life in Christ and all the blessings that you have as a Christian, the most logical, reasonable thing for you to do is to present your body as a living sacrifice wholly acceptable unto God. In other words, it makes sense, based on what I know about my position in Christ, that I should serve God in this way. When we come to 1 Peter chapter 2, he's basically emphasizing that God's word is not only sincere and pure and free from error, but it's reasonable. There are a lot of people today that don't believe God's word is reasonable. It makes sense. It's logical. One of the things that I enjoy about studying the Bible Is that the more I dig into the scripture, the more carefully I analyze the scripture, the more the truth resonates In other words, when I read the Bible, I don't walk away going, this doesn't make any sense. I walk away going, what incredible logic, what incredible depth, what amazing truth, is right here in front of me. The digger the deeper I dig, the more I get that sense. Because of the nature of God's word. You know what's interesting as we get into our study in 1 Peter. You're going to see some concepts and some context that we'll find in this book that don't make logical sense to a person out in the world today. Yet Peter is emphasizing that they're reasonable. Those commands, those principles Those expectations, they're reasonable, they're rational, they're true, they're sincere, they're without error. So when he gives us this command, he gives us this command emphasizing that the content is sincere, the content is rational, the content is given in a context of relationship. We are commanded by God to have an appetite for his word. To put it simply, we love God's word and we love God. When we have no time for God's word, it means we have no time for Him. I'm being disobedient to God's clear command if I refuse to cultivate this healthy appetite. for God's word. There is no place for the Christian to turn away from the Scriptures. There are people who died in the most horrific of ways to enable us to be able to hold this book out. I don't know how many of you have studied the lives of people like Wycliffe or Tyndale, but those men paid the ultimate price So that we could have the Bible in our language. So that we could read it. So that we could understand it. We have a vast array of tools available at our disposal. So that we can dig deeply into the Word of God and understand exactly what the intent was when God gave us His Word. The second truth we find is this there are rivals That we must remove. I must remove hindrances to this godly appetite You know it's interesting, we pick up our Bible and we read the passage. The first thing that we're drawn to is, well, the first thing that we find in verse 1. Wherefore, laying aside all malice and guile and hypocrisy and envy and all evil speakings As newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word, that you may grow thereby. I want you to understand though, that little section, verse one, is not the focus of the verse. That word as is extremely important. What it's basically telling us is that as we are to hunger and thirst after God's word, as we're to have an appetite and a passion for God's word There is something that is to accompany that passion. , And that something involves removing hindrances or rivals to that appetite. He says in verse 1, lay aside all malice, and lay aside all guile, and lay aside hypocrisies. And lay aside envies. And lay aside all evil speaking. Now I emphasize something there three times He uses the term all. And when he doesn't use the term all, he uses the plural. You say, well, why does that matter? The reason is because you have to be all in with this particular matter. I think a lot of times as Christians, we like to entertain sins. We like to play with sins. We like to keep them in check. We like to kind of domesticate them. You know what I'm talking about? Rather than uprooting them, removing them, turning away from them, laying them aside, we entertain. We domesticate. We try to keep them in check so that we control them. Folks, that is not the sense of this passage. This passage is in the same sense as what Jesus says, if your eye offends you, pluck it out. If your hand offends you, cut it off. Now Jesus is not literally saying cut your hand off or pull your eye out and throw it away. It's a figure of speech. He's saying you must deal quickly and decisively with lustful passions. Lustful passions that are connected to your body, to your eyes. to your hands. You've got to remove those lustful passions. You have to deal decisively with them. And that's what Peter is emphasizing. If you're going to have a hunger and a thirst after God's word, if you're going to have a godly appetite, you must remove these things. You can't entertain them. You can't play with them. In fact, there's a prominence in the New Testament of this. There are many, many passages that are in the same vein of thought as what Peter is saying here. Romans 13, 12. The night is far spent. The day is at hand. Let us cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armor of light. Ephesians 4. 22 Put off concerning the former conversation, the old man, which is corrupted according to deceitful lust. James 1 21. Lay apart all filthiness and all superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word which is able to save your souls In fact, what James is saying in James 1. 21 is exactly what Peter is saying in this passage. If you want the Word of God to do its work in you, then you have to recognize where you are not in line with it, And you need to take those things and you need to put them out of your life. You need to remove them because they're hindrances to your ability to have a healthy hunger for God's word. Our hunger for God's word is directly related to our willingness to put away these specific sins that are mentioned in this list. My first observation, I kind of mentioned it already, is we can't afford to go halfway. He mentions the word all three times. He speaks in the plural, emphasizing that there are not some of these things that we can hold on to and others we can put to the side. We have to be decisive and all in. Second observation is that these are dehumanizing lusts. When I say dehumanizing, what I mean is that The way that we look at people is not as image-bearers, people who are made in the image of God, people have value, but we begin to look at them as objects. Objects that hinder me from getting what I want. Objects that can give me what I want. Objects that can get me to the next level. We stop looking at people as human and we start looking at them as objects For instance, malice, ill will towards another person. When my heart has ill intention Toward somebody else, I'm stopping to look at them, I'm ceasing to look at them as someone who God loves, someone who Christ died for, someone who has value to God, someone who's created in his image. I'm beginning to look at them as an object of scorn. Guile. That word guile has the idea of deception. In other words, when I look at this person, I'm willing to deceive them because I don't see that they really have the value to get truth. Hypocrisy. Two-facedness. I'm going to present myself in a light that is not genuine and that is not real. Envies I'm becoming discontent with what God has given me, and I begin to want what other people have in God's good hands. In other words, I look at people not as humans made in the image of God, I look at them as objects to be scorned, to be loathed, to be lied to, to be taken advantage of, to be spoken of evilly. The last is evil speaking. The idea is slandering other people. Dehumanizing lusts that we harbor in our heart. Will so dominate the way that we think that they will replace a healthy hunger for God's word. And I also add this, and they will shade the way that we interpret it. Let me give you a very simple explanation of how we do that. I pick up my Bible and I read it, and when I see something, the first thought that pops in my head is, boy, I wish Brother So-and-so would read this. I wish my wife would read this. I wish my kids would read this. I wish that Sister So-and-so would read this. Well, I wonder if they've ever sat down and reflected on these truths. You know what I'm doing? I'm not thinking about what the intent of the passage was. The intent of the passage was for me to think about me. You understand what I'm saying? It was for me to think about how it is me in violation, not them. When we begin to read the Bible that way It's an indication that there are lusts in our heart that we have not dealt decisively with. When we don't want to read the Bible, It is an indication that there are lusts in our heart that we don't want to deal decisively with. We won't come to the word and we won't interpret it correctly. When we dwell upon lust and we refuse to deal with them decisively. I'm acting in self-deception if I think that I'm able to entertain sinful passions while continuing to cultivate A hunger for God's word. The truth is that many times we kind of look at our hearts as a house that's full of rooms. As long as I give God 80% of the rooms in my house, then he's got the house. The ten or twenty percent that's not submitted to him is the beach head that Satan uses to dominate your house from. And he does it to all of us. We must, first of all, realize there's a command here. Secondly, we have to remove the rivals. Third, we need to understand a very heartwarming picture. Now we're going through a season in this church where there are lots of small children. The other day I was walking down the hall and I just saw kids everywhere. I was like, wow, there's a lot of little children in this building here today. Hey, that's a good thing. Having small children means that you have future. When you walk down the halls and you don't see any kids, that means that there's going to be a day that nobody walks the halls. And so having small children is a well sometimes delightful thing, but it's a blessing. And with small children comes an appreciation for the illustration, the picture that Peter chooses to use. to talk about the way that the word of God is supposed to bless us and how we are to relate to the Word. I need to understand the practical illustration. Look down in verse 2. It says this. I am to do this as newborn babes desire the sincere milk of the word. In other words, I'm not only to lay aside all malice and guile and hypocrisy and envy and evil speaking, not only am I supposed to love God's word and have a passion for God's word while I put those things off, But I'm supposed to love God's word in the same sense that a child, a newborn baby, desires its mother's milk. Well, if we have any moms in here at this season of life who are nursing babies, you will understand this illustration very well. Well. If you are not nursing a child right now, think back to the time when you were. Or think back to the time when you're wife was or maybe your little brother or sister was just a tiny little thing. One of the things that you r you remember is that when a new baby comes home from that hospital, it constantly eats Every couple hours it's eating. It's like, you know, I guess teenagers can eat that way too, right? At least I did when I was a teenager. I was always I'm hungry right now. Always hungry, you know. They they say it's better to eat lots of little meals instead of like two or three big meals. I guess if we added up all those little meals. Whew. Be interesting to see where that went. But his point is that a little baby who's brand new is constantly wanting its mother's attention. It's constantly wanting its mother's attention because that is where it gets sustenance and strength. But I want you to realize that the illustration is not just about getting nourishment. When we talk about a newborn baby and how that baby desires its mother's milk, there is more than just nutrition that is being gained by that child. And I think that the picture falls short if all we see is nutrition. Newborn babes have a desire, a restless hunger for their mother's milk because it is through this that they that constant feeding, that they rapidly grow. But it's not just that they rapidly grow. It's also where they get good health from You know, a little baby that's born actually has a stronger immune system because its mom is giving it its nurt nutrition. In other words, it's not just about being fed, but it's about being healthy. Newborn babies establish a powerful bond with their mothers while they're feeding. Newborn babies develop a sense of security while they're feeding. The truth is that nourishment comes through this process of feeding. Good health comes through this process of feeding. A sense of Connection with the mother comes to this sense of feeding. And a sense of security comes through this time of feeding. And I really believe that all of those senses are bound up in what Peter is saying when he says we need to have an appetite for God's word, just like a newborn baby desires its mother's milk. The stated purpose of the command is so that by it you will grow. You know, there are lots of ways that we grow. Getting taller is not the only way we grow. Getting heavier is not the only way that we grow. We grow in knowledge. We grow in emotional maturity and stability. We grow in skills. The fact is when we talk about growth, it's not just, oh, you've gotten taller this year. The fact is, growth encompasses both the physical and the mental and the spiritual development of the person. And when he talks about us loving God's word, he's basically emphasizing that the only way that you and I grow is through having a hunger for God's word. I want to ask you a question. Do you hunger for God's word? When you come to church, is there an excitement that you get to learn what God has said? Or can you not wait till you're out of here? Now let me tell you, I don't preach long. I really don't. I got friends that preach fifty minutes to an hour. I'm 35 and we're done. That's generally how it goes. But do you have a hunger for God's Word? Can you put your phone down for just one hour out of your week and focus your attention on the Word of God? There are folks that can't do it. Folks, if you can't put your phone down during a church service, you're addicted to your phone. It's the bottom line. Addicted to social media. We need to have a passion for God's word. It needs to be something that we love. It needs to be something that we delight in. It needs to be something that feeds our souls. The fact is, we are not able to grow apart from the Word of God. It is absolutely an impossibility. Cleansing. Psalm 119, verse 9 says, Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? It's by taking heed thereto according to thy word. You and I cannot have a clean hand, clean hands and a pure heart. If we neglect the Bible. In Romans chapter twelve, it talks about the renewing of the mind, the idea that that the old way of thinking is removed and it's replaced by godly thinking. It says, be transformed by the renewing of your mind. How does that take place? It's through the Word of God. Romans 10, 17 says that faith comes by hearing the word of God. How do you become a Christian? It's by the word of God being preached to you. How do you grow as a Christian? It's by the Word of God being preached to you. It's by you reading it. It's by you devouring it. Your faith is matured and it's strengthened. By the word of God. How do we get victory in spiritual battles? Ephesians 6:17. The sword of the Spirit is the Word of God. The idea is that what the Spirit uses. To fight against Satan in that spiritual battle is his word. And even our salvation at the judgment seat. And when I use the term salvation, I'm using it in the sense that we will find God's favor and God's blessing on that final day is found in God's word. He says in 1 Timothy 4. 16, take heed unto thyself. And unto the doctrine. Where does that doctrine come from? It comes from the Word of God. Continue in them, for in doing this thou shalt save both thyself and them that hear thee. When we stand before Christ in the judgment seat of Christ, if he says, well done, good and faithful servant, and he gives us eternal blessing as a result of our faithfulness, it will be because God's word did its work in us. We cannot grow in these ways and many more if we neglect the Bible. I need to realize this illustration is as much about relationship and health as it is about growth. I want to look at one final point and that's this. I need to get back to the basics of Christianity. If you have come to a place where your heart has become a bit on the cold side, who do you have to blame? Well, you have to blame yourself. You can't put that on anybody but yourself. And you might be sitting here going, I do feel that I've grown cold and I've grown complacent. How can I get back to where I need to be? It goes back to remembrance. Look down in in verse three and see how it how it was written. He says, If so be ye have tasted But the Lord is gracious. I must get back to the basis of Christianity. I need to remember the experiential side of my Christian faith. Folks, the Christian faith is not just a body of doctrines or a list of commandments. Now, I'm not suggesting that there isn't a body of doctrine connected to the Christian faith. There is. Okay. The gospel is a body of doctrine. And we can study systematic theology, which is full of rich doctrinal propositions. Yes, there are commands, things I'm told don't do this and do this. There are commands connected to being a Christian. But the Christian faith is not simply a list of rules. Or simply a list of doctrinal propositions. The Christian faith involves a real, rich live experience of a walk with God. I have new life in Christ. I have the Holy Spirit indwelling me. I can and I must and I do live different and I think different than I did before my conversion. And when he talks about this verse 3, he says, you can do these things if you have tasted that the Lord is gracious. In other words, there's a condition involved with being able to put off those things. There's a condition involved with being able to have that godly appetite for God's word. Growth in the Christ's likeness, hunger after God's word, the power to put off these lusts, it's all contingent on new life in Christ. You cannot live the Christian life apart from the Christian life. When he says you've tasted the Lord is gracious, he could have stated you're a Christian. He could have stated it simply as a matter of fact that that's not what he did. He wants to emphasize the fact that you have tasted, you experienced, you understand by experience God's goodness. You haven't just prayed a prayer. You know what it's like to be a new creature. You know what it's like to have the Holy Spirit press you. You have the understanding of what it means to grow and to mature and to be changed by God. You have tasted. God wants us to have a real healthy communion with Him, not just a cold academic understanding of Him. In fact, this is exactly what is stated in Philippians chapter 2. If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bows of mercy, fulfill ye my joy Paul says, if you have a rich Christian experience, then do this. If you don't, then there's no point. You can't do it. You need to come face to face with Christ and the gospel. Consolation in Christ emphasizes being comforted by God. Comfort of love has this internal sense Of belonging to God. I feel that I belong to God. I have sensed his warmth, his presence. I know that I belong to him. Fellowship of the Spirit emphasizes communion with God. And vows of mercy emphasize a deep-seated affection for God and for other Christians. If we are going to be people who have a godly hunger for the Word of God, we've got to see it's a command. We've got to realize that not only is it a command, but there are certain things that are hindrances to me having this affection, and I have to put them off entirely. We need to understand the beautiful illustration that is put before us of a mother nursing its child. And how that child gets gets strength from that mother, gets a sense of of relationship and a sense of that being uh that child belongs to that mother and there is an affection there, there is a warmth there, there is a security. Security there. We need to understand that illustration. And we need to recognize that as Christians, there are times we have to look back at our initial moment of faith in Christ. When I first trusted Christ, there was a simplicity to the Christian life. There was a warmth. There was an affection. There was a sense of peace. There was a sense of joy. There was a desire to obey. Those things are the simplicity. That is the simplicity of the Christian life And there are times where we need to look back and reflect on what it was like to be in that place. Because that is how God gives us that godly appetite. God wants me to have a longing for his word. This is a serious matter. Let's put into practice what we see in this passage. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please Father, help us as your people to have a rich godly experience Help us to have good spiritual health. Help us to see that the Christian life is very simple and very practical. It's a life that involves a sense of purpose and meaning, a sense of belonging to God , a sense of joy and a sense of love. And I pray that we would be people who are willing to set aside, turn away from our lustful passions that crowd out godly affections. And help us to give ourselves entirely to a pursuit of the knowledge of God. I pray that you would strengthen us through this text today and through the things that have been presented From your word, we ask it in Christ's name. Amen.