Open to Second Samuel thirteen. Second Samuel thirteen All right. As we've been working our way through this story, we're going to pick up right where we left off last week with verse number 20. So 2 Samuel 13 and verse 20. And Absalom her brother said unto her, Hath Amnon thy brother been with thee? Behold now thy peace, thy sister. He is thy brother, regard not this thing. So Tamar remained desolate in her brother Absalom's house. When the King David heard all these things, he was very wroth. And Absalom spake unto his brother Amnon, neither good nor bad. But Absalom hated Amnon because he had been with his sister for his sister Tamar. And it came to pass after two full years that Absalom had chief shares in Baal Hazor, which is beside Ephraim, and Absalom invited all the king's sons. And Absalom came to the king and said, Behold, now thy servant hath sheep shears, let the king, I beseech thee, and his servants go with thy servant. And the king said unto Absalom, Nay, my son, not let all of us go, lest we be chargeable unto thee. And he pressed him, howbeit, he would not go, but blessed him. And then said Absalom, If not, I pray thee, let my brother Amnon go with us. And the king said unto him, Why should we go with thee? And Absalom pressed him. Sorry. But Absalom pressed him that he let Amnon and all the king's son go with him. Now Absalom had commanded his servant, saying, Mark ye now. When Amnon's Heart is merry with wine. And when I say to you, Smite Amnon, then kill him. Fear not. Have not I commanded you to be courageous and be valiant? And the servants of Absalom did unto Anon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king's sons rose and every man got up on his mule and fled And it came to pass while they were in the way that tidings came to David, saying, Absalom has slain all the king's sons, and there is not one of them left. Then the king arose and tear his garments and lay on the earth, and all his servants stood by with their clothes rent. And Jondad, the son of Shema David's brother answered and said, Let not my lord suppose that they have slain all the young men, the king's sons, for Amnon only is dead. For by the appointment Absalom had been with determined that they force his sister Tamar. Now therefore let not my lord, the king, take the thing to heart to think that the Singh's sons are dead, for Amnon only is dead But Absalom fled, and the young man and the young man that kept the watch lifted up their eyes and looked, and behold, there came much people by the way of the hillside behind him. And Jonadab said unto the king, Behold, the king's sons come as thy servant had said, so it is. And it came to pass as soon as he had made an end of speaking. That behold the king's sons came and lifted up their voice and wept. And the king and all his servants wept very sore But Absalom fled and went to Talmai, the son of Amahud, the king of Geshir, and David mourned for his son every day. So Absalom fled and went to Gishir and was there for three years. The soul of David longed to go forth unto Absalom, and he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead. We look at chapter 13 and the next several chapters, really into the conclusion of Absalom's situation. And chapter, end of chapter 18, beginning of 19, just this constant downstream effect of what David's sin did in chapter 11. We can see as we read through this passage just the pain ultimately of what God had said was going to be the judgment earlier. Just as it said in verse 10 and verse 12 in chapter 12. It says, Now therefore the sword shall never depart from thine house, because thou hast despised me, and thou hast taken the wife of Uriah, the headtight, to be thy wife. In verse 12. For thou did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun. And God begins working through this situation and Annon and Tamar and Absalom and Abnon are having their own breakdown. Ultimately, we see sin 's destruction and its consequences. But as we read through here, There's also a very important note worth looking at and seeing. We read through this, read through chapter 14, and we see how the pain and the suffering that has gone on for many years. And when we talk about many years, we also need to put this in perspective. That it had been since the whole Amnon and Tamar situation, which happened a number of years after David and Bathsheba, we have two years from Amnon and Tamar. We'll notice later that it'll be three years of Absalom coming back, or sorry, three years that he's in Gesher. We'll have another two years that he's in Jerusalem. And if you start to do the Mass, David's easily been dealing with this situation. since for over or I think we talk um somewhere in the range of easily eight to ten years if not longer And if you put that in perspective, David ruled for 40 years. So this is easily a quarter of David's reign has just been dealing With the consequences in this short little period. What we're talking about tonight spans almost ten years. And the pain is not over. The suffering that he went through. If we were to summarize this, I would say because of David's sin, which he had sowed in previous chapters, And did not repent as we saw in chapter 12 when I was here a couple weeks ago. David's going to reap consequences. We initially saw the death of his first son as we remember as I pointed to that there will be four children to die for this little, if I can say the little lamb of Bathsheba. There was already his unnamed son. We have and on pass away here, halfway through the pain. But just as the consequence are here What I believe God has for us to learn through these passages is that God desires for us to understand the consequences of sin and how painful sin is. That is not to say there is hope, and we will get there at the very end, but before we can see hope, we have to realize the pain and the suffering that it's going to cause. The first thing is that we can see sin can cause blind spots. What we're going to be looking through here specifically is the context of a family and the unique dynamics in a family, and families don't make things easy. If I were to sit down and we could talk, I could talk about my family and the unique dynamics that are there from a broken home of a j of a generational broken home. I believe talking with family, I am Uh the product my my parents divorced and they are three or four generations in a row of divorce. Sin has had massive consequences. You could talk with many of your family and the dynamics that sin has caused in your family lineage. And just dealing with it, it never makes things easy. But it makes has its blind spots. We can look at the first few verses here in 20 through 23 that David dealt with Amnon. poorly. If I could say Da David did not deal with Anon probably as as he should have. Absalon, it talks out here that there was that when David finds it, he is furious. He's angry. He says he is very wrath. And that's it. Doesn't give that he was very Roth and he went and dealt with Amnon. That he could have brought him there. They could have done. There are so many things we could look at. We could even look at the law and say, the law said because of what he should have done, he should have been put to death. Not saying he shouldn't have. There are very many commentaries that will look at it and it will add the aspect that David loved Amnon because he was his first son. And that's why he didn't deal with him. You can see some favoritism being played here. And the situation that David was in ultimately led to blind spots that he didn't deal with problems as they should have. I think that the author makes a very important note that it says that in verse 23 that it came to pass after two full years. I'd like to believe that Anon was giving his dad the opportunity to make it right, to deal with the situation. And when we look at this here, and we were to read through If we were to read through the beginning of 13 again, the parallels between David and Bathsheba, as well as Amnon and Tamar. We're going to see some parallels, just what it said in verse 12 earlier, that what thou had done in secret will be if I read it right here, what thou didst it secretly, I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun. We're going to begin seeing these parallels that he did not deal with Absalom as he should have. Sorry, Amnon as he should have. Interesting to note the first person mentioned after everything that happened in chapter in chapter 13 with Amnon and Tamar is not David. It's Absalom. Absalom steps up. And it's this little note that I believe will lead to many problems that David did not step up and deal with things as he needed to at those times. Just as David did not deal with Amnon , David didn't deal with Absalom as he probably should have either 24 through 39 is the plot of Absalom. Notice that it's two full years. One thing worth noting is that the sheep shears and Beh Hazar, that happens once a year in the spring. He was waiting patiently. He carefully planned planned out everything that needed to happen. He starts pulling all of this together. He goes, all right, we're having the sheep's shears, which The sheep shearers was not was very typical to have a feast. That's tra that can be tracked all the way back to Genesis, that when the sheep shearers they would gather, they would have a feast in celebration of uh all that was being gathered and be able to be sold and be able to use for their families. It was a joyous time, an opportunity to praise God. And Absalom's going to use this as an opportunity to cause mischief and mayhem in the family. Again, we're going to see some parallels here. Just as we saw parallels with Amnon and Tamar and David and Bathsheba. The way that he works through this is going to be very similar and parallel the way that David, that Absalom dealt with Amnon is the way that David dealt with Uriah. He gave time. He tried to cover it up secretly. He worked together. Even down to the death was not by Absalom's hands, but by the hands of his servants, someone else. We begin working through here. I would like to know that David was a little, I think David's gotten a little wiser than he had previously. Before, when someone's made requests, he typically goes, okay, and he gives them the answer and says yes as a king, and he says, but a notice here that it says when he asks for Amnon, he goes, why Amnon? And it says Absalom just kept pushing him and pressing him, and then he says, okay, he needed blessed him, and he lets him go. Absalom was very cunning and working very diligently to get what he desired. And through this, I believe David was missing. He had a blind spot because of the sin in his life that he did not see what was going on. Even as it goes on, it says in a c verse 30, it says it came to pass there away, the tiding came to David that Absalom had slain all the king's sons, there was not one of them left. And the king rose and he tear his garments and he begins this process of mourning. And through this process of mourning, it comes out that he was incorrect on who had died, but it was just Amnon But I want to look specifically at verse 37. And Absalom fled and went to Talmai, the son of Emohud, the king of Gesher. Worth noting here, Absalom runs to somewhere else. to his extended family. It's his father, it's his grandfather on his mother's side. He goes there to Geshur, which would be in Aram. Which would be future day or modern day Syria. He flees this area to find protection from David. And notice how David responded that David mourned for his son every day. Intriguingly, there's they're not sure. Was he mourning for Amnon or is he mourning for Absalom? If I were to nail it, I would say it was Amnon. And the reason I would say Amnon is because when we see David's mourns the death of Absalom later. He says, My son, my son, Absalom. And oftentimes when we see extreme grief, one of the things that can be very easily pointed to is the lack of words that was said when it needed to be said. David was mourning that he didn't say and deal with the things with Amnon when he should have. Things got out of hand, and he mourns for his son. And Absalom is still alive, but you'll notice That David does not make any attempt to reach out to Absalom. He's left there. It says the soul of the king longed to go forth to Absalom, for he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead. He longed to go forth to Absalom, but he doesn't make the effort. If we were to look at this passage and we're parents, if we were to look at this and we can sometimes look at our own children, and we can look at them and they were saying They're chips off the old block sometimes, right? As the saying goes, as you look at your own children goes, he's just like me, he's just or mom, just like you. I look at TJ and I see he's a lot like me. I have my hands full. But David, I wonder. He looks at the situation and he says, man, they're just like me. And rather than trying to do something different, he continues on the same path. He doesn't turn. He doesn't seek and go after them as a father. He leaves them to be. Just as sin caused blind spots in David's life and dealing with their son, as we look at chapter 14, we're also going to see that sin Sin destroys the relationships in our families. And it's already began. Beginning of chapter 13, this seed of destruction in the family already begins. But I want to focus specifically on the relationship between David and Absalom. a father and a son, as we look through how it's destroyed. 14 verse 1. Now Joab the son of Zariah perceived the king's heart was toward Absalom. And Joab sent the Chacoa, and fetched there a wise woman, and said unto her, I pray thee, feign thyself to be a mourner. And put on mourning apparel, and anoint not thyself with oil, but be as a woman that has long time mourned for the dead. And come to the king and speak to the manor, and Joab put the words in her mouth. I'm not going to read through the whole interaction that goes on through here, but I want us to note notice a few things. And the first thing is that Joab was very attentive. Joab sees the heart of the issue. Joab sees the heart of how David was feeling towards Absalom. Joab is a character that I would say I don't know how he's the guy that oftentimes you look through in the lot in the story of David that does what needs to be done. Not always the best way, but he does what needs to be done. And he deals with David. I would say, and while sometimes it seems like Joab's doing what's wrong, here he's doing what's right. He reaches out to this woman to bring her in, and he says, Feign thyself to be a mourner. And he says specifically, ver in verse 2, it says Not thyself with oil, but be as a mourner that had a long time mourned. For mourning for many days. Earlier in chapter 13, verse 37, it says he mourned for his son every day. And it talks about in 39, that is, for three years the son longed for Absalom. David's indecisiveness to deal with the situation works through this woman coming through. And it begins working, and it says this woman's been mourning for very for many days. Verses 4 through 7 begins with this story of this woman who that is just as, if you were to say, is very similar to the story that Nathan had done with David earlier. He begins working through and he's bringing in and he she gives this wonderful story about how her so not wonderful, that's not the right word. Uh this uh cunning story of dealing with all right my son and my my two sons were fighting one killed one unjustly now the rest of the family is trying to put the one son to death And she works through here, and again, I'm going to say David's changed. When the situation with Abigail, when she appeared, David quickly gives a response to her request. When Nathan appears, the prophet, and he gives the story about what's going on, David says. That man should die and repay fourfold. And Nathan responds with, Thou art the man. This woman, when she gives this, David, and she asks for him to take it, he goes, Alright, you may leave. I will take care of it. He's almost like, let me sink on this. He's learning a little bit. But the woman presses him and keeps working towards and not letting it slip. She wants an immediate response. And it's through this response we're going to see how this works. And in verse 9, it says, the woman of Tokoah said it Verse 9 says, The woman of Tokoa said in the king, My Lord, O king, the iniquity be on me, my father's house, and the king is. And the king said, Whosoever saith aught to thee, bring him to me, and he shall not touch thee any more. And he begins, no, she's so basically the King David here is pardoning this son. Interesting that the king is able, if I can use the word, trump the law in a certain circumstance. He has that ability. And she turns around in so many words, just as it was with Nathan, specifically in verses. uh eleven talks about very sending it says uh it says verse that verse eleven it says as the Lord liveth thou shalt not one hair fall the earth and the woman said Uh let the lion handmaid, I pray thee, speak one word unto my Lord the King, and he said, Sayon. Verse thirteen. And the woman said, Wherefore Then hast thou not such a thing against the people of God? For the king doth speak this thing as one in faulty, as the king does not fetch his home again, his banished. Let me help connect some of the dots here. She's saying you have the power to pardon your son. Why have you not? Joab saw the heart of David. Notice what it says in verse 1. Or sorry. Uh wrong chapter, wrong page. 14 verse 1. Joab, the son of Zariah, perceived the king's heart was toward Absalom. Interestingly, the way that it's used there, the word toward is not positive or negative, almost meaning that it has two possible interpretations. One and I look at it like this and I am not the only one that says one as a father he wants his son to come home He wants his son to come home. We see the way that David does mourn for Absal later that he wants his son to come home. But that's not David's only position. David is also king, which he has the ability and the duty to uphold the law And as king, means his son should be put to death. And he's stuck in this dynamic of how to deal with this situation. So Joab comes along and gives a little nudge to bring the family back together. Bring it's toward him. So he brings this woman along. Almost as a position of conflict within himself. The wise woman simply almost communicates, thou art the man through all of this. Again, very many parallels as we read this story. But as the story continues, Absalom does return home. We're going to begin again seeing how David and Absalom's relationship just keeps deteriorating. Notice this in verse twenty. Um Sorry, verse twenty one. And the king said to Jose Joab, Before now, I have done this thing, go therefore bring the young man Absalom again And Joab fell on the ground on his f face and bowed himself and thanked the king, and Joab said, To this day thy servant knoweth I have found grace in thy sight, my lord, O king, and that the king hath fulfilled the di the request of his servants. So Joab arose and went to Geshur and brought Absalom to Jerusalem and said to the king, and the king said, Let him turn to his own house and let him not see my face. So Absalom returned to his own house and saw not the king's face. Job had a partial success through this whole situation. His goal was to bring Absalom home and to restore his family. And he got one of two goals done. Absalom's home, but the king will not, David will not see Absalom. There's this very interesting paragraph. If you have paragraph marks in your Bible or anything, you'll notice that 25 has that paragraph mark. And there's almost as if 25 through 27 is this parentheses. And if I were to say this parentheses is an important parentheses to show the heart of Absalom, the heart of Israel toward Absalom, and setting up chapter 15. Let us read. But in all Israel there was none to be so much praised as Absalom for his beauty. For the sole to of his foot, even to the crown of his head, there was no blemish in him. And when he pulled his head, for it was every year at the end he pulled it, because the hair was heavy on him, therefore he pulled it, he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels, after the king's weight. And Absom there was born three sons, and one daughter whose name was Tamar. She was a woman of fair countenance. This purposeful parentheses starts getting to some of the heart of the issue. Verse 25, but all Israel there was none so much praised as Absalom. And the question is, why was he praised? It wasn't as if David earlier where he was praised, because he had all of these military experience and military successes that David has slain his ten thousands while Saul has only slain his thousands. We don't, it's not that why he's praised. He's praised for his looks. If we were to go back several months ago, if you remember with me, who else was praised for his looks? Saul. The nation of Israel was looking at what man wanted, not what God wanted. And we can show this even farther if we were to take a step, and the lady says not insult to you, but he took great care of his hair. And to note, when it talks about the word pulled, it literally means to cut or to shave. He would shave it back, and it says 200 shekels, that was about five pounds. To the royal weight. He wanted to make this perfect perfect view of his own vanity. And the story here, if I were to jump ahead a little bit, Absalom has a lot of characteristics. That is very similar to Samson. There's a few things in the story that are gonna pay attention to that. The way he cared for his hair, and then later the way he sets Joab's fire or field on fire. Carries some resemblance to Samson, a man who also heart was not after God, but after his own selfish desires. Again, there's a s there's a purposeful parentheses here to prepare for future chapters. Chapter 28, or sorry, next 28, again, it's going to show Absalom and David's broken relationship. We begin again. He's been there. He's being praised by Israel. Obviously, the rest of Israel is seeing Absalom except for the king. There's this time goes by of two years. In Jerusalem and saw not the king's face. So Absom takes extreme measures to see his father's attention. He sets Joab's field on fire. He says that he tried to make the Lord or reach David. David does not pay attention. He tries to get a hold of Joab, and Joab More or less seems like I brought you here, leave me alone, I've done my duty, it's on you now. But Absalom does not take that. He goes, he sets his field on fire, says, I've tried to reach you, why have you not come? And you just , I want you to hear the heart of Absalom at this time as a young man crying for his father's attention. Verse 32. We'll start verse 31 when Joab arose. Then Joaz arose and came to Azim in his house and said unto him, Wherefore have thy servants set my field on fire? And hears that cry. From the heart of Absalom. Behold, I send to thee, saying, Come hither that I may send the king to say, Wherefore am I come from Geshur? It had been good for me to have been there still. Now therefore let me see the king's face, and if there be any iniquity, then let him kill me. He would rather be punished and put to death than be in the house with his dad and not see him. What a painful cry that is And notice how the king responds. And David and Joab goes. So the Joab came to the king and told him, And when he called Absalom, he came to the king and bowed himself the face of the ground before the king, and the king kissed Absalom. The author's intent, if I can put it that way, the language the author uses here is that this is not a familial gathering and reconciliation. It's a royal duty. The king comes to a servant, if I can put it that way, to one of his subjects, greets him, and they leave. And if you were to pick up there from chapter 15, the relationship is non -existent. There is no relationship there is no good relationship worth mentioning in the remaining chapters. Absalom was a young man crying for his father's attention and did not get it. But if we were to end there, what an awful note to look at. Because the missing theme, if we were to read through this story. Is there is a missing note that's clear I would say clearly present and desired to be there. If you notice Absom's cry was for his father, Obviously was a cry that I, if there is any iniquity in me, let me put to death, was a cry for reconciliation and repentance. A theme that was so clearly present before that God gave David multiple opportunities to repent and to deal with earlier. The gospel is the solution to the destructive power of sin. We cannot miss that. We look at this season. We cannot miss that the gospel is the solution for the destructive power of sin. And there's two things that I look at very clearly to that as we look at the story That we can see the gospel. The first one is: only through Christ can our relationship with God, the Father, be restored. And I emphasize the Father because of the story here. Again, the story of reconciliation is just missing throughout here. At any point, you'd love to see the family come together when David, he goes. Joab goes before the king, and Absom comes, they greet, and he wraps his arm and he puts the robe on him, just as if we see later in Luke 15. But the idea here is there 's missing. And we'll look at this time of the year, this Advent season, the miracle that is Christmas. was that Christ came to seek and save that which was lost. To bring reconciliation, to bring repentance. And it's through Christ's death that we have that. Colossians 1. 20. And having made peace through the blood of the cross by him to reconcile all things unto himself. Romans 5, 8 through 10. But God demonstrates his love towards us that while we're yet sinners, Christ died for us. That is not the right. Let me turn here. All right. Oh, come on. Verse 9. There it is. Verse 8. But God commanded his love towards us that while we are yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than being now justified by the blood. We shall be saved from wrath through him. For if we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son. Much more being reconciled, we shall be saved by His life. We look at this Christmas season, we cannot forget why Christ came. Just as the story needs reconciliation, our story needs reconciliation back to God. But it doesn't just end there with the reconciliation. Because I would say Absalom attempted reconciliation with his father and day and David failed One thing we can remember is God is a good father. Two parables come to mind as we read through here. One of those is Luke 11. 9 through 13. This is after the story or the man goes and he he knocks at the door at midnight and he's asking why. He goes, my friend has come, give me bread. He goes, I'm laying down with my friend. And he goes. But I need food, will you give it? And he his importunity, but he keeps knocking that the man gives up and gives bread. And this it ends with this. And I say unto you, ask and it shall be given, seek and ye shall find, knock and it shall be opened unto you. For everyone that asketh receiveth, he that seeketh findeth, and to him that knocketh is openeth. And if a son ask bread of any of you that is a father, will you give him a stone? If he asked for a fish, will he have a fish give him a serpent? Or if he asked for an egg, if you offer him a scorpion If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him The other story that points to how good a God we have, and He's a good Father, is the parable of the prodigal son or the lost son. Not getting into all the detail, but how it ends. That the father sees him while he's afar off, runs towards him, wraps his arms around him. Kisses him, gives them his robe, his ring, and throws a feast that night. That story of the prodigal son doesn't have its consequence. Doesn't Go into detail the consequences, but the son does not have any more inheritance. But his father still loves him. And he's still a good God. Sin has consequences, but God is still good. While we look through all these interactions of this chapter, or chapters rather, of seeing how David dealt with Absalom or failed to deal with it. We see that sin has its dire consequences. Some were immediate. He dealt with the death of his son very shortly after the whole situation, the loss of his friend immediately. But for many years until David's death, does he deal with the consequences of his sin And at any time, the theme, the thread of the story that we cannot miss is the opportunity for repentance and reconciliation that was there. Just as we fail God constantly and regularly , there is that thread that God is still good, he loves us, and is always offering an opportunity to repent and return to him. It doesn't mean there won't be consequences, but he loves us and he is good. Let us not forget that as we look at the this Christmas season. Father, thank you for The challenging story before us tonight that we see pain's terrible consequences. That many of us in this room have stories of pain that sin has caused, but God, you are still good. That as we think about this Christmas season, that even through the brokenness of sin, you had a plan that you sent your son because you loved us. We know that we are so unworthy of you, but Father, by your grace, you sent your son. We praise you and are thankful for all that you do each and every day. Help us to point to you each day, especially during this season. Because you are a good God. Not forget that Christ did come, but he came for a purpose to reconcile us back to you. If there be any here that don't know you as Savior Father, let them hear that and see that you are calling them. We love you and thank you. Praise them's precious only name. Amen.