Proverbs chapter 3, we're looking at verses 21 to 35. Proverbs 3, verses 21 to 35. I'm going to read the text together and then we'll dig into it tonight. It says, My son, let not them depart from thine eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion. So shall they be thy life and thy soul and grace to thy neck Then shalt thou walk in the way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble. When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid. Yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked when it cometh. For the Lord shall be thy confidence and shall keep thy foot from being taken. Withhold not good from then to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it. Say not unto thy neighbor, Go and come again, and to morrow I will give, when thou hast it by thee Devise not evil against thy neighbor, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee. Strive not with a man without cause, if they have done thee no harm. Envy thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways, for the froward is abomination to the Lord, and his secret is with the righteous. The curse of the Lord is in the house of the wicked, and he blesseth the habitation of the just. Surely he scorneth the scorners. But shame shall be uh excuse me, but he giveth grace unto the lowly. The wise shall inherit glory, but shame shall be the promotion of fools. The purpose for which Solomon is writing this little section is he wants his children to pursue a walk of godly wisdom. And he knows that this is going to produce, catch this, a counter-cultural yet God-honoring relationship with the people around them. You know what's kind of interesting? When I was a kid growing up, going to school, I remember there were certain things in the dress code we weren't allowed to wear. And the reason we weren't allowed to wear them is because they would say something like, it's countercultural. You know what's kind of interesting? When we look at American culture today, I would have to say that if you're gonna live in a godly way, that's really counter-cultural, okay? You're gonna actually look really different and really weird when it comes to the way that you think, the way that you handle situations, what you think is important, what you choose not to do, what you choose to do, you know, it used to be in our culture that most people went to church. They didn't just go to church like on Sunday morning. Some some people they went Sunday morning, they went Sunday night. They even went Wednesday night. That was actually very much ingrained in American culture in the fifties and the sixties. You know, today The majority of the people in the neighborhoods you live in probably don't go to church at all. If they go to church, it's possible they go on Christmas. And on Easter, a lot of the people that live in the communities that you live in probably not only don't go to church But they're actually offended by the concept of church. There's a lot of people like that. If you were to give them an invitation to church, they say, I don't want to go to one of those narrow-minded places. Even within American Christian culture, a lot of American Christians don't go to church more than maybe every every other Sunday morning, Sunday school, that's like Why would you do that? I just need my, you know, my immunization about once every two to three weeks and I'm good to go. The truth is if you're going to live in a godly way, it's very countercultural. It's going to be very unusual in the communities that you live in. And I'm not encouraging you to be weird for the sake of being weird. I'm encouraging you to be godly, but realize something. If you're going to do that, that's unusual. That's not normal. That's not the way the people around you are going to live. And so Solomon wants his kids to pursue a godly walk, understanding that it's going to go against the grain of even the culture, the Jewish culture that they live in. Yet he knows it's going to be a God-honoring relationship to the people around them. God wants us to live out godly wisdom in our interpersonal relationships. And so we saw that in chapter 3 you could divide it into three sections. The first section was our relationship to God If we're going to be having godly wisdom, we have to have a right relationship with God. And that's the starting point. Then he moves to the second section, which was a hymn or a poem, that was basically emphasizing the goodness of wisdom. And now he's getting into some practicals. How we live and how we relate to one another. If we're right with God Then we're going to be right with other people. It's that simple. If we don't get along with the people around us and we're contentious and we're very troubled in our interpersonal relationships, it's a pretty good indication that our walk with God's not healthy. Very good indication. I'm not saying that everybody that you interact with is going to love you and respect you, and you're going to have a great relationship with them if you if you serve the Lord. But if it's a very common problem. Then you realize there's something deeper than that. In fact, it's interesting. Jerry Bridges says, not Jerry Bridges. Um I can't remember his first name off the top of my head now. His name is Bridges. He's someone who lived back in the late eighteen hundreds in England. But he was a pastor. He says this about the book of Proverbs. Those in the world do not understand wisdom's pleasant ways. To them, religion is made up. When he is religion, I don't mean that in the sense of, you know, Roman Catholicism or something like that. He's talking about a walk with God, okay? Religion is made up, they believe, of cold, heartless, irritating restraints where there is a lot to do but little to enjoy. They only see half the picture. They see what religion takes away. They do not see what it gives. They cannot understand how denying sinful pleasures leads to overflowing spiritual pleasures. Basically what it's Charles Bridges. Jerry Bridges is uh a contemporary of ours, somewhat. He's dead now, but Yeah, he was he was a c a contemporary of ours a couple of years ago, okay? Charles Bridges. Charles Bridges was a late Puritan. Charles Bridges is commenting, and he's basically saying this, the world around us doesn't understand godly wisdom. To them it's restraining, to them it's restrictive, to them it's going to be no fun. And you know that's the way a lot of teens, you know, when they're growing up, they come through church and they just look at the world around them with big eyes and they say, I can't wait to get out of my parents' restriction and just go out there and live it up and do what's fun. And what they don't realize is that What's fun brings a lot of pain. And one day they come back around and they go, that wasn't so good. So let's dig into the six commandments that we find in this passage that relate to man's relationship with other people. These are six things that Solomon tells his son, you need to do this, or you need to make sure you don't do this If you're going to have a right relationship with God, it demands that you live in these ways when it comes to other people. And so these are the kind of worldview issues that we need to teach our kids These are the things we need to teach the kids in Sunday school. These are the things we need to live by. These are the things that we need to pattern our lives after. So here they are. First of all, commandment one, listen to a godly father. Listen to a godly father. Verse 21 says this, My son, let not them depart from thine eyes. Keep sound wisdom and discretion. Now this is interesting We in our culture have farmed out a lot of the instruction that our kids get. Okay? We need to be careful that we Give careful attention and detail to raising up our kids and shaping their worldview. I'm not trying to tell you how you need to educate your children. Obviously, my kids are home educated and I wholeheartedly endorse that and I like that and that's what we're gonna keep doing as far as as far as I can tell. But one of the reasons that we do that is because we realize that we have a very short period of time. That we can invest in our kids' thinking. We can shape the way they look at the world around them. And we understand that if we put them under the wrong kinds of individuals, Folks who are going to be pretty much undermining everything that we teach them, they may very well embrace that because that's what they hear more of. And we need to be people who teach our kids. You know, you can homeschool your kids and still not be teaching them God's word to the extent that you should. It's not the church's responsibility primarily to teach our kids God's Word. It's not a Christian school's responsibility to teach our kids. It's our responsibility. A lot of times we as parents get so busy in the things that are going on that we don't give attention to training our children in the things of the Lord. We've got to do this. And so when Solomon says, listen to what I've taught you. Don't depart from it. It tells us something. Solomon took time to teach his kids God's word. He took time to shape their perspective. And we've got to do the same thing. Why is it that he tells them to do that? He says, they shall be life unto thy soul. In fact, if you're if you're one of those underliners or you like to highlight, that would be something you should underline or highlight. Life unto thy soul, and it will be grace to thy neck. That's another thing you can circle or highlight. Then shalt thou walk in the way safely. And thy foot shall not stumble. When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid. Yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. Now he mentioned several things That if they will take what he's teaching them and they embrace it and they live in the light of it, they're going to have some wonderful blessings. Now let me say something. If you don't teach your kids the kinds of things that Solomon is telling us to teach, that he has taught them, we actually keep them from being able to have these benefits. Now that doesn't mean that they're not going to get godly wisdom somewhere else. They could, but that's not how it should be. It should come from us If we teach them that, we give them the opportunity to have some incredible blessings. The first one is this: it's life unto your soul. Now he's not writing to dead people, is he? He's writing to people that are alive. He's writing to people that are going through life and experiencing things. When he talks about life to the soul, he's talking about the fact that the way they live has vitality It has vibrance. You know, think about when you're gardening. You got some tomatoes. You plant some tomatoes in a place where they get about an hour of sunlight a day. And you put another plant in a place where it gets six to eight hours of sunlight a day. After two months, you go to those two plants, you give them the same amount of water, you give them the same amount of nutrition, and guess what? They don't look the same at all. The one that gets one one hour a day of sunlight, it's alive, but it's not vibrant. It's got small little fruits. And it's starting to get some kind of disease and its leaves don't look as green and vibrant. You look at the other one and it's just like massive tomatoes. And this thing is vibrant, and this thing has life, and this thing is productive. They're both alive, but they both don't have the same level of vitality at all. And so when he talks about life to your soul, he's saying, I want you to have vibrancy in the way that you live your life If we embrace godly wisdom and we teach godly wisdom, we give our kids and we ourselves have the opportunity to have vitality in our soul. He then mentions the phrase grace, grace to your neck. The idea is that godly wisdom will make a person's way of life beautiful, attractive, refreshing. Think about what David said in Psalm chapter 1. He said, Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the sea of the scornful. And he says, His delights in the law of the Lord. And then he makes this statement, and that man will be like a tree that's planted by the rivers of water that gives forth its fruit in its season. Its leaf will not wither, and whatever it does prospers. Now what is he basically saying? When you latch your soul to godly wisdom and you live those things out, you're like a vibrant tree. You give shade You produce fruit. Your life is attractive. It is beautiful. It is refreshing. It is good. It's sort of like, you know, let's say you got a person they taught Sunday school for 15, 20, 30, 40 years. And they look and they see all the kids that go through the Sunday school class. And there's a couple of kids that stand out. Because those kids are living lives that are very God-honoring. And that teacher looks and when they see that life, or a parent when they see their kids that are living in a very godly way, it brings them so much refreshment. So much joy and pleasure. That's basically what he's saying. It's going to bring grace to your neck. Beauty. It's attractive. It's good. Then he mentions this phrase. He says, you will walk safely, walk in thy way safely. The idea is that God is going to preserve his children as they walk through life in a godly way. When you live in a very reckless way and you don't Follow God's instructions and you you live a sinful life, guess what? There are a lot of hazards that you're going to encounter. You're going to be a casualty in so many areas. But when you live in a godly way, you know what happens? God preserves your foot from so many terrible things. You don't have to know what it's like to go through those pains because you didn't make bad choices. It's that simple. You know, when we see people who are broken and hurting, we need to come alongside them and help them. We need to be people who love the hurting. But I want to tell you something. We ought to pray that God produces kids out of this church who don't end up in those places. God preserves them from those places. And that's what he's saying. If you embrace godly wisdom, you will have a safe way. Not a safe way. Whoa, careful. Number three, stability. Let's look at the phrase that he has there. He says, thy foot shall not stumble. Stability. When you stumble, you're going to be able to get back up. It's not something that's going to sideline you. People who walk in godly wisdom, they have stability. He then mentions this, confidence and refreshment. Notice the phrase, he says, When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid. Yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet. You know, there's a lot of people that can't sleep at night. It's true. Some of them it's because of health problems. But you know, there's a lot of people in this world they cannot sleep. And you know why? Because they have so much guilt. And so much fear, and they've made so many bad decisions that they've lost their ability to sleep. sweetly, because their mind is so troubled and so burdened by all the things that are going on around them. You don't want your kids to live that way, do you? You don't want them to put their head on their pillow at night and they can't sleep because there's so many things they're going through their mind. They're thinking about people they've cheated and they wonder if that person's gonna come back to get 'em. They think about some news they just got because of a really bad decision they just made. And it's got huge consequences, and they're afraid and they don't know what they're going to do. The fact is that when people live godly lives, it's very simple and they can put their head on their pillow at night. They don't have a compromised conscience. They don't have fear about all these things. Their mind isn't all way down. By what's going on because of bad decisions, they just go to sleep and they wake up the next morning and they go out and they serve the Lord. That's what we want for our kids. That's what we want for ourselves. We then come to a second commandment. Second commandment is this: do not fear your enemies. That's kind of interesting. Verse 25, he says this: Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked. when it cometh. Now this is kind of an interesting statement. You kind of wouldn't think that that would be a wisdom thing. You know, we we say you know it's good not to be afraid of people, things like that. But basically Solomon's saying this, if you're a godly person, you belong to the Lord, don't be afraid of those who want to trouble you. There's a lot of people out there. I remember what it was like when we lived overseas and we got robbed the first time. And uh I can remember this very well. Someone came into our house at night. and stole a whole bunch of electronics while we were sleeping in the next door room. It's it's kind of crazy. How we could not even hear that and know what was going on. And I remember after that happened, we hired someone to put these bars on all the windows so that people couldn't come in in the night like that. And I remember very, very well we left our lights on in the house when we went to bed that night. For for weeks we did this. We took kids toys that if you kicked 'em they'd make noises, that kind of a thing, you know. It it'd sing a little song or something like that. We put 'em under the windows. You go, No, really? Yeah, we really did. Why? Because we were pretty on edge. You know? Somebody comes into your house, you don't know if they had a weapon. What if I'd have met the guy? One of us might not have been here today. You know what I mean? Maybe both of us wouldn't have been here today today. Well he's not here today. Okay. Okay. But it would have been a bad deal, you know? We were afraid. We were very troubled. That's a natural response. But you know what? Solomon tells his son, he said, don't be afraid of your enemies. Live fearlessly. What's the reason? Because for the Lord shall be thy confidence and shall keep thy foot from being taken. God's going to take care of you. If you belong to the Lord and He has a purpose for your life, you're invincible. I don't mean you should throw caution to the wind. I don't mean you should do something crazy and foolish. What I'm saying is if you live in a responsible manner God's going to keep you. In fact, we see in Proverbs 21, verse 31, it says this: the horses prepared against the day of battle, the safeties of the Lord. It's a really interesting proverb. Basically it tells us this, you need to prepare for war. You need to prepare to face the enemy and defend yourself. But at the end of the day, you can do everything you want to defend yourself. It's God who protects you. There are always limits to what you can do. And so you prepare, but you prepare and you rest. And that's the way we're supposed to live. God will be your security who calms your heart and protects your soul. Psalm 4. 8 says, I will both lay me down in peace and sleep, for thou, Lord, only makest me dwell in safety. It's kind of interesting if you look at the history of when David wrote that. He wrote that when he was being chased by Saul. His life was in danger. Literally, when he's lying down to sleep, he has an enemy who's plotting to kill him. That enemy is trying to think how he can exploit David's position. He wants to find him. He wants to kill him. And you know what David said? I was able to lie down and sleep and get rest because I knew I was in God's hands. That's a pretty amazing thing. And that's how we need to live. I'm not saying that's easy, but that's how we need to live. Commandment number three, we need to be kind to the needy. Verse 27, it says this, withhold not good from them to whom it is due when it is in the power of thine hand to do it. Say not unto thy neighbor, Go and come again, and tomorrow I will give when thou hast it by thee. Now, please understand something. This verse Is not a blanket statement that's saying if somebody comes to you and says, I need money, give it to me, you are obligated to give it to them. It's not saying that. Notice carefully the way he says this. Withhold not good from them to whom it is due. Okay? Not everybody that comes to you asking for money is under your obligation and care. Okay? There are certain places that you can live, and if you live in that community and you're a responsible person, you have people come and knock on your door 24-7 asking you for money People who are blowing it, people who are basically in addicted situations, people making very bad decisions, and you're just feeding their habits. You are helping them continue, you're enabling them to do what they're doing. This is not teaching us to be enablers, okay? To just blindly give money to anybody that comes and asks us for money. And that's one of the hardest things. I remember when I flipped overseas again. I remember we would drive from the airport, and when you'd stop at the first traffic light coming out of the airport, people would just come out of the woodwork and they would knock on your window and they're very, very persistent. And I remember we'd have a visitor with us, and they would be like, why don't you give them something? I'd say, because they're able-bodied. I'm encouraging them to not work. They're making more money begging. When they don't need it, then somebody who's working an honest job. And so I'm doing wrong by giving them money in those situations But then we'd have another person who'd come and we'd give them something. Why would we do that? Because we knew them. We knew the situation. We knew they were in hard times. It was someone that we had a relationship with. And if we didn't give and help them in that situation, that would have been very offensive. That's what he's talking about here. He's saying if there's a person that you have an obligation, this could be your kids. This could be a family member. This could be a relative. It could be lots of different things. And I'm not here to teach on this topic. We could get into a lot of interesting questions here. But let's just establish this principle. If you have somebody who comes to you and you have the responsibility to give to them, I'm not going through all the reasons how we know that we are or aren't, just a principle here. And you say, why don't you go home and come back tomorrow and I'll help you out? He says, that's wrong. Why do we do that? Anyone ever done that? I've done that. Oh, come back tomorrow, I'll have that for you. Why are we doing that? Because we know they'll go to somebody else if they really have a need. Or We're trying to delay so that we don't have to deal with it. We're hoping that they won't come back tomorrow. And then they show up the next day. They're very persistent. That happens. He's saying, don't do that. If you have a person that you have a relationship to has a genuine need and you're aware of it, and you have the ability to help them and they come to you, don't send them away Meet that need. Be generous. Be kind. There is always someone who has a poorer condition. than you do. And we need to be people who are very kind and helping to those who have tremendous need. You know what's kind of interesting? Solomon, up to this point, has asked or he has made a statement, do this, and then he's given the reason, here's why, but he doesn't do that here. Kind of interesting, isn't it? You say why? I don't know. I can't get into his head. But what I can tell you is this Generally, when you're writing in the way that he's writing and you have a pattern and you stop it, you do it to emphasize something. That's generally what happens. To make you stop and think. This is a really important thing to Solomon. Taking care of those who have need. We then come to commandment four. Do not break trust. Look at verse 29, he says this. Devise not evil against Thy neighbor. That's the command. And here's the reason. Seeing he dwelleth securely by thee. Now it's kind of interesting. I think in our culture it's hard for us to appreciate what Solomon is saying here. So I want you to imagine what it would be like to walk into a community. Okay, we got this room here, and let's say that in this room, you had about 150 people living. You say impossible. I'm telling you a lot of parts of the world that would be probably more than that people living here. And so you got a little uh got a little room over here and a little room over here. You got about six rooms right here, okay And in the middle there's a little courtyard and then over here you got another a little corridor and then there's another little group of six rooms and they're just all throughout here and the you just walk through these narrow passageways to get to those various places. There are a lot of people that live in the world that way. You know what's interesting? If you live that way, you have a room, and someone has a room, and another person has a room, and you always cook and you always wash in that same little courtyard area, you know everything about everybody. If anybody has something valuable, you know it. You know their patterns, when they go out, when they come in. You know what they like, what they don't like. And you know what's interesting in a situation like that, if you're an honest person , Not a big deal. If you're a dishonest person, you have a tremendous opportunity to gain information. Intelligence gathering. You know, there's a lot of people that live that way in the world. They sit in their room in close proximity to their neighbor and they watch their neighbor. Because they want to exploit their neighbor. They think about when they go out and when they come in and they pay attention to their Facebook posts and They pay attention to things that they casually say to other people. They pick up on lots of details and they don't say a word about it. But as they gather all that information, they plan to exploit their neighbor. It's a lot of people that live that way. I've seen it. I've seen people who live that way. It's a terrible way to live. And you know that's how the way that's how the world lives The world around us in many ways lives to take advantage of opportunity. Solomon says, don't do that. When you live close to somebody, you need to be a trustworthy person. When you have access to information that can be exploited, you have a responsibility to respond properly to that To put it in our situation, the idea is this. Don't take advantage of other people because of how close you are to them. Don't take advantage of other people because you have access to information that could be used to hurt them. It's basically what he's saying. Don't break trust. Command 5. Don't be contentious. Verse 30 says this, strive not with a man without cause. If he Have done thee no harm. Now again, this is a verse that if you don't think about it carefully, I think you can you can misapply it. This is not saying that there is a problem with defending yourself Somebody walks into your house and they attack your family, you have every right, every right to use whatever force necessary to stop them. You do. That's not what he's talking about here. He's saying don't strive with a man without cause. Don't strive with a man who has done you no harm. The idea is don't be contentious. There are a lot of folks that are just mean and nasty and contentious. They like tangling, okay? They just like to tangle with other people They like to be right all the time. They like to correct you every time they think you're wrong. You know, little kids are like this. So funny. The other day I did something, I said something uh kind of nonchalantly, and Adeline. She can be a little pistol, I tell you. She gets this big smile on her face. She's like, Daddy, did you sin? And she just looked at it with this big smile, like, huh? I was like , I probably didn't handle that the way I should have. And we had a little conversation. But you know, a lot of times little children, they love to point out Every single time they see an offense, every time they see something that's wrong. Little children like to defend their rights. It's almost like a scorch-earth policy, you know? Doesn't matter what's lost, I've got to defend what's mine. Fighters. The truth is, maturity tells us that there's some things there aren't worth fighting about. There's some things you just gotta let go. You don't have to correct every single issue that comes in front of you You don't have to win every single battle. Now there are some that you do have to win. But you pick those battles carefully. You pick them because you know that it's something you absolutely have to do. He's saying don't be contentious. Don't fight with people who have caused you no harm. Don't fight with people who there's no cause. We then come to commandment six, and this is the last one I'll mention tonight. Don't imitate tyrants. Verse 31 says, Envy thou not the oppressor. And choose none of his ways. Some of you might say, well, why in the world would anybody envy an oppressive person? Well, because oppressive people make a lot of money. Oppressive people a lot of times get a lot of power. Oppressive people don't get resisted very much because people are afraid to go up and face them. Oppressive people get what they want, they do what they want, and they get as much as they want. And you know what? When we watch people that are like that, sometimes we learn to be like that. Sometimes we begin to pick up their little techniques Now we don't process it that way, but you know what's interesting? There's another proverb where Solomon says, don't be friends with an angry person, I'm paraphrasing here, lest you learn his ways. Sometimes we see what people who are oppressive get, and we wish we could have it. And we start using those little techniques. We might use it in our family, with our spouse, or with our kids. We might use that in our work environment where we've learned how to leverage and get what we want. People use it in the church. People use it when they have authority. People use it at school. Wherever they are. The truth is we begin to adapt these little techniques. Where we can bully people and push them, we can get what we want. We can hold the line and we can keep people from confronting us. And that's a very dangerous place for us to be in. Tyranny is not just something that powerful men have had throughout human history. Tyranny is something that happens on the interpersonal level. It happens in marriages. It happens with kids. It happens in the church. It happens in the work environment. It happens in our community. And we need to be careful who don't do that. We're not little tyrants. We don't learn the ways of the tyrants. We're people who trust God and let Him fight our battles. Verse 232 says this. Here's the reason. Because the froward Means perverse, is an abomination to the Lord. His secret is with the righteous. Basically, it says, if you're a person who is perverse and twisted and you're that abusive individual. That stinks to me. I hate it. I detest it. It's disgusting. But a righteous person knows me in a very intimate and personal way. And I share myself with them in a way that those other people don't understand. And that's what you want. He says, the curse of the Lord is in the house of the wicked, but he blesseth the habitations of the just. When you get something through abuse and force, God is going to one day set the record straight with you. Can't tell you how he's going to do it. I can't tell you when he's going to do it. But he's going to do it. But if you're not like that, God will bless you. He says he scorneth the scorners. We talk about a scorner, we talk about a person who is very insensitive, a person who's very proud, a person that doesn't have time for other people. You come and you try to talk to them, you try to address an issue, and they say, I'm not going to listen to you. I got nothing to hear from you. I don't have time for you. Go away. You realize that God actually relates to people who push others aside. He pushes them to the side. He says, I'm not going to deal with you. I'm not going to relate to you in kindness. Yet on the other side it says he gives grace to the lowly. God shows undeserved favor to the humble person. He says, the wise shall inherit glory, shame shall be the promotion of the fools. What you see is he contrasts. He has the froid and the righteous, the abomination and the secret counsel, the wicked and the just, the curse, the blessing. Scorning the scorner, giving grace to the lowly, shaming fools, glory to the wise. What does that tell us? What that tells us is this. When we live our lives according to God's standards and principles and his expectations and godly wisdom, God is going to relate to us in a very special and gracious and good way. And when we don't He's going to resist us. This is what Solomon's trying to communicate. He says, God wants us to live out godly wisdom in our interpersonal relationships. By God's grace, let's purpose to do that. It's purpose to do that. Very practical section of scripture. I hope you dig into it personally yourself and reflect on some of the things that we've talked about tonight and what Solomon says in this text. Let's put our hearts together in prayer. Father, help us to embrace truth. Help us to live it out. Help us to be people who know How to live and we do it. I pray that you'll help us as a church to be giving truth to our young people, patterning truth before our young people. Help us to be in the position to receive your grace. Help us to be in the position to receive your blessings and your goodness. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.