In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God. The Word was God. The same was in the beginning with God. All things were made by him. Without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. And the light shineth in darkness, and the darkness comprehended it not. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. The same came for a witness to bear witness of the light, that all men through him might believe. He was not that light, but was sent to bear witness of that light. That was the true light which lighteth every man that cometh into the world. He was in the world, and the world was made by him. The world knew him not. He came unto his own, and his own received him not But as many as received him, to them he gave power to become the children of God, even to them that believe on his name. Which were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. Let's put our hearts together in prayer as we continue with a study on various responses to the person and work of Christ. Father, as we continue this study, as we look at the various groups of people that are part of the Christmas story I pray you'd help us to understand how important it is that we respond biblically to your word, to the gospel. To the person of Christ and his work. How important it is that we respond in a manner that is humble, that is obedient, that is submissive. Father, help us to learn from the people that are here before us this evening that we'll look at. Pray that our hearts would be stirred up Pray you'd help me as I present these truths to be simple and clear. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. This morning we saw very important truth That the way that we respond to Christ is a matter of heaven and hell. It's a matter of where we spend eternity. It's so important that we receive who Christ is. And in this passage, it tells us the startling truth that the majority or a very large percentage of people do not respond correctly to God. Now that doesn't mean that they stay that way. In fact, there are a lot of people that live many years of their life rebellious against God, resisting God, and then at a point in their life they're humble. And God brings them to repentance and faith. And they begin to live in the light of the gospel. And they begin to live in the light of the truths of the gospel. And their lives are transformed, and they become disciples of Christ. But when we watch people and when we look at the Word of God, specifically this text, we see that a very large percentage of people rebel against God. And so all of mankind can really go into one of two categories. One is those who receive Christ in the gospel, those who don't. Those who receive Christ in the gospel are going to stand before God and they're going to enter into his eternal kingdom because they're in Christ. They're declared righteous because of his righteousness, not because they're good, perfect moral people. It's because they're in Christ. On the other side, we have those who reject God and what happens when they stand before God. They're going to feel the full weight of the justice and judgment of God. And what we saw this morning is there were several people that kind of characterize various sides of those two categories. The first person we looked at was Zechariah. And the thing that we saw about Zechariah is that Zechariah was a man who disbelieved what God had told him. Now that doesn't mean that Zechariah was an unbeliever. In fact, when we look at the text carefully, we see that Zechariah was a believer. He was described as a just or righteous man He was described as someone who was diligent and someone who was faithful and someone who walked with God. But this man was going through a series of events in his life that really shattered not I shouldn't say shattered, but they roused him a bit. We see in the interaction of the story of Zechariah that Zechariah had been praying that God would give his wife a child. And he prayed for many years. Didn't happen. Now he's an old man, his wife is an older woman, and it's not physically possible for them, even if she was a a fertile lady who could give birth to children, she was now beyond that time in her life. She couldn't do that. And what does God do? He comes to this man, he sends an angel, and he says, Your wife's going to have a child. And it's more than that. That child's going to be unique. That child is going to be the fulfillment of prophecy in the Old Testament. That child is going to be the forerunner of the Messiah. And how does this man respond? He doubts. And so what we see is that though this person was in the category of receiving the Messiah, meaning that he was Looking for the consolation of Israel. He's looking for the Savior to come. He's a believer. He's justified. He went through a series of doubts. On the other side, we saw there are some people that are just straight-up skeptics. They reject the gospel entirely. And there are others who go through a period of skepticism, but as God works in their heart They're humbled. And so we learn by this man's life that we should be receiving the message not as unbelievers, but as believers. We then came to a second individual, and this person was clearly in the category of having rejected the Messiah. That was the man Herod, and Herod was a man who was rebellious. The thought of Christ being the king in Israel made this man angry and he raged and he was jealous and he wanted this child killed And so what does he do? He disregards the life of many children there in Bethlehem. He lies to those magi who go to pay worship and obeisance to Christ, and he tries to kill the Messiah. He thinks that he can outmaneuver God. He was self-deluded and deceived. And we saw that there are many people living today and throughout human history that that is exactly how they live their lives. They think that they can outmaneuver God. They want to be their own Lord and their own master. They want to follow their own heart. And they reject God entirely We then came to a third response, and this one was clearly in the category of receiving the Messiah. And this is a wonderful example of a godly response to very difficult circumstances. That was the person Mary. Mary was a person who was submissive to God's will, and she wondered in amazement that God would use her, a simple young woman living in Nazareth. Nazareth. We talked a little bit about the stigma that this woman would have experienced. The fact that she would have experienced shame in her culture. Very small community, everybody would view her as an immoral, promiscuous woman because she was going to give birth to a child while she was betrothed to be married to Joseph. And yet this woman Mary humbly submits to God's will. She doesn't say, how dare you put me through such circumstances? She says, behold the handmaid of the Lord, let it be unto me as you choose. That's the response of Mary. And we saw that this is how we should respond to God's will in our own lives. There are times we're going to walk through troubling waters. We don't plan the circumstances of life. We may pass through some very difficult circumstances. And we need to submit to the Lord's will, providential care, as to Mary. We then want to move on to a couple of other examples And the fourth example we're going to look at tonight is found in Luke chapter 2, verse 8. So I'd like to ask you to turn there. Luke chapter 2, verse number 8. These people were some of the most unlikely people that you would ever think would be the first people to proclaim that the Messiah has come. Now this is really interesting. In the story about the coming of Christ, we have an angel saying that Christ is going to be born. He goes to Mary, he goes to Zechariah. The angel goes to Joseph, but this is going to be the first time that people are proclaiming that the Messiah has been born. Not that he's going to be born, that he has been born. In Luke chapter 2, verse 8, we see the most unlikely group of evangelists, if you want to use that term, who will proclaim the good news that the Messiah has been born. That's the shepherds. The word I want us to remember with the shepherds is that they shared. They shared. They did not keep to themselves the wondrous truths that were presented to them that night on the Judean hillside. In Luke chapter 2, verse 8, it says this. There were in the same country shepherds abiding in the fields, keeping watch over their flocks by night And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. Now I want to pause for a moment and I want you to think about these shepherds. Shepherds were people that dealt with animals every single day. Now the fact that they were living on the hillsides means Not only were they dealing with animals every day, but they lived in the elements every day. You catch that? Dealing with animals, living in the elements. A lot of times shepherds were young men. They weren't necessarily seasoned adults. These are probably like teenage boys These are young men who are watching sheep. Their job doesn't seem all that significant, does it? Didn't have to be highly educated to be a shepherd. You just needed to be diligent, faithful, to do your duty, to take care of the animals that were put under your care. So these are the people that God sends word, the Messiah has been born. When they're there on the hillside, obviously they were terrified. And this is what the angel said unto them, fear not. Behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people. Now I want you to think about this. The greatest message that has ever been proclaimed to mankind. Good tidings, great joy for all people. Unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. These people, these lowly shepherds, simple folk, were the first people to hear, the Messiah has been born. Now why did God go to them? Why didn't he go to the palace? Why didn't he go to some very important, educated, affluent people? I have no idea. But he had a reason for it. He wanted them to be the ones that brought the message of the Messiah. And by the way, think about John as he's in the wilderness and he's baptizing and he's preaching, the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent. And then he looks and he says, behold. The Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world. The Lamb of God. What's he talking about? He's talking about Christ being the Passover lamb. You know what those men, those boys, what they were doing? They'll probably take caring taking care of the very sheep that were going to be slaughtered at times like the Passover And so these are the ones that he comes to, those shepherds. And so these men go running into Bethlehem And it says, The shepherds said one to another, let us now go even to Bethlehem and see this thing which has come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us. And they came with haste. Found Mary and Joseph and the babe lying in a manger, a feeding trough. And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child. And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds Now I just want to kind of put this into a little bit of a perspective. You ever had somebody come to you with a story and you just said, I don't think that's That's true. Anybody ever had a situation like that? They come to you and they they lay out this great story and you look at them and you're like, oh, interesting. Yeah, I agree. That sounds like and you're just trying to figure out how to get out of that situation. You know what I mean? There are probably some people that felt that way Who are you guys? Angels came and met you on the hillside and they said, Glory to God in the highest on earth, peace, goodwill. Don't be afraid. Oh yeah, you big shepherd. That's who you guys are They might have been mocked. There's no question that people were talking about that. It says the people wondered at the things that were stated. You know, these guys were not the people you would have thought God would use to proclaim the message Of the fulfillment of all these prophecies. But that's who he chose. You might say, well, why is that significant to you and to me? I'll tell you why it's significant. Because these were people that weren't afraid to speak up and say, this is what God has shown us. They weren't afraid of the fact that they were uneducated. They weren't afraid of the fact that they just dealt with animals every day. They weren't afraid of the fact that people probably looked at them and said, you people are nuts. You heard an angel talk to you? You saw a bright light? Sure. You saw the king of the Jews laying in a manger, a feeding trough? Oh yeah, that sounds like something I'll believe. They didn't seem afraid about it, did they? They went and they told people. They were convinced of the truth. And the fact is that we need to be a little bit more like them. I I don't mean shepherds necessarily work with animals and coming up with these kinds of No, we need to be people who aren't afraid to speak the truth. People who say, you know what, I want to tell about what God has shown me in His Word. I want to be somebody who proclaims the gospel. The truth is we need to be more like that. We come to a second group, and this would be our fifth response if we're looking at the whole series of people and groups. And this group is two people. In fact, I love this. I love the story of these two people. I talked about it at our senior luncheon. And these two people are Simeon and Anna. The word that I want you to remember is the word steadfastness. Steadfastness. You ever met a person, they look at you and you say, how are you doing? And they say I'm tired. And you look at them and you're like, I can see that. They look weary. Why are they weary? They're weary because it's been a long month, a long year. It's been a long series of years. It's been difficult circumstances. Let me tell you, there are times that as the years go by, we get weary, we get discouraged. We feel like quitting. We don't want to press forward. And the two people we're going to talk about for just a few moments tonight had every right, humanly speaking. to be weary, to be discouraged, to be disgruntled, to be frustrated, to be bitter, but they weren't that way at all. These people were steadfast. These people were seniors. When I say seniors, Mr. Jenny, I don't know if we could call them shut-ins or not, but but the truth is they probably didn't get out of the temple a whole lot. In fact this woman was probably a hundred and five years old. Old. Maybe a little older, maybe a little younger, we don't know. But I don't know what I'd call her. She was pretty spunky. But you know what? She lived a long time and she'd seen a lot of heartache. Let me invite you to look a little bit at the way that these people are described and the interaction that they have with Christ as the baby there, as Mary and Joseph bring him into the temple. In Luke chapter 2, verse 22, it says this When the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought him, Christ, to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord, every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord, and offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves of two pigeons. By the way, the reason that it was a pair of two turtle doves or two pigeons is because they were a very poor family. And so Christ is there as a baby and as his parents bring him there into the temple to follow through with the mosaic responsibilities that they had under the law. This elderly man named Simeon, we don't know how old he is, but we have to assume he was pretty well up in years. This man, it says, describes them. He's just and he's devout. And this is very similar to the way that this man Zechariah was was referred to. He was referred to as just and he was referred to as devout. The idea is that this is a person who is a believer. They were justified. They were right with God. Their position was Just in the eyes of God. Devout is showing that they were very faithful and they were very diligent. That's how he's described The third thing that's mentioned is that he's waiting for the consolation of Israel. That means that he had this anticipation that God was going to do something with his people. Now, what is he anticipating? Well, he's anticipating the fulfillment of all those Old Testament prophecies. So this man is justified because he is waiting for the consolation of Israel. He's devout, he's diligent, and he's faithful. And it says the Holy Ghost is upon him. Now listen to the next thing it says. It was revealed to this man by the Holy Ghost that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. Now this is very interesting. God reveals to this man Simeon that before you die, I know that for many years You have been waiting for the Messiah to come. You believe those promises. You're trusting in the Savior to come. You're looking for Him with anticipation. I'm going to let you in on something. Before you die, you're gonna see him. Isn't that an amazing thing? We don't have any other person in the Bible that it says that about, but it says that about Simeon. Well, did you ever wonder if, you know, as uh Simeon went to another year and had another year, he started going, I wonder, like how old am I going to be? Is that gonna really happen? I don't know. But the Bible says on that day he was led by the Spirit to come into the temple. It says, And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom, then took he up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now let us thy servant depart in peace. According to your word. Mine eyes have seen thy salvation, which thou hast prepared before the face of all people. A light to lighten the Gentiles and the glory of thy people Israel. I love the statement. Or the series of statements that Simeon makes. He holds that child and he says, this child is where salvation is coming from. I'm holding him in my hands. He's the fulfillment of all those prophecies. What do we know about Simeon? He was steadfast. He waited. He had confidence. He was devout. And you know what God did? God rewarded that faithfulness. He allowed him to see the Savior. We then skip down a couple verses later, and we are introduced to a second person. This person's name is Anna. It says, Anna was a prophetess, a daughter of Fenuel, the tribe of Asher. She was of great age. Well the Bible doesn't tell us how old she was, but it says she lived with a husband seven years And she was a widow about four score. Let me get this right. Four score and four years. So if you want to put it in this term, she was 84 years a widow. She was seven years a wife. We don't know how long she was single. If she got married when she was thirteen or fifteen, how old was she? She was pretty old. She was pretty old. She was well beyond a hundred years old. And what did this woman do? Having been a widow for all those years, did she sit in a corner and complain and get upset at God? How dare can you do that to me? Here I am. This is cruel justice, isn't it? Here I am. I get married when I'm a young woman. I'm married for seven years, and for the rest of my life, I live in isolation. how she could have been. It's been a horrible 84 years. It's not the way this woman lived. The scripture says that this woman served God with fasting and prayer night and day. She didn't have probably a whole lot of physical strength at that point There probably wasn't a a lot of work physically that she could do around the temple. But you know what she did do? She spent time on her knees. People who went into that temple would have known who that woman was. That's the lady that prays. That's the lady that pleads with God on the behalf of people. That's the person who every time you see her, she's communing with God What was this woman like? She was faithful. She was steadfast. And you know what's interesting? It says. She came in that instance and gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for the redemption of Jerusalem. This woman was somebody who knew who the other people were that came into the temple, that understood those Old Testament prophecies, that were trusting in the coming Messiah. She was one of them. She knew them. They knew her. And when she saw that child, she said, that's the one right there. Folks, I want to ask you a question. As the days go on, when your health is no more what it used to be, when you're not able to do the things that you used to do Will you still be like those two people? They ran their race to the very end. Now it may not have been a fast run by that point. Okay. Maybe we'll say they're walked the race by that point. But you know what? They didn't stop. They kept going. And Simeon knew, when you let me see the Messiah, then I've finished my race. But he continued till that last day. Day. This woman, Anna, she spent time as a devoted woman praying for others there in the temple till her last days. And that's how we need to be, folks You know, this season of life that you have strength and ability is temporary. If there's anything that I have been confronted with. In the last many months, it is that the season of strength is temporary. Seize it while you have it, and when you don't have it anymore, just plod along. That's what these people did. We see an example of someone who was sharing the message We see an example of someone or some people who were steadfast. And then I want to give you one last one to look at. These were people who were worshipers. Go with me to Matthew chapter 2. Matthew chapter 2, and we're going to look at verses 1 to 12. In fact, we talked about this a little bit this morning. That man Herod, as he was sitting in his palace, he received some guests. And these guests are obviously not Jews, in fact, they're Persians. And when they come in, they're obviously very important people. They're very wealthy people. They have a whole entourage with them. They have gifts with them. And when they come into the palace and they greet this man, he says, What do you need? And they say, We're looking for the king of the Jews. And he goes, That's me. They said, No, we've seen his star in the East. And he's like, well hold on a second. Let me sit down and think about these people for a moment. I need to find out what they're talking about. And so Herod draws out of them what's there because he wants to destroy this king of the Jews. But I have this question. How in the world did those guys from Persia end up in Jerusalem? Why was it that they would travel 1200 miles on foot? Bring all these gifts to meet a baby. What was it that got their attention that they would be so motivated? I mean it takes motivation to drive twelve hundred miles. Right. It does But to walk it, to visit a baby who has no relation to you, why in the world would they do that? It says In this text. Where is he that is born king of the Jews? We've seen his star in the east, and we are come to worship him. These men realized that that child was the greatest king that would ever walk this planet. How is it that they knew about this child? Well, we need to go back to ask some questions about what they were exposed to there in Persia. In fact, I love thinking about the nation of Israel after the captivity. We know the story of of Israel as a nation. They there was a time when the kingdom was divided, the land of Judah was under a series of kings, the land of the north was under a series of kings, and it didn't go well for those places The Assyrians came in in the seven hundreds, and they came and they took into captivity many of those people. Later on in the five hundreds, the Babylonians came in. And they came in a series of waves and they attacked Jerusalem. And in the first wave they took with them the princes They took with them the promising young men and they brought them back to Babylon and they had one intention with those men. They wanted to take those people, remove them from their culture. And they wanted to indoctrinate them in the mentality and the worldview of the Chaldeans. And then they wanted to send those men back to rule their own people as Babylonian rulers. One of those men was Daniel. In fact, if we think about the story where it says that Daniel would not eat the meat that was provided, there was a reason why there was meat provided that was contrary to Jewish law. They were trying to brainwash that young man. They were trying to change his worldview. They were trying to make him a Chaledean Well, it didn't quite work out so well with Daniel because Daniel ended up serving as a prince for many, many decades, not only in Babylon, outliving several rulers, but also in Persia. And there as Daniel is in Babylon and there in Persia, he comes in contact with lots of very powerful people. But you know what also he does is he writes a lot of scripture. In fact, there are several prominent Jewish people that we see that were very influential in either Babylon or in Persia. We have Daniel and Shadrach and Meshach and Abendigo. We have Esther the Queen. She was a very prominent, a very powerful individual. We have her uncle, Mordecai. We also see several portions of scripture that talk about Cyrus and we we talk about Nebuchadnezzar, where they actually are writing or quoting scripture. What is it that made these people listen to somebody like Daniel? I'll tell you what it was. If you go in your Bible to Daniel chapter 9, you're going to see some prophecies that Daniel wrote. In fact, it's interesting, God spoke through Daniel not just to the Jews, but he really spoke to the Gentile kings who were ruling the Jews at that time. In Daniel 9. 24 it says this, 70 weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city. to finish the transgression, to make an end of sin, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, to bring an everlasting righteousness to seal up the vision and prophecy and to anoint the most holy. Now that passage is clearly talking about God sending the Messiah. And the Messiah is going to come and he's going to make an end of sin. He is going to triumph over the curse and sin. It's talking about his redemptive purposes. It says this Know therefore and understand, from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to rebuild Jerusalem until the Messiah, the prince, shall be seven weeks. And three score and two weeks, and the streets shall be built again in the walls, even in troubling t troublesome times And after three score and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself, for the people of the prince shall come and destroy the city and the sanctuary. And the end thereof shall be with a flood, and unto the end of war desolations are determined. And I have a question. I read that. I'm not going to interpret it for you. I want you to think: do you understand what that means? Do you understand what that means? You're going to sit down tonight and you're going to go over that passage, you're going to pour over it, you go, 70 weeks and three score and 10. And boy. I don't know what it's talking about. I mean I understand some of the details, I think, but man, there's a lot I don't understand. You know what's interesting? These people understood what Daniel wrote. And that's why they came to Jerusalem Because they sat down and they read that prophecy and they understood what was going on, and they said, from the rebuilding of Jerusalem until the coming of Messiah is a series Of weeks. And when I say weeks, he's not talking about seven-day weeks. He's using prophetic language here. But they sat down and they thought it through and they calculated and they said We are living in the time of the fulfillment of this prophecy. You realize that's why those men came. When they saw that star, they said, that must be an indication. That what the prophecy's saying is happening, it's time for us to move and go find this thing. In fact, when we see the gifts that they brought, they brought gold. Why did they bring gold? Because they recognize this child is a king. They talk about frankincense. Why frankincense? Well, frankincense is something that was used in the temple by the priests. They understood he was a king, and they understood that he had the role of a priest. And then myrrh. Well, that's what they use to anoint a body that has been prepared for burial. They understood that the ministry of this baby was going to cost them his life. They understood that because they had access to Daniel's prophecy. This is really interesting. If you go in your Bibles to 2 Corinthians 36 , 2 Chronicles 36, verse 22, it says this. In the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia. The word of the Lord spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah, that the word of the Lord spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah be accomplished. The Lord stirred up the heart of Cyrus, king of Persia. that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying, Thus saith Cyrus, king of Persia. All the kingdom of the earth hath the Lord God of heaven given me, and he hath charged me to build an house in Jerusalem. which is in Judah. Who is there among you of all the people? The Lord his God be with him and let him go up. Do you think that these men understood what Daniel and what Isaiah and what Jeremiah were writing about? The answer is they did. The fact is, Daniel had had such a powerful impact in Babylon and in Persia. That some generations after this man is dead and gone, they're still reading what he wrote, they're studying what he wrote. They're anticipating the fulfillment of what he wrote. And now these people believe they're living in the time of the fulfillment of what he wrote, and they're taking action on it. You might say, what are the qualities that are bound up in these people? Number one, they studied the scriptures. Not only did they study it, they dug into where they understood what he was talking about. They were willing to travel a tremendous distance, bring tremendous resources simply to see a baby, because they were convinced that what they read in Daniel's writings was true. How many of you put yourself in this situation would have been willing to take that kind of a trip? Would have been that convinced of the truth of those things And these people understood the ministry of the Messiah, and that is why they brought those appropriate gifts of gold, frankincense, and myrrh. When we come to this last group, the Magi, let me tell you, these people were worshipers. They were worshipers of God because they studied his word They're worshipers of God because they dug into his word and said we want to understand what he's saying. They're worshipers of God because when they understood that that was being fulfilled, they took action on it. And they took appropriate action and they put resources behind it and they went and they wanted to meet that child. And so, folks, when we think about the Christmas story. Let's remember these six groups or individuals. Let's remember the one who was doubtful. And let's not be doubters. Let's remember the one who is rebellious, and let us have humbled hearts that we respond correctly to Christ and the gospel. Let's remember the one who was submissive when she had tremendous difficulties she would face the rest of her life. Let's remember Let's remember the ones who were willing to share the good news, to proclaim the message. In spite of the fact that they were the most unlikely people to present this message, they were willing to share it. Let's remember these individuals that were steadfast. They ran their race well to the last day. And lastly, let's remember these people who were worshippers of the Messiah. As we come into the Christmas season, we're in it. As we come to the end of it, let's purpose to learn from the lives of these people. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer, please. Father, we thank you so much that in the fullness of time you sent forth your Son, made of a woman. Made under the law to redeem us, to make us your children. We thank you so much for this season where we remember the birth of the Lord Jesus. Father, help us to learn the lessons that are so appropriate for us to learn from these individuals and these groups. Father, help us to be humble and submissive and to respond correctly to your word. Help us to be diligent in proclaiming the truth. Help us to be worshippers. Help us to be learners. I pray that this season would not pass us by without lessons learned. without a purpose to live in a way that's consistent before you. We pray that you'll bless as we as a church come together and we we celebrate the Christmas season as we come together as families and friends as we celebrate. May you bless that time. May it be a very rich and encouraging time. And may you be truly glorified in those meetings. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen