Well good morning. I'd like to give you a little devotional thought on the passage of scripture we dealt with two weeks ago. And the passage that we're going to look at is 2 Chronicles 24, and I want to talk about the importance of how we look at the issue of our legacy. And I'm reminded of a video I watched one time where Mike Tyson was interviewed by I think it was a 12-year-old girl. And this girl was excited about the opportunity to talk to Mike Tyson, and she said So tell me, what is your legacy? And the way that Mike Tyson responded to that little girl's question was it was really tragic. Because he basically said legacy is nothing. You're just dirt and you die and that's the end. Actually that's not true. This passage of scripture is going to show us that a legacy can be good, it can be bad. But the truth is, at the end of all of this, what you're given, you have to take personal action on. And so I really love this passage of scripture, um, not because it's a great story, it's actually because it's very powerful in what it what it actually teaches us. So If you have your Bible, let's take it and turn together to 2 Chronicles 24. And I want to give you some thoughts on a snow day about a godly legacy and the importance of it. and the danger of not thinking about that. And also I'll say this, you know, I grew up in the South and um almost never saw snow. And uh the only time we saw snow was when we would go up to my grandparents' house up in Connecticut. We always hoped that we'd see snow around Christmas time and we would sometimes even drive north um really to the area where my where my wife's family lives and we would go sledding and um so I I've always enjoyed these opportunities to uh just play with my kids and uh make some memories and uh try some new stuff. So um check out Facebook. We're gonna put out some interesting things um hopefully after the storm is over and um I'm gonna have a good time with them So let's go ahead, 2 Chronicles 24, and we'll read verses 1 and 2, and then we'll look at a little bit more of that passage. Here's what it says. Joash was seven years old when he began to reign. And he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Zibiah of Beersheba. And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the Lord all the days, and here's the key of Jehoiada the priest. Now, why is that statement there? Well, it's because of the rest of his life and what we'll talk about this morning. Now, if we skip down to verse 15, it says, Jehoida waxed old and was full of days when he died. A hundred and thirty years old was he when he died. They buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he did good in Israel, both toward God and toward his house. Now After the death of Jehoida came the princes of Judah and made obeisance to the king. And the king hearkened unto them, and they left the house of the Lord God of their fathers, and served groves and idols. And wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem. Let's go ahead and dig into this passage of scripture together. In fact, I'm going to go ahead and bow together for prayer because it's going to be a little bit longer, not an anchored in the word, but Really just a reflection to think about. Let's pray. Father, I thank you for the opportunity to share some thoughts from this passage of Scripture, and I pray that this morning Um that you keep everyone safe with the uh with the weather that we have going on, um especially with the potential for icing. And I pray that this would be a great study, an encouragement, that all of our families would Just gather together today at different times and just spend time praying together, singing praise to you, and just reflecting on the Word of God. Pray especially for uh the men in our households that they would take the time to spend time in worship as a family when uh we're not gathering together as a church today. And we ask this in Christ's name, amen. All right, well let's dig into this passage a little bit and kind of get a sense of what's here. First of all, um we're going to look at the negative side of this passage, and that is the legacy of Ahab, and Ahab was obviously an extremely wicked man. And we see in verse 1 that Joash was seven years old when he began to reign. The question we should ask is why? Why was a seven-year-old crowned to be the king? Well, that's where the story of Ahab's legacy really comes from. Jehoa Joash was a young boy when he became king, and there was a reason for that. The years before he became king at seven were very, very tumultuous. We've got to kind of go back into the history of the kings of Israel and go back to the times of Elijah and Elisha to really appreciate the backstory for what's going on here. So I'm going to give it to you. This goes back to a man named Jehoshaphat who was a pretty godly king overall in Judah. Jehoshaphat did have some weaknesses though. He entered into league with Ahab. They became friends. It was more of a military alliance. Let's remember the Northern Kingdom and the Southern Kingdom, they are the same people, but their lives and the disposition of those two different nations was quite different. The northern tribes were full of idolatry. The southern tribes occasionally had good kings. And when Jehoshaphat enters into the league with Ahab, eventually they also not only enter into a military alliance, but also a family alliance. And what happens is his son Jehoram marries Athaliah, the daughter of Ahab and Jezebel. And obviously Jezebel was not a good person. and her daughter Athelia followed in her footsteps. Well Jehoram was a wicked king and he dies about eight years after he becomes king, and then after that his son Ahaziah becomes a king. But his reign is very short. And the reason it was short is because he was cut off by Jehu. And Jehu was basically executing justice against, or judgment against the house of Ahab. And so he cuts off Ahaziah. By the way, there are two people named Ahaziah. They're not the same guy. One is a northern king and one is a southern king. Just a tidbit of information. Well, as soon as Ahaziah is dead, you can imagine that there is a power grab that that's going to take place. And who takes that power? It's it's his w it's his mother And so Atheliah seizes the throne and she wants to establish herself as the as the queen, and so she kills everyone who could be a potential rival to the throne, which would be her family, her children, her grandchildren. And this is an important part of the story because we have to recognize that when we talk about the the line of David that goes all the way to the Messiah, if all of the descendants were cut off, then These promises to David are going to fall short. But God intervenes in his providence. And some people take action very quickly. And when they do that, God preserves that line and he also is going to raise up the king that we're talking about, Joash. Well, Jehoidah and his and his wife intervene to preserve the life of Joash when he's just a baby. And we see this in verses 10 through 12. When Athalia goes to try to kill all of these descendants Jehoshabith, the daughter of King Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest, hides this baby from , his grandmother, and his life is preserved And for the next six years, Athelia 's gonna reign and and it's gonna be a tyrannical reign. You can only imagine. She didn't have right to the throne, she murders all her grandchildren, she aggressively pursues um getting this uh the southern kingdom into Baal worship just like her mother did with Ahab and um it's it's a terrible time. And what is this all about? This is all about the legacy of Ahab His choices, his wife, his family is influencing the southern kingdom. And so we see the negative influence of Ahab. But then we see secondly the positive influence of Jehoida the priest And Jehoida brought a stabilizing influence there in Judah, despite all of the turmoil. And so in verse 2, we see that Joash does the what is right in the eyes of the Lord as long as Jehoiada is alive Now, just to kind of go back and consider how impactful Jehoiada's life was on Joasha's life, first of all, he's intervening to spare his life. He cares for him as he's a little boy. He removes Ophelia when obviously Jo Ash is a seven-year-old. There's no way he can do that. But he takes decisive action in the seventh year. He strengthens himself, the text says in verse 1 of chapter 23 and verse 11. They bring the king, they establish him on the throne. And then he does something that's very, very important. He initiates a covenant between the people and God and the king. The nation had drifted away from the Lord because of the influence of Athalia, and Jehoida says, no, we need to get things back on track. And so none of those things would have happened if j Joash didn't have that influence. And so this is an important part of the story. He makes this covenant, and then ultimately he removes all of the idols from the land. And I love what it says in verse 17 of chapter 23. It says, all the people went out to the house of Baal. They broke it down. They broke down the altars and the images and pieces. They slew the priest of Baal before the altars. They're cleaning house. There's going to be a true revival, a reformation there in the land of Judah, and it's all being led because of the influence of Jehoiada And then he goes and he establishes temple worship back to what it's supposed to be. In verse 18, he appoints officers to the house. He cleanses the the um the temple, all of those things. His influence is extremely, extremely important. And and here's the key that I don't want you to miss. He lived to be an old man. He lived to be 130 years. So during that entire period, Jehoiada's life is an influence for good. Not a perfect man. In the text we do see some details where he obviously doesn't handle things well, but for the most part, the trajectory of his life is very positive and his influence is very positive. But then there's a third piece of this story, and that's the tragic end of Joe Ash. And this is a warning to all of us that even though you could have a godly legacy That goes before you. That doesn't mean you're going to follow in the steps of those who have poured their lives into you. Joash did not do that when Jehoiada was gone. And so we see this in verses 17 and 18. After his mentor dies, he fails to stand against the pressure of those who want to go back into idolatry. And the king hearkened to them, and they left the house of the Lord, and they served the groves and the idols, and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for their trespass. So he doesn't stand firm. Instead, he capitulates. And then we see it gets worse. Because God sends warnings to the people. And instead of them listening to what the prophets have to say, Joash and the people rejected. Verse 19. He sent prophets to them to bring them again to the Lord, and they testified against them, but they would not give ear. It gets even worse because he orders the execution of one of those prophets who just happens to be the son of Jehoiada. All of that kindness, all of that influence, and this is how he repays the kindness of the family. In verses 20 and 21 it says, the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah, the son of Jehoiada. And he stood above the people and said to them, Thus saith the Lord, why transgress ye the commandments of the Lord? Ye cannot prosper, because you have forsaken the Lord. He has forsaken you. And they conspired against him and stoned him with stones at the commandment of the king. Important statement. Thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiada his father had done to him, but he slew his son. What a shocking turn of events. Well, how does it end? Here's how it ends. God allows the enemies of Israel, of Judah, to turn against Jehoiada, or against Joash. It says, It came to pass that the host of the Syrians came against him. The armies of the Syrians came with a small company, and the Lord delivered a great host into their hands, because they forsook the Lord God of their fathers. So they executed judgment against Joash. And then Joash, it appears, is probably injured during that skirmish And his weakness on his bed, his servants conspire against him and they kill him. Verse 25, because he did not show kindness to Jehoida the priest. And in the end, guess what? In his death, he's not buried with the kings. That's a tragic end. Now what does this text show us? It shows us a positive example, a negative example, and then another another negative example. And so let me give you three simple trees that I hope you can take away as we've reflected on this text together. The first is this, our lives are always going to leave a legacy, an impact, and it's going to be good or bad. We see Ahab, he reigns about 20 years, but 50 years of influence came from his life. Because even though he's dead, even though his wife's dead, his daughter's not. And his daughter is influencing the person that she marries. And then she seizes the throne. And so the fact is his life, though only 20 years of reign, influenced for almost double that time. And then we see Jehoiada, 130 years. Not a perfect man, but he leaves a good legacy. And God used him. Second truth, you cannot live off of another person's faith. So here is Joash, who has so much opportunity, and guess what? He dropped the ball. He did not continue in the way that he was directed. And just because you give a person an opportunity, just because you give them the tools, doesn't mean that they're going to take those things and use them wisely. And so this is an encouragement to our younger generation, take the baton and don't stumble out of the gate. Take what's been given to you and invest it in the lives of the people that are around you and do what's right. Stay true to the truth that has been laid before you. And the third is this, ingratitude is an awful sin. This text illustrates how terrible it is when people don't appreciate what they've been given. And I can tell you that there are many people, they grew up in good homes, imperfect parents, yes. But they don't appreciate what they've been given. I think one of the things that I have to say is I get older. The older I get, the more I realize how much I was given, especially as a kid, as a teenager, as a college student. So many people, their lives are poured into mine. And a lot of the good that I that I've been able to accomplish in life is a direct result of what's been given to me. And so, very, very important. But you have to take action on it. So the question is how do you apply this? Let me give you some final thoughts. First is this: be faithful and leave a godly legacy Hey, have some fun with your kids today, if you have some children that love to play in the snow. Make some good memories. Take pictures. Do something that they'll remember for the rest of their life. But more than making memories and taking pictures, get into the Word of God with them. Teach them the Word. Show them how to live the Christian life. Be a faithful father, faithful husband. Faithful mom, faithful wife, faithful grandparent, leave a godly legacy. Two, make the truth that is entrusted to you your own. If your parents are pouring their life into you, don't drop the ball. If your youth pastor is pouring his life in you, if your pastor is pouring his life in you, if you have somebody that's trying to mentor you and disciple you, if you have a coach who's trying to teach you, Don't drop the ball. Take what's given and use it for the glory of God. And thirdly, be a thankful person. Remember the people that have invested their life in you. Remember those who've shown kindness to you. And don't ever forget it. Be grateful for it. Well, that's what I have for you. Stay safe. We hope to see you soon. I do want to mention this. We don't know what the roads are going to be like. We don't know how the conditions are going to be. But it looks like what we'd like to try to do on Tuesday is just have a fun, a fun type of uh activity as a church family. Elvonton Park is really close to the church, and so we like to go to Elvonton and go sledding at 3 o'clock. It's going to be really cold in the evening. And uh and then after that, uh gather at the fellowship hall. Some of you don't have any problems in our building, some of the power is good and all those things. And um and just have chili and hot chocolate and have a hymn saying, a time of fellowship together. So we're we're gonna put out some information based on the conditions, but that is what we hope to do. And Lord willing, you'll hear more about that Monday night and then maybe on Tuesday. All right? Have a blessed rest of your day And if you have any questions, don't hesitate to reach out and spend some time as a family in prayer, in the word, and encouraging one another. Have a blessed day. Bye now.