But this evening we're going to be in 1 Kings chapter eleven, 1 Kings chapter 11, and we'll look at Solomon's heart and how it turned away from the Lord. Solomon's heart turned away from the Lord. And while I read the text this evening, I'd like you to think along with as I'm reading lessons that we can learn how not to turn our hearts away from the Lord. So as I read through, you read along with me and follow how we can learn, how we cannot turn our hearts from the Lord. So you can follow along as I begin reading in 1 Kings 11, starting with verse 1. But King Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Molabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians, and Hittites Of the nations concerning which the Lord said unto the children of Israel, ye shall not go in unto them, neither shall they come in unto you. For surely they will turn away your heart after their gods. Solomon, clave unto these in love. And he had 700 wives, princesses, 300 concubines, and his wives turned away his heart For it came to pass when Solomon was old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods And his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God , as was the heart of David his father For Solomon went after Astaroth and the goddess of the Zidonians, and after Milcom, and the abominations of the Ammonites, and Solomon did evil in the sight of the Lord. and went not fully after the Lord, as did David his father. Then did Solomon build a high place For Chemosh and Abomination of Moab in the hill that is before Jerusalem, and for Moloch, and the abomination of the children of Amnon. And likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burnt incense and sacrificed unto their gods. And the Lord was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned from the Lord God of Israel, which had appeared unto him twice. And he had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods, but he kept not that which the Lord commanded. Wherefore, the Lord said unto Solomon, For as much as this is done of thee, thou hast not kept my covenant and my statutes, which I have commanded thee. I will surely rend the kingdom from thee, and will give it to thy servant. Notwithstanding, in the days I will not do it for David thy father's sake, but I will rend it out of the hand of thy son Howbeit, I will not rend away all the kingdom, but will give one tribe to thy son for David, my servant's sake, and for Jerusalem's sake, which I have chosen. Father, we thank you so much for this text and reading about Solomon, sometimes as we open your word. We are just reminded that these are men and women that just have their lives recorded for all of mankind, for all eternity, to read and to remember. Could we read through these not to shame other people, but to learn lessons from them, that this word could be written to us, to glean, to spare us from sin? And to learn how much we ought to love you, would all of us here just have our hearts and minds tender to your word And help us not to stray from you as we ought to love you first and foremost in our life. Would you do the work in the hearts and lives of your children for the honor and glory of our risen Savior Jesus Christ? We pray. Amen. So first we're going to see verses 1 through 3. Solomon's wives turned his heart from the Lord. And like I said, as we work through this, it is good for us to learn lessons that we would not turn our heart. from the Lord. So we're going to see it says, but King Solomon loved many strange women. And it starts out with But there, but King Solomon. And I just want to remind us, first of all, he had just received an abundance of blessings in some of the verses before. Wealth. Fame, people seeking him for wisdom. So I just want to read a couple of verses from the towards the end of 1 Kings 10 just to remind us a little bit of the setting of what's going on in Solomon's life and to see where he's heading toward. So in 1023 through 25, it says, so King Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches. and for wisdom, and all the earth sought to Solomon to hear his wisdom, which God hath put to his heart. And they brought every man his presence, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and garments, and armor, and spices, and horses and mules, a rate year by year. So what is happening as king is now, or as Solomon is now king? He is wise. He is wealthy. People are flocking him from all over the world. Bringing him gifts. So his wealth and his wisdom is uh his wisdom is being seen by all, and his wealth is just increasing. It's just continuing to grow. And I think even Pastor made a comment this morning. Sometimes it seems like you have high places, and then all of a sudden there's a cliff. So here, Solomon, it's like he's it's like nothing can go wrong, everything is going right, everything's going wonderful for the most part, especially from a nationalist perspective. No sooner do we get reading things like this , we get to chapter 11. And it says, but Solomon loved. You would think by this point he would have it be penned that Solomon loved the Lord and continued to grow in wisdom and his love and fear of God, but it is not what we see. What we begin to see here is that he was beginning to turn. He was beginning to drift away. Because of his wealth and his wisdom, you get to grow a little independent. From God. And this is why Christ even mentioned about the rich man, it's harder for rich man to enter the kingdom of heaven Because if you don't have a want, if you don't have a need, why do you need a savior? What's the purpose of a God if I have everything I need? And people keep coming to me for wisdom. They're asking me everything. It can get very easy at a place like this. Solomon was just a man. It can get very easy. And his focus began to turn. I want to read a couple proverbs. As I was reading through this passage of scripture over the last several days, I picked some proverbs that Solomon was used to pen. That I think he would have learned greatly from personal experience. But in Proverbs 11, 28 it says, He that trusteth in his riches shall fall. But the righteous shall flourish as a branch. Do you think for a moment that Solomon may have been starting to trust in his riches? It's very likely. I mean, how would you not? I mean, I can't imagine being in Solomon's shoes and having more money than you can spend. I have never had that problem. I don't think any of us have had that problem. But God is using him to say, hey, he that trusts on the riches, you know what? You can fall. Why? Because you are loving something in place of God. Another one in Proverbs 13, 7. There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing. There is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches, coming from the pen of Solomon. Riches are not everything. Wisdom is not everything. So Solomon, in this state of being very wise and very wealthy It 's very likely he was beginning to trust in something, whether it's wealth here, his prosperity, his own wisdom. God was starting to take second, third, maybe fourth place in his life. So chapter 11 sadly starts out with but Solomon. So he had all these abundance of blessings. And then verse 1, but King Solomon loved many strange women. Now, I know some young boys in here might think all women and girls are strange. That's not exactly what it means here, okay. But when it says many strange women, the idea is they were outside of Israel. They were foreigners, okay, aliens to the nation of Israel. That is the idea. So he began to love that which he should not allow himself. And then we read the example together with the daughter of Pharaoh, the women, the Moabites and the Ammonites, and he starts listening to all these other nations. So Solomon loved many strange women. And his temptation began to turn in relationships. Instead of a relationship with God, his heavenly father, it began to turn to the ladies. So you got wealth. And you've got women, what is it that can cause us to start to turn? What is it that takes the place of the Lord in our life? Sin most often begins very slow. It's not like you just wake up one day and you're like, oh, I'm gonna rob and kill and steal and I'm just gonna do all this stuff right now, today. There's usually anger that's building, there's frustration, there's past history with a sibling or relative or whatever it is, co-worker, okay? But these things build over time And it takes us slowly, we're tempted to love other things in God's place And Solomon would have been aware of Deuteronomy 6, and thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart. Notice heart, it's been used six or seven times in just these first several verses. Of 1 Kings 11. But you're to love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul and with all thy might. And these words, which I command you this day, shall be in thine heart. Heart. I can't help but in Sunday school this morning we were going through Romans 7. And Paul, the commandment that got him was thou shalt not covet. And I think Paul realized that he was very good at keeping law, external circumstances. I can look good. I can wash my hands before meals. I can keep all these man-made laws But when it came to understanding that his inward was not righteous and he began to covet, it's more than just the externals. It's matters of the heart. That is, I think, what got Paul. That is how we're supposed to love the Lord first and foremost. Solomon also would have been familiar with Deuteronomy 17. These are probably some that he wishes weren't there, or that he could just use a permanent marker to get rid of or something. But in Deuteronomy 17, 15 it says it says, Thou shalt in any wise set him a king over thee, whom the Lord thy God shall choose. One from among thy brethren shalt thou set a king over thee. Thou mayest not set a stranger over thee, which is not thy brother. Verse 17. Neither shall he Multiply wives to himself. That his heart turn not away, neither shall be any greatly multiplied to himself silver and gold. This is exactly what's happening to Solomon. He's multiplying to himself women. He's multiplying to himself gold and silver. And then it gets worse. In verses 2 and 3, it continues on with things that he shouldn't be doing. He says, Neither shall they come in unto you in the middle of verse 2, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods. And Solomon clave unto these in love. He was cleaving to these things. He was turning to them. The idea behind this word turn is to stretch out, to bend down, to turn aside. He is turning from God to these gods, directly turning away from them. I've met several teens and just people in general, and they're praying for that special somebody. But if only they can get them saved. They're perfect in every way. They're just not a believer. And I just sit there and I scratch my balding head. And I sit there and think to myself, why are you allowing yourself to love that which you should never love? Why are you allowing yourself to get close that which you should not even be near? And I think it's because maybe we get caught up with following your heart and maybe something by Disney. I don't know. It's possible. Because it always ends happily ever after and always right off into sunset. But you know the problem with those? You never see what happens after that. I find that very interesting. Just kind of curiosity in my mind. But here, we begin looking at relationships, and these young people begin to think, wait a minute. I love this person. And they begin to think that wait, love is just something that you fall into I really think love is more of a choice. What are you going to choose to love? Are you going to choose to love the Lord? Are you going to choose to love his ways? Solomon here is choosing to leave the God that he knows, and he is turning away from God to follow these ladies. And what happens is if he loves these wives , What we're going to start seeing is he's going to start loving what they love because he loves them. So going back to a young person , Young anyone under forty, sure, why not? We'll be young Keep in mind, if they are not saved, if they are not living for the Lord, and I I've I've told my children Maybe I'm a little bit picky. I just don't want them to go to a church and just attend. Does their pastor know their name? Does he serve in their church? Or is he just a pew warmer? But anyways, continuing on So he is stretching out, he is bending down, he is turning aside from God, and he is cleaving unto them to stick fast, to hold tight. And he knows better, because also in Deuteronomy 7 it says, Neither shalt thou make marriages with them. Thy daughter thou shalt not give unto his son Nor his daughter thou shalt give unto thy son, for they will turn away, listen, for they will turn away thy son from following me, that they may serve other gods So will the anger of the Lord be kindled against you and destroyed thee suddenly. God in Deuteronomy is telling us this will happen. If someone loves the world and you begin to love them, guess what you're going to start loving? The world. This is what he is saying. They will turn you away. You don't evangelistic dating is not a good idea. I'm going to start dating them so that they can come to know Christ. The problem is the idea of dating or getting close to someone is someone that you should have a lot of things already in common with So don't date them to save them. If that's your temptation, have someone else do it. Okay? It'll save you a lot of heartache in the future. Alright, we must get going. So Solomon's wives turned his heart from the Lord, verses 1 through 3. And then we're going to see in verses 4 through 8 that Solomon worshipped. Solomon's worship turned from the Lord. Look at this. And it came to pass when Solomon was old that his wives turned away his heart after other gods. And his heart was not perfect with the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. I find it very interesting. As I kept reading this passage, it says, when Solomon was old. And I think sometimes we get in our minds that as we get older, it gets easier not to sin. And that sin won't affect me anymore. Or if I get married, this sin will go away. Or if I just have this problem with my parents or whatever. When we get old, your sin is still with you. It just doesn't magically go away. Solomon had wealth. He had more women than he had about a thousand too many there. No wonder he 's had problems. I really for a tape vest when Solomon was old. The point's when you're old, sometimes you think, oh, it just goes away. Mm-mm. He should have known better. But he didn't. He was allowing his love to turn from his God to his wives and then to his wives god to his wives' gods. And that made it not perfect or mature or complete, as was David's. His heart was going hard after these things. Wealth, wisdom, age, marriage. It doesn't make things go away. His heart was not perfect. You know, our hearts can be prone to wander. I like that part of that song. And we're familiar with Exodus 34. For thou shalt not worship no other God. For the Lord whose name is jealous. This is Exodus 34, 14, is jealous. He is a jealous God. Lest I'll make him a covenant with the inhabitants of the land. Do they go whoring after other gods? And do sacrifice unto other gods. And one call thee, and thou eat of the sacrifice, and thou shalt take of the daughters of thy sons, and the daughters of whoring after their gods, and make thy sons to go whoring after their gods No one, I don't think Solomon had the plan of, you know what, I'm gonna marry these women, and one day I'm gonna build high places, I'm gonna worship their gods with them. I don't think that's what happened. I don't think When the drunk or an addict takes that first drink or that first smoke or whatever it is, their plan at that time, I don't think, is to become I'm gonna be a hardcore addict, I'm gonna beat my wife and lose everything someday That's my plan. I don't think that's how it works. What happens is it's gradual. They might be giving to peer pressure at the moment. Solomon had one wife from Egypt. And before we just pick on Solomon too much, I really just would like to say Solomon culturally was doing what any other wealthy king would do at his day. He's making political agreements. He's aligning, protecting his people, so he's taking these wives and these princesses to protect his land, to make things more secure, to have better relationships with the nations around him. It can be smart But a smart move is not always a godly move. So just keep that in mind with Solomon here. Culturally, he wasn't really doing anything wrong. I mean he's the wealthiest man. Why can't he have wives? That was the thinking of the day. But the challenge we have is it was leading him away, and he began to worship. And you look at verses five and six. and it names the gods that he was serving. He went after he was going after these strong, uh these strange gods in verse 5. He says, and Solomon did evil in verse 6. And he knew these things because he was going after it's not just he was building these things, it's like he was personally. Can you imagine the pressure of a wife coming to you? Do you know hubby? You know, I would literally like to go home because my gods, they had their own temple, and now I have to travel all the way back and you know you've all this fine place here and i i really tr I really love you and i'd like to stick around closer to here all right we'll build you a temple I mean if that happens day after day. And your 700th wife is doing that, and your 800th wife is doing that, and your 900th wife is doing that. You think you would just give it. I think that's what happened. It was just small progressive steps. Working on Solomon to give away just a little bit more, taking his love and turning if you his heart turned away from God. It just didn't happen overnight. He reigned for about 40 years. And when he was old, this has been going on for a long time. And just a description here. In Leviticus 18, it says, And thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire of Molech, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God, I am the Lord. This is one of the gods there. Verse 6, Solman did evil in the sight of the Lord. And I think he just fell to the pressure and the fear of man a little bit. In Proverbs 29, this is another one of those. There was a lot of Proverbs I could have used. I just chose chose to pick a couple of them. But in Proverbs 29, 25, it says The fear of man bringeth a snare, but whoso putteth his trust in the Lord shall be safe. He was turning his trust from God. to man, or in this case, his wives, in this case his riches, his wealth, and these women. What is it that we're turning our love towards? What is beginning to creep into our life? Oh, I'm just on social media to keep up with news. And before you know it, you're finding all your friends from high school, from college, and you're trying to figure out what their kids are doing and it's become like a spy game, and before you know it, hours have gone by, days are going by, and you just get used to doing it. Whatever it is, and you begin to take that love and it begins to shift. Slowly over time. And what happens is you're no longer at that first drink. You are way far. You don't realize how far you've gone. One step at time. It had turned completely. I don't think when Solomon first married Pharaohs or any of these women that he had decided this is what I'm going to do. I'm going to turn from God one day because I'm making this choice. We need to learn the lesson now, today, and stay sensitive and realize these lessons of turning our love, anything that takes the place of God in our life. And then he began to build high places. Look in verse 7. Then did Solomon build high place. And he lists several things there. And then verse 8. And likewise he did for all his strange wives. That's a big building project. But you know what this is doing also? Because of the strange God and his love, what you love you will spend time with. What you love, you will spend money on. You will invest in. What is he doing He is taking time and money and effort towards that which he loves, toward all his strange wives. And you know what happens? Once he started building the first high place or this first temple or wherever with the first wife Guess what the other 600 wives are going to start saying? Where's mine? So here he is, reaching to the back pocket. All right, which ones do you want? It's taking time, it's taking money If you want to know what you love, look at your checking account. What are you doing with your time? That's conviction. What's taking your time and your money? That's what's happening to Solomon right here. For all his strange wives, massive building projects. And his heart is being turned away from the Lord. Slowly, with each marriage, with each year that goes by, and after you start a little bit, And you sin a little bit, ah, I've already done this. It's not so bad. You can do it again. It's not so bad. And then again, and then again, and then you're in so deep you don't even recognize how far you've gone. And in verse eight, I was also thinking of this verse. When it talks about strange wives, and he did this for all of them, and they're burning incense and sacrifice unto their gods. I was reminded of this verse in Proverbs, chapter 31, and verse 30. Favor is deceitful, and beauty is vain. But a woman that feareth the Lord, she shall be praised. that fears the Lord, not these false gods, not desires these things from a wealthy man, but a woman that feareth the Lord, also in Proverbs. So we've seen Solomon's wives turned his heart from the Lord. We've seen how Solomon's worship turned from the Lord, how he worshiped Then we're going to see that Solomon is warned of the anger of the Lord in verse 9. And the Lord was angry with Solomon. Why? Why is the Lord getting so angry at Solomon? Because his heart was turned from the Lord God of Israel. And the little added note which appeared unto him twice. What happened to him twice? Remember in 1 Kings 3, verse 5? Remember he was in Gibeon and the Lord appeared unto him in the dream, and God asked him, What shall I give you? And Solomon just begins to explain, oh, you're a great creator, God. This is a wonderful , and he just praises him for who he is. And then by the end he says, I want to be able to discern between good and bad. At that moment, I don't think he's planning on serving other gods. He slowly began one step at a time, a little sin, a little bit more, and the turn was gradual. One step at a time. What happened the second time? In first Kings nine, the Lord appeared unto Solomon a second time as he appeared unto him at Gideon. And the Lord said unto him, I have heard thy prayer and thy supplication. It's an answer to prayer. That thou hast made before me. I have hallowed this house, just celebrating building the God's house, a dwelling place for God to be amongst his people. At this time, I don't think Solomon is planning on turning from that God. He was very excited. This is a great place in his life. And like Pastor said this morning, there was a cliff coming. But it's almost like with the cliff of Solomon. When you look back, he was slowly, he found a path to just wind down the end of this this cliff here. He was just walking down it. He didn't have these plans at the beginning But it began to turn. And God was angered. And we know God is jealous. And he was Solomon was used of the Lord to show really the wisdom of God and the wealth of God in in serving and obeying him, and he was using Israel as you can come and see this great amazing God and creator. And we look at the Queen of Sheba and all these other people, they some of them were like, wow, this is amazing. Look what God can do. But as soon as you remove the God and say, Look what I have done, whether it's wealth, wisdom, anything that takes the place of God, we need to be careful. And then he kept not that which was commanded. Verse 10. And he commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods, but kept not which the Lord had commanded. If we just obeyed what we know right now, it would change our lives. We don't have to learn some new concepts. What's some secret truth? What's the secret success of being a super Christian? Obey God today That's a secret. Just obey God today. If you know to do it, do it. And to do it not to him that is sin, you just obey God. Solomon is not learning anything new here. God is not changing directions. God is not making us something new or something crazy. He's frustrated. He is angry at Solomon because he knew better. He says, I've been appeared unto you twice, asking anything that you want, and then another one answering the prayer because you just completed the temple. And he was angry as a father would be to a son that is completely turning to him because he knew better. Being the oldest of three. I have two younger brothers. I always got in trouble for everything. Because I'm the oldest. If I got in trouble, I got in trouble. If my younger brothers got in trouble, I got in trouble. Why? Because you're the oldest and you know better. What? They did it, but you should know that. I'm like, I feel like saying, am I my brother's keeper? But then this, I knew better. We all know better If we just obey what we know right now, not dig for some secret crazy truth out there, oh, there's got to be something other to help me. Just obey. I've said before to the teens, you know what the God's will is? Get up, make your bed, brush your teeth, go to school, listen to your parents. Guess what happens tomorrow? Get up, wake up, brush your teeth, make your bed, obey your parents, do your school. The bigger problems will work themselves out if you just obey what you know to do. That's I think in part why he's so angry. He did not keep that which he was commanded, and he knew these things. We see these verses of 1 Kings 6 and 1 Kings 9. He knew better. And the Lord said in Psalm in verse eleven, He said, For as much as I've done of thee, and thou hast not kept the covenant and my statutes that I've commanded thee. I will surely rend the kingdom from thee, and will give it unto thy servant. Notwithstanding in the days I will not do it for David thy father's sake, but will rend it out of the hand of thy son. Howbeit, I will not rend away all the kingdom. But will give it one tribe to my son David's sake and for Jerusalem's sake, which I have chosen. What we see here is even in God's anger and his frustration with Solomon, he's kind and gracious. He is very gracious. He says, Solomon, this is what's coming. But because of your father and what I said, I'm going to hold back. But your son 's seed is only going to be a part of the kingdom. And when you read the rest of this chapter, we're not going to take the time tonight to go go through it all. But when you read through, you can see how where Jeroboam and Rahobam and how all this plan comes out. And Rahoboam, Solomon's son, is the one that he ends up getting just one tribe. And Jeroboam ends up getting two. And an interesting thing is when we s when you start looking at the bigger picture of the consequence of Solomon's choice, Solomon started inviting all these false gods and all these things through his wives into Israel. And then right after that, when the kingdom splits, you have Jeroboam. And Jeroboam becomes the standard of doing evil for all the rest of the kings after that. They did evil as did Jeroboam. Well where did he learn that? Probably from Solomon and the wives. Now I'm not saying Solomon's to blame all for that because the word of God gives Jeroboam the credit for it. But the consequence here, even in this, he is gracious towards Solomon and says, I'm going to hold back. But now you're gonna be your son is gonna be greatly limited. And obviously to keep the kingly line all the way pointing to Christ is ultimately in picture two. But what all happened here? Solomon's heart began to turn away from the Lord. What lessons are we going to learn so that we don't turn our hearts as us as individuals? Is it wealth? Is it wisdom? Is it trusting in something other than God? Anything other than God? What is it in your heart, as you were to think about it, that could start turning you away from loving God? It could be your wife, it could be your children, whatever starts taking the place. And this media, social, internet, I mean it's easy to get distracted on any of those things. The newest thing that comes out. Everyone's got to have it. Is that going to take you from God? Why am I doing this? Why am I going to make this decision in my life? Why am I going to move here? Why am I going to get that job? Why am I going to hang out with this person? Who am I let my kids hang out with? Do those person know the Lord? Are they going to give drop standards because they want to get closer in this relationship? Because that's what Solomon did. It was relationships with others that he began to compromise, that began to turn his heart. What is it with you and I? What can we learn so that we don't turn our heart? from the Lord our God. Father, we are so thankful and privileged to come before you this evening to learn these lessons from Solomon. One who, humanly speaking, really had it all. A part of the pinnacle of even Israel's history. Even in his blessings, he had wealth. He got distracted by strange wives He began to build high places, and before you know it, he was worshiping with them. Father, would we be careful? To not let anything take the place of worship from you in our life Would we be very careful of taking even those first steps? And Lord, even at the end, when Psalm said he was old, But even as he reflected when he was yet older, the conclusion of the whole matter was to fear you and to keep your commandments. Could this be true Be true of us as well, as we pray this done to you as individuals. And we do this through Christ's name, amen