Picking up our study in 1 Kings chapter number 3. 1 Kings chapter 3. We're going to look at the portion of scripture where Solomon asks for wisdom. Solomon asks for wisdom. I'm not going to read the whole chapter, most of it, or about half of it, but I'm going to start in verse 3 of 1 Kings, chapter 3. Read several verses, and then you can just follow along with your Hearts with your eyes as we listen to God's word. 1 Kings 3. 3 And Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statutes of David his father. Only he sacrificed and burnt incense in high places And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that he was great, for that was the great high place. A thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon that altar. In Gibeon, the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask what I shall give thee. And Solomon said, Thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father, great mercy, according as he walked before thee. In truth and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee. And thou hast kept for him this great kindness, That thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day. And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father. And I am but a little child. I know not how to go out or to come in. And thy servant is in the midst of thy people, which thou hast chosen, a great people that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude. Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad. For who is able to judge this thy so great a people? And the speech pleased the Lord that Solomon asked this thing And God said unto him, Because thou asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life. Neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies, but hast asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment Behold, I have done according to thy words. Lo, I have given thee a wise and understanding heart So that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee. And then skip down to verse twenty-eight, the last verse of the chapter. And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had judged, and they feared the king, for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him To do judgment. Let us pray. Father, we are coming before you with the word opened, with our hearts and minds tender. To receive that which you have for us as your people. We are thankful for Solomon and for what he requested, how it was requested, and that could be an example for us. Father, we just thank you so much for your word that we can read it, enjoy it, and do our best to apply as you've given to each one of us your word. And to work in our hearts and lives. And we thank you and come to you through the gracious and glorious name of Jesus Christ we pray. Amen. So Solomon asks for wisdom. We're going to look at verses 3 through 10, how the Lord appeared to Solomon. The Lord appeared to Solomon. And as I was studying this, it's a large text of scripture, looking a whole chapter. And I almost just got right into it starting at verse 6. Plus my Bible has a little divider right there, not that that means anything. But as I was reading and studying a chapter, I thought, I've got to back up and go to verse 3. And you'll see why here soon. So in verses 3 through 10, we'll see how Solomon loved the Lord in verse 3. Solomon loved the Lord. And Solomon loved the Lord, walking in the statues of David his father, only he sacrificed and burnt. incense in the high places. You know, something that's interesting about Solomon here is at first I think it's very important that it starts off by saying that he loved the Lord here. And going back a little bit in Second Samuel We see that Solomon was very special for many different reasons. But in 2 Samuel 12, and starting in verse 24 , We read that David comforted Bathsheba his wife and went under her and lay with her and she bare a son and called his name Solomon. And the Lord loved him. This was very gracious, very kind of the Lord doing this with all the circumstances leading up to it. Then in verse 25, this is very interesting. And he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet. And he called his name Jedediah because of the Lord. And that name Jedediah means Beloved of the Lord. It's the only time we'll see in all scripture. So according to Nathan, he gave Solomon this name, Jedediah, which literally means beloved of the Lord, to beloved of the Lord. So very interesting when you look at the birth of Solomon, him coming into existence as the son of David and Bathsheba, he was loved of the Lord, and so said Nathan the prophet here back in 2 Samuel. And what is great is Solomon we see now in 1 Kings 3 is returning that love to the Lord. I think this is hugely important, especially as we study And get to verses uh following, especially verse 5. Because as he loves the Lord, it will determine what he's going to ask. But later in verse 3, we see how he's walking in the statutes of David his father. And just to give some background on this, uh David had encouraged Solomon several times as David's life was waning, and he wanted to um encourage him. He wanted to give him some last advice from one king to another, from a father to a son. And so we read this in 1 Kings chapter 2. Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die. And that he charged Saul and his son, saying, I go the way of the earth. That's a nice way of saying I'm going to die. Be thou strong, therefore, and show thyself a man, and keep the charge of the Lord thy God, and to walk in his ways and to keep his statutes and his commandments and his judgments and his testimonies as is written in the law of Moses, that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest. And whithersoever thou turnest thyself, that the Lord may continue hit his word, which he spake concerning me, saying, If Thy children take heed to their way, to walk before me in the truth with all their heart, and with all their soul, and with and shall not fail thee, said he, a man on the throne of Israel You have a father here in his last days challenging, encouraging Solomon to walk in his ways, to follow God with everything that he is and all of his being. And what we find here in verse 3 of chapter 3 is Solomon, yes, he loved the Lord, and he's walking in the statutes of David his father. He took to heart the instruction that David was giving him. Now we can say a lot here about a father and a son. And I think if there's a lot of relationships that are lacking, yet husbands and wives, but fathers and sons. I don't know what it is working with teenagers. Sometimes I think parents can get intimidated by their own teens. Sometimes they don't know how to handle them because they're not really a kid anymore, but they're not quite an adult. They're this really tweenage. They don't know what to do. But here, David is encouraging his son in his last days. You need to follow the Lord. After all, we are training him in the way that they should go. We are training our children. to love and to serve God without us to be able to do it on their own. And that is what David is doing. And Solomon heeded the advice. Took the advice of his father. And a little more convicting part is Solomon is doing his best to walk in the ways of David, his father. He is learning from his father. Not all that was good. Sometimes he learned what not to do But yet to do his best, to walk in the ways of his father, that is very convicting to me as a father. And that is what Psalm is doing. So right there, dad, dads. Can we give advice that one, our sons would listen to? That two, my dad was doing his best, although he was not perfect, he had his faults, but he was really doing his best, and I could see that he loved the Lord. Can this be said about us? The leader of our homes? The one who loved our wives as Christ loves us of the church, the one who are training our children to walk in God's ways and not just mimic our dreams through them and live our child well live our lives through our children. This is what David is trying to do. He is trying to walk in the statutes, in the ways of his father David. That to me is very incredible. And then we see in 1 Chronicles 29, 28, verse 9, And thou, Solomon, my son. Know thou the God of thy father and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind For the Lord searcheth all hearts and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts. If thou seek him, he will be found of thee. But If thou forsake him, he will cast thee off forever. Also a warning: walk in God's ways. Love him. He knows your heart. Just be open with him. Love him. When you make mistakes , David was great at repenting, at turning and admitting and recognizing what he had done. Sometimes as fathers, we want to get macho. I don't make mistakes. We try and erase them. We try and push our way through it to be a man. Show thyself a man. A man doesn't make mistakes. I don't cry. Okay. Or you can admit when you make mistakes, because you will, teach the lessons that you learned from the Lord through your own mistakes, and be a blessing to the next generation. There are warnings. I know many parents that have, I don't know what it is, especially with dating and relationships. Oh, I can't tell my kids not to do that. I'm like Do you see what it's doing to your children? I can't say anything, because that's what I did when I was their age. I'm like, that's a little bit more reason why you can say not to do it. I have seen this many times. And inside I'm just like, it's okay. Tell them. But that makes you to be a little bit more vulnerable. Wait, you mean you make mistakes too? Yeah. I did what you're doing and I wish I wouldn't. Or I wish I would have done it this way. It's okay. I think that they'll say that you're honest and then you want to guide them in the way of the Lord. I that's what David is saying. Here's warnings. You've seen my life, the good and the bad. Serve the Lord. And that's all that's ultimately the comfort we have as a parent is listen, I'm not training you necessarily to follow me. Yes, follow me like I follow Christ, as Paul said But the bigger picture is I want you to follow God and his word, his statutes. Solomon, do that. It will spare you lots of injury and pain and suffering, as I'm sure you well know. So Solomon is doing his best, and we see by verse four that he is going to uh to the high place. This is just the big place. This is a place, I mean he's gonna do a thousand burnt offerings. upon an altar. So he has to go to the biggest one, the area. And that's what he's doing. And we see that this was set up a a cross reference to 2 Chronicles 1. 3. So Solomon, all the congregation with him. were in the high place that was at Gibeon. For there was the tabernacle of the congregation of God, which Moses the servant of the Lord had made in the wilderness. So Solomon is doing his best to serve the Lord. You give what you have. It was kind of like the message this morning in the point where you want to be a good stewardship of what you have. Solomon, now as a king, is wealthier than the average guy. Some guys bring a bullock or a lamb or a turtle dove, depending on what they could afford. But as a king, he's going for a thousand. Because that's what he can do as an offering of thanks and praise to Lord. So that is what he is doing. And while he is doing that, We get to verse 5. And while he's there, the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night, and God said, Ask what I shall give thee. Now this is the very part that I wanted to emphasize, the fact that he loved the Lord and that he needs to walk in God's ways. Because by the time you get to verse 5 here, this is where you can get excited. You're thinking, oh, how cool would that be if God came to me and he asked of me what I want. Oh, this is like wishing you pull on that star This is like getting that genie. You know, you're rubbing that bottle to get your three wishes. Oh, you only get one wish. Okay, well I know what my first wish is gonna be to get more wishes, okay? And so you get all excited about what is God gonna give me. Here's the question I have for you You get all excited. And I want you to think for a moment. What is something you would ask for? Don't say it out loud, please. What is something that you would really want? Anything. Sky's the limit. Blank check. It's already signed. By God. What do you want? What you love is what you're gonna ask for. Did you ask for money? Did you ask for a better sibling? Better parents? Okay. I want that car. What you love is what you just asked for. You know what Solomon loved? Solomon loved the Lord. And he understood the weight. And had seen both the good and the bad. He saw the challenges of being a king of a nation. He understood I need God's help. He loved the Lord. So what does he ask for? We're going to find out what he asks for. But first, before he asks We're going to see his humble response. In verses 6 through 8, Solomon's humble response He's gonna, first in verse 6, and Solomon said, see, he didn't even jump to what he wanted right away I mean some of you immediately that said whatever you want blank check whatever it is some of you've got like 10 different things man I gotta narrow it down to one He's not even requesting immediately. Oh, I I know it, and I'm gonna ask him. He is pausing. He's reflecting. He comes with a very humble attitude with almost the overwhelmed of responsibility that is now before me. So let's look at this. with his humble response. He says, thou hast showed unto thy servant David, my father, so he recognizes my dad served you. Dad, is that true? Thou hast sowed thy servant David, my father, great mercy. Yes, he got a lot of mercy. According as he walked before thee in truth, he was really trying to walk in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart, a man after God's own heart Don't look on the height of his stature, but God knows his heart, that he is with thee, and thou hast kept him in great kindness. You were very kind to him. That thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne as it is this day. I feel overwhelmed with with the blessing of how you have been to my father, and now I am the son that is sitting in his place. And he continues in verse 7. And he says, I am basically I am young and with very little experience. He's not some guy coming in, I deserved the throne, as we've seen trying to take the throne from David. That's not Solomon's attitude. He says, I am young. I don't know what I'm doing. I've never been a king before. And I'm trying to rule all these people Look at verse 7. And now, O Lord my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David, my father. He recognizes you have put me in my father's place. He has some big shoes. Well maybe not literally. I imagine David wasn't the biggest guy, but he is looking at his father as this mighty warrior, this great king, and now he has to fill those shoes. Everyone's going to compare me to my dad. Everyone's going to compare me to what I could and could not do. And he's saying, I need your help. I don't even know what I'm doing. And you put me in his place. And he says at the end, I am but a little child. I'm a young man. I know not how to go out or to come in. I have no idea what I'm doing. And David would have agreed with this in part. I'm going to share a couple of verses, both how David recognized his youth, but then also how David recognized there's something special about this young man. He is And shows a little bit of wisdom for his age. And then we're going to see this. So there's admitting of his youth and inexperience, but then also he was a young man that was showing great wisdom for his age already. He was ahead of his time. So we'll see these. We're going to first look at 1 Chronicles 29. 1. Furthermore, David the king said unto all the congregation, Solomon my son. Whom alone God hath chosen is yet young and tender, and the work is great. 1 Kings 2. 9. So he's admitting that he's young. He's got a lot before him. 1 Kings 2 9. Now therefore, hold him not guiltless, for thou art a wise man. This is some of his final instructions. Trust these guys. When you get the chance, get rid of these guys. That's basically what he's saying here. For thou art a wise man and knowest what thou oughtest to do unto him. But his whore head being down to He's saying get rid of these guys, keep these guys, trust these guys, get rid of and the whore head, just idea of an old man, a gray head. That's what what it means. I'm I'm on the bald type, so I don't have to worry too much about the gray. But that's what it means there with his whore head. So he's saying, listen, Solomon, you understand. You're a wise young man. You understand these concepts. You understand these things. So at one point he's saying, yes, you're young and tender. And you've got a lot before you. But at other time he's saying, hey, for your age, Solomon. You are wise, you can figure it out. And I like I like to put this next verse. I often put it on the team calendar Because I want them to understand this. It's 1 Timothy 4. 12. It says, Let no man despise thy youth, but be thou no example of believers in word, in conversation, and charity and spirit and faith and purity. Don't let your age stop you from serving God. The fact that you feel overwhelmed and undeserving, you're probably in a good place. God can use that guy. It's the proud that God has problems with. It's the humble. It's those that feel like they can't be used. Those are the ones that God is going to use. Paul thought he was the chiefest of sinners. God took a shepherd boy and made him a great king God can use those who recognize who they're not and who God is. And hey, you could be young. It's okay to serve God in your youth. Solomon is going to recognize this. And then also in verse 8, he says, And thy servant is in the midst of thy people, which thou hast chosen. A great people that cannot be numbered nor counted for a multitude. Here is Solomon recognizing his youth, recognizing his inexperience. And he is saying, God, you chose these people. They're your people and they're a great number. This is a lot that I have to manage. God, I I need some help here. There is just no way I can do this with who I am and what is before me. The task almost seems too great for such a young man. And God, these are your people. You chose them. I think that's a great attitude to have. Because even if we break it down, I know this is in the context of a king, but we've already talked about a father. Really? Our wife, our children are unloan to us from God. If they believed in Christ's every, they're God's children. It's a blessing. It's a heritage from the Lord to have children. It's a blessing. They're not ours. They're God's. That's what Psalm is understanding here. These are not my people. I'm not a great king. These are my subjects. They will give unto me. And well he did tax them, but I think his perspective, but these are God's people, is very good. Then we get to verse 9. We get to verse 9 and 10 where we see Solomon's request. He finally gets to his request. So after all of that, he's already asked him in verse 5. And he's overwhelmed, he's thankful, he's humble, he he's just looking at the responsibility, and he recognizes His lack thereof of anything that he needs to be a leader. And verse 9, he says, give therefore, because of these things. Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart. And look at it, he says, to judge thy people. These are your people. God help me to discern. I want to have a heart that could understand your ways so I could properly judge and discern your your people. And he continues, the I may discern between good and bad. There are people that will come to the king to try and trick him, to try and persuade him with his wealth and with his position. And try and use that to get personal gain. It's not just, let's see, is this good or is this bad? You know, a lot of times we know what's good and bad most of the time. That's not the hard part. Sometimes there are those who are trying to deceive, there are those throughout selfish gain, and sometimes there are just difficult times to tell good and bad. He says, as king, I need to know. Good, bad. I need to have a discerning heart to be able to judge your people in your ways so that I can be truthful before them So we see an understanding heart to judge God's people in verse 9, to discern between good and bad in verse 9. And in verse 10, this request pleased the Lord. It's like, yeah, I I think that is pleasing to the Lord. But I think it goes all the way back to verse 3. And the humility in between and trying to walk in God's ways. Because God already knows what Psalm is going to ask for. He's been preparing him. That's probably one reason why he asked him. But he's asking for discerning. Good and bad, for a understanding heart. And this obviously pleased the Lord. Would our judgment, would what we desire, if we have a blank check written by God, what would we fill in? And then the question is, whatever you asked for Would God be pleased? When several minutes ago we asked, well what what when I asked, what do you want? Anything, no limit. Whatever it or they, the things that you asked. God, would you be pleased with that? Was I just thinking of myself? What was I thinking Are you pleased? Then we're going to look at verses 11 through 15. The Lord grants Solomon his request. He gives him what he asked for. Let's look at in verse 11. And God said to him, Because thou ask this thing, the wisdom, the discernment, good and bad. And has not asked for thyself. So we're going to look at this through. What did he not ask for? This is obvious, but God points out in his word These are what he could have and did not ask for. The a lot of kings you think, just practically speaking, would have been likely asked, just any leader today or out the past, what's what something that you would like to have if you're run ruling and reigning as a king? Ah, I want a long life. I want to live. Long live the king. That's right. Long live the king. That's what I want. I want to outlive all of you. You could have asked for that. We probably could have asked for that. I want to live forever. Well, maybe in heaven, certainly not on this side of fraternity. As you get older, that makes more sense. Number next. Neither hast thou asked riches for thyself. This is an obvious one. I want money and physical possessions, so I can buy and get whatever I want whenever I desire. That would be common, right? I know none of you asked for money or anything that you could purchase with lots of money. That would be a common thing to ask. But he did not ask for it. He did not ask for riches for himself, nor has asked For the life of thine enemies. He's not asking to be like a military conqueror to wipe out anyone that gets in my way. I'm gonna take them out. He did not ask for any of those three things. He could have He did not. Why? He loved the Lord. He recognized the responsibilities and things that his dad went through. His dad was doing his best to train him to walk in the ways of the Lord. So therefore, he asked something that he knew he needed. He needed help. He needed discernment. So that's what he did not ask for. Verse 12, Behold, I have done according to thy words. Lo, I have given thee a wise and understanding heart, so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee. So basically, Solomon, you're going to be the wisest man that ever is or was. That you would know. That's incredible. That's overwhelming. And then look at this. It's very interesting in verse 13. He says, and I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked. Do you catch that? He's given him what he didn't ask for because he wanted a discerning heart, because he loved the Lord and wanted to serve him. He says, he's given him riches and honor. So there shall not be any kings like unto thee all thy days. It's incredible. And I think it goes back to His love for the Lord and recognizing his responsibility. And in Psalm 84. 11 he says, For the Lord God is a son and shield. The Lord will give thee grace and glory. No good thing will he withhold them from them that walk uprightly. So if you're walking uprightly and you've requested the Lord, this is not a blank check either. When you read this whole psalm, he's talking about being in the house of the Lord, in his tabernacle, and to be in your court. to be in God's presence, to be in God's servants. That's what I want. So God is not going to hold you and be like, oh, you know what? You really want to serve me, but I'm not going to let you. Those desires that you have to serve me as your creator, as your savior, I don't want that. That's kind of what Psalm 84 is saying. It's not this, oh, whatever God gives to me to do, he's gonna give me whatever I want. Well, not exactly. I'd probably not be driving the car that I am. Well, I don't know. It's dependable. I like it. But all that to say. He's saying God desires for you to serve him. He wants you to serve him. And he's demonstrating this through Solomon. And in Solomon, I couldn't help but put some Proverbs in here. Proverbs 1-7, very familiar. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but fools despise wisdom instruction. God using Solomon to pen these words. Also the beginning of Proverbs chapter 2. My son, if thou wilt receive my words and hide my commandments with thee. So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, this is coming from the guy that asked for wisdom, coming from the one who God blessed with great wisdom, that apply thine heart to thine understanding. Yea, if thou criest after knowledge and liftest up thy voice of understanding, if thou seekest her as silver, and searchest ath her for hid treasures, Then thou shalt understand to fear the Lord and find the knowledge of God. This is from Solomon, who personally understood. If you love the Lord, you do your best to follow him, and you ask him, God, help me to know you more. Do you think God is going to stop you from getting to know him more? You could be as close to God as you want to be. God's not going to stop you. Nope, nope, I'm only nope, you can't serve me. You can't do that. That's enough. God desires to serve you and if you have a heart and desire and you love him and you're willing uh in mind and in body to serve him, I don't think he's gonna stop you. And out of God's goodness, he gives them what was not asked for. We saw that riches and honor. He gives them all that. The long life and the whole thing, now the long life is if you walk in the ways. So that's kind of conditional. And then once again, he does offerings in verse 15. Now all that, and we're going to quickly go to the last point here. of the wisdom of God is seen in Psalm in verses 16 through 28. The rest of this chapter, about half of it, is given to this illustration of the wisdom as an example of God's wisdom going through Solomon that he requests and that he asked for. If you love God, you want to follow and walk in his ways, you ask for things God could grant it, this is an example. And then we're going to see how it ends, which I read at the beginning of the message. I'm not going to read all these verses, but basically what happens in verses 16 through 18, you have two harlots that have that live in the same house and they have a baby within about three days of each other. And the long story made short is that one of the babies dies and we see this play out in verses nineteen through twenty three. One of the babies dies and one of the moms does the whole uh you know Sleep swap thing. And they're expecting the one mom is waking up and she goes to nurse her baby and it is dead. And she says, wait a minute. I can't believe this. And as she looks at it through the tears in her eyes, she recognizes, wipes him, and goes, wait a minute, this is not my kid. This is not mine. Now, I will say just briefly, making notes very quickly, I actually thought this happened to us after Julie was born Because I didn't get to see her for very long before you know in the hospital when she's born and they kinda go oh that's cute, you get a couple pictures, okay, and then then they they go away and then I was exhausted. I was like thirty six hours without sleep or whatever, it was horrible. I didn't even give birth and I was exhausted. But then they bring my wife. And then and then they bring her back. Now I'm telling you, we have the pictures to prove this. We'll have to find them. But when they brought Julia back, her skin tone looked a little bit darker, her eyes looked a little bit squinty. And I'm thinking, she almost looks more Asian to me, didn't she? She did. And I would I'm like I'm like, you know that little tag on your ankle and the wrist or wherever they put it? I'm like, look at that. I was like, that says Linda, but I don't know But let me tell you, they gave us the right one. That I do know now. But I was it didn't look like us. I was like I mean, I'm not very dark-skinned myself and my wife is m less than me and I'm I was like, whoa. So I for for a pro brief moment, I think I can relate just briefly. No, it wasn't dead, she wasn't dead. Okay, she's obviously alive. Very much alive But that's a scary thought. They swapped out my kid. And there's a- theirs was the Jay! Yours died. You swapped it. No, I didn't. You switch no! So that's what's taking place. So there's a squabble going on. So what happens is these ladies are now going before King Solomon. And what happens is King Solomon, in his wisdom, he knows the understanding of the heart, and he sees what's going on. And he says, all right, tell you what, you can share that baby. Give me a sword. So he takes a sword, and they're going to divide the baby. You can have half, and you can have half. Now everyone rightly knows if you divide a baby in half. Um it doesn't exactly work. The baby is now dead. So with that basic understanding, Solomon in his wisdom that's given by God, that's giving an example for the people to see. Wisdom is understanding the hearts of the people and the mothers, and he knows a true mother, a mother that really desperately loves her child, would be willing to give it away for its own good. For her never to have that child again, just to know that it'll live, whereas the other mother has nothing to lose. So what? Mine's already dead. I had a chance. I tried to get it. And if he kills this one, then fine. It's even. He understands this like in the moment. I wish I had that wisdom in that moment. That would be great. But he understands all this. So when he asks us for divide the baby, he knew that the mother that had that child would be willing to give it up. So what happens is that exactly that. She cries out, let her have it. It's okay, let her have it. Just let the baby live. That's exactly what he was looking for. He knew the heart of a mother that's coming from God and that wisdom. So he gave that baby to her and said, that is her child. Let her have it. And the other lady was probably upset. They probably didn't live in the same house. We don't know the rest of that story. I'm just guessing. I don't know. But all that illustration in this entire rest of the chapter is to see the wisdom of God and look how the Word of God concludes this wisdom that was asked for because he loved him. It concludes in verse 28. And all Israel heard of the judgment. Well, we can back up to verse 27 really quick. And the king answered and said, Give her the living child, and in no wise slay it. She is the mother thereof. And then because of the result of all that, in verse 28, and all Israel heard the judgment which the king had judged, and they feared the king. For they saw that the wisdom of God was in him. The wisdom of God was in, not just his own wisdom, but this is of the Lord, and to do judgment. And this reminds me of a couple of verses that came to my mind as we close. In 1 Corinthians 1, 30, but of him are ye in Christ Jesus. Who of God is made unto us wisdom? Christ is wisdom. And righteous, and sanctification and redemption. That according as it is written, he that glorifies him, let him glory in the Lord I like this one, Jeremiah 9, verse 23. Thus saith the Lord, let not wise man glory in his wisdom. It's the Lord's. Neither let the mighty man glory in his might. It's the Lord's. Let not the rich man glory in his riches. What do we have that God didn't allow us to have? But let him that gloryeth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me to know God. To be, to have the wisdom of God. That I am the Lord which exercising loving kindness, judgment, righteousness in the earth. For in these things I delight, saith the Lord. In Colossians 2, a couple of verses here, that the hearts might be comforted, be knit together in love, and unto all riches and the full assurance of understanding, to acknowledge the mystery of God. And of the Father and of Christ, in whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. It is hidden to us, but through God we can have his will wisdom. This is given as an example for us. We're not going to be the wisest one that ever lived. But if we love the Lord, you might just get what you ask for. The question is, what do you love? What are you asking for? And God through you can allow you to be wiser than you are, to have wisdom beyond your age, in your youth, and in your future with your responsibilities, God is capable. And he can do that through us. What are you asking for? And what do you love? Father, we are so thankful that you used Solomon, you prepared him from his father. And when you asked him what he would have of you, what he what could he have from you? He understood the weight and responsibility. That he had as king to stand in the shoes of his father, to judge and to discern your people. Father, would we do that in our homes In our church, could we come humbly before you, loving you, and asking that we can have some of your wisdom? to work in us and through us, to discern good and bad, and to have an understanding heart. Would you be with us? And may God get the glory for all that's done. And this is made possible through our Savior Jesus Christ in whose name we pray. Amen.