And tonight we're going to sadly be concluding with David today as we've been studying through the life of Saul and David. And we're actually introducing a new king. So we will open our Bibles to 1 Chronicles 29. 1 Chronicles 29. I'm going to read a couple passages from last week just to kind of help lead us in to this closing couple of verses of this last chapter of 1 Chronicles. And we're going to see it Solomon, the son of David, is anointed king So I'm going to back up with just a couple of verses. I will start reading in verse 10 and 11, and then we'll skip down more to our text for the evening. Starting with verse 10, wherefore David blessed the Lord before all the congregation. And David said Blessed be thou, Lord God of Israel, our Father, for ever and ever. Thine, O Lord, is the greatness. And the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty, for all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine. Thine is the kingdom, O Lord, and thou art exalted as head above all. Look down at verse 20 And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the Lord your God, and all the congregation, bless the Lord their God of their fathers, and bowed down their heads and worshipped the Lord and the king. And they sacrificed sacrifices unto the Lord, and offered burnt offerings unto the Lord. On the morrow after that day, even a thousand bullocks, and a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, with their drink offerings and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel And did eat and drink before the Lord on the day with great gladness. And they made Solomon, the son of David, king. a second time, and anointed him to be the Lord of anointed, I'm sorry, and anointed him unto the Lord to be the chief governor, and Zadok to be priest And Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord as king instead of David his father, and prospered, and all Israel obeyed him. And all the princes and the mighty men and all the sons likewise of King David submitted themselves unto Solomon the king. And the Lord magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel. Thus David, the son of Jesse, reigned over all Israel, and the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years. Seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he in Jerusalem. And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honor And Solomon his son reigned in his stead. Now, the acts of David the king, first and last. Behold, they are written in the book of Samuel the seer, and the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the Seer, with all his reign and his might. The times that went over him and over Israel and over all the kingdoms of the countries. Well, let's pray. Father, we come before you, thanking you for your word, for how you can be seen working in kingdoms of the past, how you are using the nation of Israel. how you are preserving a line through David, and the blessings and the encouragement that we can get as we look back on how you have worked and the exciting time it was for Israel. Would you work in the hearts and lives of those that are here tonight? That we would draw close to you, that we would ponder the truths of this text. And that we would leave encouraged and hopeful as you use the Word of God and the Spirit of God in the hearts and lives of each one here this evening. And we come to you through Christ. We're going to see through this text that God is faithful to keep his promise of a king through David and now to Solomon and eventually to our Savior. And by doing this, as I already prayed, this should encourage and comfort us as we are part of Christ's kingdom. And we're going to see this first. We're going to look at verses 22 through 25. Solomon becomes king a second time. Solomon becomes king a second time. And actually before I actually get into this first point, I was looking over the text over the weekend again and even this afternoon. And I actually added, I made a longer title for my message, but I added Son of David to the title of this message. Because when you look through the first part of Chronicles and chapter after chapter, Chronicles is one of those books where you can open up, you're having a hard time sleeping. And you can just read, and you'll read chapters of Son of So-and-So and Son of So-and-so for chapter after chapter, just lists of names Just giving a chronological view of a lot of the history of Israel and everything that's been taking place and really giving a lot of the religious background. First Chronicles, as we're going to see here in this passage, it gives a lot of positive , a lot of the just the highlights. of David and his reign. And then I was thinking about that again as we discuss even on Friday. You know, chronicles, possibly written by Ezra, they had just returned after being in captivity. They are trying to assemble themselves together as a nation. They could use some encouragement and be reminded of how God has worked in the past and the promises He's going to have to them in the future. And now here we come. They're reminded as First Chronicle closes, they're reminded of how God has worked in the past to encourage them in this challenging time. They're trying to regroup with their nation, trying to get things figured out. And then this passage is given for them to read, to be reminded of how God has worked in the past. So when we see Psalm becomes king a second time, we're going to see this in verses 22 through 25. And it says he did eat and drink before the Lord that day with great gladness. And they made Solomon, the son of David, king the second time. So what happened the first time as as we're being reminded of and encouraged of the past? I thought it was important. When I read this, that definitely stuck as well. I was like, wait a second time. So I wanted to briefly look back at the first time The first time, if I could just summarize it, was really just David's quick response to avoid Adonaijah self-succession as king. My dad's getting old. I'm young. I want the throne. And so he just starts, he gets Joab and he gets and he gets some guys together. And he says, I'm going to be king. So news comes to David the Prophet through Bathsheba and others, and we're going to just briefly look at this because it's a good reminder. Of what happened the first time. He was made king the first time. So in 1 Kings chapter 1. Starting with verse 5, it says, Then Adonijah, the son of Haggath, exalted himself, saying, I will be king. And he prepared him chariots and horsemen and fifty men to run before him, and his father had not displeased him at any time, in saying, What hast thou done so? And he also was a very goodly man, and his mother bare him after Absalom And he conferred with Joab, the son of Zariah, and with Abathar the priest. And they, following Adonijah, helped him. But Zadok the priest, and Beniah the son of Joniadah, if I'm not getting these right, just correct me later, and Nathan the prophet, and Shemei and Re and the mighty men which belonged to David. were not with Adonijah. So right there, what you see is you have a young man who wants the throne of his father. He starts assembling men to follow him, to set him up as king. David is going to find word of this. It's interesting who is involved and who is not. Basically, we have a splitting of a nation is what's taking place. You have a division that is happening. David finds out about this, and we see this in verses 20, 30, and 39. I just skipped some highlights just to give us a greater picture of what happened the first time. to understand and why this second time is so exciting and so wonderful. So in verse 20, same chapter, 1 Kings And thou, my lord, O kings, the eyes of all Israel are upon thee, that thou shouldest tell them who shall sit on the throne of my Lord, the king, after him. So you have people coming to David saying, what's going on? Who is king? Do you know what Adonijah is doing? Joab is with him. What do you say? What's going on? You can tell there's tension. This is not going well. All kinds of issues are taking place internally, and it's festering and working its way out into the kingdom. And many are concerned. And then Joab was definitely taking advantage of anything he can do for himself to stay in power. It looked like he was right there to be with the new king. But in verse 30. Even as I swear unto thee by the Lord God of Israel, saying, Surely Solomon, thy son, shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne. in my stead, even so will I certainly do this day. Verse thirty-nine And Zadok the priest took a horn of oil out of the tabernacle and anointed Solomon, and they blew the trumpet, and all the people said, God saved King Solomon So what we have the first time is basically a knee-jerk reaction of, oh no, no, we don't want a split in kingdom. Wait, wait. Solomon is supposed to be king, but Adonijah was doing it, and so David had to learn about this. He had to try and set things straight. And it was done more quickly, more privately. We're just trying to avoid a split. We're trying to avoid a huge division. So that is what happened the first time. So now we come back to our text and we see That now, right after David, is just oozing with praise, overflowing back we said uh earlier in the chapter with who God is, and David is humble before him, basically who we are not. And then they're having, they're continuing in this celebration. And then in verse 22 it says, and they made Solomon, the son of David, king a second time. and anointed him unto the Lord to be the chief governor. And so they set up Solomon the second time. This second time is much more organized. As we're going to see, it's very unified. There's no little divisions. There's no rising up. And it says here, the son of David. As we've seen many times in our recent preaching, even in the New Testament, for someone to say that Jesus Christ is of the line of the Son of David, carried a lot more weight. That's who the Messiah, that's who the line would go through. The next king with the everlasting kingdom would come through David. And so here that is being passed. From David to Solomon. So it's happened a second time more openly, a lot more unity, and it is with great celebration. And he is the son of David by which it had to come through. And the reason why I just say that again with the son of David is because you see the son of and the son of, I actually, I didn't count. But I got on a fancy little Bible program. It was over 200 times, just in 1 Chronicles, the phrase son of is used. That's not including Father and there's other phrases over 200 times son of. And so I'm just reminded when we look at the big picture of God's program and how he's working. This is God's plan. He is working it through. Man can try and ruin God's plans, and man messes things up. And God has a way of putting things together. And now they are coming together in great unity under Solomon. And then we see in verse 22 there at the end, it says, Psalm anointed unto the Lord to be the chief governor. And I just found this interesting. It didn't say here in verse 22 at that point, anointed him to be king. That's what I would have expected. But he said, anointed him. unto the Lord to be the chief governor. So what you have is you have the the nation is coming together, they're anointing and recognizing this is of God's doing. God is doing this. And he's anointed chief governor. And that's really just a ruler, prince, captain. And the only reason I'm going to put some verses up for us to see is just to get a fuller picture. Add a little more color to the word of this chief governor and to see that the king is not just a king that is like a dictator, you do this, you do this, you do. There's a lot more to it. And so what Solomon is taking on here is a huge responsibility as David was paving the way for him. So just a couple of verses to point out with this. In 1 Samuel 13, 14, it says, But now thy kingdom shall not continue. The Lord hath sought him a man after his own heart. This is obviously talking to Saul, and then David is going to be the one that rises up. Continuing with the verse. And the Lord hath commanded him to be captain. over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the Lord commanded thee. A second verse that we see this same idea, it's the same word of chief governor. We saw captain. Now we're going to see it used as ruler. And 2 Samuel 7. 8 says, now therefore So shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the Lord of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcoat. From following the sheep, to be ruler over my people, over Israel. This is God working behind the scenes. This is God rising up, someone humble. to lead his people as ruler, as captain, and now Solomon as the chief governor, just out the ruling that they have over the country and the different aspects of it. And God is working behind the scenes this whole time, even going back to David taking care of sheep. And just to insert here, you know, we've been studying with quizzing with the teens. God resists the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. I've thought about that as we've studied through both Saul and David. Saul started out great. Got a little carried away with being ruler, the chief governor, the king. Pride got a little bit in the way. David started out as just a young man slaying a giant. And now we're looking at the end and seeing how God had used him. He was very quick to repent. He wasn't one to hide his sin. So even though he had a position, he was not above God's law He was not above the others, and he knew that God was good and gracious. Then we look at the very end of verse 22. And it says and Zadoch to be priest. So you have Solomon being anointed here as king, as chief governor, and then it says, and Zadok to be priest. And here, I just think that's inserted there because if you notice when we were reading 1 Kings, Zadok did not go to the anointing of Adonijah. He did not go to support him and help him with Joab and others to be king. So here they're trying to set things straight. And as you can imagine, when a new leader comes in, sometimes some old, maybe non-loyal, or those who may be questionable need to leave. And so here, not only do you have a new king, you also have here a new priest to come alongside Solomon who will be faithful and who has not betrayed him. And with all this, so we've seen as Solomon becomes king the second time, the vast difference so far, and then we also see how there's going to be a peaceful transition of power. This is a wonderful blessing here. We're going from David, who's a man of war, 1 Chronicles 28, and a man after God's own heart in 1 Samuel 16. and 1 Kings 11. And then we move to Solomon. So you're shifting gears here. You went from several people trying to rise up against David. Couple of his sons from different wives are trying to take the throne. And here it is different. And it's interesting that Solomon's name means peace. And here, now, really, it's kind of the first time really that Israel is having a nice smooth transition from one king to to the next. You don't have one trying to kill another. You don't have a son rising up against a father. What you have here, it seems like everyone is recognizing what God is doing. And how God has ordered this to be. So you have a very peaceful transition. And one that's going to end up leading to a very prosperous reign. And we see this in verse 23 here. We're going to see great unity and blessing among all Israel. Then Solomon sat on the throne of the Lord as king instead of David his father, and prospered, and all Israel obeyed him. You see, you don't have these little schisms. We're gonna follow this guy. That's gonna come later, okay? After Solomon But for right now, we are going into a great time for Israel. They just came out of a hard time. Remember, if we look back and look at the big picture of Chronicles, as a nation, when this is being penned. They're not going through the greatest time. They're just coming out of captivity. They're just trying to find themselves. They're being reminded of trusting, obeying God, and his timing. And when we stop back and look at the big picture again. Really, we could argue that had God really had his way, if you will, I mean God's way always comes to pass, but he allowed the nation to get Saul. And he wanted David. So a lot of these hardships and a lot of these things that we read could have been avoided as a nation. So here you have a great, they're coming together. All Israel is obeying him, recognizing what God is doing, what God has set up here. This should be comforting and encouraging to us. Sometimes when things aren't going well, we're having difficulties and challenges in our life. It could be easy to blame God. It can be easy to point the finger and go, okay, God, what do you do? Why does a good God allow bad things to happen to people? But at this time, when 1 Chronicles is being penned, it's being recorded, it's coming into a transition from a difficult time, and they're being reminded of God 's goodness. God 's grace and how He works in the hearts and lives of individuals and of kings. We serve that same God today. So they're all obeying, they're all submitting. Look in verse 24. And all the princes and the mighty men and all the sons likewise of King David submitted themselves unto Solomon the king. Here in this verse, we see how they are submitting themselves to Solomon. I think that comes in because their great unity under God. They recognize what he's doing. And I think it is very good and very fitting to have unity and really to help see God's blessing. We need to obey and to submit to those who God puts in authority over us. Some children may think, well, I didn't pick my parents. Well they didn't necessarily pick you either, but that's how God worked it out. You don't always get to pick your boss, your supervisor. And I'm thankful that God puts in leadership who he does much of the time. And even if we don't like them, God has his way of working things out. He allows the pharaohs. He allows the Sauls. How are we going to respond? And you don't always have to agree with every little thing. And I'm thankful for we have a great pastor here It's okay under the Lord and the leadership of another man to obey and submit. Even Paul said a couple of times. He said, follow me as I follow Christ. I think here the nation is recognizing, they're being reminded. And at that time when Solomon is taking, they're recognizing, hey, we have messed up, we try to do some things our own way, but God knows what he's doing. We can trust in his plan and he's going to work. He's been working through David. Now he's going to work through Solomon. You have a great unity. There's a great obedience. There's great submission ultimately to the Lord. Because it is hard. To submit to a person, to any leader, if you are not first willing to obey and to submit to the Lord. It could be very challenging and very difficult to submit to any person if you're not first putting yourself under the Lord. So I think that's kind of a little bit of what's going on here. And I've had the privilege of being an assistant pastor for probably about 17 years now. And not that it's the same, but being an assistant pastor has helped me, at least me personally, to understand the position of my wife. It really has. Because you're a support role. You want what's best for the family. And yes, you want what's best as an assistant pastor. You want what's best for the family. And you work together with the leadership that God has provided to make that possible. And sometimes humanly speaking, You can be, wow, you know, I don't know if I like that decision. I probably would have done something different. But then other times you're like, I'm thankful the buck doesn't stop here So you get the best of both worlds. And in that regard, I could think I can understand. No, but I am not, obviously I'm not a wife. Okay, just make that clear. But I believe that has helped me to understand the position of my wife and has helped me to understand I need to be a good father and husband to my wife and my children and not always that's my way or the highway and I said that's not always how it goes. And so, and on a practical note, sometimes husbands, it's just good just to listen to your wives. They might have something good to say that will help you. Just saying, just think about it. All that to say, here, the nation of Israel, they're obeying. They're submitting. Ultimately to the Lord and then to King Solomon who God is placing in David's shoes. I would say some big shoes to fill, but I feel like Solomon may be bigger than David. I don't know. But all the same. So you have a this great peaceful transition of power and then a reminder that the Lord is doing all this. I've been hinting at it and kind of saying it, but look at verse 25. And the Lord magnified Solomon. Who's magnifying Solomon? Is it David? Is it Israel? Is it the new priest? Who is doing all the work? Who is making all this possible? Who is making this such a great moment? The Lord magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel Bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not ever been before. This is incredible. God is using Solomon and is going to use his reign. to show how good and how great God can be. David paved the way. He was a man of war, desired to build the temple, put together all the things. God said, it's not for you to build it. It's for your son. I want to be magnified, and I am going to lift up Solomon to do this. And this word magnified, it really means to grow, to promote, to make great and powerful. That is what God is going to do with Solomon, ultimately pointing to God Himself. And with this, you see great unity behind all this. At the end of the verse, it says, so the Lord is magnifying Solomon. He is doing all this work. He is the one kind of behind the scenes, but yet now almost more publicly using Solomon to do all this great wonderful things, and this unity is going to be used. for Solomon to build a temple. Could you imagine a divided kingdom trying to build a temple like your most religious and sacred site? I want it here. No, no, no, no, no. The guys in Judah want to hear it. No, no, no, no. No, we it just wouldn't work. David has already all the stuff. Yeah, I know he did that, but the divisions could be crazy. You have a unified front. Ultimately, they are under the Lord. They recognize the leadership that God has put in place. And I think ultimately this is just God demonstrating his goodness and grace to Israel through Solomon. God's goodness, as I already said earlier, he desired to use David, a man after his own heart, but he allowed Israel to have Saul. Israel chose through their pride Saul and they got exactly what they asked for And also, it's not listed here, but just by way of reminder, God's grace is seen through this whole thing. Because when you think of Solomon, whose name means peace, If we rewind a little bit and look back, we'll see the grace of God because Solomon would be the son, yes, of David, but also of Bathsheba. God 's grace, his forgiveness, and his mercy is being seen that God can work things out despite the challenges, some of the sinful choices of man. God can still be glorified. God can still be magnified. And if you submit to him and his authority, and even authorities, though they made they made mistakes, you put yourself under. God's grace and his mercy can be seen as you put yourself in that place. And to be reminded along with this, This was going to happen through the seed of David. In 2 Samuel 7, verses 13 and 14. He said, He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom. Forever. First Chronicles 17, 11. And it shall come to pass when thy days be expired that thou must go with thy fathers. Talk about David passing away. That I will raise up a seed after thee. Who's raising up the seed? God is doing the work, which shall be of thy sons, and I will establish his kingdom. Who's establishing the kingdom? God is Sometimes we get caught with just the man, and though God uses men, but the bigger picture, who's magnifying Solomon? The Lord is. Who's raising up the seed? God is. The Lord is. He says, I will be his father, and he shall be my son, and I will not take my mercy away from him as I took it from him that was before thee. But I will settle in him in my house and in my kingdom forever, and his throne shall be established forevermore. So very quickly, we've seen Solomon becomes king a second time, and all the glory and all the unity that is going with that, very quickly, we'll look at David's death. David's death. And verses 26 through the end here, 26 through 30. First, it just kind of reviews David's reign. In 26 through 28, we see that David is the son of Jesse, reigned over all Israel. And we've already seen how Solomon is the son of David. I'm just reminded here. that God uses men, but their reign is temporary. This is pictured of our brevity. And though men can do a great job as king, Humanly speaking, his time will come to an end. What is this pointing to? This is pointing to what has been promised through David and now through Solomon, there's going to be an everlasting kingdom through Christ and his kingdom. That will last forever. Men will come and fade, and they will have their great times. They have their downside, their downtimes. But David, the son of Jesse, Jesse is dead. David is going to be dead here soon. Solomon's going to take his place. Solomon's going to pass away. It's going to go to the next one. But this is all leading eventually to the kingdom of Christ and his kingdom that will last forever. That should be encouraging. That should be comforting to us. And then we see Continuing on, it gives the brevity, really. I mean the the length. Yes, we see the length as recorded uh the Acts of David here. We've looked at the length, seven years, thirty-three years. Yes, it was a least amount of time, but it still came to an end. It came to an end. Then you look at the recorded acts of David here in verse 29. Actually, verse 28 very quickly, I just want to put this description here. That he died. Listen to the positive and the great description that we have of David. He says he died at a good old age, full of days, riches, and honor. Now if you pause for a minute, you think about the life of David, you will see a lot of this to be true. The purpose here of 1 Chronicles, he's not mentioning the challenges he had with his sons. He's not mentioning the challenges he had with his wives, the challenges he had fighting the Philistines and other things. That's not what's taking place. This pointing out the positive things and how God is working, and yet David is coming to an end, and yet he was full of days, riches, and honor. And Solomon his son will reign instead. It's using the positive parts of David, how God can use men, though they make mistakes, God can still use them, and God can be glorified, and it's going to point to his kingdom. Then we get to the Acts of David. Very brief. And I just want to point out something here. It says, verse 29. Now the acts of David, the king, first and last. The encouraging part to me as we read this is David, when you think of David, what's one of the first things you think of? At the first, you might be thinking of him watching sheep, maybe slaying a lion or a bear, but when you think of David, you're thinking of him with a little sling taking out a massive giant It's saying here from the first to the last. How is David ending his life? He is ending praising the Lord. Overflowing, as we saw earlier in the chapter, with how good and great God is. And now though in his final days and his final moments, it's passing on to Solomon, yet he is excited and here. He is ending his life well. Just like it says first and last. You go to many tombstones. You will see a first and you will see a last. A lot can happen in a dash. A lot can happen between the first and the last. People know how you start a lot of times and people know how you finish. The great thing about David is he did start well, and I think he's ending very well. We cannot overlook the greatness and the mercy of God and be encouraged and comforted. God keeps his promises. A part of David's excitement is He sees what God is doing and is working and how Solomon he's now setting up in a great way Solomon to be a great king. He's seeing the unity of the nation come together. He's he knows about all the things that are set aside for the temple. This is gonna be wonderful. This is gonna be great. David is very excited about this. It says he's of full age, riches honor, and it says there, and he's the first and the last. The acts are the first and the last. What I want to encourage us is don't get so disheartened and beat up over our dash that we don't end well. David is doing a great job as he ends. So, through the chaos and the conquering of man's kingdoms We've seen the selfishness of Saul. We've seen the difficulties of David. We're going to start seeing the superior success of Solomon. But we can have comfort in Christ's kingdom by seeing the faithful promises that He has had. pointing to the everlasting kingdom of our Savior, Jesus Christ. All this is pointing to Christ and His kingdom. I want to close with this verse. As we look at the kingdom that will last forever, as we're encouraged in God keeping his promises , How we can be comforted because God keeps his word, because he can still use us. I want to close with Luke 1. 31. I know it's not Christmas, but I think it's very fitting as we think of this kingdom leading to a Christ's kingdom and a part of the reason of why he came. In Luke 1. 31, it says, and behold. Thou shalt conceive in thy womb and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name Jesus. He shall be great. And shall be called the son of the highest. And the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father, David. And he shall reign over the house of Jacob forever. And of his kingdom there shall be no end. May that encourage us. May that comfort us as we look at God what what he has done and what he'll continue to do. Father. I am so thankful for your word and for these that have gathered here to assemble this evening. Hopefully this can be an encouraging text and yet comforting as we look at what you have done. And know that we are part as believers. We are a child. We could be a son of God. And we get to be a part of his kingdom that will last forever. We thank you and you praise you for Jesus Christ and what he has done and how you were faithful in the past through David and Solomon. All the way through Joseph and Mary to bring us our Savior and your glorious kingdom. Would this be encouraging? Would this be comforting? And we thank you and praise you for all this through Christ's name. Amen.