Well good evening. Good to see each of you. Hope that you're having a good week. Uh let's bow for prayer and then we will sing our opening song together. Father, thank you so much for the opportunity to gather in the middle of the week. And I pray that tonight you'd help us to understand some very practical truths from your word. Help me to communicate Communicate this passage in a way that is helpful, that's consistent with the word, and ultimately really your spirit takes it in practice. Press it upon our hearts. Bless our time together of prayer. Help us to have sweet fellowship together. Pray that we would have encouraging fellowship. I pray that as we lift up these requests, that we would have hearts that are knit together and are really burdened for these individual situations, and we see you at work in those lives. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, uh number sixty-five in our blue books, God has spoken. This is a very familiar one to us. Let's go ahead and we'll sing all three verses because uh they really present a wonderful Wonderful messes all together. Let there be if we hang a voice in that goes through the words we give and speak Oh my power, oh what wisdom, oh my nice God has shown, God has whispered through creation He exists and they know. He exists and may be know. God has spoken through the scriptures, breathing out his sacred word. Spirit let us hold me waters where the self seat us thought sin and sinners I must Pointing us to Jesus Christ Pointing us to Jesus Christ God that shall enter the Savior be this word to man We 're in that colour nature one of us Without no sin, Jesus highest revelation, see him as seek God, God has shown it roof. It's a great song, isn't it? If you could, let's all turn in our Bibles to Romans chapter 15. Romans chapter 15, and we're looking at the second part of the section we were looking at last week. And uh for those of you that maybe um are kind of new to our um study, because I know we've had several folks working in the back uh during our summer program and now truth trackers and And tiny trackers are starting up today. So it's a really exciting day for our kids. We are going through a series that's dealing with issues related to our families. And as we're going through this series, we are dealing with a lot of topics. In fact, at the beginning of the series, I sent out uh a paper that kind of has all the different topics that we're going to deal with just to kind of whet your appetite for some of the things we're going to discuss and uh to really get you thinking about these things and And what we're dealing with on the front side of our study is mostly foundational matters. And these principles, these foundational principles, they don't just apply in our family lives. They actually apply in all of our lives, every single area. But when it comes to our family, this is probably the most practical context in which we So tonight we're looking at a second part on the importance of spiritual growth And how this relates to our home lives. And the reason that I want to deal with this topic is because if I just talk to you about, you you might say the nuts and the bolts, the fundamentals of uh what is a husband's role in the family, what is a wife's role in the family. And I was just talking to you about practical issues and you weren't really growing in your own heart before the Lord. You would not be able to really apply those areas. the way that God would have you to, and you most certainly wouldn't be doing it with the right spirit involved. And that's extremely important. This is an issue of growing into Christ's likeness. This is an issue of serving one another in a very specific context. And so the issue of spiritual growth is extremely important. And I'm going to go ahead and read the verses and then we'll kind of hit the highlights of last week and then Continuing our study. Here's what it says in Romans chapter 15, verse 1. We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, not to please ourselves. Let every one of us please his neighbor for his good to edification. For even Christ pleased not himself. But as it is written, the proaches of them that reproached thee fell on me For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. Now the God of patience and consolation grants you to be like-minded one toward another, according to Christ Jesus, that ye may with one mind and one mouth, glorify God, even the Father of the Lord Jesus Christ. Now I want to remind you that these verses that we're reading are not actually written in a family context. They're written in a local church context. Now Now, you could make an argument that the local church is a type of family, and it actually is, especially if someone is the only believer in their family. If they were the only believer in their family, then the people that they share a worldview with the most closely are not mom and dad and uh aunts and uncles and cousins. It's the people in their local church. They share a common faith and they're growing together in that common faith. And so when we talk about the household of God, the church. We're talking about a family context that's a little different than our biological family context, but the principles still apply. Now when we're looking at these verses, we recognize that there was a lot of a lot of trouble between certain members of the church at Rome. There was the Jewish contingency, the Gentile contingency, they were in conflict with each other. And so Paul lays out all these gospel truths and from those gospel truths, he says, here are the implications of being a new creature in Christ. Here are the implications. of being righteous in Christ, forgiven in Christ, growing in Christ's likeness, having that future glory that is awaiting us. He's talking about implication. And so Romans 15 is a very important part of that implication side. Because you're a believer, because you're forgiven, here's how you're supposed to live. And so here's the summary of these verses. God plants all of us within a community so we can grow together into Christ's likeness and serve one another with Christ as our foremost example. And so last week we talked a lot about the importance of the context of family and the context of community being something God uses to grow us into Christ's likeness, something he uses to kind of reveal where we're not as grown into Christ's likeness as we think we are. And it's a it's a context where we serve one another. We grow together. That's what the local church is all about, and that's what our families are supposed to be all about. And so from that we saw a couple of principles. The first principle we looked at last week was that every community has different levels of spiritual maturity. And that's okay. That's normal. And the way he puts it in verse 1 is he says this We then who are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak. And so when he talks about someone being strong versus someone being weak, he's not talking about a physical issue. He's talking about spiritual maturity. A person who has strength in their growth into Christ's likeness versus someone who's very young, very immature in the faith. They've not grown that strength in spiritual depth yet. Those who are strong should bear the infirmities of the weak. The point that I made, though, was this You have strong and you have weak in the same community. And that's normal. If a church is growing and if a church is healthy You're going to have brand new Christians. You're going to have young Christians who are growing in the Lord. You're going to have some Christians that have been believers for a while and they can really serve and they've got a level of maturity, and then you have some that are very, very matured and they're older, and they're they're really advisors in many ways. They are they're pouring out into the younger generation the things that they've learned. That's healthy Christianity. That's a healthy context. It's not just true in the church. It's also true in our home. There's a reason that God gives you a mom and a dad. He gives you a mom and a dad so that as you are young and immature and you're growing physically They invest in you. It always intrigues me how y you know, let's say that you're you're raising puppies. Well that that little puppy, two years from the time it's born, is like It's ready to go be an adult dog. You know what I mean? Or if you're going out and you're looking at other contexts in the creation. What animal takes eighteen years to develop? We as human image bearers, we don't develop as fast physically As the rest of God's world. The reason for that is because we're different. We are image-bearers. We are moral creatures. We bear moral responsibility. And so God gives us parents so that they can shape us over that period of time. They invest into us so that we have values that are developed. And ultimately they're pointing us to Christ So that we can grow into Christ's likeness and be at a spiritual maturity level when we go out into adulthood. The second principle that we saw Is that the spiritually mature carry the heavier burden in these contexts? In verse number one, he says that the strong are to bear the infirmities of the weak. Now this kind of makes sense. But it's sometimes good for us to be reminded of this. If you have a Christian who is not as matured in the faith as you are, guess who's going to have to be more deferential? The more mature person is. Let's say they have two people that have an issue between them, and one person, the reason that they have this issue is because they are not a spiritually matured person. Well, guess which one of those two people is going to have to be more patient and more long-suffering, is going to have to put up with a little bit more frustration and nonsense. It's not the immature one, it's the mature one. In other words, they are patient with that other person so that they can ultimately see that person grow. This is a very important principle for us to remember in our homes. With our kids, even with our spouses. We need to remember that the more matured one spiritually is the one who has to show the most deference. Has to be the most patient, has to be to be willing to suffer the most and the longest. And so the person who's the quickest to run to their rights is not the more matured person. Always remember that. Very, very important. Principle number three, and here's we're going to start digging into uh a little bit more detail. Principle number three is this: we must be willing to defer our rights for the good of others. I have to tell you that as I think about pastoral ministry and the health of the church context, and I think about marriages and the health of the marriage context, There are very few principles that I can think of that are probably more practically important than what I just said there. We have to be willing to defer our rights for the good of other people Think about Ephesians and Colossians, where he talks about people being patient, bearing long with one another. He says, forbearing one another. In fact, the way that he puts it in Colossians chapter three is he says As the elective God who are holy and beloved, we're to put on bowels of mercy, gentleness, kindness. If anyone has a quarrel as Christ forgave you, so you forgive them. That's an extremely deferential attitude towards other people. Well, this is going to come out in these verses. Notice how he puts it. He says that we are not to please ourselves. He says, let every one of us please his neighbor for his good to edification. Now, every single word in those verses is extremely important. He says it's not to please ourselves. Let me put it like this. The reason that you should apply this principle is not so that you can get a smoother life. Okay? It's not just a pragmatic issue like, well if I'd be willing to put up with this person's nonsense and then we can eventually work this issue out. I'll have more peace in my house. Is that true? Yes, it's true. But is that why I should do this? The answer is no. Don't just do what's right for a pragmatic reason. Do what's right for a God-oriented purpose. And one of the reasons that I bring this up It's because in our family lives, if we're just being pragmatic about being deferential, when it's not working, then we'll stop. Does that make sense? When it appears that this being deferential isn't working out, at some point I'm going to say, you know what, forget it. I'm not going to do this anymore. But when being deferential is more about my attitude towards God and I'm saying, what is my God-given duty in this particular situation? Well, I'm not looking in terms of is this working out, but am I doing what God wants me to do? I think that's extremely important The second statement that we notice is this. Let each one of us please his neighbor So in the passage, we are more concerned about the other person than we are about ourselves. Does that make sense? So one of the reasons, dads and moms, that we are willing to go through all of the struggles of being a parent And we go through all of the labors of investing in our children is because we're thinking about their future. It's not about our future. Future, it's about their future. A lot of parents are raising their kids so they don't get embarrassed someday because their kid ends up, you know, in the news or in jail That's not why we should be raising our kids. We should be raising our kids because we care about their souls. And we care about pointing them to Christ. And we care about the advancement of God's soul Kingdom. And then there's another phrase that's extremely important. It is for his good and it is to edification. All of those statements are very, very important, and I'm going to break it down even more than we just did now. So this issue of being deferential, he states it negatively, not to please ourselves. He states it positively, it's to please our neighbor. He talks about the motivation. It is for his good to his edification. Now we're going to talk a little bit about that last little phrase. For his good to edification. Why does that statement actually matter? It matters because when it comes to dealing with other people and being deferential, We don't just give people everything they want because they demand it. Does that make sense? Sometimes when a person reads this passage of scripture and they see, okay, I'm supposed to be deferential and I'm supposed to think about the other person more than myself. That means that I just give in to their wishes at all times. I just give them whatever they want. Question, do you do that with your children? If the answer is yes, then we need to have a conversation. Okay? If the answer is no, then the question that should follow up is So what determines when and when you don't give in to what they want? We need to ask those questions. This issue of being deferential is something we need to understand. It actually matters. So I'll put it like this. There are some areas in life that we need to be flexible with. They're not issues of of biblical objective. This is morally right. This is morally wrong. Not everything in life can be flushed out that simply. The color of the carpet in your house is not a moral issue. The color of the walls are not a moral issue. Now they may drive you crazy depending on what they look like, but those aren't moral issues. Okay? There's a lot of stylistic things. There's a lot of things that we enjoy in life. They're simply issues of preference. And sadly, those are the areas in life we sometimes are the most inflexible in. The things that God is so very clear about, sometimes those issues we're willing to fudge on And then the things that are just, they're not clear and they're not issues of thus saith the Lord, those are the things we get really upset about. Sometimes the things that really drive wedges between people are things that there is absolutely no reason in the world that those things should drive wedges between people. We need to be willing to set aside our preferences even when they're extremely strong in certain areas. Now you know how this really becomes practical? It becomes practical when our kids get older. When our kids decide what they want to study in college When it comes to where they want to live, when it comes to some of the decisions they're going to make as adults, they're not biblical, thus saith the Lord, right and wrong issues. It's the way they're going to run their lives. When they decide to get up in the morning. and how they decide to do lots and lots of different things. We've got to figure out what is a truly deferential matter and be deferential. But we also have to recognize that not all areas fall into that category. You say, well, how do I know? You need to be a person of the word. Who is honest and who is objective about what the scripture makes very clear and what the scripture necessarily doesn't make very clear We have to be students of the Bible. So let's move out of this area of of deferential matters, areas where we need to to to be flexible and get into some areas that are not necessarily areas of deference. We need to understand that there are some things that we should not give in to people over. I'm going to give you a couple of examples, and I hope that this will be helpful to you. We should not give in to a person or give them something that we know is going to harm them. Think about that One of the reasons that we tell our children, no, don't touch that, is because we know that can hurt them. You know, no parent who's thinking clearly about the safety of their kid goes, I know you'd really like to stick your hand in that Go ahead and do it. I know you really want to. I'm just gonna let you do it. Go ahead. Stick your hand up on the oven. If it gets burned, well, you know, you'll learn your lesson. Okay. If you stick your finger in the outlet, hey, it's going to shock you, but that's what you really want. Now we understand in a in an area like that We don't let our kids stick stuff in wall outlets and we don't let them put their hands on hot items because we don't want them to get physically hurt. But you know what's amazing? In our culture We will let people do stuff that's destroying them. And we won't say a word about it. Not only will we not say a word about it, we'll even affirm the nonsense that they're involved in Think about that for a moment. If we know something is going to destroy a person, why in the world, out of love to them, would we not speak up and say, that's a problem? Why wouldn't we do it? Something that we know is going to stunt a person's spiritual growth. Something that we know is going to enslave this person. If we love them, even though they want it, we say this is wrong, and I have to speak the truth about this issue. I cannot support you in this matter. I'm going to tell you the truth. This can happen in lots of different areas of life. This can happen with a sibling. This can happen with our kids. This can even happen with our spouse. Where there are areas where this person is getting involved into something that is objectively dangerous. harmful, hurting them, enslaving them. We've got to have enough courage and love them enough to actually speak the truth to them on this issue. Allowing a person to believe something that's obviously a lie and that is going to harm or stunt them or enslave them, it's not loving. And our culture is full of this nonsense right now. Absolutely full of it. You know, we cannot control what the talking heads in the media are saying. We can't We cannot control what all of our politicians are going to do, but we can control how we respond to people in our interpersonal relationships. We can control who we choose to put our support behind when it comes to the way they're going to influence our culture. We can choose to speak truthfully and objectively to our own children about these issues to prepare them for the kind of culture that they're living in. Proverbs 27:5 says this open rebuke is better than secret love. Faithful are the wounds of a friend, but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful. Sometimes establishing boundaries is absolutely necessary. It is. If you have somebody that's an alcoholic, they're a drug addict, they're a pornography addict, they're known to steal. You've got to establish boundaries for these people, okay? And it's not being unloving, it's for their good. And if they care about getting victory over these issues, then they're going to get real accountability in their lives. Sometimes it's easier to go along with someone's harmful desires than to establish these necessary boundaries. And once they've been stated, keeping them there. If what a person wants is harming them or is likely to harm them, we should be firm out of love for their well-being. This is really important. And what I'm presenting to you is something that sometimes in a practical setting, you're going to have to really flush it out. You may have to sit down and have to think through how do I do this with your spouse? How do we handle this relative? How do we work with this adult child? How do we relate to this individual in our lives? You may have to work through that. Or with somebody who's not personally involved in the situation and they don't have any skin in the game emotionally. Very, very important. When trust has been violated, we need to establish accountability. If someone has an addiction, we shouldn't enable their addictive behavior. This is a principle that's extremely important. I need to be deferential on issues that are in the deferential category. I need to be willing to lay aside my rights and not fight over things that don't matter, though at the moment they matter to me. But I need to stand firm on areas of principle that are ultimately going to be speaking the truth to a person I love for their own good. This is an important balance that we have to establish in our interactions with other people. Principle number four. Christ Is our foremost example. Look down in verse number three. He says, even Christ, or for, even Christ pleased not himself. But as it is written, the reproaches of them that reproached thee fell on me. So as Paul is talking to the church about this issue, He says, Let me give you the best example that you could ever have of somebody who did this. You know who that is? It's Christ. Christ was willing to get dirty and rub shoulders with very troubled people. He didn't care what other people thought about his interactions with those people. But his interactions with them was ultimately for their good. He was going to speak the truth to those people. Was Jesus merciful? Absolutely. Was he kind? Was he compassionate? Yes. He also spoke the truth. He also went and stood before the Pharisees and he called them white in sepulchres. He spoke very truthfully and bluntly. He went into the temple and he cleansed the temple with a scourge in his hands. Why? Because he understood what was objective and what was deferential. But the greatest aspect of Christ's ministry was the fact that he laid his life down so that we could actually be redeemed. He was humiliated. He took on flesh in a fallen world and the limitations of being God in flesh Walking on this planet, he humbled himself to live in obscurity. He willingly submitted to the humiliation of everything that led up to the cross. He willingly experienced the physical and internal sufferings. That came from purchasing our redemption on the cross. Jesus is the perfect example of self-sacrifice for our good. And we are all the recipients of all these blessings in Christ because of what he did. Why does Paul bring up Christ? He says, because it is your willingness to suffer for others that may be ultimately what brings them to the place they need to be. And that's a really important principle for Christ. us to understand. This is a gospel-oriented application. This isn't just pragmatic, like, oh, you know, if you're deferential for this season, if you if you if you put in the pain and the suffering now, it'll pay big dividends down the road. Maybe it will, maybe it won't. But that's not the way he appeals to them. You do it because of Christ at your example. We then move on to this next thought. Since we've received so many blessings in Christ Christ, through his willing humiliation, we should be willing to set aside our perceived rights and desires for the well-being of those that are closest to us. That's the application. Principle number five. Each example in Scripture serves as a catalyst to give us hope. Now, I know that you've heard this verse, verse number four, quoted many, many times. For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of scriptures, of the scriptures might have hope. Now, that verse is applied to all the Old Testament. But it is most specifically applying to what story? Story of the Old Testament The cross. The story of Christ. So basically, what he's saying is it's not just the Old Testament in a general sense, it is the sacrifice of Christ The willing humiliation of Christ that purchased our redemption that gives us hope. Hey, I'm a believer today. I'm growing in the Lord. I'm experiencing so many blessings because I'm in Christ. And it's because of what He suffered for me. He says, just like he did that, you need to be willing to lay aside your rights and your privileges for the good of others. That's what he's saying. In other words, people are going to uh they're going to trouble you They're going to give you difficulties, but God is going to ultimately help you through this. When we read the Old Testament, we see all kinds of complicated situations, what sin does to people. We see how people continually fall. We see godly wisdom to help us navigate in this kind of a world. But more than anything else, we see the providence of God. That's what these verses are all about. We're continually reminded of God's grace. He's just, he does what is true, he is merciful, he pours out his grace, and so if we will be faithful, We know this is the kind of God that worked in the past, and he's the kind of God that works in the present. So principle five. The examples of Scripture serve as catlists to give us hope. And lastly A healthy community is ultimately a gift from God. Folks, if you have a healthy home, it is because God is kind to you Don't forget that. It's not because you're a perfect dad and your wife's a perfect mom and you're a perfect husband and She's a perfect wife. And you got the perfect kids. No, you're a broken dad, a broken husband, a broken mom, a broken wife, broken children. We're all sinners. If we have healthy homes, it is a testimony to the kindness of God. The goodness of God. The grace of God. And so he says in verses 5 and 6, now the God of patience and consolation grant you to be like-minded one toward another according to Christ Jesus. Jesus, that you may be with one mind and one mouth glorifying God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. You know what he kind of closes out this little section with? You're responsible. Be responsible. But in the end, if you see the benefits of being responsible, thank God that he worked through it. What's what he's saying? By the way, thank God that he works in spite of it. Every single parent and every single spouse can look over seasons of their life where they go, blew it, blew it, blew it, blew it, blew it. And you know what God did? He was kind. There's some people over here talking about some moments, apparently. God is kind. God works through obedience. He works through all these circumstances, but I think he works in spite of it more than he works through it. And I think that's what he's trying to say. Be thankful for the community God's put you in. We are all imperfect, but designed by him for our Mutual good. Our families are imperfect. Our church is imperfect. Whatever context you're in, it's imperfect. But God is using it to mature us into Christ's likeness. Let's not get frustrated by the lack of maturity around us. Sometimes we're looking at our spouse and we're going , I wish they would grow in the Lord. And we may not realize that they're sitting in the other room thinking the same thing about us. I just wish my kid would grow up. Hey, you know what? God gave you that child not just so that you could shape him, but so that he could shape you through them. Very important. So the fact that that child is a little bit less matured and has all these little problems is actually something that God's using for your good and their good. Let's not get self-centered. Folks, it's not all about us. We have far too many people in our culture today that are living lives for one person. It's not God, it's themselves. That's why they don't want to get married, that's why they don't want to have children. That's why they don't want to be bothered and and and and And having the difficulties of family life and oh I know mom and dad are getting older. I don't wanna have to to to deal with having to deal with their physical bodies wearing down and th the the the things that slow us down in life. I wanna deal with all those things. God gives us a church and God gives us kids and God gives us a spouse and he gives us families so that we will recognize we're not the center of the universe. The story isn't about us, it's about him. And he's working in us. And so he puts us in these contexts so that we will recognize we're not the center of this universe. Don't get complacent. Nobody's arrived. It's funny, I was talking to to Frank about how You know, sometimes when we start kind of pushing ourselves a little too much physically, you start going, you know, maybe I'm uh I'm kind of overdoing it. Might need to slow down a little bit, and then all of a sudden you start getting a tickle in your throat, and you go, oh no, I know what's coming next. All of a sudden you you you you start, man, I feel a little bit feverish. You know what's coming next. You've pushed and you pushed and you've pushed and you pushed and you've been driving yourself And now the consequence is you're going to be on your back for a while because your immune system can't handle that. And sometimes in our in our lives spiritually we start thinking like, man, I've kind of plateaued here and things have been going really well for a while and And I'm really growing and I'm really mature and I got a lot of knowledge. And you're about to get a reality check. Let's not get complacent. This is why God gives us families and kids , people we work with. Don't get lazy. We need to invest our lives in others. God wants us to be a people who aren't just taking all the time. We're taking to give We're supposed to be like a channel. I love that song that we sing, Channels Only. It's such an interesting song where the idea is that we're just tools in God's hands. How does God show someone that he loves them? He uses us to to give them a meal sometimes, or he uses us to sit down with them and have a conversation. He uses us to write a note or an email, to get on the phone and make a phone call He uses us to serve them in some capacity. God wants us to be a serving people. And so as we are growing and as we are learning and as we are We could say enjoying the nutrition of the preaching and teaching of the Word of God. We're supposed to be giving it out as well. Well, lastly remember, it's all about praise and glory to God. What we do, why we do it, how we do it, what we become through it all is about pointing praise to the goodness of God so that we can treasure Him as we should The truth is that if we have healthy homes, if we are really growing in the Lord and we're getting to levels of spiritual maturity that are actually visible, people can see that. That is a testimony to God's goodness. Because that's not what we are by nature. And it's most certainly not what we were in our past. It's because God is good. Folks, when we talk about our homes and we talk about some of the specifics about our roles in our homes and our responsibilities in our homes. Before I get into that, I have this appeal. We need to be a growing people. We need to be spiritually growing. We need to be seeing the fruit of the Spirit coming out in our lives because we are in the Word, and the Word is getting into us, and the Spirit of God is applying it and impressing it upon our hearts. We need to be a growing people. Healthy homes come when people in those homes are growing into Christ-likeness. Let's ask the Lord to help us to do that, to get in his word and to be the kinds of people that he wants us to be. Father, take these words and use them for your glory. Help us to have strong homes. I'm so very burdened. That we are growing into Christ's likeness as families and as a church community. I'm so very burdened that we're not just fulfilling obligations, but that we're actually doing our duties. With a godly spirit, with a love for you that is vibrant , with a true, genuine growth into Christ's likeness. Father, help these things to really press upon our hearts and help us to live in the light of them. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen.