All right, well let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 12. 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and the passage that we're dealing with this evening. is a little bit like an introduction to really a large section of 1 Corinthians that's dealing with the issue of spiritual gifts. And in that discussion on spiritual gifts, there's a lot of discussion about prophecy. discussion about tongues. And so we are going to get into this topic quite a bit eventually. But tonight is more or less an introduction to that that section of Scripture. Before we get into this discussion about Prophecy and tongues and healing and all those different things, we need to ask the question: well, what is the purpose of a spiritual gift? And why did God give these to the church? And so the problem that the church at Corinth had was these gifts that were in operation, which The question is, are they still all in operations day? We're going to get into that. Not tonight, but eventually. But when we get into this discussion, we need to recognize that their problem was that they were not functioning the way that they were supposed to. The way that they were practicing these gifts was wrong. And it really came down to the fact that they did not understand and they weren't living the way that God had intended them to live in this issue. So as we dig into this passage and as we talk about these different concepts, there's lots and lots of application for us to think about here. So 1 Corinthians chapter 12, we're going to begin in verse 1. Read down to verse number seven. It says, now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant. You know that ye were Gentiles carried away with these dumb idols, even as ye were led. Wherefore, I give you to understand that no man speaketh by the Spirit of God called Jesus accursed And that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but that the Holy Ghost, but by the Holy Ghost. Now, there are diversity of gifts. but the same spirit. There are differences of administrations, but the same Lord. There are diversity of operations But it is the same God which worketh all in all. But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal. Alright, so there's a lot of interesting stuff for us to think about on this topic of spiritual gifts. So I want to begin by saying that there are four words, they're very simple, that are important for us to remember when we talk about spiritual gifts. The first word is the word enabling, and I don't mean like I'm enabling somebody who has an addiction or enabling someone who uh has a very, very bad habit. We're not talking about that. We're talking about someone who is strengthened They're empowered to do something. And that word enabling is important because what it's telling you is that the reason people can do this is because God gave them that ability. Second word is the word opportunity. Just because someone can do a thing doesn't mean they're going to get the opportunity to do a thing, and it doesn't mean that they're going to get the opportunity Right now. And so we're going to talk about that a little bit as well. The third word is the word edification. The purpose of these gifts is not for me to prop myself up and say, hey, look at me, look what I can do. But it's for me to give so that others can be built up. and they can be strengthened in their walk with the Lord. And then the fourth word is the word work. This involves labor. So look down in verse number one it says this. Now, concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant. The way that these people were functioning as a body, the way that they were practicing the gifts that God had given them, was being done in ignorance. It wasn't consistent with the purpose that God had for them. And sadly, sometimes we find ourselves in the same position. And so how do you break this bondage of ignorance? You teach. You explain. You shed light on the issue. And so when a person is doing something in ignorance, you could say it's kind of like they're being simple. They don't really recognize. It's like a little child. You you watch a little kid do something and you're like, that child doesn't understand what they're doing. Okay. I I have little kids, I watch them all grow up and uh you know, oh and sometimes they'll do something like he he doesn't understand. what he's doing. And so as he gets older, you just say, hey, stop, don't do that. And then eventually you gotta say, okay, listen, let me explain to you what's going on here. And you have to teach them and then the light comes on and they're like, oh Okay, I shouldn't do this, or I should do this, or I'm not ready to do this, but I can do this later. And so he doesn't want them to be simple. He doesn't want them to be ignorant. He wants them to understand. the purpose for spiritual gifts. And so the first word enabling means that the ability starts outside of us with God. That second word opportunity, it has to be given to us by God. Edification, these gifts were given to build up others, and then fourthly, these gifts were given to do work. So remember those four words. They're going to come in. They're going to be important for us later on. Second thing I want you to notice tonight is how important the Godhead is in these verses. And when I say the Godhead, the centrality of the Godhead, we're going to see that the Father is talked about in these verses, the Son is talked about in these verses, the Spirit is talked about in these verses. This is a very Trinitarian text of Scripture. And so when he talks about the Godhead, each member of the Godhead has a role, not only in our salvation, which is something we've been talking about on our you know Sunday morning, Sunday school. But he also has, each person has a role in how we grow and how we serve, how we mature, all those things. And so notice what it says in verses 2 to 6. We're going to break it down a little bit here. He says, you know that ye were Gentiles, carried away with these dumb idols. We tell my kids not to use that. word. These idols are they have no value. They can't see. They can't hear. They can't do anything for you. They're just a block of wood. They're just a stone. They're just an image. Now it is important for us to recognize that we talk about idolatry. The idol itself has no power. But there is idolatry where they are actually interacting with the spirit realm, and so there is a power, not in the idol, but in what's going on there. So it's a very, very evil thing. But sometimes when the Bible talks about idolatry, it talks about it as being something that is just, it has no value, it has no power. He says you were in the past Gentiles who were carried away by these idols. That's how you lived your life He says, even as you were led. Now, if you go back to Ephesians chapter 2, think about what he says. You as he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. And he says, you had your conversation, fulfilling the lust of the flesh, you were by nature children of wrath, you were like all the other Gentiles who didn't know God. And Paul's saying, that's you, Church of Corinth, that's who you were. He then goes on to say this, wherefore I give to you an understanding that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calls Jesus accursed. By the way, this sounds a lot like the kinds of things that we'd see in 1 John. And then he says, and no man can say that Jesus is Lord, but by the Holy Ghost. Now that's an important statement that I want to go go to in just a few minutes, but keep that in the back of your mind. Then he says this now. There are diversity. of gifts, but the same Spirit. There are differences of administration, but the same Lord. There are diversity of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in and all. So do you see how there is a central focus on the Godhead? The Father, the Son, the Spirit. So let's look at the different parts. First of all, he talks about The importance of the spiritual in our conversion. That's why we see the statement, you know that you were. This is who you were before you became a Christian. Think back and don't forget where you've been. He says no man can say Jesus is Lord but by the Holy Ghost. This sounds a lot like Romans chapter 10. Whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved. What's interesting about this passage is he's not talking about some like magic formula, if I say Jesus is Lord, now I'm a Christian. The idea is that I understand the gospel. I recognize that the Bible presents Jesus as God in the flesh, the one and only Savior, the Lord. I believe it in my heart, and I confess with my mouth based on what I have believed already in the heart. And we see this in Romans 10. With the heart one believes unto righteousness, and with the mouth confesses made of salvation. So he's not saying, well, only by the Spirit can somebody say these magic words. That's not what he's saying. Somebody truly believes in the heart and confesses Jesus as Lord. But he's really going back to saying this. You became a Christian because the Spirit of God worked and moved in your heart. He did it through the preaching of the gospel. He drew you. He convicted you. He showed you your sinfulness. And if God had just left you alone and let you go in the direction you were going, and he did not interrupt your life and he did not intervene in your life, maybe even very persistently, and sending people to you along the way, guess what? You would have stayed in the same path. way. You would have never heard the gospel or you would have heard it and it would have not made sense to you. You would have ignored it and you would have just kept going on your way. But God in his mercy sent people to you. And God in his mercy began breaking down that hardness of heart and showing you your sinfulness and showing you what Christ has done for you. And when you place your faith in Christ as a repentant sinner, you you trusted Christ. Guess what? You look back and you say, I made that decision, but it's also true that God drew me. God convicted me. And if it wasn't for his merciful, gracious work, I would still be in that position. So he reminds them of this. Your salvation is a work of God. You've responded to Him drawing you. But God's work toward you didn't stop the moment you trusted Jesus. You could say that it was just the beginning of his work. His work was drawing you, bringing you to repent and believe, and now his work is continuing to work in you. And not just in you, but also through you. And that's what this issue of spiritual gifts is all about. It's about the same God who drew you working through you. He says it like this. There are diversity of gifts, but the same Spirit. And then he says, there are diver differences of administrations. There are diversities of operations, but there's one Spirit, there's one Lord, there's one God. So let's think about those three words. First of all, that word gift. That word gift is actually the word charisma, okay? And as the idea of a gracious, divine enabling. So the reason that I can do this is because God in his grace has given me the ability to do this. It's not something that is inherent in me. It's a gift that He's given me. And I think that this is a little bit different than just somebody's physical abilities. This is a spiritual giftedness. And in fact, sometimes people ask me, well, what's the difference between a talent and a spiritual gift? Have you ever had somebody ask you a question like that? The truth is that The Bible doesn't I don't in my opinion the Bible doesn't like break all this stuff down. We could even go to Old Testament passages and we see examples of of God working through people that they worked with their hands. They were craftsmen. People that were working to build the temple, people that were working to build the tabernacle, the instruments. And it says that the Spirit of God came upon them and he worked through them. Well, that was a divine enabling. But when we talk about these gifts, he lays out a lot of different ones. There are some in this text of Scripture, there are some in Romans, there are several passages of scripture in the New Testament where we see specific gifts that are mentioned. So we can say without any question, those are spiritual gifts. Those other things, it's a little bit more of an opinion type issue. But the idea is that these gifts are not all the same. God didn't give me, and God didn't give my wife all the same gifts. God didn't give Scott and God didn't give Lisa all the same gifts. Or I could go in this room, every single one of you. God did not give you the exact same gifts as all the other people in the church. He gives this person some abilities, he gives this person some abilities, and this person, and they're all different, and there's a reason for that And by the way, you could have people that have similar gifts, but they're not all equally proportionate in their abilities. Okay? You could have a person that has the ability to teach, but they don't have the ability to teach to the same degree as maybe another individual. Okay? And it it's not it's not saying that one has the gift and the other one doesn't. It's that that God has given a greater measure sometimes to certain individuals with giftedness. And that's entirely his prerogative. He can do what he wants with that There 's also a sense in which some of these gifts, we grow in them, they are cultivated, they are developed as we mature. Just think about something like love. There's going to be a whole chapter that we're going to talk about in 1 Corinthians chapter 13 about love. Do we all have the same amount of love and the same level of maturity of love from the time we become a Christian to the time we die? No Is everyone equally loving? You're like, absolutely not. Okay. And so the idea is there's a proportionality to this. And as the Spirit of God works in our life and as we mature and as we grow, these things develop more and more and more. So we see this step in diversity of gifts, a divine enabling. The second phrase is the phrase a difference of administrations. A difference of administrations. And this is a really interesting word because this word has the idea of their opportunities for people to serve. We have deacons at Anchor Baptist Church. And if we go to the New Testament, we look at the Greek term that's used for a deacon, it's Diakonos. Okay? Well guess what? The Greek term that's used here for administration actually is a very similar word. We could say that Diakonos and this word, they're like in the same family, okay? And so they have a very similar idea. So what he's basically saying is this This is a different kind of opportunity to serve. Very, very interesting. So we have gift and we have opportunity to serve. And by the way, this is the way that the church is supposed to function. As people begin to get involved in areas of service and as those in leadership and those around them start to recognize this person does have a gift in this in this area, what will happen is as that person begins to mature, people encourage them and they'll start giving them opportunity. And as they get those opportunities They you know, depends on what they do with it, but they may actually get more opportunities because they're growing and they're thriving and they're maturing and they're learning. That's why when we have young guys who come and preach, the first time that you hear them preach, you're like, yeah Maybe the second, third, and fourth time. You're going, I don't know. But but here's the thing. If these guys believe that God has called them to preach and teach the Word of God Well, if it appears that it's a possibility, we've got to give them opportunity to actually do this. And and and in those early stages, people can be extremely nervous. I was extremely nervous the first time I preached. The verse many times that I preached. And as you as you get in those opportunities You start developing a little bit more confidence, you're a little bit more comfortable, you understand how the how to handle the word of God. You learn from people sharpening you on the side, and so you begin to develop and grow in those areas. So it's not just that a person has a giftedness, but they have been given an opportunity to serve that is coupled with that giftedness. And so sometimes I'll ask a person, you know, do you believe that you're called to ministry? You know, they'll tell me that. I'll say, well, why do you believe it? Well, I believe I'm gifted. And the second question might be, well, have you had opportunity to actually express those things and use those things? And they might say, well, you're the first person I've talked to. All right. Well then let's talk about some ways to maybe get some opportunity. Or they might say, yeah, here are the different areas. And I might ask, well, how did people respond to that? Well, initially they slept a lot. Had some people come and complain to me after a service or two. Or they might say, well, you know I think that people are blessed by it, as far as I can tell. And somebody, you know, comes alongside and they're not just trying to make somebody feel better who really did a horrible job, but they're like, that really was a blessing. And what does that do? Well, it's an opportunity that is part of what we're talking here. The third thing is a diversity of operations. And when we talk about operations, we're not talking about like a hip replacement or something like that. This operation, the word that's used here has the idea of a work, a labor. And so you see how these three concepts come together. You have a divine enabling, a gift. You have an administration, which is an opportunity to serve. And then thirdly, there is labor involved. And all these three things come together into what we call spiritual gifts. But then the question is, who is the one who gives? Who is the one who manages? Who is the one who says, here is how you're to do this? And the answer is, well, it's God. He says there's one spirit, and that spirit is the one who empowers us. He enables us to do this. Secondly, there is one Lord. Now, just because a person can do a thing doesn't mean they should do a thing. Or just because a person can do a thing doesn't mean that they should do a certain thing in certain contexts. And so the question is, how do we know where it's appropriate or not? Well, we see what the Lord says. He's the one who's in charge, not us. And so there's one Lord. And then he says there's one God. And he's the one who produces the fruitfulness in these labors. So what you can see is that this issue of spiritual gifts is empowerment from God under the Lordship of Christ. It involves work, and God causes it to be free. And you know what when a church has people who truly are spiritually gifted, they're being given opportunities, they're handling those opportunities appropriately, they're growing in those areas. and they're and they're laboring, what you see is people growing spiritually. You see the people that are serving growing spiritually because they're giving out. They're not like the Dead Sea where the water just flows in and stays there. But there there's a vibrancy. They're learning and they're giving, and they're learning and they're giving, and they're serving. And so that's what a fruitful church looks like. Third thing I want you to notice here is the importance of the local church in this whole thing. Look down in verse number 7, it says this, but the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit with all. Three statements that I want us to zero in on here. The first one is the word given. God deliberately and purposefully distributes these gifts according to his will. So if you have been gifted by God in a particular area, a spiritual giftedness, That's not a mistake. That's not an accident. You are going to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ someday. And that is, it's like that, you know, the parable of the talents. I think we just did this the other day with our with our kids. We're going through the parable of the talents. I think it was on Sunday. I'm trying to remember now. But anyway, in the parable of the talents, what Jesus says is he gives one man a certain number, he gives another man a certain number, he gives another man a certain number, and these three guys didn't get the same amount Oh, that's not fair. Well, God can do what he wants with what's his, right? And then the first guy, what does he do? He doubles what he got. He says, hey, great job. I'm gonna give you more opportunity. The second guy, he doubles what he got. Hey, great job. I'm gonna give you more opportunity But you know what? That guy didn't produce as much as the first guy. He didn't say, hey, why didn't you make why weren't you able to keep up with him? He doesn't say that. You were faithful with what I gave you. Third guy. I just buried it in the ground so you wouldn't lose it. He's like, hold on a second. I gave that to you to manage. I'm going to take it from you and I'm going to give it to the guy who did the best job with what I gave him. So it's an amazing, it's an amazing parable. And the whole idea is this, God distributes as he wills for a reason. And so if we can recognize in our lives that we've been gifted in a specific area that is to be a service to the church, we shouldn't just sit on our hands. We should actually be involved in that because God has a purpose for us. And we're going to answer to God. We're going to be accountable to Him someday for what we did or didn't do with that. Second thing we see is he says it's to every man. Now this is important. There aren't like five people in the local church that are that are given all the gifts and they're supposed to do all the work and then everybody else just kind of sits on the side and enjoys life. Now some churches kinda operate that way to say that. Okay. But you know, sometimes it's just it's poor management, okay, from from pastors and deacons or whatever. Uh but but sometimes you know people are like, I'm content to be here, but I don't want to do anything. Just, you know, don't don't rock my boat. Don't give me something to do. Don't don't get me out of my comfort zone at all. But that little phrase to every man is important. That means each member of the body has a role to play. Each member of the body has an important work to do. And each member of the body is given that little talent. It could be the five, the two, the one. They're given that, and it's entrusted to them. they're supposed to do something with it. They're supposed to actually multiply it. And so that little phrase to every man is really, really important. The third is to profit with all. This is all about other people in the body. It's not about us. One of the most tragic things that happens in the Christian church is when people use the church as a platform to present themselves. And that 's a huge problem. That's a problem with people preaching and teaching, evangelists, missionaries, musicians, people are like, the church is my opportunity to let everybody know how good I I am. am. How good I am at this or how good I am at that. And that's not what the church is for. The church is about building up other Christians. And so when we've been gifted, we're to serve and we're to labor so that they can stand on our shoulders, not so that they can put us up. That's really important. You know, I think about the example of parenting our children. Parents give a lot to their kids. I mean constantly. Parenting is not for the faint in heart. In fact, there's a lot of people that if they really thought about everything that was involved, they'd be like, forget it, I'm not doing this. Parenting, they all have kids. And sadly, we have a whole generation of people that are doing this. And if they don't take the risk And they don't put in the work, they're not going to have the blessing that comes from that labor. One of the most valuable things we ever do in life is the raising of our kids, the shaping of a generation coming from behind us. One of the most significant things that we do. We're literally shaping an eternal soul who has the opportunity to do the same thing in their generation. It's an awesome task. But here's the truth. There's a lot of stuff that we do that's just work. It's just labor. It's nasty stuff. It's it's stuff that nobody knows about but you. This morning, in the middle of the morning, I don't even know what time it is. My son comes in. He's like Dad, the dogs are up in my bed. I'm like, oh had to take all the sheets off of his bed, had to take his blink and everything, pull it down to the basement, throw it in the washing machine And get him a sleeping bag so you can go back to bed. And then I went down to the bathroom and I was like, and somebody clogged the toilet last night Yeah, didn't make that up, guys. That really happened. And you know what? The truth is that parenting involves those kinds of things. Washing dishes, cooking, cleaning, shoveling a driveway, all kinds of things. But the giving of ourselves is not a wasted labor. It's really about pouring into the life of those young people and one day they're going to stand on our shoulders, we hope, if we've given them a good example, we pass the baton the right way and they actually take it and they run with it. We're going to see them go a lot further than us. Things that it took us years to learn, things that we didn't learn until we were 25, 30, 35, 40, whatever. Our kids get to learn these things when they're teenagers because we're we're pouring that into their life. And so here they're it's like it's like they have a head started 20 years on us. And let me tell you, there's a lot they can do with that. Sometimes we look at our lives and we're like, man, I made so many mistakes and I really feel like I wasted so much time. But if you poured into your kids and they don't make the same mistakes Well, you didn't waste those learning opportunities, okay? And so the point is this: these spiritual gifts are really about others. They're not about us. This is about the body growing and maturing and thriving and being what it's supposed to be. So remember those things. How do you apply this? Well, a couple thoughts in closing. The first is this, every member of the body matters to God and should matter to us. By the way, one of the things he's going to get into as we work our way into this text of scripture. from chapters 12, 13, and 14 is going to say, hey, there are some members of the body that people kind of look down on. They're like, oh, that's not much of a gift there. This person doesn't have the same abilities as that person. And people kind of like, you know, they size one another up and they say these are the really good gifts and these are the really bad gifts. And he says, no, no, no, that's not how it works. You need a nose and you need hands and you need feet. You don't need just hands. Just a nose. Every member of the body is important if you're gonna have a healthy functioning body Secondly, the way that God has given, has gifted you is not a mistake. It was deliberate. All of those opportunities along the way where God has been shaping you as a person. And He's been pouring into your life. And He's used the people around you to kind of chisel you into the person that you are. All of those things are not a mistake. They're a part of God's work in your life. Third, he's going to open doors where he is gifted. If God has given you a gift, He's going to open the opportunity. And you might say, Well, am I going to get it all now? No, no, no. It's incremental. As you are faithful in little things, He gives you more things. As you're faithful in this, he'll give you that. As you're faithful with that, he'll give you this. And he just keeps on giving you opportunity. So whatever's right in front of you, do it to the best of your ability and see what God does. Fourth, these opportunities involve real work, labor , intense labor. Fifthly, we need to be willing to give ourselves for others. This is one of the most important life lessons we can learn when it comes to comes to ministry. Ministry is not about us, it's about the body. We have to be willing to give of ourselves. If somebody's a Sunday school teacher If somebody's a deacon, if somebody's a pastor, if someone's working in some area that nobody knows about, but you're working in those areas. You have to be willing to give of yourself and and don't don't get into your little bubble and say, Well, I don't I don't want to ever experience pain and I don't want to ever be stressed and I don't want to deal with this and I don't want to deal with that. You know, if that's the way that people live their lives and nobody gets any That's just the way it works. But the people who are willing to step up and say, hey, I'm going to do something here. I have an opportunity. I'm going to give everything I have to it. They're the ones that God really works for. And they're the ones that He really uses. So may God help us to do that. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, I thank you so much for your word. Such a simple little passage, yet some very, very important truths. Help us not to sit back. Help us not to be lazy. Help us not to be fearful. Help us to be willing to serve and labor with the opportunities that you've given us. and help us to do the very best that we can in each of them. I pray that you would use every person in this room in the capacity that you designed for them. Help us to love the work that you've given us. Help us to love the people that we're investing in. Help us to rejoice in how you how you take the labor that is given and how you expand it for us. For your glory. We ask this in Christ's name. Amen.