Okay, well good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Let's go ahead and uh bow together for a word of prayer and then we will get our service started tonight. Let's pray. Father, thank you for the Lord's Day and an opportunity to be richly encouraged by your people. And I pray that you'll bless our service tonight as we have opportunity to share testimonies. I pray that the things that are Shared would be an encouragement to each person here. Be with those who will join us tonight on the live stream. I pray that our time together would be an encouragement. And then as we uh listen to your word being uh proclaimed, I pray that you'd help us to understand these truths and uh help me to communicate them clearly so that they'll be an encouragement to your people. We ask it all in Christ's name, amen Good evening. We're going to start off tonight's services. Turning your head a little page 339 or look up on the screen. Page 339. Stand with me as we sing all three verses of Heaven Came Down. Oh what a wonderful, wonderful day. Day I will never forget After I'd wandered in darkness away, Jesus my Savior, I met. Oh, what a tender, compassionate breast He met the need of my heart. Shadows dispelling with toys I am telling. He made all the darkness display. Heaven came down and believed with my soul. Well that 's a thought I said God made me full My sins were washed away, and my nights were turned and dead. Heaven came down and horribly my soul. Lord of the spirit that I from all is you got to get Justified fully through Calvary flood, although that staying is mine, and the transaction So quickly was made, when as a sinner I came , took a bear of praise he did proper , saving the operations in hand When at the cross the Savior gave me go. My sins were washed away, and my night was turned to day. Heaven came down and sorry my soul. Now I've got hope that will surely endure after the passing of God. I have a future in heaven for short , perilous nations have wise. And it's because of that wonderful day, when at the cross I believe , race is eternal and blessings supernova from his precious hand I receive Morban came out and glory on my soul With at the cost my Savior name may be My spent were washed away, and my night was until Heaven came down and party. Just a couple pages over to page three hundred and forty-three. Whoa, that's hot. Page 343. Springs of living water. All three verses I got it in the barren land of the And something satisfying there I found, but the blessed cause of Christ one day I came, where the living water did above Bring me and the free of the Drinking at the springs of living water. Work all and down and multiply. The living water from the hills are It makes me blind and happy all the way. Glory, grace, and blessing, Mark of Have I God, by counting hallelujah every day I'm drinking at the springs of living water. Happy now and I stand by drinking at the springs of living water Circle and bounty multiplication, won't you come today to Calvary? The dare is flowing deep and wide You're now invited to the water tree, where living spirit can be satisfied. I'm drinking at the springs of living water. See now and I may satisfy I'm drinking at the springs of living water. Oh beautiful and bouncing for fly Good singing. You have a seed, but keep your finger there. 345. Just a page flip in the hymnal. Now all three verses of a new name. New name and glory. I was not a sinner white I came hard into my Lord This was daily given and I found that he always kept his work And I tried to take the single story that it ever had come home, for the community That is mine , don't get it right. But I said forgiven I am back forever and nevermore to home. I was only being at the lost, feeling not that God may refuse. When the heavens are back and I thought that my deal was with men and down , and they worry and fall I love that I can forgive my never more than no. Now I am forgiven and I know I understand they go to the I 've got boy, the new listening on the Oh yes , forget it, I am for never, nevermore. Let me see what is page 400. That'd be a good one. Okay. Let's go to 191 in the blue book. 191 It's all the way in the back. And we will follow. We will follow. I think I know this. Did you play it for me? Oh, got it. Okay. Oh, that's what I thought. Okay We'll sing the first verse of We Will Follow, page one hundred ninety one. I can bite the understanding, give your nets and follow me Watching, hearing, love, exerting, waves of Christ are fruit. We will follow, rise up and say, We will follow our Lord. To the end of the world and days we will follow Christ 's Lord. Okay, I'm gonna do something I have never done from the pulpit before. But due to today's weather, my voice was cracking this morning. It's about to crack tonight. Never done that before. Okay, now page 192. Right across the page. Complete indeed Complete in thee no work of mine, may take dear Lord the place of thine. Thy blood hath poured and bought for me, and I am now complete in thee. Yea, justified, oh blessed God, and sanctified salvation rot My blood hath poured in before me, and glorified I too shall be. All right, now we'll go to page 400. In the red book. Page 400 in the red book. We'll sing the first and the last. Please stand with me on this one. Sing out. Take my life and let it be God decided Lord to thee, take my hand and let them move at the employee love. At the impulse of thy love, take my love, my Lord, I for At thy feet treasure sort, take myself and I will be ever run with thee. Ever only please have a seat I can see that 's pretty funny. Thanks for taking that water, Doug. I probably would have grabbed it if I if you didn't do that with thank you. All right. If you could, let's all take our Bibles and turn back to the 27th Psalm. And this is where we were this morning. And we looked at the first couple of verses. of Psalm 27, and today we're going to look at, or this evening we're going to look at the second half of this. And what I'd like to really do is address a very pastoral issue. And that issue is dealing with confidence or assurance of God's working in our lives. And this issue of confidence or assurance It's something that really drifts into lots and lots of different areas. The area that it is the most significant is actually in the issue of our salvation. And so I'm going to talk a little bit tonight. about the issue of assurance of salvation when we begin to deal with doubts. How do we make sense of that? I think we can actually see some very great insights from the 27th Psalm to help us. with this issue. So let's go ahead and look together at these verses. We're going to focus on verses 4 to 14, but just to remind ourselves of the of the context, we're going to begin in verse 1 again. Scriptures say, the Lord is my light and my salvation. Whom shall I fear? The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell. Though no host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident. One thing have I desired of the Lord, that will I seek after That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord, and to inquire in his temple. For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion. And the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me. He shall set me up upon a rock, and now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me. Therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy I will sing, yea, I will sing praise unto the Lord. Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice. Have mercy upon me and answer me When thou saidest, Seek ye my face, my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek. Hide not thy face far from me, put not thy servant away in anger. Thou hast been my help. Leave me not, neither forsake me O God of my salvation. When my father and my mother forsake me, then the Lord will take me up. Teach me thy way, O Lord, lead me in a plain path. Because of mine enemies, deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies, for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as bring out cruelt breathe out cruelty I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, he shall strengthen thine heart. Wait, I say. Now in these verses we were talking about the importance of having stability when there is uncertainty in our lives. And I know that in the primary focus of this psalm, David is thinking about uncertainty in the sense that he has enemies that are coming out against him. There are lots of fascinating details that we can find in these verses. For instance, let me give you an example of something that's very interesting. Verse number five, he says, In time of trouble, he shall hide me in his pavilion. And you might say, well, what in the world is a pavilion? The idea is, like if you were out in the woods and you were trying to to scramble to build some kind of a shelter that you could hide in from the rain or from the elements. That's really what that word pavilion means. It's like a little temporary shelter that you build in the woods. And so David's talking about, you know, I'm in a dangerous position. The best I can do is I can hide in this little place. And we talks about a tabernacle that's a tent, like an encampment where people are are are on a military campaign and they're staying in something that's temporary, but it's obviously a lot more secure. than building some sticks to hide in, a thicket in the woods. But then he talks about a rock. That's like a fortress. That's a secured location. And what David's expressing is that, you know what, God protects me in all kinds of different circumstances, all kinds of different situations. Sometimes my life's in danger and the very best that I have is just this little temporary structure that I've built. But he protects me in that place. And he goes through all these different scenarios. So the whole the whole focus of this psalm is stability when life is difficult. And what I want you to see about this psalm Is that what gives David stability is that he begins with something that's primary in his mind. That's objective truth about God. But then there's a secondary level to this issue of confidence. And I want you to see both the primary, what we focused on this morning, and then the secondary. This morning we talked about an objective basis for confidence. Verses 1 and 2. The Lord is my light, my salvation. The Lord is the strength of my life. Of whom shall I be afraid? And he gives an example of God doing that. So he basically says, I know who God is, I know my relationship to this God, and I know how he's worked historically, both in my life and what I read about in the scriptures. That's objective truth I can go to that objective truth, and that is my primary point of confidence. And so when it comes to trusting God and moments where we are a little bit shaken in our hearts, That's where we have to go first. But there is a secondary level to this issue of assurance that I think also comes out in this psalm. It's not where we go first, but is it it is a factor in how we feel when it comes to this issue of confidence And I want you to see that in verses 3 and 4. There is a subjective support to his confidence in the Lord. Verses 3 and 4 he says this Though a host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear. Though war should rise up against me in this, will I be confident. One thing have I desired of the Lord That will I seek after, that I might dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life to behold the beauty of the Lord and to inquire in his temple. Now, when David talks about his confidence when he is in danger of God's work, he's going in two directions. The first direction is, who is God's? What is my relationship to him? What has he done? But there's a secondary area that he goes, and that is his communion with God is what also strengthened his confidence. And I would add that if he was not in communion with God, it would affect the way he was thinking, and it would ultimately undermine his confidence in the Lord's work. Now that doesn't change God's character. God works and God is faithful when our strength is strong and when our strength is weak. He does that. Okay? And I'm going to actually show you that in just a few minutes. God doesn't work because, oh, we have like reached this level of faith, and now he says, okay, you've reached the level, now I'll go ahead and do what I want to do. God isn't down like that God works with us where we are. He comes down to us. He condescends to where we are. And he lifts us up. He strengthens us. And I want you to see that our fellowship or our communion with the Lord is something that either gives us this strong confidence or it really undermines that confidence. But in the midst of the strength or the undermining, God's the same. He doesn't change. And we're going to see that in these verses. So there's an aspect to David's confidence that was affected by the way that he lived, the way that he communed with God. His actual enjoyment of the relationship that he possessed with God was a factor in the confidence that he enjoyed. And we see that in verse 4. One thing have I desired of the Lord. Another way to put that is, there's one thing that when I think about God in prayer, I say, God, this is more than anything else what I want in this world. What he's about to say, this is number one. He says that I might dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, that I would behold the beauty of the Lord, and I would inquire in his temple. Let me break that down to you in kind of New Testament terminology. The temple is the place where God's presence dwells. They had to go to the temple and they had to offer sacrifices, and that was where God's presence was. Now God is everywhere present, but there was a uniqueness to God's presence in that way. You and I as New Testament Christians, we actually have a unique position because we are the temple of the Holy Spirit. He indwells us. And so when David says, I want to dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, literally he's saying, I want to be in the presence of God. That's what he's saying. For you and for me, it's I want to commune with the God who dwells me. That's really the sense of it. And then he says, I want to behold the beauty of the Lord. Another way to put that is I don't want to just be present with him. I want to delight in him. I want to see him as he is. And as I see him as he is, I want that to stir up my heart. I want that to develop a godly affection for him. That's what he's saying. So David is saying more than anything else in the world, I want to enjoy God's presence and I want to delight in who He is. And then he says, and inquire in his temple. I want to have communion with him. I want to talk to him. I want there to actually be dialogue where I am talking regularly with the Lord. We know that little verse that says, Pray without ceasing. The idea is that I should live my life where I am continually comfortable to go into the presence of God and speak with him about the littlest of things and the biggest of things. The reason that I draw your attention to that is because this is something that helped strengthen David when his faith was tested. Now, please understand something. The level to which David enjoyed fellowship with God did not change his position at all. But what it did do was give him a greater sense of what he had. It gave him a better understanding of the surety that he had in that wonderful position. And I want to spend a little bit of time this evening talking about that concept. And I want to I want to draw this concept out in probably one of the most practical ways that you and I experience, and that is when it comes to this issue of assurance of our salvation. If I was to ask you to raise your hand, and I'm not going to do this, but if I was to ask you to raise your hand, have you ever had a period in your life where you doubted that you were saved? I guarantee you a lot of hands would go up. I guarantee you that. I guarantee you that there'd be hands that wouldn't go up, but maybe you you feel like you probably should I want you to realize that this issue of struggling with confidence about our position in Christ, sadly, is something that a lot of Christians deal with. And there's lots and lots of different reasons for that. I'm going to break this down a little bit. One of the reasons is personality. Some people are just more prone to introspection than others One of the reasons is because there's a lot of false teaching around us, and sometimes we'll hear a verse of scripture and the way that it's applied, all of a sudden it starts to set into our minds, and we start going, wait a minute, do I really understand this message correctly? Sometimes when a pastor is preaching, he might go beyond the text of Scripture and say something that's not really there. It becomes very, very dangerous. Sometimes out of a desire to really hammer a point with people that he knows are struggling in this area, he ends up hurting those that are over on this side. There's lots and lots of different reasons that people struggle with confidence that they are saved. I'd like to draw your attention to a very intriguing passage in 1 John 3. Turn with me for just a moment, 1 John 3, and we're going to look at verses 18 through 21. Now, first of all, let me say something about 1 John. 1 John is written to Christians. Not people who are professing to be Christians and may or may not be Christians. It's written to Christians. 1 John is not telling us how to get saved. There is no scripture in 1 John that is an evangelistic appeal. The purpose for 1 John is to help the Christian understand how to have a joyful, full, rich experience of fellowship with God. We know that because he addresses them as brethren. He tells them, I know that you're saved. He gives lots and lots and lots of indicators that the people that he's writing to are Christians. This is not a book telling us how to get saved. It's telling us how to enjoy what we have. And so keep that in the back of your mind as we look at 1 John 3, verse number 18. Listen to what it says. He says, My little children, he's talking to Christians. Let us not love in word, neither in tongue, but in deed. He's saying, as a Christian, you should love other people. Very, very simple truth, right? But then the next statement is very interesting. He says, and hereby we know that we are of the truth. Now some might say, well, hold on a second. So the way that I know I'm a Christian is if I love people or not. He's not looking at the primary basis of assurance. He's looking at a secondary issue. But he's addressing something that is very important. Let me let me just kind of break down. So the scripture tells us that the ability to love another person in the godly sense. This is something that's natural to people. It's something that happens when a person is, first of all, born of God and knows God. And as a person locks in fellowship with God, God begins to work in that person so they begin to express godly Christian love in a way they didn't have the capacity to do before they were saved. Well, as Christians, we understand this. So if a person is walking in fellowship with God, one of the byproducts of that is they begin to love their neighbor. They begin to relate to people properly. One of the byproducts of a Christian not communing with God is they don't do that the way that they should. Now that doesn't mean that they're not a Christian. It simply means that they're not living out the Christian life the way that God intended. So then he says this, hereby we know and shall assure our hearts before him. I'll put it another way. One of the ways that a Christian's confidence is strengthened is by the work of God in their life. I didn't say that's the only way. I didn't say that's the primary way. I'm not saying we should go around and say, oh, I know you're a Christian because you do this, or I know you're not a Christian. Because you did this or you didn't do this. No, it's not what we're saying. He's simply telling us that there is an element to this issue of confidence, assurance, that's rooted in the fact that we see the evidence of God at work in our lives. But then he clears up where some questions might come. Listen to what he says next. He says: if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart. Did you catch that? So that means that there's some people that are Christians who are shaken Who are doubting, that God says, I know you're doubting and I know you're struggling, but I'm still your savior. You are still my child. That's what he's saying He says, if our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart. He knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, we have confidence toward God. What is he saying? Well, saying it's possible for a Christian to have strong confidence. It's possible for a Christian to have weak confidence. And whether they have strong confidence or weak confidence, if they're saved, they are kept by the power of God. That's what he's saying. So what is the point? The point is that there is a secondary level of assurance that is strengthened by our fellowship with the Lord. When a Christian walks in fellowship with God, part of that byproduct of that fellowship is that they're continually being turned back to the objective Truth of what Christ has done for them. And they're reminded again and again and again: I'm a sinner, I'm broken, I'm unrighteous. Christ paid it all, and they're strengthened and they're encouraged by that communion with God. Their confidence is strong. When a Christian begins to neglect that, you know what the byproduct is? The heart turns away from thinking about the truth. And their heart begins to grow colder. It doesn't change their position, but it does affect their confidence of that position. If someone has placed their faith in Christ, they are truly saved. John 5 24. Verily I say unto you, he that heareth my word believeth on him that set me hath not or hath everlasting life. And I love this statement. Shall not come into condemnation, but has passed from death unto life. When you trusted Christ, maybe as a five-year-old, a ten-year-old, a twenty-five-year-old, whatever it was, You were saved and you are saved. You pass from death to life. If a person is truly saved, their position is unshakably, eternally secured by God's power and promise. John 10, 28. I give them eternal life. They shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand. John our Romans chapter eight, we spent some time there this morning. But it says, What shall we say to these things? If God before us Who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall need how he not with him also freely give us all things It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? The answer is nothing and no one. So if a person has trusted Christ, they're saved and they're kept. But some Christians have a sure confidence Others go through ups and downs. These ups and downs are very real. They're not a part of what keeps us secured in Christ, but they're something we experience. I want you to think of it this way. When God looks at you as a Christian, does he sit there and go, Whew, today the faith is really strong? You're good. And then one day some things start getting really tough and you start really getting shook it and he's going, man, you're really close to that line. What am I going to do? Is that is that the way that God looks at this issue? And we're kind of like chuckling a little bit, but you know what? That's the way that we process it sometimes in our minds. As if God is trying to decide how close is this person That's not what it says in the text. It says, if God is for us, who can be against us? The basis of our salvation is entirely rooted in the work of Christ. Christ. He saves, he keeps. We are secured. And so when we think about this issue, our sin can begin to shake us internally. A lack of communion with Christ can shake us internally. False teaching, a big one right there, can shake us. An imbalance in preaching and teaching can shake us. A conversation with somebody can shake us. Some personality types are more prone to being shaken. And so my third statement is this: we've got to learn how to deal with doubts in the midst of trust. Many, many times people will come to me and they'll say, Pastor, I'm struggling with doubts about my salvation. The first thing I ask them is, can you tell me what the gospel is? Can you tell me what the gospel is? Why do I do that? Because that's objective truth. If somebody cannot tell you what the gospel is, how are they trusting in it? But if they can tell you what the gospel is, and ask a second question, are you depending on that message? They might say, well, I don't know what happened, you know, when I was five. That's not the discussion here this morning or this evening or whatever time it is. Are you trusting? Are you resting? In that message. You might not be able to tell me the exact moment that you first understood the gospel and trust Trusted in. You might say, I believe that I responded this time, and then I went through this season. I'm not sure what was going on, but I know now I'm very solidly, firmly trusting in the finished work of Christ. The truth is this: we can't figure all that out sometimes. But what we do need to do is get back to the basics. When someone is dealing with doubts in their trust, we need to look at what we see in these verses. For instance, verses 7 through 9, here's what it says. He says, Hear, O Lord, when I cry with my voice, have mercy also on me and answer me. When thou saidest, Seek my face, my heart said unto thee, Thy face, Lord, will I seek. Hide not thy face from me. Put not thy servant away in anger How could a Christian really think this? Like God's going to put him away because he blew it in one situation? Well, obviously David says it. He says, Thou hast been my help. Leave me not, forsake me, O God of my salvation. Verse thirteen, I had fainted unless I had believed to see the goodness of the Lord and the land of the living. He talks to him, he says, he talks to himself, he says, Wait on the Lord, be of good courage, he will strengthen your heart. Wait, I say, on the Lord As I read through these verses, I see that David is both someone trusting and someone who's kind of shaken. And by the way, you see this all over the Psalms. Many times we read the Psalms, you'll see great statements about David's trust, and then you'll see expressions of his weakness and his frailty. And how we shake it and how internally he's struggling. And then he begins to like, it's like he's talking to himself and he's reminding himself of truths, and then he speaks confidently again. That's how we deal with doubts They go on in our hearts. He says, Hear, O Lord, when I cry, verse 7. He's shaken. Verse 7: Have mercy also upon me and answer me. David is shaken. Verse 8, when thou saidest, Seek my face, I said to thee, Thy heart, thy face, Lord, will I seek. Basically, David is pressed, and it's like God is prompting him, why don't you pray? That's what's going on. What are these? These are expressions of a man who trusts, but he shed Chicken. Verse nine. Hide not thy face far from me, put not thy servant away in anger, leave me not, neither forsake me. What does that sound like? Sounds like a person who's trusting, but they're shaken. David understood what that was like. Verse 13, I had fainted unless I had believed, he's shaken. Verse 14, wait on the Lord and be of good courage. It's like somebody who's running. Anybody ever done distance running? I I I I I painfully made a decision my senior year of high school to run cross country. And I just remember like, you know, you're like deep in the second mile and I'm talking to myself like First of all, why am I doing this? And secondly, okay, I gotta make it a little bit further that I'm pushing myself. That's kind of like what David's expressing here. Wait on the Lord, David. You're experiencing struggle and it's pressing you and you're discouraged. Wait on the Lord. Be of good courage. He'll strengthen your heart. David experienced this. Don't allow yourself to be shocked when even though you've trusted, you start getting a little shaken. The greatest examples in all of the Bible went through these things. Every single one of them. I could give the examples of Moses, Elijah. David, Job, lots and lots of examples. Very godly people. People had very strong faith. In fact, let me give you one of the most interesting examples in all of the Bible, and that's Abraham. Listen to what Romans chapter 4 says about Abraham. And then I want you to think about his life. We've been studying his life. I want you to think about this because it's very important to this discussion. Romans 4. 18, it says this. Abraham against hope believed in hope that he might become the father of many nations. According to that which was spoken, so shall thy seed be. He, being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead, when he had was about a hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb. He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief, but was strong in faith, giving glory to God, being fully persuaded that what he had promised he was able to perform, and therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness. Now, when you read those verses, the question that you should ask yourself is: could a man with such powerful and strong faith ever be shaken? That's the question you should ask. When was this man declared righteous? Genesis chapter 15 Well, let's think about the storyline of Abraham's life for a minute. There's about 25 years of history from promise to fulfillment. 25 years. And during that time, the first thing that happens is God tells him, Leave Earth the Calades. He obeys. That's really good. In fact, by the way, he obeyed at a time when he wasn't yet a Christian or a believer, I would say. Okay? This is this is many years before Genesis 15. We know there's two times in Abraham's life that he lied to preserve his own life, and he you might say he threw his wife under the bus, all right. I don't know how I would put that, all right. But the idea is he was willing to endanger his wife. To preserve his own life. And God intervened twice. We know those stories. He had a child with Hagar. Probably one of the lowest moments, maybe the lowest moment of Abraham's life. We know that he was willing to offer his son Isaac on Mount Moriah, the highest moment of David or of Abraham's life. Here's the question. How much of that history I just mentioned have You may not think often about this But in Genesis 15, that is when Abraham, the faith that is talked about here in Romans 4, that's when he believed on the Lord and it was accounted to him as righteousness. And then what do we read in the next chapter, Genesis 16? In Genesis chapter 16, he decides to take Hagar. What in the world's going on there? Do you think that maybe his face got shaken a little bit, and that's why he did that? Genesis chapter 20. We know the story of Sodom and Gomorrah and God destroying Sodom and Gomorrah. And right before God destroys Sodom and Gomorrah, he literally comes to Abraham and he says, Your wife is going to have a child by you within the next year. And do you realize after that event, between that moment and Isaac's birth, He said, She's my sister. Do you realize that that story happened between those two events? And God intervened, questioned, do you think his face got a little shaken? This man who had incredible strong faith was a man who in moments was weakened. Did not change his position, did not change God's faithfulness to his promise, did not in any way change that God was going to accomplish what he took what he was purposed to and what he promised to accomplish. And so that leads me to three very important words: unbelief, faith, and doubt. You know what unbelief is? Unbelief is saying, God, I don't believe that, and I won't trust in it. Every person that rejects the gospel rejects the gospel in unbelief, they say no. Do you know what faith is? Humble and trust. That's really all it is. It's a willingness to take God at His Word and trust in it. You know what a doubt is? A doubt's what happens when people who are trusting get shaken. Unbelief and doubts are different. Unbelief is saying, no, I will not trust. Doubts are saying I'm trusting, but I'm shaken. And every single one of us has found ourselves in that place at some point. You get a word on something that's happened, and all of a sudden that circumstance begins to weigh heavily on your heart. And you say, God, are you going to work in this situation? I mean, you know who he is and you know how he works, but you're shaken. It's not saying, God, I'm going to refuse to trust you. It's God, I'm trusting you, but I'm shaken. That's what was going on in this particular passage, Psalm 27. And in the midst of all that, in times of trouble, verse 5, when he was weighed down by his sin, verses 7 through 9. When his own parents were gonna forsake him, verse ten. Verse thirteen, when his future seemed so uncertain. Verse 14, when difficult seasons of life seemed to Continue and continue and continue. In all those situations, he was trusting but shaken. And you know what David had to do? He had to take his mind back to what is true. He had to say, I know who God is, I know my relationship to him, I know how he's worked, and I'm going to get back in fellowship with him. And when David reminded himself of those objective truths, you know what it did? It gave him firm standing. It didn't change his position, it changed how his heart felt about his position. There's a difference. And when David got back in fellowship and communion with the Lord, you know what it did? It strengthened his confidence. In that position. When we are shaken, we've got to go back to the basics. If you have struggled with doubts of your salvation, you know what you need to do? You need to go back to the basics. What is the gospel? What has Christ done for me? Have I trusted in it? Am I depending on that work or not? That's an objective matter. And go back to the truth. We know who he is. We know our relationship to him. We know how he works. We're going to re-prioritize our walk with him. We must be patient with him as he strengthens our faith in its weakness. I don't know what you're going through at the moment. But there might be some things that are they're kind of shaking you. And there's so many different levels. It might be shaking you in your confidence that you're saved. It might be shaking you in your confidence that he's good. It might be shaking you in your confidence that he Sovereign, it might be shaking you in your confidence that he's righteous. So many different levels to this issue. Go back to the basic That's what David did. That's what we need to do. So I close with these simple applications. Don't be shocked when you go through seasons where your faith is tested. It's necessary. God wants to strengthen you in your faith. He wants you to grow. He wants you to mature. So he's going to allow you to face testing. Number two, remember there's a difference between unbelief, belief, and doubt. You don't doubt what you don't believe. You understand what I'm saying? And sometimes we get shaken. Number three, we've got to focus on what is objectively true, not How we feel about it. Lastly, we got to prioritize what we have in Christ. We cannot forsake fellowship with the Lord without Christ. Consequence. I don't mean eternal consequence, heaven and hell. I'm talking about consequence in your joy today. I'm talking about confidence in our I'm talking about consequence in your confidence of the position that you have. have. God wants you to prioritize him first. And I want to encourage you to do that. Let's bow for prayer, please. Father, please take the things that were said this evening and use them to help us. I pray that you take these truths and cement them in our hearts. If somebody's struggling with confidence of their salvation, I pray that you'd help them to go back to the basics. Father, if somebody is struggling with confidence in some area of your character or some area of your ways, some area of how you view them, I pray they get back to the basics. Father, help us to be a people who learn how to process fear and uncertainty and struggle and doubt. That ultimately we land back on the sure footing of your word. We ask all of this in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, if you could, let's turn in our hymn books to our final closing hymn, and that is hymn number 19. My Jesus, I love thee. Hymn number 19, My Jesus, I love thee. Let's stand together, please. I think it's a great song to sing when we think about the need to prioritize our love for the Lord. This is different. Oh yeah, this they changed the tune. What in the world? Huh? I want I want the one that we know. 'Cause if we don't know it we're not gonna be able to sing it. Oh, these guys, come on man. Huh? We're not Baptists. We're not allowed to change. There we go. That's a lot more familiar. This looks more familiar. 160. Alright, that's here we are. Same words, we hope. Different. The tune we know. Here we go. My Jesus , I love thee. I know thou art mine. For thee, all the follies of sin I resign My gracious redeemer, my savior are thou If ever I love thee, my Jesus is now. Let's do the second. I don't know if that's up there or not, but we'll do the second one because This is a good one. Here we go. I love thee because thou hast first loved me. And purchase my pardon calorist I love thee for wearing the horns on my brow Forever I love thee, my Jesus is now I love thee because thou first loved me. That's really good. That's really good. Frank, can you close us in prayer, please? Yep, Frank. Good to see each of you out tonight And I hope that y'all have a really good week. Let's pray. Let's pray. Our Father in heaven, we thank you for you being such a wonderful God to us, Lord, and a wonderful Savior, Lord. Just thankful for the faith that you give. And Lord, I I pray that when we are shaken and have doubts, Lord, that We might always turn back to you and and put our composite in you and in that that that you created us and uh you have saved us. You sent your son to die for us. Lord, and we're just safe in your hand no matter what. Uh no matter what our if our heart would deceive us and or or our sin would uh cause us to doubt, Lord, just just help us to know that you've taken care of that. Your mercy is uh eternal and enduring forever, Lord, and uh nothing we no one could Could snatch us out of your hand, Lord. Uh not even ourselves, Lord. Uh we rest in your salvation and your light love for us, and just thank you so much for that. In Christ's name I pray. Amen.