Let's uh go to Esther chapter three. Esther chapter three. And you know a lot of times folks are like, well, we just, you know, as believers, we don't want to get involved in politics. We're gonna see tonight. I'm glad that Esther didn't take that approach. And uh and we they called it, you know, I don't know what they called it back then, but um but it's the same issue reaching up into uh government And I believe that God's ordained three institutions, the home, the church, and government. And I believe that there ought to be, we ought to be salt and light in every area of life. In our homes, in our churches, by the way, in our workplaces, in our schools, and also believers have an obligation to be salt and light in government, and it's uh another good reason to be salt and light in government is for self-preservation. So we can have uh the liberties that we enjoy uh like we are here tonight to meet freely. We talked a little bit more about that this morning in uh in the Sunday school hour. But let's look here in Esther chapter 3. And we're going to begin in verse number 1. Now I'm going to assume tonight that you know the story of Esther generally. And so we're going to make that assumption. And then we're going to jump into it here. Esther's already queen by this time, so we're going to let you know know how that all happened. And so Esther is queen, and so that's what we're going to pick up in the story. But let's read A couple of verse facts. Let me give you a text verse here tonight, and then we'll go back to that. Let's go down to Esther 3, verse number 10. I want you to, this will be our text. And we'll come back to it. We'll back up to the beginning of the chapter here after we have a word of prayer. But look at Esther 3 verse 10. Says this. Notice and the king took his ring from his hand. I want you to notice that ring. Because we're going to follow that ring a little bit later on when we get into the story. The king took his ring from his hand and gave it unto Haman, the son of Hamadapha the Agagite. the Jews' enemy. And so we'll come back to that in a minute. But let's have a word of prayer and ask the Lord to bless. Lord, we come to you tonight. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth. That it has in it the instruction that it has in it, the application, Lord, not just as stories from the past but stories with truth and application that we can apply to our lives and to our day and our time. And Lord, I pray now that you would meet with us Tonight, encourage us and challenge us, Lord, if we ask in your name. Amen. So here we are. Let's look at Esther 3, back up to verse number 1. And let's see where we're at here. It says, and after these things did King Ahasuarus promote Haman, the son of Hamadatha the Agagite, and advanced him has set his seat above all the princes that were with him. And all the king's servants, verse 2, that were in the king's gate, bowed and reverenced him. For the king had so commanded concerning him, but Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence. So we have a situation here where uh Haman has been advanced to the prince of the the the highest prince in the land under the king. And you also have Mordecai, as we know, because we know the story, as a Jew uh who is serving there at a lower level uh in the government. And in that day and age, the uh the Haman, the prince, would walk in through the gate and all the other uh princes would be there uh stand the lower princes, the lower level government uh folks would uh be there in the gate And the rub came, the issue came, sometimes I like to put it like this, the issue came when Haman walked through the gate and Mordecai refused to use his correct pronouns. Amen. Now, you say, well, that's not the way it happened. No, but there is something to be said for that. Amen. He refused to bow down to Haman. And the king had commanded that, but Mordecai refused. And then we find out why, or let's look at verse number three. Then the king's servants which are in the king's gate, said unto Mordecai, Why transgressest thou the king's commandment? So the other folks around him say, Why aren't you bowing down? As the king commanded, bowing down to Haman. In verse 4, now it came to pass when they spake daily unto him, those around him, speaking to Mordecai saying, why aren't you bowing down? , And he hearkened not unto them. In other words, he didn't uh start bowing, that they told Haman. Now here's an interesting thing. Haman obviously hadn't even noticed this This thing that is going to become such a big issue in his life was something that was going on as he as every day when he was walking through the gate, he hadn't even noticed it. But now these folks basically tell on Mordecai some tattletales in the group, amen. And uh they tell on Mordecai, they go and tell Haman to see whether Mordecai's matters would stand. Now, notice because this next phrase is very important to the story, for he, that's Mordecai, had told them that he was a Jew. So Mordecai was not just being rebellious. He wasn't just Saying, hey, I'm not bowing down, that guy, I don't like him. No, Mordecai had a reason. He was a Jew. And the underlying reason we know behind that, and that we can assume that he told them, is I'm a Jew and I don't bow to anybody except the God of heaven. And folks, I like to take that example of Mordecai explaining why he would not bow down and say, listen, when the day comes, and hopefully it doesn't, but if the day comes when your workplace Your school, whatever it is, comes to you and says, look, not only are we as a business or as a school going to celebrate a godless secular point of view. We expect you to celebrate that. Folks, at that point, you know, there comes a line. I hope. Where Christians say, and thank God for the Christians across the country who are standing up and saying, hey, I'm not going there. I'm not teachers who are saying, look, I'm not going to lie to my students. I'm not going to buy into the lie. But Mordecai told them why he was not bowing down. He was not ashamed of his faith in God. He was not ashamed of his heritage. And explain that to them. Now look at verse 5. And when Haman saw that Mordecai bowed not. Nor did him reverence, then was Haman full of wrath. So now all of a sudden Haman's noticing it, and boy, he gets Now, verse number six is very instructive. The first phrase of the verse, which when you first read it, you might say, well , what does that mean? Look at verse number six. It says, and he sought scorn, he thought scorn To lay hands on Mordecai alone. Now, this reveals just how evil Haman was Haman could have dealt with this, and of course he did attempt to deal with it personally by building gallows to hang Mordecai on. But he was not happy to leave it there. He wasn't he had an issue with Mordecai. He was not content to just leave it with dealing with Mordecai. Look at the rest of this verse. For they had showed him the people of Mordecai. They had said, well, you know, Haman, this Mordecai, he's a Jew. That's why he's not bowing down to you. And so Haman knew that. uh from what the scripture tells us here. So look at this, the rest of the verse. Wherefore Haman sought to destroy all the Jews that were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahazuaris, even the people of Mordecai. Folks, that is evil. He had an issue with one man. He wants to kill tens of thousands as a result. Folks, that's evil. That's wicked. And by the way, folks, that wickedness still exists in the world today And that hatred for the gospel is still out there. And for anything with a Christian perspective to it. And folks, all you have to do is go to the Middle East to find it today if you're looking for it. And there's many other places you can find it as well. But that was the evil of Haman. Not just he was he said, hey, I'm not just going to deal with this one-on-one. I want to kill every Jew in the country. Now, the government of Esther's Day was a very different form of government than what we have in America. It was a monarchy, not a constitutional republic. But the commonality is found in this, a very important common theme between the two, and that's this that the secular humanists, you might refer to them as the radical left of our generation And Haman understood one thing. They understood their need for the power of government to carry out their evil plans. See, Haman, he could have dealt with Mordecai one-on-one. But if he's going to kill every Jew, he can't do that by himself. He has to have the help of government. He needs the power of government. And folks, by the way, let me tell you where you will find the secular humanists and uh the radical left and throw in that and it's all in the same basket, the socialists and the Marxists and the communists. Let me tell you where you will find them in America. You will find them under the domes of the capitals of this country You will find their lobbyist groups surrounding those areas in the office buildings and in much greater numbers And thank God for the numbers of good institutions we have with a biblical worldview that are trying to defend our freedoms. But the left has a whole lot more. You know why? Because they understand far better their need for the power of government. And they show up. So let's look what happens here. Verse number 8. Haman needed the power of government. So where do we find him? In Esther 3, verse 8. And Haman said unto King of Hazuerus, he now goes to the king. Why? He needs help to carry out his plan. He needs government. He says there is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the people in all the provinces of thy kingdom, and their laws are diverse from all people. Neither keep they the king's laws. Now, right there he lied. There was one law that one man was not keeping, or at least one command. I don't know if it was even a written law, says the king had commanded them to bow down to Mordecai Or to Haman, and Mordecai was not obeying that one. So there's one man disobeying one command. Haman goes to the king and makes it sound like the Jews are not obeying any laws in the country. There is no evidence that that is true at all. So he lies, which is typical for where he is at spiritually, he says, Neither keep they the king's laws, therefore it is not for the king's prophet to suffer them. Now look in verse number nine. If it please the king, let it be what? Written What's he asking for? A law. He needs a law. Where do laws come from? Government. Why? Because they can be enforced. The power of government enforces the laws. He needs a law. Let it be written that they may be destroyed. And this is interesting too, because here follows the money. And I will pay 10,000 talents of silver to the hands of those that have the charge of the business. to bring it into the king's treasuries. So he says, you know what, I'm going to throw some silver in here to sweeten the pot. So folks, not much has changed, amen, and uh in the world. But um but look at verse number 10 now because this is with the text verse. Look at what happens. And the king took his ring from his hand and gave it unto Haman, the son of Hamadatha, the Agagite, the Jew's enemy. And the king said unto Haman, the silver is given to thee, and the people also to do with them as seemeth good to thee. And then they talk about the law being written, and then In verse, the end of verse number 12, for the sake of time. If you look at just the last phrase of verse number 12, he writes the law and seals it with the king's ring. And by the way, what's that law going to do? Remember this, it's going to kill and destroy. It's going to kill and destroy. It's sealed with the king's ring. What does the king's ring represent? The king's ring represents the power of government In order to pass a law to achieve his goal, in this case of killing and destroying the Jews, Haman had to have the king's ring. He had to have the power of government. So the law is written. It's sealed with the king's ring. And where do we find ourselves at that point? Well, if you were a Jew in the land at that day, in that time, you might have thought it was a done deal. Just like far too many Christians think, well, you know, there's nothing we can do. It's hopeless. There's more of them than there are of us. And by the way, folks, let me tell you something. If Christians in China can have hope and Christians in North Korea can have hope and get up and serve God every day and do their best, we have no reason to be complaining about why we can't serve the Lord in this country. They would gladly change places with us, I'm sure. But at that point, the Jews might have concluded it was a done deal, and but Thank the Lord for Mordecai and Esther, a man who refused to throw in the Tao. And when they learned what had been done, they responded in two important ways. Number one They appealed to the God of heaven. Esther 4, verse number 16, Esther writing or speaking to Mordecai. Says, go gather together all the Jews that are in present in Shushan, and fast ye for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day, I also and my maidens will fast likewise. Number one, they appealed to the God of heaven. And folks, you know what we need to do? We need to appeal to the God of heaven. You say, well, Brother Cranston, things could never change in Annapolis. Can I I'll just tell you, I mean, I'm just telling you what has happened. If you had been in Iowa in 2010, 2012, that time period, and you would have told somebody where Iowa would be today, there is not one person in the state house Myself included, unfortunately, I would have to say who would have believed the turnaround that you have seen in that state And folks, it's not because of some political plan. It's God has laid on hearts. And if you want to know what you ought to be praying for in Maryland, above and beyond everything else, is pray for God to burden believers to run for office. You say, well, they can't win. Well you we don't know that if they don't run. We'll never know. But that is what in our organization does not work the campaign side. We don't have the bandwidth to do that. There are others that do. But folks, I know uh friends at the Iowa Capitol who have been there much longer than I have been, have been there over 20 years, and they have told me this. There is no Explanation, even demographically, for the number of believers sitting in Iowa State House today. No, there's no except God burdened their hearts. And by the way, those are the folks that do the most good when it comes to defending religious liberty. It's those who say, hey, you know what? I am just burdened. For what and and God is raising, I am working now with a legislator, a senator in Illinois, where we've just launched an effort who I just met uh last fall. He won. He's a strong, strong believer, a has a career of being an engineer for over three decades and retired and said, you know, I could have left Illinois, but God burdened my heart for this state. He ran for Senate and won. And he is a strong believer. I speak to him now essentially every week. as he's new and we're new in our organization there and getting pastors involved. But it's folks like that that we need God to raise up. Folks like Mordecai and Esther with courage to stand up and make the difference. So they appealed to the God of heaven. We must appeal to God. We must be praying. We must realize we need God's divine intervention. Look at verse the next thing we need. After they got done praying, Esther took personal action. There's a time for prayer. There's a time to say, okay , we prayed. Now we're going to go out and we're going to take action. And by the way, let me tell you the baseline action is to vote. Amen. That's a baseline. Every believer ought to be voting. And by the way, Jesus is not on the ballot. There's no perfect candidate. Find the candidate closest to a biblical worldview. And if you still can't find anybody for a certain office on your ballot that you can vote for in good conscience, then maybe you are the one who should be on the ballot. And I mean that. We gotta have believers, folks. Enough of just passing the buck, amen. We've got to have believers who are willing to step up, and there are organizations willing to help you if God lays that on your heart. But She was willing at the risk, folks. Well, Brother Crance, you don't understand. If I stood up for truth, biblical truth at my office place or in my school, I might lose my job. Esther was not concerned about losing her job. And folks, thank God in America today I don't know of anybody being martyred for the cause of Christ. Now there are in other places around the world, but not here in America. Esther, if I perish, I perish, I will go into the king, she said. She was willing to stand up against the evil, come what may. Think about this, Mordecai and Esther did the little they could do and trusted God to do what they could not. And the point for us today is until believers are willing to get involved and stand up against the evil, we are not going to win this battle and secure our liberty with God's help for the next generation. Now you know the story, God divinely intervened, Haman is hung on his own gallows. And by the way, nobody saw that coming. Heyman certainly didn't see that coming, amen. He would have bought his rope at Dollar General instead of Home Depot, amen. He would have definitely cheapened up on the rope. He didn't see, folks, God, folks, that's the same God that we serve today. God is still able. He's still on his throne. He wants to uh intercede on our behalf if we will seek him. So God divinely intervenes. Haman's hung, but that's not the end of it. Why? Because the law to kill the Jews is still in force. And with that in mind, let's skip down to Esther 8 verse number 2 as we work towards finishing up here because I want you to see this. Esther 8 verse number 2 Says, and the king, notice this, Esther 8. 2, and the king took off what? His ring. Here's the ring. We're following the ring. The king took off his ring, which he had taken from Haman. Isn't that interesting? And gave it unto Mordecai, and Esther sent Mordecai over the house of Haman. Folks, it's the very same ring. And you know what the difference is? It's gone from a Wicked, ungodly man, and now the ring, what's it represent? The power of government? Now the ring is in the hands of who? A godly man. The power of government is in the hands of a godly man. And look down to Esther 8, verse number 8. Here the king instructs Mordecai. Look what he says. Interesting. Write ye also. What's he say? Write a law. Another law. He said we need a law to protect the Jewish people As it liketh you in the king's name and seal it with the king's ring. Verse number 10, we see him sealing it with the king's ring. Verse number 11 is important because it explains the law that Mordecai wrote. Wherein The king granted the Jews which were in every city to gather themselves together, and I love this next phrase, to stand for their life. Number one, this law allowed the Jews to stand for life. But that wasn't all to destroy, to slay, and to cause to perish all the power of the people and province that would assault them, both little ones and women, and to take the spoil of them for a prey. Number one, it allowed them to stand for their lives. Number two, you say, well, it sounds like it allows them to attack people. No, it allowed them to defend themselves against those who were attacking them. So the law that Mordecai wrote was a law that protected life and allowed for a defense. Now here's the point. The power of government in the hands of the ungodly was used to write and pass a law to kill and destroy. That very same power in the hands of a godly man was used to protect life and provide a defense. The ring that sealed the law, allowing the destruction of the Jews, was the very same ring that sealed the law, providing for their protection and defense. It was all about who controlled the ring. All about it. And folks, can I tell you not much has changed in 2,500 years? Because good and evil still compete for the power of government. And whichever one controls it by the way controls the destiny of that nation. You know why we have liberty here tonight that they do not have in North Korea? It's not because the people are different in other parts of the world. It's all because of the government and the laws. Whoever controls it controls the destiny of that nation. The only significant difference from then, the days of Mordecai and Esther. To now, when it comes to America, is the article in which that power is vested. Because in America, it's not who has the ring, it's who has the pen. This pen says Kim Reynolds, Governor. It's inscribed with the name of the governor of Iowa. This is a pen that was used on April 2nd of last year, almost a year ago, not quite yet, to sign the Religious Freedom Restoration Act into law in Iowa, a law that myself and my pastor friends worked on in Iowa to pass for nine years. at the state capitol focused our attention on that every year for nine years was signed into law by this pen and some others like it uh a year ago on April 2nd And by the way, and it provides, I don't have time to dis explain the law. It's one that was presented in your state capitol here this year in a committee hearing, didn't get beyond that. But uh and by the way Similar law just passed in Wyoming was signed into law this week. It became the twenty-ninth state in the country to have a Religious Freedom Restoration Act on the books in Wyoming this week. Provides fundamental religious liberty protections, protections of the First Amendment on a state level. And in fact in Iowa there was a court case where a church was being sued by local uh people in the political arena in a city in Marion, Iowa, was being sued and because those folks had gotten upset with them for showing up at the library and pushing back against the LGBTQ agenda. And so folks in the community got together, went after this church, and uh sued them. Saying that they should lose their tax exemption, property tax exemption, because they were involving themselves in politics. The governor signed this April 2nd of last year. In August, I think it was August or July of last year, the judge came into that courtroom, and by the way, that if that law if they had lost that case, it would have cost them $200,000 per year for their church buildings. Judge came into the courtroom, I believe it was August of last year, and said, Governor Reynolds has signed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act into law, and I am throwing this case out because of that. And that church won that case because this law, at least a whole lot more easily than it was going to cost them, uh because this law was in place. It made a difference. But here's the point. You can pass a law through the House, you can pass a law through the Senate, you can put it on the governor's desk or the president's desk. Whichever the case may be, but until the governor takes this pen in their hand Or, you know, the auto pen, amen. But uh I'll tell you that anyway, we'll leave that go, amen Whoever I'll tell you, whoever controls the auto pen controls the government and uh when you're in DC evidently. But um but whoever controls this pen, whoever signs it, it has to have the ink from a pen like this on it Without that signature, it is meaningless. It is worthless. With that signature, it has the force of law. The question in America is who controls the pen? You say, well, Brother Cranston, who controls the pen? Whoever wants it the most. Estimates. The lowest estimates In general presidential elections, the lowest estimates are that 20 million believers do not who could vote do not vote in a general election. With as high as some people claim up to 60 million believers who could be registered and vote don't vote. You know what that tells me? Whatever problems we have, it's our own fault. It's whoever wants it the most, and I'll tell you this, the left wants it desperately. But the good news for us is the same good news that Mordecai and Esther enjoyed. We have the God of heaven on our side, and we have truth on our side. You understand everything about their woke Leftist, secular, godless, what am I forgetting? Marxist, communist? Agenda. And folks, it all it's all goes together. We don't have time for that tonight, but it's all one and the same. It's all the comes from the same place. But You know what the advantage we have over all that? All of that, every single letter of it, is based on lies. Doesn't work, never has. It's based on lies. We have the truth of God's word and the God of heaven on our side. So what do we need to do? In closing, identify the enemy, understand their tactics Ignoring the situation is not part of the solution. Number two, pray for God's divine intervention. Number three, pray for God to replace the godless leaders in government with courageous leaders with a strong biblical worldview. Take personal action. Inform yourself, vote, and then as we talked about, contact your elected officials with your concerns. Encourage those who are voting right. and express your disappointment to those and explain why you're disappointed to those who are not voting for good laws. Stand for the truth even when it means personal risk and sacrifice. I am thankful for believers across the country, in school districts. in some of the big corporations and other places who are standing up and saying, I'm not going to celebrate this godless agenda, even at the risk of my own job. And by the way, folks, right now, I would guess there's at least a half dozen Christian attorney organizations across this country who are willing and able to defend those believers, defend you if you're in that situation. For free. Now I'm not saying it's an easy thing to go through, but I'm saying it is there and available. And my question becomes, if we don't stand up now, can somebody tell me when you're going to stand up? And thank God for those who are, and many of those are winning their cases. Stand for the truth, even when it means personal risk and sacrifice. And then number four, we trust God with the results. Not one of us knows the future. We have a God in heaven who does, but you know what? We trust God with the results. And by the way, when God does intervene divinely intervene, as I believe we've seen him do. Whether you want to talk about on the presidential level, whether you want to talk about in different states, when God does divinely intervene, don't just write it off to coincidence. Give God the glory and the credit. And let it strengthen your faith. And I close with this verse, Esther 414 Where Mordecai is challenging Esther. He said, For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall their enlargement and deliverance arise of the Jews from another place. But thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed. So Mordecai says, Yesterday, look, if you just keep silent, he said the Jews are going to be delivered. But folks, let me promise you something. That part of the promise, I don't believe, extends to America. But he said to her, he said, but you're going to be destroyed. He said, Don't think you're going to get away with this if you don't stand up. He said, but then he says the part that I'm working towards And who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this, I believe that does apply to us today. Wherever we are, wherever God places us, wherever God leads us, who knows I like that. Mordecai wasn't saying like, hey, you do this, and everything's going to work out great. But you know what he said? He said, who knows? And folks, you know, you say, well, Brother Cranston, can you guarantee that what happened in Iowa is going to happen in Maryland? No. But you know what? If we pray and we work, we trust God, who knows? Who knows? And who knows if God won't raise up the people in Maryland to stand up. And by the way, every election in Iowa, I pray, God, because it can that pendulum can swing very quickly the other direction. And by God's grace, we gained some more ground this time. And we'll just keep praying and working. Folks, we cannot rest a minute because you know why? Because the other side's not resting. But we have a God in heaven who is absolutely able, who knows, if He won't intervene on our behalf. Lord, we come to you tonight. Thank you for this time. We look into your word. Lord, you blessed us to live in a land of freedom , of blessing, material wealth like the world has never known. We tend to think that Maybe we don't have much of it, and we likely don't compared to what's out there, but Lord, we are blessed among all people. And Lord, I pray that you would not help us to become complacent, or if we are complacent, I pray that you would help us to realize that we have a role to play. Esther was certainly enjoying the blessings of being queen. She was living the most luxurious life available to anybody at that time. Yet she realized her need to stand for you was greater than that enjoyment. And Lord, I pray now that you would help each one of us wherever you have placed us. I pray for these young people, that among these young people you would raise up godly leaders in the days ahead, Lord, that we might secure this liberty to preach and practice and share the gospel and to live out our faith in the workplace and enjoy your blessings that we might secure that liberty not just for ourselves Before our children and our grandchildren and our great-grandchildren. And Lord, I pray now you would do a work in our hearts tonight, for we ask in your name. Amen.