Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And uh we're moving our way through this text of Scripture. And so if you've been with us this week, you know that we're in 2 Corinthians chapter 4, reading verses 1 through 7. Let's pick up again. and uh read the text so that we can familiarize ourselves with it and then I'll remind you of a couple of details we talked about this week and then we'll look at part number four. So here's what the text says Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not, but have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness. nor handling the word of God deceitfully, but by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost And him the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves, your servants for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God and the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels. Now over the last couple of days we've been talking about little pieces of this passage of Scripture. So in verse 1, we focused our attention on this ministry. A ministry that we have received and a ministry that we have been entrusted with through which God wants to reach into people's lives. The second thing that we noticed was that God has given us a special measure of mercy or daily grace, where not only has he saved us and given us this position that we stand in, But he also daily strengthens us so that we can do the ministry that he's called us to do. Well this morning what I'd like us to do is focus our attention on how our perspective changes when we become a Christian. And this change of perspective is something that happens instantaneously when we trust Christ, but it's also something that we grow in progressively. And so we see this in verse 3. He says, if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, and whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. Now, when when Paul writes these words, what he's emphasizing is the fact that when a person becomes a Christian, one of the things that God does inside of their heart is he awakens them not just to their own lost condition and their need to repent and believe in the gospel. But he also awakens them to, by implication, the lost condition of those who are around them. And so God literally opens our heart our our eyes and he stirs up our heart of compassion for the loss around us. And the way that Paul describes it in these verses, in fact, is very powerful, and it is it's really amazing how he put it Notice the way that he puts it. He says, if our gospel is hid, it's hid to them that are lost. Or later on he says that the God of this world has blinded the minds of those who do not believe the gospel. I have learned as I study the scripture that one of the clearest distinctions between the believer and the unbeliever is that their perspectives are radically different. Because one has the ability to see things clearly from the perspective of God and on the side of truth, and the other's judgment and the other's perspective is clouded by the deceitfulness of sin. In fact, in Proverbs 4, verses 18 and 19, we see this concept. Unfolded in the wisdom literature, it says it this way, the path of the just is as the shining light that shineth more and more under the perfect day. The path of the wicked is as darkness, and he knoweth not at what he stumbles. Now, do you see the difference between those? One person's path is described as not just light, But one that becomes progressively clearer the longer they walk down the path. The other is described as a path of darkness, and as someone stumbles on that path, they don't even understand why they're stumbling. This is a great description. of the difference between the believer whose eyes were open to the realities around him and the unbeliever who's blinded to those realities. And out of all the realities that are most substantial, it's the reality of the condition of the souls of men. And so notice how he describes it in verse 3. He says, if our gospel is hid, it is hid to them that are lost. When a person becomes a Christian, And they look at those around them. They see people like their neighbors and their friends and their family members and their coworkers and people that they rub shoulders with just in various parts of their community. They begin to see those people through different eyes. And one of the things that they begin to see them as is people who are lost People who are stumbling in the darkness, people who need to be found, people who need to be pursued, people who need to be brought to the knowledge of the truth. Very similar to what Jesus says when he talks about having a hundred sheep, and one of those sheep stumbles away, for the 90 and 9 are left, and the shepherd goes for that one that has been lost. And when he finds the one that's been lost, he says, come and rejoice with me, I have found my lost sheep. We begin to see the people around us as lost and in need of a savior. The second way that he describes it is people who are blinded. And not just blinded in a generic sense, but doubly blinded. And we see this in verse 4. He says, the God of this world And if you look in your Bible, it's a lowercase G, because he's not talking about the creator of the ends of the earth, God himself, but he's talking about Satan, who rules in a limited way on this earth. Satan has blinded the minds of them which believe not the gospel. So literally a person who does not have the ability to see clearly and has rejected the gospel is not only blinded by the deceitfulness of his own sin and his fallen condition, it's like a person who suppresses the truth and unrighteousness But Satan literally comes and he blinds this person further by taking away the truth. If you remember the parable of the sower when Jesus is talking about The man who goes out and he spreads the seed indiscriminately. He says, some of the seed fell on the hard soil. And when it fell on the hard soil, the birds of the air came and they ate the the the the seeds on the ground and they took them away and it wasn't able to penetrate the soil. Because of the hardness of the soil the birds found it and they took it away. And he said, this is a picture of what Satan does when a person's heart is hardened, what does he do? He takes away their access to the word. And so the person is doubly blinded. And so not only do I see people as lost, but I see them as blinded. My heart is burdened for them. But there's a third aspect. In verse 4 it says, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. We see that the greatest need of lost people around us is the lifting up of that veil to expose their eyes to the glorious truths of the gospel. And so our greatest passion and our greatest burden and our greatest desire is that people who are blinded to the truth, who have a veil over their eyes, who are lost and stumbling in the darkness, that God in His mercy and grace, through the preaching of the gospel, would lift the veil so that they can see clearly of their need to place their faith in Christ alone. And so the point of this whole discussion this morning is that when a person becomes a Christian, one of the most fundamentally significant ways that the person is changed is that their perspective is able to see things clearly as they are. And we see people as lost And we see people as blinded, and we see people who desperately need the gospel of Christ. I leave you with this very simple thought this morning. The blind do not have the ability to lead the blind without catastrophic consequence. So the question is, who does God use? How does God reach into the lives of these people? The answer is that God uses people who have the ability to see clearly because of the gracious work that God has done in their life. through bringing them to the truth, through the preaching of the gospel, so that there is a genuine repentance toward God, there is genuine faith alone in the finished work of Christ. And this person is regenerated, has a renewed perspective, and has the ability to see people in their greatest need, and they have a burden to take the truth to them so that God can bring them to Himself. I ask you this morning. Are you the kind of person that can see things clearly because the Spirit of God has been working in you? May God help us to have eyes to see the world around us from God's perspective. Hope that you have a wonderful rest of your morning and Lord willing tomorrow we'll finish out our series on Friday morning. Bye now.