Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And yesterday we started with our introduction. Today what I'd like to do is dig into the content that we find in 2 Corinthians chapter 4. So If you have a Bible, let's read it together, verses 1 through 7, and then we will dig into our first truth that we find in these verses that I hope will really encourage you in this issue of missions this week. Here's what it says. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not, but have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty, not walking in craftiness, nor handling the Word of God deceitfully But by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost in whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine unto them. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. For God, who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts To give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Yesterday we we talked about introduction. Today we're going to talk about the first fact. And here it is. We have been given a sacred trust by God. And we see that in verse number one. He says, therefore, seeing we have this ministry. Now the question we should ask when we read a verse like that is first of all, when he says the word therefore, What is he talking about in the beginning of this book that he's already addressed that he's linking this back to? And then when he says this ministry, we should ask, well, what is the ministry that he's talking about? And so I'd like to try to answer those two pieces in this video this morning. The first thing I'll say is that the verse is connected to the previous section and the ver the word therefore gives us an indication that that's true. There are three things that we find in the chapter before that are probably a part of what Paul is referring to when he says, therefore, seeing we have this ministry. The first is found in verse 1 of chapter 3. Here's what it says. Do we begin again to commend ourselves? Or need we, as some others, epistles of commendation to you, or letters of commendation from you. Ye are our epistle, written in our hearts, known and read of all men. Ye are manifested, you are ministered to by us, written not with ink, but with the Spirit of the living God, not in tables of stone but in fleshly tables of the heart. Now, what Paul is saying is a piece of a broader context where Paul's apostleship has been brought into question by certain individuals of the Church of Corinth. And so Paul is defending his ministry and is defending the ministry of the other apostles. And part of what he's saying as he defends his ministry is he's emphasizing the uniqueness of the blessings that these members of the church at Corinth have experienced and they've experienced these blessings because of Paul's ministry. He says, you are our epistle. What he's saying is that the way that people know I'm an apostle is that they can see the proof of it and how the gospel has changed your life. But in those verses, what he's ultimately saying to them is that we, that is you and myself are the recipients of a new covenant that gives us a greater and more direct access to the glory of God. And the way that we know that that is true is how it has changed your life. Even though they are questioning Paul's authority, He still believes that their lives have been radically changed by the gospel. The second thing we find in verses 12 and 13 He says, seeing then we have such a hope, we use great plainness of speech, and not as Moses, who put a veil over his face. that the children of Israel could not see. Now you say, what is Paul talking about in verses 12 and 13? Well, he's saying that we can see the glory of Christ more clearly and more personally than the very generation who experienced the giving of the law at Moses, or uh the giving of the law to Moses at Mount Sinai. And so he says that in those days Moses had to put a veil over his face so that they would not be blinded by the glory that was that was emanating from him because of the time he had spent with uh with the Lord, with God himself in the mount. And he basically says, listen, what those people had access to actually falls short of what you have access to. Fascinating statement. The third thing that we'll see is in verses 17 and 18. He says, now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the law is, there's liberty. He says, we all with open face, beholding as in a glass the glory of the Lord, are changed into the same glory. Same image from glory to glory, even as by the Spirit of God. Now, where Paul is going in these verses is he's saying, not only do we have a clear view of these things than the people before us. But we have been actively and personally changed by the Holy Spirit of God through the Word of God into the image of Christ Himself. So when Paul says we have this ministry, you have to understand that Paul is speaking of a ministry that they have received from God that was more glorious, more personal. And it is far greater than the ministry of people like Moses to the nation of Israel at the time that they were at Mount Sinai. They have more access to knowledge. They have a greater view of the glory of God. And he is working in their lives even more personally and practically than he did in the lives of the people before him. This is very important. And this is at the heart of what Paul is trying to say in 1 Corinthians chapter 4. The second thing I want you to notice is that the ministry that he's talking about, this ministry , is a ministry that has two aspects or two sides to it. When he says we have this ministry, he's talking about a ministry that they have received, and he's also talking about a ministry to which they have been entrusted. And you will see in these verses, chapters 3, 4, and 5, that Paul goes from how God has dealt with the church to how he is working through the church. And so it is a ministry received and a ministry entrusted. And so when he talks about the ministry that's received, he's saying, you are a saved people. You're a people that God is shaping into the image of Christ. You're a people that have access to God and have real fellowship and communion with Him, and that communion that you have with God is something for which you are totally unworthy of it. It's something that God invites you into. You have received his ministry to you. But then he goes beyond that to say, and he has entrusted to you a ministry that is very, very important. What it's telling us is that the focus of what Paul is writing is not just worship in a doxological sense In other words, he's not just saying, hear these truths and praise God with your lips and sing praise to him and tell people how great he is and then just sit there and do anything. That's not what he's saying. He's saying doxology should move to active service or active ministry. That means that we serve God as an expression of worship, not just we sit there and we talk about God. He's saying that what you know God has done to you and in you is going to move you to desire to have him work through you. That's what Paul is saying. And so God didn't save us to be self-centered consumers. He saved us to become strong, healthy, vibrant instruments through which He would work in the world. And so you say, Joel, what is the point of this first little section? The first little section is this. You and I like Paul, and like the Corinthians and like the other apostles, have been given by God a very sacred trust. And that sacred trust is a combination of how he has worked toward us And how he wants to work through us. I want to remind you this morning that God wants to work through you He wants you to be a channel through which he shows his love to people, through which he demonstrates his righteousness to people. His goodness to people, his power to people. He wants you to be an instrument through which the gospel is sounded to the nations. He wants your life to be used in those capacities. And so this morning I leave you with the very simple fact that God has given you a trust. It is sacred, and we must be committed to maintaining that trust faithfully Lord willing tomorrow, we'll continue developing this a little bit further as we see that God has not just given us a trust, but he's actually empowered us to be faithful in that trust. Hope that you have a wonderful rest of your morning and Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again. Bye now.