Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word, Morning Reflection. And today we are looking at the third part to our series that we introduced this past Sunday, and we're dealing with the topic of missions. And if you joined us on Sunday, you know that the focus of our message was staying focused in missions. And so the text that we're looking at this week is 2 Corinthians chapter 4, verses 1 through 7. I'll read the text. with you and then we'll focus in on the next part of this study together. It says, Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not, but have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty. Not walking in craftiness nor handling the word of God deceitfully, but by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost, and whom the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not. Thus the light of the glorious gospel of Christ who is the image of God should shine unto them. For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness has shined in our hearts, to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Now, yesterday when we were looking at this passage, we focused in on the first part of verse number one, where it says, seeing we have this ministry. As we've received mercy, we faint not. We focused in on that statement, this ministry. And when we saw that statement kind of unpackaged what we saw, is that the ministry that Paul is talking about is a ministry that both they have received and it's a ministry that has been entrusted to them. Well, the second part of this verse is going to build on the statement made yesterday. And so the second part is, as we have received mercy, we faint not. So the ministry that we have received and the ministry through which God uh wants us to work, God wants to work through us in the lives of other people, the ministry entrusted to us. What sustains that ministry, what strengthens us in that ministry, is this this mercy that that Paul is talking about. And when we use the word mercy, we re need to recognize that he's talking about something. that God has done to them and that God continues to do in them. And so for us to appreciate what he's saying, I think there are two texts of Scripture we need to evaluate where the term mercy that is used here in 2 Corinthians 4 is also used in those texts. Here's what it says. 1 Timothy 1 verse 16. For this cause I obtained mercy. There's that word. That in me first Jesus Christ might show forth all long suffering. for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to everlasting life. Now when Paul says, for this cause I obtain mercy, he's kind of focusing on this mercy in two ways. First of all, he's talking about the initial reception of God's mercy, and he's talking about his conversion, how God in his grace worked in his heart so that he was convicted of his sin and the righteousness of God, the judgment to come, the person of Christ. That mercy that he's describing is the mercy that brought him to faith alone in Christ. But then he says, for this cause I obtained mercy that in me Christ would show forth a pattern of long-suffering to those who would believe after me. Now that is a second aspect to this. That is a continuation of this mercy. So not just an initial burst of God's mercy, but it's an initial giving of mercy and a continuation of the giving of mercy. We see the same kind of concept in 1 Peter 2 verse 10. He says, in times past, we were not a people, but are now the people of God, which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy. So when he talks about this mercy, he's talking about a mercy that is a part of our initial conversion, and he's talking about a mercy that we continue to draw from throughout the rest of our lives. He's talking about the positional side of our salvation, and he's also talking about how God sustains us as we grow in the faith that we have in Christ. and how we grow in our appreciation of the position that we have in Christ, or our growth in, we could say, the experience of the position that we have in Christ. This mercy could be described as the foundation that strengthens the believer in the midst of his ministry. And so he says, it is through this mercy that we faint not. So when the Apostle Paul was discouraged and weary and frustrated, he felt like he had no strength left in him, it was this mercy that would sustain him and strengthen him and press him forward. So it's not just a mercy that he receives once and for all, but it's a mercy that he receives initially, and then it's a mercy that is a continual supply that he experiences day by day It's very similar to the statement in Matthew where it says, give us this day our daily bread. He's talking about how we are physically sustained on a daily basis. as God gives us what we need to sustain our lives. Well, this is a spiritual nourishment, a spiritual sustenance. And so he's talking about how God strengthens him on a day-by-day basis. The continual supply, God's fatherly care, that's what he's talking about. Another similar parallel would be what Paul talks about in 2 Timothy chapter 2. where he says, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus. And in that text he's clearly talking about ministry. And he's saying that your strength in ministry, Timothy, needs to be connected to this daily supply of God's grace. Another wonderful picture. is what is what the psalmist talks about in Psalm 1. Where he talks about the person who rejects the counsel of the ungodly disciples and stay in the way of sinners or sit in the sea that is scornful, but rather his delight is in the law of the Lord and in the word of the Lord. He meditates day and night. And he says, that person will be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, whose leaf will not wither, and whatsoever he does shall prosper. And so the idea is that this tree that's planted in a desert beside a river is one that's going to fl it's going to be flourishing because there is this continual supply of water to nourish and strengthen that tree. And so this is what Paul is talking about when he says that we have received mercy, and it's because of this mercy that we do not faint. This mercy has completely sustained the Apostle Paul. But what I love about this passage is he doesn't just state that it's true, but he explains the way in which this mercy has changed him and sustains him. And so we see this in some of the rest of the verses. One of the things that it says is that we have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty. The idea is that Those secret sins that are hidden from public view, we hate them. We don't want them to be a part of our life. And so the the desire of the Christian who is drawing from God's merciful hand and his strengthening grace is one who hates internal sin and says, I want no part of this in my life. Or someone who says that they do not walk in craftiness. The idea is that there is a rejection of a manipulative kind of living where we're trying to trick people and dupe them and we're trying to control the narrative, that kind of a thing Or then he talks about not handling the Word of God deceitfully. And he's saying we don't twist the scripture to suit our own desires or the desires of the people that we're teaching. Why does Paul bring these things up? It's because Paul is saying, listen, our disposition has been radically changed by our conversion. And what sustains us in ministry is the fact that God has given us this initial supply of His mercy and grace in our salvation. And God sustains us as we serve Him and as we minister by a continual supply of this grace and strength. And not only that, but God has radically changed our disposition towards others. And so the really the most significant thing that he's going to say here is how this mercy has given him a completely different sense of his attitude towards others. Notice the way he puts it. commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. He's saying we don't live self-absorbed lives, ignoring the plights of others. We have this deep, genuine burden for the spiritual well-being of others. And we're willing to lay aside our perceived rights for the good of other people. Why did Paul do this? It's because he had received mercy. And so I want to remind you of a very simple fact today. If you're a Christian, you have been given God 's grace. You are in a position by his grace. But there's an additional aspect to this. He gives you a daily supply of sustaining and strengthening grace or mercy so that you can fulfill the purposes that he has called you to within the position that you have as a Christian. And so I want to challenge you this morning. Don't leave that strength that has been given you so that you can serve God faithfully. Don't leave it to the side and be idle and ignore it. Take up the strength that he gives you and serve him faithfully this morning. That is the challenge. That is the encouragement for you today. I hope this has given you some things to think about. Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our series again. Bye now