Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And looking forward to this new week that we're going to be having together. If you join us on Sunday, you know that we've been dealing with a new topic and we will deal with this topic all throughout the rest of the month of October. And that topic is missions. And so each Sunday we are going to be looking at a different part of missions. We're having in missionaries at our church. And so our anchored in the word morning reflections are also going to focus on missions. And so I hope that you will find this to be extremely encouraging. The first text that we'll be looking at this week, and it's the text that we looked at on Sunday, is 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Excuse me, verses 1 through 7. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to ask you to turn with me to that passage. I'm going to read through it. And then I'd like to make just a couple of simple introductory statements. thoughts to think about as we dig into this topic throughout the rest of this week. Here's what it says, 2 Corinthians 4 verse 1. Therefore, seeing we have this ministry, as we have received mercy, we faint not, but have renounced the hidden things of dishonesty not walking in craftiness, nor handling the word of God deceitfully, but by manifestation of the truth, commending ourselves to every man's conscience in the sight of God. But if our gospel be hid, it is hid to them that are lost. In him the God of this world hath blinded the minds of them which believe not, lest the light of the glorious gospel of Christ, who is the image of God, should shine into them For we preach not ourselves, but Christ Jesus the Lord, and ourselves your servants for Jesus' sake. For God who commanded the light to shine out of darkness, hath shined in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. But we have this treasure in earthen vessels, that the excellency of the power may be of God and not of us. Now some of you may be asking this week, why do we have a missions month? And there are two weeks that we set aside each year at our church that have a revival focus. Now when I use the word revival, what I mean by that is that we as a church are re-energized spiritually, we are refocused spiritually. And that's something that we desperately need. Reviving is taking someone who is spiritually alive, yet they are downcast and discouraged and distracted. And it's refocusing them back on the Lord so that they are energized to do the work that God has called them to do. Well, in the spring, we have a mission, or we have an evangelist come in. uh generally speaking who will come in and we'll preach on things that uh we as a church we we we generally know these things. They're usually not deep sermons. They're usually very simple sermons, but they're with passion and they focus us. on these areas. And as a pastor, I enjoy uh that time of the year because I get to fellowship with the the evangelists that we have come in. But it's also good for me to hear the preaching of God's word, not just Everyone else in the congregation where they're constantly being fed spiritually. I'm the one who's teaching, but it's a great opportunity for me to be taught the Word of God myself. But then during the month of October, instead of just taking a week, what we do is we take each Sunday and we focus it in our missions. And so each of the Sundays this month, we have missionaries in. There is one exception, and I will be handling that week. But on the Sunday morning messages, each of those messages will be focused on missions You might ask, well, well Joel, why do we do that? What is the point? Well the point is that life is full of seasonal change. And we know this. We we grow up as little children and then we go off to college or we get into the workforce and then we go and establish new homes. And mom and dad raise their kids and then there comes a point where mom and dad are on their own and the grandkids are coming to visit them. And then there comes a point where we actually are taking care of our own parents because They're no longer physically able to do the things that they w once did. And with each of those changes of season in our lives, There are unique opportunities that we have. They're also unique challenges. So a person who's a young adult, they're not married, they don't have children, they have lots of freedom, they have lots of opportunity. That's a season of life where you can travel travel, you can be involved in missions firsthand, you can dedicate a lot of time and energy to those things. Whereas once you're married and you have a family, a lot of your life is consumed with just supporting your family and working with your children, but then your children plug into church in unique ways. As your children start getting older, they're able to actually be involved in ministry alongside their parents. And then there comes a time where we send them out and we watch them go and they establish new homes. Each of those seasons provides unique opportunities But they also provide unique challenges. And when we when we move from one season of life into another season of life, sometimes we need to get recharged, we need to get refocused. We need to be reminded of the basics And so as we experience these changes, it is so very, very important that we have times where we are challenged by the Word of God. to refocus and to rekindle those godly passions that perhaps are not as strong as they were at former seasons of life or earlier in the season of life that we find ourselves in That's really what the ultimate purpose of our Mission's Emphasis Month is. It's to say, as a church body, whatever season of life we're in, no matter how old we are, how much opportunity we have before us, Whether a lot of our opportunities are behind us or in front of us, that's not really the point. The point is we need to refocus and we need to rekindle that passion that we have for God's glory and for the advancement of the gospel. And each of the texts that we will deal with throughout this month are going to hopefully help us to do that. It's going to shape our perspective. and encourage us and exhort us. And the passage in front of us that I just read this morning that we heard preached on Sunday and that we will examine throughout the rest of the week. is a great passage because what it does is it encourages us how we are to stay focused in the work of ministry. These verses are going to take the truth and they're going to lay it before us in a very simple way so that the Spirit of God can take it and stir up those passions. so that we will be faithful as we pass on the baton and as we do the work of ministry at this time. And so you may say, well Joel, what is kind of the the main pointer, the summary of the verse in front of us. Let me give you this summary statement that we will flush out throughout the rest of the week. This section of 2 Corinthians chapter 4 encourages us to stay focused and to stay motivated in the work that God has entrusted to our account. And whether you realize this or not, God has entrusted to you today at this time some kind of ministry responsibility. And I would like to encourage you that this week you would say, Lord, help me to see where I have been entrusted with responsibility. And help me to refocus so that I will do that work the way you've called me to do it, and that I will do it with the energy and the vitality that is needed. to do it well and to stay faithful in it. That's going to be our challenge throughout the week. So I hope that you'll stay with us as we work our way through this passage of scripture throughout the rest of the week. And Lord willing tomorrow we'll meet again. Have a blessed day. Bye now