All right, well we're we're in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 tonight, and uh we are working our way uh section by section through the book of 1 Corinthians, and this book deals with a lot of really interesting topics. And it also deals with a lot of interpretively challenging sections. And this passage does have a couple of interpretively challenging things that we will work through. But what I want to make sure that we do when we deal with a passage like this is that we get the big picture and not miss really what Paul is trying to get at here. So sometimes when we uh examine the leaves a little bit too close, we forget there's a forest there to look at as well. And so tonight we're going to kind of talk about both of those things. So as we dig into this passage, we're going to look at the importance of staying grounded and how learning from history, specifically biblical history, but really learning from history is a great way for us to stay grounded. Let's go ahead and pick up in verse number one. He says, moreover, brethren, I would not that you should be ignorant. How that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea. We're all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And did all eat the same spiritual meat, and did all drink the same spiritual drink. For they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. But with many of them God was not well pleased. For they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now, these things were our examples to the intent that we should not lust after evil things, as they also lusted, neither be idolaters, as were some of them, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play. Neither let us commit fornication as some of them committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand. Neither let us tempt Christ. As some of them also tempted and were destroyed of serpents, neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer. Now, all these things happened unto them for examples. They were all they are are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come. Wherefore, let him that thinketh he stand, take heed lest he fall. There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common demand. But God is faithful, He will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape, that ye may be able to bear it. Wherefore, my beloved brethren, flee from idolatry. Now, as we look at this passage of Scripture, it's important to remember that this is a part of a letter that has a flow of thought. And in the section that we've been looking at, the last couple of chapters and really all the way through the end of this chapter, Paul is dealing with issues of conscience. But there's another piece to this discussion that is beyond the issue of conscience, and that is how the Christian is supposed to relate to idolatry. Now I know that this issue of idolatry is something that to us as 21st century Americans seems really, really foreign. But the truth is that idolatry was a really big deal in the first century. And the kinds of things that people were accustomed to, what was considered completely normal, is stuff that would really shock us today, even yes in a time where there's a lot less shocking to our society than there used to shock us And there were a lot of pressures that these people felt as they were going about their daily lives. But the truth is in our society we can appreciate these things a little bit. I work with marketplace chaplains. And so as a marketplace chaplain, I work in a lot of different business settings, sometimes factories, sometimes distribution centers. all kinds of different scenarios. And what that has done is it's kind of given me a little bit of an understanding of some of the dynamics that people deal with within those office settings. Uh the truth is that there could be one individual in an office that kind of holds everybody hostage because they now want you to use their preferred pronouns And uh they might realize that, you know, you're a Christian, you don't want to use my preferred pronouns. So I'm gonna target you, I'm gonna make an example of you, I'm gonna make your life as miserable as possible, I'm gonna ruin you if you don't follow my agenda That's the world that we're living in. There's a lot of pressure on people in our society today. But it's important for us to recognize that that's not a new phenomenon. Now, the way that it's flushing out in our culture is new or different, but at at the root it's not any different These people, when it came to their relationship to their families, their friends, to function society, some of them were very powerful people when they became Christians, they experienced a lot of pressure to conform. And really at the heart of this issue was stuff like going into a temple and eating meat that was offered to an idol. And if you remember back to some of the things that we've talked about over the last couple of weeks, The concept of meat, it's just meat. Okay? The fact that it was offered to an idol or that the person had some belief about it before they sold it to a person really doesn't mean anything. Meat is meat. If you eat the meat and you don't know anything about the history and you're not associating with it anyway and you eat that meat, it doesn't matter, okay? It's almost like a person might say this happens in another sometimes. Bad things happen in a person's house And when bad things are going on in somebody's house, all of a sudden in the mind they go, is there something that I have allowed into my house that has somehow taken root and is creating all of these problems and I don't know about it? And out of fear and out of superstition, people do everything in their power to try to figure out how to remove that thing that's causing them to have problems. What Paul is showing you is that meat is meat. Even if it's been offered to an idol, who cares if you don't know about it? However, However, to go into the temple, to sit down and be associated with the things that go on in the temple. Even if you say, I'm a Christian, my heart's not in it, I'm just there because I don't want to offend anybody. That's a huge problem. And so that's really what he's getting at when he gets into the section here in 1 Corinthians chapter 10. He's going to warn these Christians of how dangerous And when I say dangerous, I don't mean just spiritually dangerous, it is physically dangerous for a person to compromise on these issues There are always consequences for a compromise. And we don't pick the consequence of our compromise, but they in fact can happen. And so there's a lot that we're going to unpackage in these verses, and I hope that as we work our way through it, it'll be a help to you. So the first thing I want you to notice from this text is that we desperately need the Old Testament. Now, as a pastor, I enjoyed preaching through the epistles. They're very straightforward. All right? You're dealing with uh a background and a setting, you you you you have uh a lot of logical connection, all those kinds of things. But when you go to the Old Testament and you deal with those narrative passages of scripture, there's way more background information that you need to be aware of. And there's also the danger of really not taking that passage and applying it in an appropriate way. And so there's a lot of labor that has to go on when preaching through narrative passages of Scripture. And so there is a tendency sometimes for pastors, Bible teachers in the church age to go, you know, the Old Testament. is old, not New Testament, Old Testament, so we don't need it. We don't need to study it. We don't need to spend as much time there. Let's focus on the epistles. Let's read Ephesians and Colossians and James and let's read those portions of the Bible. We know the other parts are scripture, but it's a different dispensation. It's a different time. It's under the old covenant, not the new covenant. Let's not worry about that. This passage of scripture would tell us that in fact that's the wrong attitude to have towards the Old Testament. Now, we have to be careful when we're interpreting the Old Testament. There's no question about that. However, we should not neglect it. And this passage is going to give us some insight into how to look at and use the Old Testament. So, first of all, I want to mention this. We know that there's a difference between the two covenants, the Old and the New. In fact, when we use the word testament, New Testament or Old Testament, another word that we could use there is the word covenant. Okay? And so the Old Testament or the Old Covenant is focused on God's relationship to the nation of Israel. And the reason that God had a focus on the nation of Israel is not because he hated Gentiles and loved Jews. That's not why. It's because God selected a family who were descendants of Abraham who became a nation, and he set that people apart to be used of him in a very unique and special way. And so we see that in two passages. One is a New Testament passage that's referring back to their function, and one is an Old Testament passage that was talking about what their function would be at Mount Sinai. So I want to mention the first one from Exodus first. Exodus chapter 19, verse 4. Here's what it says Ye have seen what I did unto Egypt, unto the Egyptians. How I bare you on eagle's wings, I brought you unto myself. Now Therefore, if you will obey my voice indeed and keep my covenant, very important word. Then ye shall be unto me a peculiar treasure unto me above all people, for all the earth is mine. And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. Moses called for the elders of the people and laid before their faces all these words which the Lord commanded him, and all the people answered together and said, All that the Lord hath spoken we will do. Now, what people sometimes don't understand about what's going on at Mount Sinai is that God is establishing a covenant relationship, not with individuals, but with a nation. And that covenant relationship was one that had conditions with it. And those conditions determined whether or not that people would experience blessings. or curses as a result to how they related to God within that covenant relationship. Now it's important to say something here. When we talk about the covenant relationship between God and Israel, there was a national relationship, but there was also the individual relationship. And what I mean by the individual relationship is this. You did not become a believer because you were born into a Jewish family and because you passed through the rite of circumcision and you followed the law. That's not how a person was made right before God in the Old Testament. A person who was a part of God's chosen people, who was living in living within that covenant community, had to make a personal choice. to depend on the promise of the coming Messiah in order for them to be made right with God. And so every single time they would go to the temple or during this time, the tabernacle, and they would give those sacrifices Those sacrifices were a visible reminder that sin is consequence. There has to be substitution. There has to be the shedding of blood. You have to be reminded that there's a Savior who is coming who is going to do exactly what those animals have done. And so when we talk about the Old Testament, we have the individual relationship of believers to God, and we have people who are part of a covenant community, the Jewish people. And that group of people was dealt with both on an individual level, just like you and I are, and also on a corporate level as a nation. And that's really important for us to keep in our minds because when we read places like Isaiah and Jeremiah and Ezekiel, there are passages where we go, it looks like People are right made right with God and they experience these blessings if they obey, and then they're they're kicked to the curve if they disobey. And what's going on here? And we have to remember This is a relationship to nation here. And that's what those passages are talking about. And we really see this in the Exodus 19 passage. He says that I've made a covenant with you. You are a peculiar treasure. He says you are to be a kingdom of priests. a holy nation, and the elders of the people stood before Moses. They heard the words of the Lord and they said, We're going to obey this. Then we go to Romans 9. This gives us a little bit more insight into this concept. It says in Romans 9 verse 2, it says, I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart, for I could wish that myself were accursed. By Christ, for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh. Now when he says kinsmen according to the flesh, he's talking about Jews. Ethnic Jews. People are practicing Judaism. And then he says some things that are very interesting. He says, Who are the Israelites? who pertaining the adoption and the glory and the covenants and the giving of the law and the service of God and the promises. I'll kind of try to summarize it in this way. The focus of the Old Testament is that God chooses a man, Abraham. He calls him out from all the people of the earth. He establishes an unconditional covenant with him, and then he gives a covenant to Isaac, his son, and then to Jacob. By the way, Abraham didn't have just one son. And Jacob didn't just have one son, but Abraham's covenant was passed on to Isaac, not Ishmael, and to Jacob, not Esau. And by the way, that doesn't mean that Ishmael couldn't have become a believer, or that Esau couldn't have become a believer, and that God didn't bless those men. It has nothing to do with their salvation. It has everything to do with the descendants that will follow them and God's purpose for them as a people. And so throughout the Old Testament we see the story of God's promises to send a redeemer. through those people, and ultimately it comes to fruition in the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. The whole Old Testament has that focus. It's important for us to remember that. But then when we come to the New Testament, we have a different focus. Because the focus of the Old Testament is pointing forward to something to come. The New Testament is pointing back at something that happened. And it's explaining the implications of that. And I think a passage that really encapsulates this well is Ephesians chapter 2. By the way, we're going to start an Ephesians series on Sunday mornings very, very soon. We're about to wrap up Luke, and then we're going to start Ephesians. So this will be a passage, I don't know, maybe in like six months or something we will deal with it. But Ephesians 2. 11 it says this. And listen carefully to the distinction between what you see in Ephesians 2 and then the passage in Exodus. He says, remember that ye being in times past Gentiles in the flesh who are called uncircumcision by them which are the circ called the circumcision in the flesh, made by hands, that at that time ye were without Christ. Being aliens from the Commonwealth of Israel. What he means is you weren't a part of those covenant promises. Now, is he saying that Gentiles couldn't become believers in the Old Testament? No, he's not saying that. I mean, let's remember that Ruth was a Moabite. She was a Gentile. Let's remember that Rahab was a Moabite. She was a Gentile. We could go through a lot of examples of Gentiles who are unquestionably believers and God used them. They are part of his promises. But if you want to talk about the peoples of the world, God's descendants, Abraham's descendants, the Jewish people, they were the focus in the Old Testament. And so he goes on. You were strangers from the covenants of promises, you had no hope without God in the world. But now in Christ Jesus. Ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ. He is our peace. And by the way, when he says he's our peace, there's really two senses that we could see there. He's our peace in the sense that we have peace between God and man because of what Christ did. And unquestionably the Bible teaches that. But there is a second aspect to this. And that is he is the one who brings peace between peoples who are at odds, Jews and Gentiles And the church is a body of believers from every people group, every kindred, tribe, nation. That distinction, Jew, Gentile, it's gone. It's not to be a part of the church. And he's talking about this here. He says he's our peace. He's made both one. He's broken down the middle wall of partition between us. He's referring to something that was in the temple itself. Gentiles were not permitted into certain portions of the tent of the temple. There was a court of Gentiles. There was a court of women. Not everyone could go into the temple to all the regions, and nobody save the priest could go into certain places, and no one save the high priest could go into one place. And so you see this concept of separation, separation, separation, Christ removes it all. And then he says this, he makes of himself, of twain or two, one new man, so making peace that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross. Having slain the enity thereby and came and preached peace to you which were afar off and them that were nigh. Now you say, why do you take all the time to do this? What does that have to do with 1 Corinthians 10. Well, actually, I think it has a lot to do with it because what we're going to see in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 is how Paul applies the Old Testament. He's applying Old Testament text, and what it's showing you is that the Old Testament needs to be understood, it needs to be studied, we need to dig into it, yet at the same time we need to keep in our minds the distinction of focus in the two testaments. Someone also might ask, are you suggesting that God had plan A, it didn't work out, so then he had plan B? And the answer is no, that's not what I'm suggesting at all. God's plan from beginning to end was that the Old Testament would point to the new, and the New Testament would harmonize perfectly with the Old, and then we would see God's plan unfold all throughout redemptive history. But that doesn't change the fact that there's this distinction and focus here. So what are the key takeaways when we talk about the Old Testament? Well, we see it's the Old Testament is about an unfolding story of redemption. And by the way, this is something that I think a lot of people in ministry. And . I . I I I'm using this as a generalization because I know there's a lot of different types of Christian churches out there. But in the world that I grew up in, I think a lot of pastors and teachers did not see the unfolding redemptive story in the Old Testament. A lot of times it was moral lesson here, moral lesson there, moral lesson here, moral lesson there, and they just completely missed that this is a story that is being laid out piece by piece. constantly pointing us to the Lord Jesus Christ over and over and over again. But I would also add that sometimes people go to the other extreme where they don't see that there are other things in the Old Testament except for just the redemptive story. And the fact is that in each passage we learn about God's character. In each passage we learn about man. And his depravity, his brokenness, how miserable we can be as people. We learn about the vivid we learn we see vivid examples of consequences, and we see God's grace over and over and over again in the Old Testament. So when we read these passages, what do we see? Man's failure, man's failure, man obeys here, but not here, and just God is consistent and God is faithful and God is gracious, and yes, God judges, but God extends mercy. And we see this beautiful picture laid out. Another thing we see here, and this is the part that I think Paul is really going to zero in on in chapter 10, is that we gain perspective We gain perspective. Let me encourage you about reading. When you read, the question I ask is, what's the purpose of your reading You know, some people read because they want to tell you what books they read. Okay? Hey, you know what I was reading lately? And like if you start asking some questions about what they read, they couldn't tell you They didn't retain very much, but they got through it. Okay? That's what we did when we were seminary. We got through the thousand, fifteen hundred, two thousand pages we had to read for that one class and then pick up the next one. And we just read to get through it. Or you read to say, I finished the assignment. Or you read to say, oh, I've read this person, I've read that person. But when we read, you know what we really should be doing? We should be reading to feed our soul. To engage our mind, to get us thinking, to stir up our minds so that as we read, it begins to shape us and it makes the ground fertile and rich. And what happens is when a person reads like that where they're interacting with history, the Bible, okay, that's the one we really want to focus on. When we read in that way, what ends up happening is it becomes a fertile ground for us to have a very healthy perspective. And here's what happens when you read the Bible carefully. And you read the Bible not to just get it done, but you read it to absorb it. And you read it so that it becomes a part of your life. What you don't realize, but it is happening. Is that the Bible is shaping you on the most basic, core, foundational level on every single area. And here's what happens when a person really is in the Word of God constantly and it saturates their life. When you have a problem and you say, hey, what do you think about this? The perspective that they're going to share with you has been radically shaped by Scripture. It's true. That's what a wise person is. He's a person, she's a person that has been in the Word of God, and it just shapes their perspective. And so what Paul is going to say here is this If you know the Old Testament and you understand how God has dealt with his people, that should shape how you think as a Christian today. That's what he said. And so the focus could be said like this, verse six. These things were our examples. To the intent that we should not lust after evil things as they lusted. And so when the Christian in the New Testament is in this position where he's longing for something that God says no or longing to abuse something that God says keep in perspective, that scripture that they've been in is going to start shaping them in such a way they say, I know that's lust. I'm going to call it what it is. I'm not going to do it. I'm gonna put that lust lustful passion to death. I'm gonna replace it with what is right. We're doing freedom that lasts One of the things that we do in Freedom That Last is we encourage, read the Bible, make sure that you're journaling, try to memorize scripture. We're all doing that a little bit, right? And what's the point of that? As you get into that, the Bible starts to take root in your heart and it totally reshapes your thinking. In a godly way. 1 Corinthians 10 11. Now all these happened unto them for examples. They are written for our admonition upon whom the ends of the world are come. 1 Corinthians 10, 12, wherefore let him that thinketh he stand take heed lest he fall. So these verses are written to warn us. to admonish us, to give us a visible picture of what can happen when things don't go the way they should. Second thing I want you to notice here is that we need to consider the big picture. In verses 1 through 8, Paul is going to lay out some big picture issues. And there's really two ways we can look at a passage of scripture. We can analyze each individual little text, and then we can step back and look at the big picture. In fact, we've done this in our Luke series. So we spent, I don't know, a couple years looking at the book of Luke, and for some pastors that's a lot, and others it's not. Some people like they they turn that into a six or seven year uh studying the book of Luke. But what what we're doing is we're taking each individual passage And we're examining that passage. And one of the dangers of doing that is sometimes we we fail to see how that piece and that piece that are set side by side and this piece right here, how they're all connected to one another. Now, if we step back and we just look at the big picture, sometimes we fail to see those individual details. And so there's a great value in us doing two things when we study the Bible. One would be we look at the individual components. And we examine them and we dig into them and we understand them, we try to apply them, and then we step back and we see how all of those individual components fit together in the story. So, for instance, in Luke, we're going to have a summation of the book of Luke sermon. I'm going to preach the entire book in one sermon. Somebody is nervous. You're like, let me know when that is. It's coming. It's coming, right? Now, we're not digging into all these little details. We're trying to get the big picture. We're trying to get the flow of what's going on I don't think Luke wrote that book so that people would sit down and read it over a three-year period. He's like, sit down and read it. And then think about it. And then go back and read the little individual pieces. And so there's a great value in examining the individual pieces, but there's also a value in reading the seeing the big thing. For instance Genesis 1, God's the creator. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Genesis 21, he fulfills his promises. The Lord visited Sarah. As he had said, and the Lord did unto Sarah as he had spoken. Sarah conceived and bore Abraham, a son in his old age at the set time of which God had spoken to him. Genesis 22, God provides. Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. So they went both of them together. Genesis 50, God rules. As for you, you thought evil against me, but God meant it unto good to bring to pass as it is this day to save much people alive. Now we could spend an entire sermon or study just talking about each of those individual pieces. We could go to Genesis 1 and talk about the creation We could go to Genesis 21. We could talk about God's fulfillment of promise with Abraham and Sarah. Genesis 22, how God provides that ram so that Isaac is not sacrificed. A ram is sacrificed in his place. And then the story of Joseph. But why did Moses sit down to write the book of Genesis? Was it so that they just get all his individual lessons? Well, that wasn't only it. It was to give them the history of their origin as a people. It was to help a group of people who were going to enter into the promised land. Why they had the right to take it. How they became the people that they were. Where they came from, what their purpose was. in God's plan. And so God starts all the way back, Genesis 1, in the beginning, I'm the one who created the heavens and the earth. And he moves all the way through to Joseph and that explains how they got into Egypt. And so the point of the book of Genesis is, yes, all of these individual little passages, but also it was to prepare people to go into the promised land, understanding who they were, who their God was. why they're going, why God was judging the people that were in the land, why he was using them, what their purpose, all of those things were a part of that story. And so what you can see is there's a value in both ways of studying the book of Genesis. Does that make sense? Sometimes you need to step back and see the big picture. And that's what this text does. God worked with a generation in the wilderness. These verses are going to talk about how God blessed them. These verses are going to talk about how they failed to obey God. And these verses are going to talk about how they suffered irreversible temporal loss. And you know why he's doing this? He's saying, if God did it with them, why in the world would you think he'd ignore you? Saying. If they had those kinds of opportunities and they messed up, why do you think you can stand up and presumptuously say, I can do anything I want and there's no consequence? That is what he's saying. And he's going to go to great lengths to tell that story so that they will have this driven down into their souls. So let's notice some of these details, and we will just notice a few of them. First of all, the blessing side. These verses talk about how God had richly blessed the nation of Israel. And we know this. In verse number one, it says this. Moreover, brethren, I would not that you should be ignorant how that all our fathers were under the cloud and all passed through the sea. Now, when he says our fathers, he's talking interestingly to a Jew and Gentile mixed audience. The church at Corinth wasn't just a bunch of Jewish Christians. But what he's showing you is that when you talk about our heritage as believers, yes, you are a Gentile today, but you're a Gentile believer. Yes, you're a Jew, but you're a Jewish believer. So if you want to know where your heritage comes from, go all the way back to the beginning, the nation of Israel, and God's purposes for them, and you can trace all that story down to where you stand today. And so that's why he speaks in those terms. He's not suggesting that they're all Jewish. They are believers, and we could say their heritage goes back there. And he mentions two things. He says that they were all under the cloud, and they all passed through the sea. Now, he didn't say the clouds. As they walk through the desert, they're like, oh, look, there's some clouds up there, and that's what he's talking about. That's not what he's talking about. When he talks about the cloud, he's talking about God's visible presence in the center of the camp. And this is really, really important for us to understand. God desired to dwell amongst his people. When they built the tabernacle, do you realize that the tabernacle is to sit in the center of the camp? And God literally gave instruction about where all the different people were to camp in relationship to the tabernacle. Everything was oriented towards the tabernacle, and the question is why? Well, because God wanted to dwell amongst his people. Because God loves his people. And by the way, they were really messed up people. Okay? They complained and they murmured and when God provides for them. They'd get upset and they said, we wish we would have died or gone back to Egypt and just died in slavery. And the stuff they say, you're like, how in the world? But what is the first thing Paul says? These people were all, not some, all of them were under the cloud They had access to God. His presence dwelt in their midst. And that presence guided them from place to place where they were going to go, told them when to go, when to stop. He stood between them and those who were coming to harm them when Pharaoh is coming down and they're pressed against the Red Sea and he he goes between them so that they're able to go across some dry land. Guess what that tells you? God God blesses people. He delivered them. In verse 1, he says they passed through the sea. In fact, I really love this passage of scripture in Psalm 77. He says, Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters. Thy footsteps are not known. Thou ledest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. Now we tend to think of the nation of Israel being delivered out of Egypt at Passover, and they were delivered at Passover. But the Pharaoh decided to go back after them after that. In other words, it was kind of like stage one, then we have stage two. Okay? And so their initial deliverance out of Egypt, they thought was final, but it wasn't final. Because as they are traveling through the wilderness and as they're coming up along the the sea of uh the Red Sea there on the side of their camps, all of a sudden they realize something's going on down the way. And by the way, when you're in a desert you can see a long distance. So can you imagine you're sitting there and you could see like miles and miles and miles, and you can see there's this massive army and this cloud of dust, and all of a sudden these people realize That's the Egyptians, and they're coming to kill us. And we can't get out. And we have to literally watch them come. I mean you want to talk about terrifying You know I talk about getting upset? They were. But what the people did not know was God had a plan. And his plan was not to stop the Egyptians. I guess you could say it was debate the Egyptians, okay? For lack of a better way to put it. He's going to part the Red Sea, they're gonna go through on dry ground, they're gonna get on the other side and further go if they can go through, so can I. And he went. But that was the end. And what does this show you? Well, it shows you that their faith was tested. It shows you that God delivered them through the sea. And this is the ultimate deliverance out of Egypt. Notice it says, all pass through the sea. Everybody. Then in verse 2 he says they were baptized into Moses. Now this is when people go, okay, hold on a second. I don't know what that's talking about. That's a little bit more complicated. They're all baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea. Now, when we see the word baptize, we need to recognize something. It's not always talking about water baptism like what we do up here when a person professes faith in Christ and they want to follow the Lord and believers' baptism. The word baptism often was used to picture an identification or a union where someone was placed into a connection with somebody. Okay, that's really the idea. So when we talk about water baptism. We are placing someone into the water, they're coming up out of the water, and what are we what are we picturing? Well, we're picturing what takes place in the gospel Died, risen, but what do we say? We are buried with him and we're raised with him to walk in newness of life. So we're actually picturing in baptism our union with Christ, our identification with his death and his resurrection. We're actually, that picture is there in baptism. And when we talk about the baptism of John the Baptist, that was a very different thing. They didn't have New Testament baptism yet. These are people that recognize that we're people that need to be cleansed, and we believe in the message that John is preaching, and so we go down into the water and we recognize we need to be cleansed, we need the Messiah, and we're looking for him. And so it's a different kind of baptism. And then there were certain ritual washings that took place in the Old Testament and those things. But when he uses his term baptism, don't think water baptism. Think identification with a covenant community. That's really what he's saying. And by the way, when we baptize a person, what's the next thing they do? They join the church. Because they're identifying with the church, okay? So we connect the that ordinance to the local church and being united to that local church. And so when he says that they were baptized unto Moses, and he mentions the cloud and the sea, what it's showing you is this. Their union with God, their identification with Him as the covenant people came when He said, I'm coming to dwell amongst you. I'm going to defend and protect you, and I'm going to guide you, and I'm going to deliver you 100% from the Egyptians. Again, what are we talking about? A blessing. He says they were all, they were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And then the third thing I'm going to mention here is the provision. And this is mentioned in verses 3 and 4. It says they all ate the spirit, same spiritual meat, and they all drank the same spiritual drink. I'll read it from the text. They did eat of that same spiritual meat, they did all drink of that same spiritual drink, they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. Now I want to just mention something here. What he's telling you is that God's provision for the people in the wilderness was through the provision of Christ himself. And when he uses the term rock, don't just think of, okay, there was a rock there that was like water coming out and all that kind of stuff. And that is something that happened. And by the way, when Moses struck that rock and God told him not to, That picture was something that he did in front of everybody. That cost him going into the promised land. But the point that he's making is this. God, who called you to himself, who covenanted with you, who dwelt amongst you, who led you in the wilderness, he provided for you every single day. He gave you water when you didn't have water. He gave you food when you didn't have food. He provided for you because you're his people. And notice in every single one of those instances, he says all, all, all, all, all. Why? Because everybody that was a part of that community got the same privilege. But here's the question: Did they all participate in the same blessing in the end? The answer is no. And the question is why not? And the answer it's because of their disobedience to God in the wilderness. And that's what he's going to draw attention to. He's going to draw attention to their failure. And interestingly, their failure is going to fall into a couple different categories. One would be they were not content with what God had provided, they lusted. Rather than serving him as the one true and only God, they served idols. They committed sexual immorality with the people of the land, and they experienced horrible consequences And so, Lord willing, next week when we come back to this passage of Scripture, we're going to work our way through that particular side of this. But I don't want you to miss this. What Paul is trying to emphasize to these people is this. Just because you've received a lot doesn't mean you end well. Got that. Just because you've seen progress doesn't mean you end well. Just because you grew up in a Christian home You come to church, sit in youth group, you you are taught God's word , you you you learn and grow does not mean that you're going to make good choices later on in life and not experience heartaches. And so what's the point? Be careful. Be careful. Just because God has been kind to you now doesn't mean that he's going to ignore your sin later. David's a great example of this. David was one of the most blessed kings in all of Israel's history. Yet you know when he chose to sin and he took Bathsheba and he killed her husband. What happens? The rest of the story is pain and misery. Now, did that take David out of heaven? No. David was a saved man. In fact, it didn't even remove him from being king. God even showed grace and allowed him to stay the king of the land. But David experienced a lot of misery as a direct result of this. sinful choices. And the point that Paul is trying to make here is this. You need to learn from the past. You've got to learn from what's happened and say, I don't want to do the same thing those people have done. I don't want to presume, just because God has been kind, just because God has blessed, that there could not be consequences for foolish, sinful choices. And so, Lord willing, next week we'll dig into this a little bit more. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, please grip our hearts by the soberness of these verses. And then help us to apply the very practical applications that Paul will provide later in this text. Father, I thank you for the Old Testament. I thank you for the many lessons we can learn about your faithfulness, about your wisdom, about your ways. Help us not to neglect the Old Testament. Help us to read it, help it to shape our lives. Father, help us to dig into history and help us to have a godly, stable, strong perspective because we are being shaped by how you've worked in history. Bless our prayer time tonight, may it be very sweet, and we ask it in Christ's name, amen.