Well, let's go ahead and turn our Bibles again to the book of 1 Corinthians. And we are in 1 Corinthians chapter 10 again this evening. And the passage we're dealing with, really last week we looked at more or less an introduction to this, and we talked about the importance of not neglecting the Old Testament in our Bible study. Also the the principle of understanding that when we study Scripture, sometimes we look at the big picture, sometimes we zear in on the details, and uh there is value in both of those things. And so this passage in front of us is a passage that's going to take a huge chunk of Old Testament history, and it's really going to narrow down to just a couple of key events that took place, and he's going to make application about it. And so this is looking at the big picture, maybe more than the little detail. And so let's go ahead and read the text again, and that is 1 Corinthians 10, verse number 1. He says, Moreover, brethren, I would not that you be ignorant how that all of our fathers were under the cloud and all passed through the sea. And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea. And did all eat the same spiritual meat, did all drink the same spiritual drink. For they drank of that spiritual rock that followed them, and that rock was Christ. But with many of them God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now these things were our examples, to the intent that we should not lust after evil things, as they lusted. Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them, as it is written. The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play. Neither let us commit fornication as some of them committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand. Neither let us tempt Christ. as some of them also tempted and were destroyed of serpents. Neither murmur ye as some of them also murmured and were destroyed of the destroyer. Now, all these things happened unto us for in samples. And they are written for our admonition, upon whom the end of the world is come. Wherefore, let him that thinketh he stand, take heed lest he fall. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that you are able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape that ye may be able to bear it. Wherefore My dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. Now it's important for us to recognize that when the Apostle Paul is dealing with this passage of Scripture, There are things that he's already talked about in the book of 1 Corinthians. It's really it's a letter. And there are things that he's going to talk about later on. that you can see that there is a connection to both what he has said and what he will say to the specific issues that he talks about here in this text. And so he's drawing a contrast and he's drawing a similarity. And he's saying, if you look at what happened Many thousands of years ago in the history of Israel, you have an object lesson for how dangerous it is for us to neglect looking at our lives in a godly way. And so last week we talked about the need for the Old Testament. We talked about the importance of recognizing that the Old and the New Testament are different. in the way that they are oriented. The Old Testament focuses on the nation of Israel and God's specific works through them as a nation. And the New Testament focuses in on the people of God, who are both Jews and Gentiles. We talked about that in Ephesians 2, and then on Sunday morning we really talked a good bit about that concept as well from both Colossians and Ephesians. And so there were several things that I kind of drew our attention to near the end of that time, and that was the focus of this passage. In verse 6, he says, these things were written for our examples. Verse 11, all these happened unto them for examples, or the word means an example again. And then in verse number 12, he says, let the one who thinks that he stands Take heed lest he fall. So in all three of those examples, he is saying, look at what happened to those people. And learn from their example. Do not follow the same pattern. Don't think that you are better than them, that you are stronger than them, that you are wiser than them. Or somehow God dealt with them in a very difficult way, but he's going to give you a pass. He said, learn from the past. That's what he's saying. The second thing we looked at last week, and we didn't get through this entirely, was the need to consider the big picture. And we talked about the value of examining the big picture and then secondly looking at the little details and the passage in front of us is that little detail Now, when we look at chapter 10, verses 1 down to verse number 14, we could break this down into probably three sections. The first section is, in what ways were those people blessed? And then he gives examples. And then the second section is, in what ways did those people fail and then what was the result of their choice that led to failure? And so that would be the negative. And then the third part would be here's the application. If God blessed them in those ways and they fail to live according to the way that God had told them, and then they have those consequences, how are we supposed to apply it? It's almost like a little mini-sermon. Here's the blessing. Here's the failure. Here's the application. And so I want to remind you of what we talked about very briefly last week, and that was the blessing side. In verse number one, he first of all talks about how these were people who experienced God's direct guidance in a very special way. He says that they were all under the cloud. And by the way, that word all is repeated over and over and over again in these verses. What Paul is saying is all the people had these blessings, but not all the people escaped the punishment. That's his point. And so when he talks about them being under the cloud, he's talking about their pres the presence of God in their midst. He's also talking about the fact that God is guiding them and he is directing them along the way. Now, why does Paul draw attention to those things? Well, because those are Old Testament examples that we also have a New Testament parallel to. We have God's presence with us as well. Not under a cloud, but the Spirit of God dwells in our hearts. Just like they had guidance, we have guidance. We have the completed word of God. We have the Holy Spirit who takes the word and he drives home the truth into our heart. And he moves our heart to give us guidance. I don't mean that in a in a mystical sense like God's going to talk to you or something like that, but what I'm saying is that he actually moves and works in our hearts. And then the second example that he gives is that these were people who experienced deliverance. Verse number one. They all passed through the sea. And I mentioned Psalm 77 last week. Thy ways in the sea and thy paths in the great waters. Thy footsteps are not known. Thou lettest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron. We tend to think of the deliverance of the children of Israel being the Passover. And the Passover was deliverance, but it wasn't completed deliverance. And the reason for that is that after the Pharaoh sent them out, the Pharaoh reconsidered. And he said, I'm going to bring them back. And so he chased them down. And here the people are camped alongside of the Red Sea, and they can see off in the distance that there are these armies that are coming quickly towards them. And and I mean You you can't imagine how terrifying it would have been to be there in the desert. You've experienced the joy of being sent out and you have All this stuff that you were sent out with and you're celebrating that God has delivered you, and all of a sudden you can see the dust and you can see the glistening on the armor, and you know that these people are coming for war. And they're coming either to kill you or they're coming to re-enslave you. And the people were very disheartened. And they start complaining against Moses and they start complaining against God. And what does God do? He says, I'm going to demonstrate that I'm the deliverer. And what God did is he brought the people through the sea. And then he used the sea to destroy their enemies. It's an amazing thing. So the ultimate deliverance was what took place at the Red Sea. They saw God give them that victory. They saw God destroy their enemies. And now they're on the other side. They experienced deliverance through the sea. And by the way, we are a saved people. We know what it's like to have our sins forgiven, to have them washed away, as far as the East is from the West, so far as He removed our transgressions from us. And so we understand a spiritual deliverance. The third thing he mentions is that these were people who were a part of a covenant community. And that's what he's saying when he says they were all baptized unto Moses. Now, I mentioned this last week, but that word baptized here is not talking about Believers baptism by immersion in the New Testament. We're not talking about that, okay? When we talk about believers' baptism in the New Testament, we're talking about a sign that is to verify or picture before others that in fact I have believed on the Lord Jesus Christ, and so we identify with him by being placed down in the water and then coming back out. And then when we are baptized, that's when we formally join to a body of believers. And so that is how we are identified with the church. Well, baptism is a form of identification. And so when he says that they were baptized unto Moses, what he's really talking about is what happened at Mount Sinai when they became a part of a covenant community. God established himself as their king, and they were to be a theocracy under God's authority. They were to follow his laws. They were a nation, a peculiar people, and so they are part of a covenant community. And you can see the parallel that that Paul is trying to draw here. And then lastly, we see this concept of provision. They all ate the same spiritual meat. They all drank the same spiritual drink. And what that's telling you is that when these people were in a very desperate situation and they didn't have food, who got them the food? God did. God fed them. God provided for them. And interestingly, it's not just the physical provision, but he's also emphasizing the fact that there is something spiritual about this as well because they had the opportunity to learn that this is our God, this is our Father. He is our provider. And so it wasn't just like, okay, somebody's giving me food. Thanks. I appreciate it. It was supposed to orient them towards God to recognize that special relationship that they had with God. And so all of those things are blessings. All of the children of Israel experience them. Now let me pause and say this. Just because someone in Old Testament Israel experienced those things did not mean that they were a believer. Did not mean that they were a believer. And so they were a part of this community, experienced the deliverance, all of those things. But those people had not had to personally trust in the coming Messiah in order to be saved in the spiritual sense. But I'm going to also add this. There were many people who were genuine believers who were a part of that nation, but they did not have the opportunity to experience all the blessings of the promise. Promised land, and we know for a fact that they were believers, like Moses, Aaron, Miriam Those are three individuals that come to mind. There's no question that Moses was a godly man. He was a believer. We're going to see him in heaven. And he did not get to enter the promised land. He died in the wilderness. Say, what's the point? The point is just because these people experienced all the blessings did not mean that they that they got to go into the promised land. And they got to experience that blessing that they were looking for after 40 years of wandering. There were only two individuals. From that generation that survived to go into the promised land, Joshua and Caleb. And there were young people who were under a certain age who had the opportunity to go into the promised land. But there were also people from those younger generations that their peers went into the promised land, but they did not, and the reason is because they got caught up in some situations where they died prematurely in the wilderness. And so that is where he's going to go next. He's now going to look at the failure of the people. And so in verse number five, he says it like this. But with many of them, God was not well pleased, for they were overthrown in the wilderness. Now, this is important for us to recognize. When we talk about that generation that was living there, uh traveling in the wilderness for 40 years, every single person above the year age of 20 years old, at a certain point in their wanderings, every single one of them died in the wilderness save two. Caleb, Joshua. But it's also important to notice something. Not everyone that was under that age lived to see the promised land as well. Please keep that in your mind. You say, what was the determining factor? Was it their age? No. The determining factor was that there were certain moments as they were traveling in the wilderness. that they chose with a high hand and presumptuously to rebel against God, and there were temporal consequences that were irreversible that they experienced because of their disobedience. And so he's going to draw attention to these specific issues. And it's not a mistake that he draws attention to specific issues because these are the very things that the Corinthian church is doing. And I want you to think about the story of the Lord's table. And we're not there yet. We're going to get there eventually. But when he is talking about the Lord's table, he talks about the seriousness of the Lord's table, and he says, for this cause Many are weak, and they are sickly among you, and some even sleep. He means they died. Do you realize there are people in the Corinthian church that because of the way they came to the Lord's table, the manner in which they came, it was so provocative. It was so disrespectful. It was so inconsistent with a right attitude about this issue that God literally took them prematurely. It says that in the text. And so we see the connection. He's saying, in the same way that God did this then thousands of years ago, he can still do it today. We should be very cautious. So what are the things that he mentions? First of all, he mentions the concept of discontentment. In verse number six, it says that they lusted after evil things. Now, uh in my opinion, as I look at this verse, what I think he's talking about here is that there were things that God did not give them and they wanted them and they demanded them. The the the clearest example that comes to my mind is the story of how they wanted meat. Now, is meat evil? No. It's nothing wrong with meat, okay? But if God's providing manna and you want meat because you're sick of manna and you start complaining against God and saying It's not fair that you're giving us this nasty manna and you need to give us meat. Well, all of a sudden you are lusting after something that does not belong to you. And so when we talk about lust, lust isn't always lust for evil things Sometimes we are lusting for something that is completely okay, but it's not okay for us. You understand what I'm saying? I mean, what is covetousness? It's wanting something that God has given to another person. And it may not be wrong for them to have those things. It's not wrong for a person to live in a nice house. It's not wrong for a person to have a nice car. It's not wrong for a person to have a beautiful family. But it is wrong for a person to be content discontent with their house because they want your house. or with their car because they want your car, or their family because they want your family. That's where the problem lies. It's an issue of heart, discontented. It's really saying, God, it's not right that you have restrained me from something I desire or something like that. The second thing he mentions is idolatry. Verse number seven. Neither be idolaters as were some of them, as it is written, the people sat down to eat and drink and rose up to play. Now, it is clear, I believe, that he's talking about what took place at Mount Sinai. So here is Moses. He goes up to Mount Sinai and he's getting the Ten Commandments. And as he's coming down from the mountain with the Ten Commandments in his hand, he comes up to Joshua and he says, What's going on in the camp? It sounds like there's war going on. And as they come down, they see it's not war, it's it's idolatry. His own brother has made a golden calf, and the people are involved. in a debaucherous, idolatrous festification. You say, where did they get the idea to do that? Well they did live in Egypt, okay And why do you think that Paul is drawing an analogy from that event? Because that's exactly the kind of stuff that took place in those Greek pagan temples. It's interesting. Today I was uh I was reading some different articles online and I saw that uh there's an opportunity to to see a temple in Athens without all of the structure around it because they're they're they're trying to refurbish this temple. It's the first time since the 1800s that they've removed the scaffold and they're just gonna do it for a really short time. And I was like, wow that's really cool. What a neat place. And then I thought a lot of bad stuff happened in there over a couple of thousand years. You know what I mean? It was a pagan temple. And so this was a huge part of life in that first century context. He says they committed idolatry, they lusted after things that were forbidden. And God punished them temporally. He mentioned sexual immorality in verse number eight. He says, Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand. You know the story of Balaam and Balak. And Balaam has been summoned to basically curse the nation. And when he goes to curse the nation, God doesn't allow him to do it. And Balak is furious with Balaam. And so Balaam says, I can't curse these people, but here's what I can do. I can tell you how to get the people to come down. He said, send all of your ladies into the camp and lure their young men into idolatry and immorality. Well, it worked. That's exactly what happened. And and the truth is this For a believer, sometimes a non-Christian can really be attractive, can really turn a person's head, can really draw their attention. And he says, do not allow this to happen. And by the way, the Corinthian church had a huge problem with sexual sins. A lot of problems. Adultery, fornication, homosexuality, lots and lots of problems. Why? Because they had a society that was very corrupted. And so when a person became a Christian, it's not like those temptations just totally disappeared and they all of a sudden live in a totally different environment. No, that's not the way that it worked. They had to live distinct from the world that was around them. And it created tremendous disruption for them. And he says, learn from that generation, do not get lured into immorality. So the reason he brings those things up is very simple, because that's what the people did. And by the way What people in the nation do you think were the ones that got drawn into her morality? Do you think it was the old men and women? It was the young people. It was the ones who, had they not gotten involved in those things, they were the generation that would have had the privilege of going into the promised land. Yet a massive number of them. In one day, 23,000. That tells you how many people got caught up in this issue amongst the people. And so he gives us examples as a warning. He says there's real-life consequences. When people play with sin with a high and presumptuous hand. An untimely and a natural death is what happened to many, many people amongst the nation. Because of their sin at Baal Peor, Numbers 25. He mentions the fiery serpents in the wilderness, Numbers 21. And he mentions Korah's rebellion in Numbers 16. He alludes to all three of those events because in those moments, large numbers of people did the wrong thing and they paid for it in real time. And they could not turn away. So the question is, what is the lesson that Paul is trying to communicate here? The lesson is that God graciously gives us many good gifts. And those good things do not guarantee in the end we will experience the full blessings that he desires for us. Lots and lots of Christians who have opportunity fall short of what is available for them because of presumptuous Sinful behavior. And by the way, when I talk about this, I do not believe that Paul is suggesting that in some way, okay, these people are Christians and now they disobeyed God and so they lost their salvation. That's not what he's talking about. Our salvation is secured in Christ. But what he is suggesting is that there are certain blessings that are available to us potentially That we will never taste if we do not walk with the Lord. I could just give you a really simple example in the area of a young person growing up in a good home. Mom and dad are teaching them the word of God. They go to church, they interact with other Christians, and they're taught over and over and over again that when it comes to this issue of dating and this issue of marriage, you need to marry a Christian. And not just marry a Christian, but you should marry a Christian who actually really does walk with God, not someone who's like, Okay, you're a Christian, I'm a Christian. Ah, we're we're good with that. I y I don't go to church, but you know, if it really makes you feel better and You know, I c I can I can work that out, okay? We're not talking about that. We're talking about a person that is truly saved, really loves the Lord Well here's the truth. You could have mom and dad teach you well. You could hear good Bible teaching and preaching over and over and over again from Sunday school, from church, and all these different contexts. But if you decide to get your head turned by someone who's not a believer or a Christian who is not a dedicated Christian. And you allow your head to get turned and you make compromises along the way, you may very well never experience the blessings that you could have absolutely had had you married the way that God intends. Now, I'm not suggesting that there's like this like perfect plan up here, and and if if I like dot every I and cross every T perfectly, then I get the perfect will of God. No, no, no, no, we're not talking about that. Everybody makes mistakes along the way, folks. God is very gracious. By the way, sometimes people make really bad choices, and God, in his grace, still gives them wonderful blessings. But what is also true is this. Many, many people make choices, and those choices will haunt them the rest of their life. And so be very, very careful. These good gifts do not guarantee good outcomes. It is possible to rebel against God's goodness and face temporal, irreversible consequence. This happened to the wilderness generation. It was happening in the Corinthian church. Now I want to pause here for a second too. I don't want to like terrify everybody and and and make you think that like you're gonna somehow have some unconfessed sin that you didn't didn't know about or you you make some decision. It's like it's an area it's like it's It's really hard to know the best way to handle it. And then, you know, you make this choice and you didn't know it was wrong, and then God's going to slam you and He's going to make your life miserable. And I'm not, I don't want you to get that impression at all. We talk about the Lord's table. We're talking about people that were getting drunk at the Lord's table. We're talking about people who were totally comfortable going into a pagan temple. and eating meat and being involved in idolatrous practices and then they could go into the church on a Sunday and they could gather with the body and they could partake of the Lord's table and in their conscience they could ignore it That's a big deal. So I want you to realize that when we talk about this issue, these are very severe things. They're very serious things Things. But it doesn't change the fact that we must be very cautious and walk circumspectly. So that moves us to the third fact, and that's this. Learning from the past is going to give you the opportunity to live a grounded life. And here's how he applies the text. Verses 12 through 14. Wherefore? The wherefore is there for a reason, okay? I said all this stuff. Here's the application Wherefore, let him that thinketh he stand, take heed lest he fall. There is no temptation taken you, but such as is common to man. But God is faithful, who will not suffer or allow you to be tempted above that you're able, but will with the temptation also make a way of escape. Ye may be able to bear it. Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry. Now, Paul's desire is to give them encouragement. Okay? He's warning them, but but his desire is not to like Like leave them in terror and they're trembling and then just leave them there. He wants to sober them to the reality of life, but he wants to encourage them that you can be victorious Everybody in this room, no matter where you've been, what you've done, the struggles you've had, the sins of your past, you sitting here today can walk with God. And you can experience his goodness and you can experience his grace. At the same time, you could be sitting here today going. I'm better than them and I don't have to worry about this. And he says, I'm talking to you. You better be careful. Or somebody says, I can't survive this ch Struggle that I'm dealing with. It's impossible. He says, I want to encourage you, I want to lift you up. So notice what he says. How does learning from the past ground us? The first thing it does in verse 12 is it gives us humility. As Christians, we should never be proud. Never. We shouldn't be proud that we're Christians. I mean, being a Christian means you repented and you believed on Christ. You recognized that you have nothing to give God. No righteousness, no goodness. You simply trust in Christ's sacrifice on your behalf. There's no place to be proud of that. There's no place for the Christian to be proud that they're morally superior to somebody else Any good thing in you and any good thing in me is a result of the grace of God at work in our lives, not because we're good and we're better than another person. We shouldn't be proud that we're smarter or wiser than another person, or that we have some spiritual gift that other people don't have. There is no place for arrogance and pride in the Christian life. None. And so what does he say in this verse? If you think that you stand, be careful. Take heed lest you fall. In other words, don't get to this place where you think you've arrived. Do you realize that David was a man in his 50s when he committed a sin with Bathsheba? When he took Bathsheba and he killed her husband, he was 50 years old. He wasn't a 25-year-old. He wasn't 18. In fact, he'd lived longer than he was going to live the rest of his life. He died at 70. Okay? So most of his life was gone when he involved himself in that. He'd lived many, many years. He knew God very, very well. Yet he sent. We have to be careful. We don't arrive in life. The second word is the word balance, verse thirteen. There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man. Now I think that the sense of this, while the first one is to warn someone that's proud, the second statement is to encourage someone who feels that they can't get back out. And there are times in the Christian life. It could be because of how severe the situation was, it could be because of how uh how repetitive the struggle is that we deal with, whatever the scenario. But we get into our minds that I have fallen and I am the worst Christian that has ever lived. I cannot get back up. I am worse than anybody who's ever lived. And I'm facing temptations that nobody else has ever faced. And we kind of get into this mindset, this little rabbit hole that we go down into, where we are the only Christian who's ever struggled here. We are the worst Christian who has ever struggled on this issue. We cannot overcome these issues. God's done with us. Those are the kinds of things that can pop into our heads. So verse 13, there's no temptation taken you but such as is common in You read the Bible and guess what you'll find? You will find your struggles in the lives of lots and lots of people throughout Biblical history. You say, well, they didn't live with technology like we do. Yeah, but at the heart of the struggle, it's no different. I know it looks a little different with a phone in your hand or a computer in front of you or, you know, in the modern era, but at the heart, there's no difference. Human nature hasn't changed in thousands of years. The struggles that people encounter haven't changed in thousands of years. We deal with the same stuff. The Bible is just as relevant today as it's ever been. Balance. Third, confidence in God's faithfulness. He says, but God is faithful. God is faithful in two senses. God is faithful in the sense that he always provides a way of escape He provides you the tools that you need. He's also faithful in the sense that when you stumble, he'll lift you back up. You know what it says in 1 John 1 9? It says, if we confess our sins, he's faithful, just, to forgive, and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. In other words, God is faithful to give us the tools that we need to stand up, to stand strong, to flee, whatever it is, and when we stumble at times, He is faithful to go to us. and lift us up and set us back on the right path. In other words, he's faithful when we are successful and when we're not. He's consistent. He doesn't leave us. He doesn't abandon us. He doesn't forsake us. We are his children. His love for us is a constant. It doesn't change. He's faithful. And when we get into dark places, the faithfulness of God is something we really doubt. Fourthly, confidence in God's sovereignty. So this is a really interesting statement, verse 13. It says that he will not suffer or allow you to be tempted above that ye are able. Now this is interesting. What it's showing you is that there are times that God insulates us from temptation There are also times that God doesn't insulate us from temptation, but he blunts the severity of the temptation. And there are times that God permits us to pass through it. Now, whatever God does, whether it is to insulate us. or to blunt the pressure or to permit it. It is always because he has a purpose. And his purpose is never to see you fail. It's never to see you struggle. It's never because he takes delight in our misery. It's because he wants to build us. He wants to change us. He wants to shape us. He wants to grow us. He wants to demonstrate our progress. He wants to remind us that we need to depend on him. And so when God permits, when we talk about God's sovereignty, we don't mean that we're a bunch of robots and God like flips switches and stuff like that. We're not talking about that at all. What we're saying is that God works And it's a mysterious thing. It's not something that you and I can fully grasp. It's not something that we can see fully. But there are times that he protects us from things. He blunts those things. He permits those things. He's sovereign. And that should bring us great comfort. If I'm facing something that to me seems overwhelming and I cannot overcome it, I need to remind myself, if God has permitted this. Then in his view, I can overcome this. What is he provided for me to do that? And then what is he teaching me through this? How is he growing me through this? How is he humbling me through this? And I have to think in terms of what he is doing through that. Fifthly, confidence in God's goodness. He will not allow you or suffer you to be tempted above your able. God is a good God. He is entirely and fully good. And we need to keep this in our mind. Sixthly, confidence in his benevolence. He will with the temptation also make a way of escape so that ye may be able to bear it. God always says, here's your off ramp. It's kind of interesting when people get into a contention with one another. And I have seen this so many times between people that you you will see that there are opportunities for people to de-escalate To take an off-ramp. And what's what's amazing is instead of de-escalating and instead of taking the off-ramp, they they up it a little bit more. You're like, oh boy, here we go. And then they get another opportunity to kind of like de-escalate and let's take the offering. And they up it a little bit more. And at some point you're just like, okay, this is about to really get nasty and really get bad. And the truth is every time there's an opportunity to de-escalate and to get an offering, that's something that God has brought to a head in a specific way at a specific time so that people can work out their issue. And the same thing is true with temptation. When we are experiencing temptation, we have off-ramp opportunities, one after another. And the truth is a lot of times we see the off-ramp. We see the opportunity to leave the situation and we instead of taking it, we knock that down and we keep on going. And he says, God's always going to provide a way for you to escape. So take it. Last thing I mentioned here is number four verse 14. He says, dearly beloved, flee idolatry. When it comes to certain things in the Christian life, the goal should not be, where's the line? How close can I get to it? The goal should be to stay far away from certain things. And idolatry would be one of them In the Christian life, we should be very content to live in the realm of clearly appropriate And I know, you know, when people get into their teen years, they're always like, where's the line? Where's the line? Where's the line? Is mom gonna let me do this? Is dad gonna let me do this? Is my teacher gonna let me do this? And I'm He says, flee, idolatry. Guess what? That shows you you're responsible. I'm responsible. We have to make that choice. So, how do you apply what's in front of us? Let me give you some final thoughts of application. First of all, is this do not neglect all of Scripture, including the Old Testament. It's there for a reason. Read it, study it, think about it. Two, do not miss the big picture themes of scripture. When Paul is writing this, he is dealing with 40 years of history and several key events, and he's putting them all together in a couple of verses to make a point. Thirdly, learn from the past and allow it to build your worldview. Walk soberly with an honest assessment of yourself. Keep your struggle and the struggles of those around you in perspective. Rest in the faithfulness of God and flee to Him when you're struggling. Rest in his active work in your life. Rest in the goodness of his character that guides how he works in our lives. Rejoice in the promise that He is for us, not against us, when we face difficulties. Look for the means that He has provided for victory and take them. Do not make excuses for your actions. No excuse then, right? We got to be responsible. We got to step up. We got to do what we're called to do. Never forget there are real life consequences for presumptuous sin. I'm not here to tell you what I know is going to happen if you do this or that. That's not my place. I don't know. But what I can say is this. When we sin presumptuously, there's going to be a bad outcome. You sow, you reap. That's the way it works. And so we've got to be very cautious that we walk in a sober and godly manner. God has given us everything that we need. We've got to take it Let's bow for prayer. Lord, I thank you for this passage. And it is a very sobering text. But there's also a very comforting side to it. And so I pray that we would catch both and that our perspective would be very balanced in how we look at this issue. If someone here tonight is really struggling, they feel like they can't get back up, I pray that this passage would minister to their heart. They would realize they can and you're for them. If someone's enduring great temptation and struggle, I pray that they would be encouraged, that you will provide a way of escape. And you are ruling over those events. And you have a purpose in those things. If someone has stumbled and they feel the weight of that miserable decision or series of decisions, I pray that they would be reminded that you are faithful and just to forgive and to cleanse from all unrighteousness. You never leave them and you never forsake them. If someone is proud and believes they've arrived and feels as if they don't need to worry, I pray that they would be sobered by the text in front of us tonight. night. May this shape us in a godly way. In Christ's name. Amen.