Okay, well good evening. I'd like to welcome you to our evening service. And uh since we are doing the Lord's table tonight, I wanted to go ahead and open up with a scripture reading. So we're going to be in Romans chapter 8. And uh we're going to read several verses from Romans chapter 8. So if you have your Bible, let's all turn there. I'm going to read the first several verses of Romans 8. And this is my favorite chapter in the Bible. I will just say that. Alright? Today it is. It it has been for a little while. I love Romans chapter eight. Here's what it says. There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus. To walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit. For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made us free from the law of sin and death. For what the law could not do, and that it was weak to the flesh, God sending his own Son, and the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh But after the Spirit. For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh, and they that are after the Spirit, the things of the Spirit. For to be carnally minded is death, but to be spiritually minded is life and peace. Because the carnal mind is enmity against God. It is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be, so that they that are in the flesh cannot please God. But you are not in the flesh, but in the spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his Let's bow together and ask the Lord to bless our time together as we reflect on the sacrifice of Christ, the nature of it, the significance of it, and just ask the Lord to really help us tonight to think about these truths. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word and the opportunity tonight to reflect on it. I pray that as we partake of the Lord's table as a body, that our hearts would be in it together and that We would consider the tremendous value of Christ's sacrifice. The fact that because we're in Christ, there's now no condemnation that we are alive in Christ, we have the Spirit, and we can now walk in newness of life because of the work of Christ. I pray that these truths would really settle deeply in our hearts would move us to gratitude and humility. And I pray that in all this you would be glorified. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. All right, let's get started with some singing. We'll turn to hymn number 374. Be thou, my vision, 374. Please stand with me as we sing all four of them. Verses of Be Thou My Vision. Be thou my vision Norama , y vientään, pää. May glory for May I reach an explorer. Great singing, please be seated As we turn to hymn number 258, there is a fountain. 258. And we'll sing all four verses. The remapping love from me and then Do it I would like to love anything to my face. We need my hair, we need my I closely bad. And back to room number two hundred forty-three. Two hundred 43 When I survey the wondrous cross, it's in all forests. Sweet Brahman Salah for the And lie for that I 've not desperate my For me to let it for me to let it never come. Four eighty three in the red book. Like a river glorious. All right, and number one in the blue book. Number one in the blue book. In both verses. Give me all the time, if my life may come, give me all be called. Give people all the same. May be your late you can be able to salvation. And we trust who could be in the life and what Drake so you need to please succeed. Thank you for that If you have your Bibles, let's all turn together to the book of Exodus, and we're in Exodus chapter 12 this evening, and uh we've been working our way through Old Testament passages That are pointing us to the gospel. And probably out of all of the passages that we have looked at to this point, this might be perhaps one of maybe the most significant passages. In fact, if we were to read the entire chapter, we would get the details of the Passover. But tonight I'm just going to read a couple of verses, and then I'd like us to think about the significance of this event that was celebrated every single year on the Jewish calendar at the beginning of the year, and that was the Feast of the Passover. Exodus chapter 12, verse 21 says the following. Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel and said unto them, Draw out, take you a lamb according to your family. Kill the Passover. And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel of the two sideposts with the blood that is in the basin. and and none of you shall go out of the door of his house until the morning. For the Lord will pass through to smite the Egyptians. And when he seeth the blood upon the lintel, and on the two sideposts, the Lord will pass over the door. And will not suffer the destroyer to come in unto your house, houses to smite you. And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee Exodus chapter 12 is a fascinating passage of Scripture because really what it is, is it is the final of the ten plagues That uh Pastor Chris talked about last week. We know those plagues from Sunday school, and one of the things that's important for us as we look at those plagues is to recognize that there was a very distinct purpose. Behind each of the plagues that God brought upon the land of Egypt. We have to remember that in those days, people were not serving one God. The people were idolaters, they were polytheists, they had lots and lots and lots of different idols that they worshiped, and they served those idols because they believed that those idols gave them them power and they gave them the ability maybe to have a harvest or to be able to have children or to be uh uh able to defend themselves against enemies or to be triumphant when they go to battle. Each of those different deities that the Egyptians worshipped was specifically targeted when God brought those ten plagues on the land of Egypt. Out of all those plagues, the most significant and the most personal was the one that we read about this evening. That was not just against the Nile River, which was the lifeblood, no pun there, okay. It was the lifeblood of the land of Egypt. Or the frogs or the various things that they served. But this was against the Pharaoh's house. This is against the very fruit of his own body, his firstborn son The one who was going to rule when he was gone. This was the most personal of all of the plagues. And this plague is the one that God would use to not just demonstrate his triumph over the land of Egypt's idols But to demonstrate a picture of the coming Messiah. Exodus chapter 12 reminds us that God's people need to continually remember both the nature and the significance of God's plan of redemption. And this evening, as we partake of the Lord's table, what we're going to see is that we need to remember Christ's death till he comes. You may not realize this, but before the Lord Jesus Christ came. There were already people that were remembering his death, whether they realized it or not. They were celebrating an event that was pointing directed to the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ as one who has promised and one who is going to come. We partake of the Lord's table looking back at what he did and understanding the full weight and the significance of those things. So with it in mind, let's look at a couple of details before we get into the actual event of the Passover and what is being pictured. So the first thing I mentioned in introduction is that this is the most significant of the plagues. It demonstrated God's superiority over Egypt's gods. It also, and this is a a key thing that we talked about last week, was that it sets a distinction between God's people and the wicked If you remember when we talked about Psalm 28, we saw that when God judges people, he doesn't do it irrationally. God does it very methodically, very carefully. God is able to set a distinction between those who will survive and those who will not, those who will be judged and those who will be preserved. And God does that in this particular passage of Scripture. But there is a unique element to this passage that is different than Psalm 28 that we've talked about. There was a responsibility on the part of the people. If they wanted to be preserved rather than judged. The responsibility is that they had to take seriously this provision that God had made. And if they took it seriously and they believed that it was true, they would actually act on what God had provided for them. We'll talk about that a little bit more in a minute and why that's so very, very important. We also see that it established an ordinance to provide a continual reminder of the coming nature and significance of the cross. Also, the Passover and the Lord's table were linked together in a way that cannot be separated in the upper room when the Lord Jesus Christ Said the following, Matthew 26. As they were eating, Jesus took bread and blessed it and break it and gave it to his disciples and said Take, eat, this is my body. And he took the cup and gave thanks and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it, this is my blood of the New Testament. Which is shed for many for the remission of sins. Now, a lot of times when we read this particular statement that Jesus makes in the upper room, we really don't appreciate what's going on. The disciples are celebrating the Passover. This is the final Passover that Jesus is going to celebrate with the disciples before he goes to the cross. This is the most significant Passover in human life. history okay out of all the Passovers in human history this is the one that's going to inaugurate the fulfillment of all the Passovers that have been celebrated from the time that it was established in Exodus chapter 12 till the time that it's completed in Matthew 26. But the disciples didn't understand that was going on. Here they are, they're celebrating the Passover, and Jesus says, let me pause for a moment and tell you something. I'm about to do what the Passover points to. I'm about to go to the cross. I'm about to shed my blood. My body is going To be broken. to And so at this moment, as we're celebrating the Passover, I'm going to institute a new covenant ordinance, a New Testament ordinance That's not going to be pointing to a coming Messiah, but it's going to be pointing back to what I did. And so he says, This is my blood of the New Testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins. That's the significance of the Passover. The Passover and the Lord's table were put together on that final Passover before its fulfillment when the Lord Jesus Christ institutes the Lord's table. And tonight we're going to celebrate the Lord's table. We're going to remember the Lord's death until he comes. So, first of all, let's talk about for a moment how the Old Testament points continually to the Lord Jesus Christ. Now throughout our study on Sunday nights, we have been looking at lots and lots of examples of this. Romans 15, 4 says, Whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope. What is the greatest source of hope for the Christian? It's the gospel. It's what Jesus Christ did for us. And so when we see the key stories of the Old Testament, Each of the stories is pointing to Christ. Think about the story of Cain and Abel. You remember that story? Genesis chapter 4, verses 1 to 5. Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the Lord, and Abel brought the firstling of his flocks, and the fat thereof, and the Lord had respect unto Abel and to his offering, but unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. We've talked about this passage of scripture, and what we saw is that Abel's sacrifice was an appropriate sacrifice because it was consistent with the picture of the coming Redeemer. It was a blood sacrifice And in Hebrews chapter 11, it tells us that the reason that God accepted Abel and accepted his sacrifice is because he offered his sacrifice by faith. Hebrews eleven four. By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts, and by it he being dead yet speaketh. What we see in this passage of Scripture is that this principle is established. The sacrifices that pointed to the coming Redeemer needed to be a blood sacrifice. Because the coming Redeemer was going to die as a sin-bearing substitute who would shed his blood on the behalf of us who have sinned against God. And number two, the sacrifice is absolutely meaningless if it's not offered by faith, with an understanding that God's going to send a redeemer. And I believe that he's going to send that Redeemer. I need that Redeemer. And so I offer this sacrifice, believing that God is going to send the Savior. It wasn't the actual act of the sacrifice that was the testimony to his righteousness. It was the fact that he believed when he offered the sacrifice. A second example is the example of Noah and the Ark. We know this story. Matthew, or Genesis chapter 6, verse 5. God saw the wickedness of man that it was great in the earth. That every imagination of the heart of man was evil continually. It repented the Lord that he had made man on the earth. It grieved him at his heart. And the Lord said, I will destroy man whom I've created from the face of the earth. But Noah found grace in the eyes of the Lord. And when we look at the story in Genesis chapter 6, we see this very clear indication that sin deserves death. When we've sinned against the holy and righteous God, we deserve his judgment, his wrath against our sin. But there is one place that we can find deliverance from God's wrath. You know where that is? It's in his gracious provision. And so God provides one gracious provision. It's an ark. And if they will get into the ark by faith, believing what God said is going to happen, if they get into the ark, their lives will be preserved. And so what do we see? We see a picture of sin, judgment, grace, provision, faith, salvation. All of that is being pictured in the story of Noah and the building of the ark. Then we move forward a little bit further to Abraham and to Isaac. Genesis twenty-two, this is perhaps one of the this is another one of those great, great stories. In Genesis 22, verse five, it says, Abraham said to his young man, Abide here, the lad and I will go up yonder and worship and come again to you. Isaac spake unto Abraham his father and said, My father, he said, Here am I my son. He said, Behold, the fire, the wood, but where is the lamb? Whew, where's the lamb? And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering. It's a pretty interesting statement right there. God's going to provide. And you know what God did? He provided. He provided a substitute that died in the place of Isaac. What do we see that is consistent in all these passages of Scripture? We see the elements of the gospel being spelled out in example after example after example. What God did is in these key moments in the Jewish history is when all these things were going on, he paused for a moment. He got personally involved in people's lives and he gave testimonies to the nature of the gospel and the significance of the gospel. And that's what the whole Old Testament is all about. The whole Old Testament is continually pointing us to God's work of redemption. But this one right here is the crown of them all. It's probably the greatest of all of them because it so clearly gives us an illustration. of what God was going to do. And as we work our way through some of these details, you will go, what an amazing picture that the Jewish people were required every single year to start the year, their New Year celebration. was to remember the Passover. Not just God's deliverance of a nation out of bondage in Egypt, but God's future deliverance of people from their sins. By the sacrifice of the Lamb of God, who takes away the sins of the world. So the second thing I'd like us to see tonight is that we constantly need to be reminded of the nature and significance. Look down in verses 21 to 27. We just read this a few minutes ago. Moses called the elders of Israel and said, Draw out, take you a lamb according to your families, kill the Passover. And you shall take a bunch of hyssop and dip it in the blood that is in the basin, and strike the lintel of the two sideposts of the blood that is in the basin. And at the end of this passage in verse 27, it says the following: And you shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to thy sons forever. Amazing statement. This wasn't something that was supposed to be remembered one time. It was something that the nation needed to remind themselves of over and over and over again. In fact, this is amazing as you read the Old Testament. The two most significant events on the Jewish calendar, they point directly to the gospel. They point directly to the gospel. I don't know what your childhood was like, but I grew up in a home where our entire life revolved around a school year calendar. My dad was a set uh my dad was a college professor and a seminary professor. My mom was a college professor for a while, and so our entire life was around the college uh thing. So during the summer, my my parents had off in the summer, and then during the school year we had a normal calendar and then we got two weeks off at Christmas and then we had, you know, June was Memorial Day and we got a week off at that time. And so our calendar was always around that. Well the Jewish calendar had a rhythm to it as well. people to some aspect of God's character and God's ways. But the two most significant of them was Passover and Day of Atonement. The Passover was celebrated at the beginning of the year, and the Day of Atonement was celebrated in the middle of the year, in the seventh month, kind of like when we have our 4th of July. The Passover reminded the people of redemption. Exodus 12, verse 2. This month shall be the beginning of months. The first month of the year for you, the Day of Atonement, or Yom Kippur, was to represent the need for cleansing within the nation. Leviticus 16, 29, in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, shall the priest make an atonement for you to cleanse you that you may be clean from all your sins before the Lord. God knew that his people constantly needed to remember their sin, there's judgment, there's provision, there's grace, and there's salvation They needed to constantly be reminded of this. They were commanded to observe these throughout the year. The third thing I want you to notice are the details of the passage. Because the details of this passage help us to appreciate what is being pictured, and you will see, you will immediately begin to see the connections between what is being observed here and what we see in the gospel. The first thing I want you to notice is in chapter 12, verse 12. I'm going to read it to you and then state what it's talking about. He says, I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, and will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt. Egypt, both man and beast against all the gods of Egypt. I will execute judgment. I am the Lord. Question Is there any ambiguity about what God just said there? He says, I will pass through the land, I will smite the firstborn, all of them, even the animals. And I will execute judgment. I am the Lord. What does that tell you? What that tells you is that God is warning of an inescapable judgment. There's no way you're gonna get around it. I am the firstborn in my household. If I was living in an Egyptian family I would have been one of the guys that went down. Any firstborns in here? Okay. Yeah, we got several. By the way, the firstborn was very significant in their culture This is the person that was going to be the heir to Pharaoh. This is the one who is going to take power when he's gone. God is demonstrating his authority over the gods of Egypt. Out of all the gods of Egypt, the one who was the most arrogant was the Pharaoh himself. God saying, You cannot escape judgment. Guess what? That's the way life is, too, isn't it? There is a judgment that we all deserve, every single one of us. The wages of sin is death. We all are an unjust uh an unclean thing. All of our righteousness None of us can stand in the presence of a holy and righteous God and say, I'm righteous, you can accept me. None of us can do that. We all deserve God's wrath, God's judgment, and that's an inescapable reality. But there's a second truth that sits right beside that. And this is so very, very important. I'm going to read to you what it says in verse 11, and then read to you what it says in verse 27. I want you to think about what he's saying. Next to that truth, there's an inescapable judgment. Verse eleven, thus shall ye eat it. It is the Lord's Passover. Verse 27: It is the sacrifice of the Lord's Passover who passed over the house of the of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians and delivered, very important word , delivered our houses You know what that tells me? There was an inescapable judgment apart from God's gracious provision. You have to put those truths, those two truths, side by side. It is inescapable outside of the provision. But there was a provision that was made I think about what Jesus says. I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no one cometh to the Father except by me. There's no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. But there is a name under heaven that is given that we can be saved by. There is a Redeemer. There is someone who went to the cross. And so while there's an inescapable judgment, there's also a gracious provision through the substitutionary death of another that gives us deliverance. That's what this is all about. All about. And so God provided a means through which the firstborn of a household could live. And by the way, just because they were a Jewish family, Didn't mean that they could just ignore this provision. Every single Jewish family that had the provision available but rejected it Either out of laziness or unbelief or out of fear, whatever the reason was, if they chose not to follow through with what God said, they would not be spared They would experience the exact same fate as the Egyptians. And by the way, I looked at the text and I am not totally clear on whether or not the Egyptians themselves could have actually followed this. It doesn't really stay. The reality is that this provision was available to whoever would take it seriously. And this provision, though available, if rejected, would be of no help to someone who chose not to follow through with it. The third thing. The substitute shed its blood as a testimony that life could be spared. Look at verse number 13. The blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are. When I see the blood, I will pass over you. And the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you when I smite the land of Egypt. Now, when there was blood on that lintel, you know what it said? It said, This household believes what God says. This household not only believes what God says, but they responded to that. And when they responded to it, an animal died, and its blood has been applied so that you know that someone has died in the place of the firstborn. That's what it means. And so when that death angel passed through the land of Egypt and he came to a house where there was blood on the lintels, he passed over what? Because death had already taken place in that house. Death had taken place through the Passover substitute so that the firstborn could be spared. The substitute shed its blood as a testimony that life could be spared. Next. There was both a personal and a corporate side to this event. This is very fascinating in verse 3. He says, they shall take to them every man a lamb, according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for an house. Be too little for the lamb, let him and his neighbor next unto his house take it according to the number of the souls. Every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb. Now, this to me is a fascinating thought to consider. Just because someone was a part, ethnically, of the Jewish people , Did not mean that they didn't have to put the Passover lamb in uh on, uh they didn't have to kill the Passover lamb where its blood was shed and the the blood was applied to the doorposts. In other words, this wasn't like, oh, you're Jewish, so you're spared, you're Gentile, you're not spared. That's not what it was. Every single person was personally responsible to take action. It wasn't like God said, This household can do it for these ten. And this person, well, he got skipped over, but his neighbor did it, and so his neighbor's good for him. That's not what happens. Every single individual is responsible for But there's also corporate aspect to this. Because while every single individual is responsible, they as a nation were doing it together. By the way, this is what's so unique about the Lord's table. We talk about the Lord's table. Every single one of us takes these elements, and we personally before God, with a heart that considers the implication and the weight of the gospel message And what Christ has done for us, we remember his body broken and his blood shed. We remember it as individuals. But it's not just as individuals. We remember it as individuals who are individually saved but brought into a body and we remember it together as a body. It's such a fascinating thing to consider. It's one of the things that makes the Lord's table such a sacred and wonderful occurrence, is because it's not just remembering the nature of the gospel and what it's done for me personally, though it is. But it's also helping me to remember what it's done for us as a body of individuals who are saved but are brought together to grow together as a group of Christians. In other words, when we come to the Lord's table, we're remembering both the personal implication of the gospel and the corporate implication of us as a redeemed people coming together. And communing and fellowshipping as a body with our Lord and Savior. Fascinating thing to consider. How that dynamic, which was maintained in the New Testament, was still even seen in the Passover The last thing I'm going to mention here is that unbelief led to an inescapable and irreversible consequence. Look down at what it says in verse 28. It says, And the children of Israel went away and did as the Lord commanded Moses and Aaron. It came to pass that at midnight the Lord smote all the firstborn in the land of Edom. Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat on his throne, unto the firstborn of the captive that was in the dungeon, all the firstborn of the cattle And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he and all his servants and all the Egyptians, and there was a great cry in Egypt, for there was not a house where there was not one dead Once a person was dead, they didn't get a second chance. Once the death angel had passed through was over. And that's the way life is. The truth is every single time we have an opportunity to hear the gospel And we reject that message. We harden our hearts to that message. We are taking a massive risk. That risk is that I'm going to get another opportunity. Or that if I get another opportunity, my heart will be more hardened the second time than it was this time. This is a truth that ought to grip all of us. Now, uh the vast majority, probably most of us, maybe all of us here are believers tonight. And so we have passed this issue. We have passed from death to life. Praise God. But the fact is, every single time we handle the Word of God and we present the gospel to someone, we need to keep in our minds this is a matter of eternity. If someone embraces this message, they pass from death to life that very moment. If they reject it, they're taking a huge risk. A huge risk. There was no turning back for these people. When they rejected the opportunity. They didn't follow through because of their unbelief. It was irreversible You might say, Well, Pastor, what do we take away from all of this? There's a lot to take away. The truth is, as we come to the Lord's table and as we remember Christ's body broken and his blood shed, We need to recognize that thousands of years before the cross, there are people that were celebrating the very moment that we look back to from the other side. They were celebrating redemption and substitute and the escaping of wrath by the death of a substitute. On the other side in the Passover, and then on that final Passover before its fulfillment, Jesus says, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do you as often as you drink it, and remember. We are remembering the Lord's death until he comes. And with that, there are several things that I think we need to constantly keep on our mind. Our minds as we partake of the Lord's table. The first is this: like the people in this story who face an inescapable death sentence, we once were a people Who were under God's wrath too. Romans 8:1. There is now no condemnation. Ephesians chapter 2. But now, the two greatest verses in Ephesians Two greatest words in Ephesians chapter two. We have passed from death unto life because of God's grace. Second, like God provided a spotless substitute to shed its blood in the place of the firstborn. He provided in himself a perfect substitute Christ, who went to the cross so we could be reconciled to God and we remember It as we partake of these elements. Like God commanded these people to respond to his provision. We have been commanded By God to turn to Christ in childlike faith, trusting in his works. And we remember that it's all of the grace of God that we did that. How many of us were going our own ways and we weren't thinking about the gospel at all? And God did something, many, many something, but drew us himself. We remember that. This moment is a sacred moment both personally and corporately. When we partake of the Lord's table, we're not just remembering how He's individually saved my soul. But I'm also remembering that he saved my brother's soul and my sister's soul. He's brought us together into one body. We're supposed to love one another. We're supposed to Care for one another. We're supposed to serve one another. We're supposed to care about the spiritual well-being of one another. We're supposed to support and uplift one another. We're supposed to pray for one another. We're supposed to commune and fellowship with one another. There is both a personal and a corporate implication when we think about this. It's a time where we should be sobered by our sin and warned by the love of God. I really believe the more I think about this in my Christian life, that we need to have this tension between the weight of our sin and the heaviness of its guilt. And the freedom that we have in Christ. Because I think it's through feeling the weight that we experience the glory of what we have in Christ. Christ. When a person comes to place their faith in Christ many times, when they see their guilt in front of the law of God and they see how the law condemns them, and then they see what Christ did for them, it just lifts push this massive burden off of their shoulders. You ever seen somebody w in that position? That you're going through the gospel and well, you're going through the law and you're gonna get to the gospel and you're going through the law with them and you can just see this this This heaviness and this weight. See, but wait, there's good news. Christ died for your sins. He rose from the dead. And you tell them what Christ has done for them, and it just lifts this massive burden off of them. That's what we should experience when we come to this moment. It's a time to marvel at the incredible access we have to God. God, as a people who are redeemed, who are cleansed, who are made alive by the Spirit's power. It's a time to resolve to live in the light of the grace that we've received. None of us are going to live a perfect Christian life. But we can strive to live like the people we are. We can remember God has made us his children. And so we're to walk as children of light. Let's do this in remembrance of him. As we remember his death until he comes. You know, not only should we remember his sacrifice at the Lord's table. The truth is, we need to continually remind ourselves of this message and the implications of this message every single day of our lives. So much of the New Testament's commands, the vast majority of them, are connected back to a gospel implication. Look at how many of the epistles go back to gospel implication. Gospel implication. Because God did this, you're supposed to do this. Because God did this, you can do this. He does this over and over and over again. We need to continually remind us of the weight of this message. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to come to the table with that kind of heart. Let's bow for prayer. Father, we are so greatly overwhelmed by the tremendous weight Of the sacrifice of our Savior. His death on the cross removed your wrath His death on the cross cleanse us from every single sin. His righteousness gives us full acceptance in the beloved. His resurrection has made us alive in him. Father, I pray that as we partake of the Lord's table I pray that we would consider deeply the importance. Not just for forgiveness and cleansing, but the significance that it that it has on this body and how we are to relate to one another and and and love I pray this would be a very sweet time of remembering the sacrifice. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen If you could, let's turn to first Corinthians chapter eleven. Let's go ahead and turn to him 251 near the cross. Seeing the first, the second, and the fourth verse together. Please let's stand. Near the cross. And as we sing it, let's remember his death until he comes. He 's not eating up there Three through all three In love, in love, we might all be Let's take the last verse out of that Let me go. Shall us be our Here my last soul shall I break on the Mr. Jenny, can you please close us in prayer? It's been good to see each of you tonight, and I hope that you have a wonderful evening, and Lord willing, we'll see you all on Wednesday. Mr. Jenny Let's pray. Heavenly Father, thank you, Lord, so much, first of all, for the fact that we've been allowed to assemble here in your house on this Lord's Day. Thank you for the blessings of the day. Lord, I thank you, Lord, for the the clear remembrance and reminder of the importance of the Passover, Lord. Thank you, Lord once again for the fact that you were willing to accept the uh the assignment from your father to uh uh take our place there on Calvary's cross, died and was buried and rose again that we might have life eternal. We pray, Lord, that you would just continue to be with each one of us as we leave here, go out into our mission field, Lord, that we might uh have a desire to see men and women, boys and girls come to a saving knowledge of you. And that that as a result of these uh uh testimonies we've heard tonight, Lord, that we would be encouraged to to be the example that you would uh have us to be. Praying our Lord that you would just guide and direct us as we go on our journeys home Uh take us home safely, bring us back again at the appointed time, and we'll give you the praise for that in Jesus' name. Amen.