Another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are in Luke chapter 6 again. We're looking at verses 22 and 23. This is part of the Sermon on the Mount, and this is Luke's account, which is an abbreviated account of the Sermon on the Mount. Let's go ahead and read the verses together, and then we'll dig into some of the details of these very important scriptures in front of us. Blessed are ye when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you. and cast out your name as evil for the Son of Man's sake. Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy, for behold your reward is great in heaven, for in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets I want to remind you again, we're talking about a section that is part of Christ's Sermon on the Mount. If you want to get the fuller presentation of the Sermon on the Mount, you have to go to Matthew 5, 6, and 7. But what we have here today is a continuation of this discussion about those who are blessed in spite of situations and circumstances that you would not normally consider a person to be blessed in. Typically when we think of a person being blessed or happy really is the word that is associated with that word blessed, they're content, they're joyful, we tend to think of smooth circumstances, we tend to think of prosperity, we tend to think of peace. Yet in these verses we're going to see that the person that Jesus says is blessed is a person who's not experiencing prosperity. They're not experiencing an easy set of circumstances. In fact, what they're dealing with is extremely difficult. And so let me give you a summary statement and then we'll talk for a few minutes about what exactly Jesus is referring to in these verses. Here's a summary. People who embrace the truth and are ashamed to identify with Christ will suffer persecution for that association. Yet in the midst of their suffering, they are still blessed and can anticipate God's future blessings for their faithful endurance One of the things that we've experienced in America is prosperity and freedom, really unlike any other society in world history. When we look back over human history, we see that Christians have generally suffered persecution. They've generally gone through difficult circumstances. They've generally not been in a position of strength. in most societies. Most societies throughout human history have not enjoyed the kind of prosperity and the kind of peace and stability and freedoms that we enjoy in the United States. This is a very unique culture. This is a very unique period in human history. And so my first my first observation or fact that I want us to think about this morning. Is that American Christians have enjoyed unusual, maybe I could even say unprecedented freedom and protection As a result of this unusual freedom and protection that we've enjoyed in this nation, we tend to not understand scriptures like the one in front of us. Yet when Jesus was teaching these people in the ancient world, Jesus understood that his disciples were going to face persecution. Some of them faced it right within the time that Jesus was ministering, most certainly within their lifetime they would. Nearly all of the apostles Died as martyrs. Many, many Christians in the ancient world died as martyrs. We can pull out a book like Fox 's Book of Martyrs And we can see the stories of Christians who we don't know their names many times or their names are forgotten in history, yet these are people who were persecuted for righteousness' sake. We think about Christians in the ancient world who hid in the catacombs in Rome because they were trying to worship together to assemble. Yet in a place that was safe and was outside of the place where Roman soldiers would come and arrest them. We think about Christians who suffered tremendous persecution in the Colosseum and were really the objects of people 's most gruesome delights. The fact is that Christians are people who have not, generally speaking, enjoyed freedom and protection. And so with that in mind, let's think about this concept for a little bit. The first thing that we'll see is that the people that Jesus is talking about are a people who are facing intense hatred. Notice the words that he uses. Men shall hate you. The idea that there's this constant displeasure of these people. You think about the way that the Apostle Paul looked at Christians in Jerusalem after the death and resurrection and ascension of Christ. He intensely hated them. He wanted them killed. He wanted them removed from society. In his mind, these people were a scourge He talks about people who are being put out of the company of others. He says that they will separate you from their company. And you know, we live in an individualistic society. People are very comfortable moving to a new region of the country. They have zero contacts, no friends, no family. They'll move there, they'll establish their lives. They do it very quickly. But the fact is in those days people were a part of a community. In fact, if we look at the populations of the ancient world, they were far smaller than what we experience today. Even even the the population of the entire Roman Empire at the time of Christ was only four or five million people. We're talking about an entire empire that had fewer people in it than New York City has today. Major cities were 40,000, 50,000 people at the most in those days. And so people lived in communities that were very tight-knit and cultures were shame honor type cultures. And so when someone was put out of the company and ostracized in their community, that was an extremely painful and shameful thing. And Jesus is saying, you have, and some of you will, experience this kind of isolation. They're constantly being spoken evil of. He says, you shall be reproached. The idea is that people are taking their name and they're speaking as if they have no value. People's honor was a huge thing in those days. Their reputation, their name was so very important. He says they're going to treat you as worthless. They're going to cast you out and cast out your name as evil. When Jesus talks about these things, I think it's important for us to realize That while this has not been our experience in our nation, this could be our experience in our nation. I want you to think about cancel culture and what's going on in our society today. Think about it in the secular world And the political world. My question to you is this, at what point are people going to cancel Jesus? I mean, when are people going to come to the conclusion, and it becomes a massive movement, that Jesus is something that needs to be canceled? I mean, we've celebrated the name of Christ in our culture, and lots and lots of people have have been, you know, very public about their faith in Christ as athletes and as entertainers and as well-known people in society, people speak up for the name of Christ and they say, I'm a Christian. But the question is, what would it take for our culture to cancel Jesus? Not very much. What's going to happen when the belief of the resurrection becomes something that's going to be censored as fake news on social media You know, what are we going to be celebrating the resurrection and posting about how Jesus is alive and Twitter's going to say fake news or Facebook's going to say fake news? Hey, what 's to say it can't happen? Most certainly it could happen. What about when the traditional family, one man, one woman, till life separates them, is viewed as some white supremacist viewpoint? And this is this is some traditional American old school values What about when speaking the truth about gender issues is labeled as hate speech? Or a passage of scripture like, I am the way, the truth, and the life, and no man cometh unto the Father but by me, where Jesus clearly states There is no other way that a person can be saved except through the finished work of Christ. What about when that's viewed as hate speech? This is a culture that has championed inclusiveness and personal truth over objective truth, yet this very same culture today is canceling and crushing dissenting opinions. And the fact is that belief in the finished work of Christ and belief in biblical authority and belief in the gospel Let me tell you that there's going to be a day when our culture cancels that belief system and attacks that belief system. And all of those who have spoken publicly about their faith in Christ could very well be in a position where they face the pressures of society. I do not think we are far removed from that kind of a society. Even though we've not experienced this in our lifetime and in the lifetime of many generations in this nation, there is very little keeping the Christian community. Those who truly embrace the Bible, and the gospel from facing that kind of persecution and that kind of pressure. The second fact I want to mention is this. The sufferings that he's talking about are directly resulting from their identity with Christ. Notice the phrase, for the Son of Man's sake. He's not just saying all suffering, all people who suffer are blessed, all people who are ostracized are blessed. There are some people that make terrible decisions and their family doesn't want anything to do with them because of those terrible decisions. And I'm not saying that that's the way people should respond, but that's reality. Sometimes there are difficult consequences that come with very poor decisions That's not what Jesus is talking about here. He's not talking about a person who is suffering because they've made poor choices or suffering because they're a difficult person to get along with. They're suffering because they're identifying with the Lord Jesus Christ. And so this is a suffering that is connected to our allegiance with Christ. When a person says, I'm a Christian, we need to recognize they're saying, I'm a follower of Christ. I believe that he died for my sins and he rose from the dead. I'm actively trusting in his finished work and I want to walk in conformity to his will. I love the Lord Jesus Christ. He is my Lord. He's my master, he's my savior. That's what people mean when they say that they're a Christian. At least that's what they should mean when they say they're a Christian Well, what happens when the name of Christ becomes an issue to the community and to the culture? The day can happen. And so this is a suffering that's talking about suffering that's identifying with Christ. The third fact I want us to see is this. We can rejoice in the midst of this kind of suffering. Because it reminds us that we are on the right side of God's story. You know, sometimes we hear people say something like this, I'm going to make this decision, and I know that in the end I'm going to be on the right side of history What they're basically saying is people don't understand my d decision, they don't agree with my decision, they're not accepting my decision, but I know it's right, I'm convinced that it's right. And I believe that there'll be a day, whether I'm alive or not to see it, people are going to look at this event and look at this decision and look at the way I'm handling this situation, and they're going to say, you know what, he was right That's the point that Jesus is making. You are on the right side of history. And when we say history, I don't mean world history, I mean God's history. Where all of this is moving in the end. We know that in the end, no matter what happens between now and the end of the story, God wins. It's kind of like when I when I was living in Ghana, we used to watch football games. And we would often watch the football games recorded. Well, the game was over already, and I knew who won many times, but I wouldn't tell my children who had won the game. And so as we're watching this pre-record or this recorded game, I already know how the outcome is going to be. I know what the score is at the end, but I don't know all of the details getting to the end of the game. And so through the toughest parts of the game, maybe I was a little bit uncertain or a little bit nervous, but at the end I knew in the end it would work out. Well the fact is that when we talk about human history, we know from the book of Revelation that God will win, that God's going to establish his eternal kingdom, that there is a resurrection of the just and of the unjust. That there's eternal destruction and judgment for the wicked, and that God's people will enjoy him forever in his eternal kingdom. We will enjoy heaven's blessings. And so we know how the story ends, but the fact is, as we walk through life, we may not, it may not appear that that's where things are going. And so remind yourself of this. In that day, your reward is great in heaven. You may be experiencing frustration now for the sake of the gospel. But there's going to be a day that God is going to vindicate and God is going to bless and God is going to reward. And really that's what Jesus is emphasizing in these statements. He also has the statement, in like manner they did this to their their fathers, did this unto the prophets. And you know what that reminds us of? It reminds us of the fact that the prophets, while they suffered, declaring that the Messiah would come, and they were persecuted during that time period, calling the nation to repentance and calling the nation to turn to God. Even though they suffered in that life in their lifetimes, guess what? Their message was true and their prophecies came to fulfillment. And as Jesus is ministering and Jesus' very presence and ministry was what? It was a validation of the ministry of those prophets. So what Jesus is reminding us of is when we are persecuted for righteousness' sake, there's coming a day of future vindication. And so we can rejoice and we can be blessed and we can be joyful because we know in the end God will set the record straight. And we know that there's eternal blessedness for God's children. And so we can be strengthened by that. And we're reminded by the example of the prophets. that as the prophets were persecuted, Christ's presence and ministry validated their ministry. And the fact is that if we will stand firm and do what's right, And we will hold fast to the gospel and to the the sound doctrines of the Christian faith if we will hold fast to those things, even though we may suffer for it on this side of eternity. When it comes to the other side, the fact is that God will validate those truths and demonstrate that in fact they were true. And we'll experience the blessings that come to those who are faithful. So let me give you two scriptures of encouragement as we kind of close out this reflection. The first scripture is in 2 Peter 2, verse 9. Listen to what the scriptures tell us The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptation, and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished You say, why does that passage encourage you? It encourages me because it reminds me that God sustains and he strengthens me no matter what I face in life. God is God's going to be just. He's going to deal with sin appropriately. And those who have persecuted the church of God are eventually going to face their just reward. The second scripture that I want to mention is 1 Peter 4, verses 13 through 16. What's interesting is when we read the book of 1 Peter, we see that suffering was a major theme in that book. The reason that suffering was such a prominent theme in the book of 1 Peter is because he's writing to people who were Ashers they were facing were directly associated with their association with Christ. The fact that they were Christians living in a fallen world that hated the gospel meant that there were going to be times that they faced the antagonism of the world around them. And this is what Peter writes in 1 Peter 4. 13 He says, Rejoice inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's suffering, that when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy. If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye, for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you. On their part he's evil spoken of, but on your part he's glorified. Let none of you suffer as a murderer or as a thief or as an evildoer or as a busybody in other man's matters. Yet if any suffer, let him suffer as a Christian. Let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God on this behalf. I do not know the future of this nation. If this nation follows the pattern of history Then in our lifetimes, particularly those of us who are a little bit younger, in our lifetimes we may very well face the same kinds of issues that past generations of Christians have faced. And the reality is you and I cannot escape those things. It may very well be what we face as Christians. I even think about my ancestors who came from France, who were Huguenots, way back in the 1600s. Why did they come to America? They came to America because they were persecuted in their homeland. The reality is that this has been the story of the church throughout all of human history. And so in the midst of that kind of suffering that we may very well experience, we can be glad And rejoice that God in the end is going to vindicate, he's going to preserve, and he's going to bless us for our faithfulness. I hope that this has been a challenge to you today. I know it's a heavy and weighty topic, but it's an important topic. And so if this has been an encouragement or blessing to you, please share that. Consider sharing it with someone who can also be encouraged by it. Hope that you have a great rest of your day, and Lord willing, we will meet again tomorrow. Fine now.