And the rest of you, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to the 13th Psalm. We are in the 13th Psalm this morning, and uh This is the 13th Psalm of 150, and remember we're going to go through the entire Psalms over a 15-year period of time. That's our plan. So If you're going to be with us for that whole trip, then it's going to be a long way. But each Sunday that we start the month, we try to go through one of the Psalms. And so being the 13th Psalm, it tells you that we've been on our journey for over a year now. So very excited about the Psalm that's in front of us. In fact, I'm very excited not just because of the content. But really how well it harmonizes with two things that we're going to look at. First of all, it harmonizes with the time period that we're living through right now. You know, within our nation, and uh we are obviously coming into a big week in our nation. In fact, uh Chris said something to me, he's like, um, you know, this is a big week, isn't it? I was like, wow, what's going on? He's like I said, yeah, I know what's going on. It is a big week, but I want you to realize even though it's a big week, it's completely in God's hands. And we know that God is on his throne. We know that God is going to accomplish his purposes. We as God's people need to do what is responsible. We need to do our civic duty. We need to pray for our nation. But in the end We have to rest in God's sovereign care. And we are going to do what's right no matter what ends up happening in our nation. We're going to continue to serve the Lord. We're going to continue to be a gospel witness. We're going to continue to lead people to Jesus. to disciple them and continue to do the work that God's called us to do. But I know it's a big week. And the reality is that when we come to this psalm that we're going to look at this morning, I think That there's something that we can really learn and be encouraged from in this psalm. The second thing I want to mention is that this psalm is a perfect reflection to take us into the Lord's table reflection. And so I think that you'll see by the end of this psalm, when we come to those last few verses, they really lead us so naturally into that moment where we will remember that Christ Died for our sins. His body was broken for our sins. His blood was shed for our sins. And together as a body, we're going to remember his death until he comes. And so we see that the psalm that's in front of us is exactly what God wants us to look at this morning. I'm going to go ahead and read the texts. And then we'll look at kind of the big picture, the main reason why the Psalm is written, and then we're going to dig into several very practical, very important, very pertinent truths that we find in the text in front of us. Psalm thirteen, verse one. How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord, forever? How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? How long shall mine enemies be exalted over me? Consider and hear me, O Lord my God. Lighten my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death. Lest mine enemies say I have prevailed against him, and those that trouble me rejoice when I'm moved. But I've trusted in thy mercy, my heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. I shall sing unto the Lord, because he hath dealt bountifully with me. You might ask, what is the main point of the psalm that's before us this morning, let me give you a simple statement that hopefully encapsulates most of what the psalm is saying. The purpose of the psalm is to reveal the continual potential that even godly people face to become overwhelmed by their circumstances. That's a really important fact for us to understand. Godly people can, will be overwhelmed by their circumstances. The psalmist is expressing that in these words. The reason that he's doing that though is to show us how God is able to take that time of suffering and that time of discouragement and that time of weariness of soul. And he's able to take that suffering to remind us, one, that we are frail, but two, that we need to refocus our attention on God. And we can worship him as he is, and we can be refreshed, and we can be strengthened, we can be helped in the midst of suffering. In other words, it tells us we will suffer at times. But when we suffer, God uses it for good in our lives. A very simple way to put it is what the scriptures say in Romans chapter 8, verse 28. We know that all things were together for good. to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. In other words, even the difficulties that we encounter in life have purpose in God's sovereign design. In other words, God would never allow something for us to pass through if there wasn't a redemptive purpose in it in our lives. If there wasn't something that God wanted to do for our good through those circumstances, that's what we're going to find in the Psalm before us. God wants us to be a people whose hearts are refocused on Him. In fact, whenever we come together and we partake of the Lord's table, it's really about refocusing our attention on the gospel. It's about reminding ourselves of Christ's sacrifice. It's about reminding him of of us, of his love and the nature of redemption and how much It costs for us to be saved and forgiven and cleansed and be made God's children. It's all about reminding us again, renewing our minds in these wonderful truths. So the question before us this morning is how can we have a heart that's renewed? A heart that's refreshed, a heart that's encouraged A heart that has been refocused in life in the midst of challenges and circumstances. It may be this morning as you sit here today in our building. And maybe if you're joining us on the live stream, that you say, how in the world can I refocus? I can't even focus at all. Anyone feel that way? You know, it's like your mind is just moving in all these places. You feel so restless in your soul. You can't stop and focus. That's what God wants us to do this morning. He wants us to stop. He wants us to refocus, and he wants us to refocus on what is true and what is sure and what gives us stability. How can we have that heart? Let's look at a couple of truths together this morning. The first truth before us is that godly people can become overwhelmed by their circumstances I think it's possible that sometimes Christians can get to a place maybe very early in their walk with the Lord. Maybe somebody becomes a brand new Christian. And they think about this incredible load that's been lifted off of them. You know, they were so burdened by their sin, they were so fearful, recognizing God's justice. They say, I can't stand in his presence, and all of a sudden they understand Christ died for my sins. He rose from the dead. His righteousness is available for me. And they turn to Christ humbly. They trust in what he's done for them on the cross. And there's this peace that overwhelms them. You know what I'm talking about? It's like this load that has burdened them down. It's removed and they feel as if there's nothing that can hold them down. And they they think that's how it stays the rest of their life. Now I think of this the song that we sing, at the cross, at the cross, where I first saw the light. And the burden of my heart rolled away. It was there by faith I received my sight, and there's a little statement there that says, And now I'm happy all the day. I almost picked that song and I asked myself a question. Are we always happy? At that moment of salvation, that's how we felt. But here is the truth. There are dark days even in the lives of God's people. There are days that we become overwhelmed. In fact, the scriptures are full of examples of this. And this is one of them. This is just one of those many passages, and the reason I draw your attention to this fact is to help you to realize even if you're a godly person, you love the Lord, you're trying to serve God, you can go through moments of great affliction in your soul. You shouldn't be shocked. You shouldn't think it's an impossibility. It can happen. It will happen. We see an example in these verses before us. In verses 1 and 2, this is what the psalmist writes. How long wilt thou forget me, O Lord? Now had God forgotten him? The answer is, of course not. God knows what the psalmist is going through. He knows what he feels in his heart, but from the perspective of the one who's writing these words, he says, How long, O Lord, will you forget me? Forever? How long wilt thou hide thy face from me? How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? How long shall my enemies be exalted over me? The simplest way to describe how the psalmist feels, David, is that he feels overwhelmed and he's lamenting, he's crying out to God, he's expressing that there's grief and anguish in his soul. You say, is it wrong to do that? Even the Lord Jesus Christ and the garden, the night he was betrayed and before the cross, remember his words He says, if it's possible, remove this cup from me, yet not my will, but thine be done. Even the Lord Jesus Christ, as he hung on the cross, he said, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? And by the way, he's quoting from the psalmist. He's actually quoting a messianic psalm when he says that. And the question is, what is the Lord Jesus Christ, the perfect, holy, righteous Son of God? Sinless, perfect. What is he expressing? He's expressing that even in his perfection, he felt the emotional weight of going to the cross. He felt the anguish and the agony of separation from the Father to bear the sins of mankind. Even the Lord Jesus Christ lamented on the cross. He wasn't saying you have no right to send me here. He wasn't saying I don't want to be here. He was simply expressing I submit my will to the Father to bear the sins of mankind. But there's anguish and grief in my heart. And I feel the weight of that tremendous struggle. That's what he's saying In fact, it's interesting when I look at these verses, there's one phrase that stands out. It's how long, O Lord, forever. Let me say that again. It's the phrase, how long? O Lord, forever. And what's really interesting is in each of the statements that David writes That sense, how long the Lord forever, is at the heart of each of those laments. The first is that David felt that his circumstances showed that God was not thinking about him. Now David was wrong. In fact, intellectually, David understood that God had not forgotten him, but he's expressing how he feels within the depths of his heart. He says, How long will you forget me? Forever? He then says. He feels that his circumstances showed that God didn't want to fellowship him. Was that true? Did God want to fellowship with David? The answer is, of course, God wanted to fellowship with David Even in David's darkest hour, where David has committed adultery, and David has arranged to have Bathsheba's husband killed in battle, and David covers that and hides that for a full year of his life. And David is resisting God. God pursued David even in his darkest moments. He sends the prophet to tell him a story and to say, that's you, David. God sent Nathan to him. Why? Because God wanted fellowship with his child. But in this moment, that's not how David felt. David's feelings and realities were not consistent, but it did not remove the fact that he felt this way. He says, How long will you hide your face from me? And in the back of my mind, as I read this verse, it's like David saying, Is it forever? He says a third time. He felt that God would not give him the counsel he so desperately needed. He writes, How long shall I take counsel in my heart, having sorrowed daily? In the back of my mind, I think of that word forever. It's like David is sitting there and he goes, God, you've forgotten me? God, you don't want fellowship with me. God, when I need answers, I'm looking at myself and I know I don't have the answers, and I'm in sorrow because I don't know what to do. And the last thing David mentions is that he feels his oppressors would never be restrained. He says, How long shall my enemies be exalted over me? And I think of the word forever. That's how David felt. I'm not saying that what David felt was consistent with reality. But how he felt was how he really felt. And it was strong and it weighed heavily on his soul. And when he cries out to God, he's simply saying, God, this is how I feel at this moment. He's not indicting God. He's not saying that God's unjust. He's not saying that God's unholy. He's not saying that God is unrighteous. He's saying, this is how I feel in this moment And I want you to realize that there were reasons all throughout David's life that he could have felt this way. He lived as a fugitive. He was a man of war. I don't know what it's like to pillow my head at night in a battlefield not knowing if I'll wake up in the morning. I don't know what that's like. David knew what it was like. He knew what it was like day after day after day after day for years. He was a soldier, a man of war. David knew it was like to sin terribly. And when David sinned terribly, his conscience smote him for a year of his life It's not just like he went through a couple of weeks of resistance to God. For a full year of life, David resisted God's clear hand of conviction. David knew what it was like to be betrayed by his own son. His own son took the kingdom from him. His own son took counselors who gave advice that humiliated the king in the most humiliating way possible in those days. I don't know when David wrote these words, but there were lots of reasons and lots of times in his life that he could have been in this position. David felt the weight of his circumstances. And the fact is, there might be somebody here this morning that kind of feels a little bit like David. You're facing some kind of hardship that's unexpected or something that's been you've been dealing with it for months or for years and it's weighing you down and you feel forgotten, you feel isolated, you feel directionless. You feel endangered, and I want you to realize that's where the psalmist is when he writes these words And God wanted him to write those words. God moved him to write those words so that we could have a snap picture into the heart of the psalmist as he's feeling the weight of these things. And so I make the simple statement, let's not allow the fact that we become overwhelmed to shock us and to create further discouragement. I think of Moses. Was Moses a great man? Absolutely he was. Yet there was a day that he said to God, These are your people, I'm done, take my life. Was Elijah a great man? Absolutely was. But there was a day that he was in the back of the wilderness. Sitting at the mouth of a cave, and he says, God, there's nobody left in Israel but me. Take my life. I can't bear this load anymore. I could give you a lot more examples, but the reality is this. We can face challenges as Christians. And we need to be prepared for that reality. But there's a second fact that we see in this text, and that is that we must turn to God when we're overwhelmed. By the way, what's really interesting about this psalm is that David is going to lay on the table how he feels before God. He's going to pour out his heart to God. But he's not just going to stop with expressing how he feels. He's going to actually move somewhere. There's going to be a direction that he takes this lament before God. And the way he's going to take it is to prayer and ask God to work in the situation in a way that he knew was fully outside of his control. In verse 3 he says, Consider and hear me, O Lord my God, lighten mine eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death And just like David turned to God when he felt this weight and this great affliction in soul, we must turn to God when we're overwhelmed. And the question is: who else can you turn to? If the answer is outside of you and you turn to self, what do you have? No answers. If the answer is outside of human strength and you turn to other people, what do you have? No answers. He went to God because only God could help him in this moment. And David's prayer was very simple. It was simple, it was intense, it was passionate. Consider me, hear me, O Lord my God. And he says, there are two things that I need. The first is I need my heart to be revived. And he says it this way, lighten my eyes. You know, this morning I was walking and I was thinking about this. And I was asking myself the question, how do I illustrate this phrase, light in mine eyes? The idea is to be revived, to be strengthened. I want you to think about a time when you're in the midst of some kind of great burden And you feel weighed down and overwhelmed, and all of a sudden somebody has a conversation with you and they make one little statement they didn't even realize how significant it was, but that one thing was enough to lift your spirits. You know what I'm talking about? It's like a person's been working all day out in the yard. I remember when we lived in Ghana and I'd go outside and I'd work, and when I worked outside in the heat in West Africa, let me tell you, my shirt would be completely completely saturated, my shorts would be completely saturated, and I'd be out there working and I wouldn't even be paying attention to how long I'd been doing it. I hadn't eaten anything. And all of a sudden it hits me. I'm exhausted. You know what I'd do? We had a coconut palm tree in our yard. And I'd get this big long pole and I'd pop out one of those coconuts and I'd cut that thing open and I'd drink it. You know what I'd feel? Refreshed. It was so amazing how quickly you felt strengthened and energized when you were physically weary. And that's what David says he needs. He says, I need God to lighten mine eyes and overwhelms I'm discouraged. I can't even hold up my head. God, revive my heart. By the way, it's only God that can do that. It really is. It's only God that can do that. It's not like David's circumstances immediately changed when he felt revived in spirit. It's that his perspective was refocused at the moment. And that's what God can do. And that may be exactly what God needs to do in your life this morning, right now. You need Him to revive your heart, to lighten your eyes. And David says, God, do this. The second thing he says is this, please preserve my life. He says, lest I sleep the sleep of death. David knew what it was like to pillow his head at night and say, you know what, tomorrow I might not wake up. He knew what it was like. He knew what it was like. And he says, God, revive my spirit and preserve my life. He realized that his life was in God's hands and so was the state of his soul. And so David doesn't just complain to God. He lays out his heart bare before God, not that God can't see it already. He expresses it. He lays it out in his presence. And then he says, God, I need two things. Please don't let me die in this circumstance. And to re-energize me so that I can do what I need to do. And I want to encourage you, don't just lament. Ask God to do something productive in your circumstance. Third, we should be grateful that God uses our suffering to remind us of our frailty. Now this is more of an implication situation. It's not stated explicitly. God did this so that you will see your need. That's not stated explicitly in the text, but it's implied most certainly. The question is, why is it that David lamented? It's because his circumstances brought him to a point where he felt he needed to Why is it that he says, revive my heart, enlighten mine eyes, preserve my life? It's because David's circumstances helped him to realize that he needed that David wasn't a weak man. David was a soldier. He's the one person in all of Israel that said, I'll go fight Goliath. You know, the king's head and shoulders above everybody. He's a mighty warrior, and he's towering in his tent. And David's a kid, and he says, I'll go take the giant out In fact, it wasn't the stone that killed the giant. He went and grabbed this his sword, this massive sword, and that's how he fell the giants. I'm making a point. He was a strong man. He was a warrior. He was fearless. When David went into the battle, the people gathered around him and said, We like his Spirit. He strengthens us. Yet this is where David is. How did he get there? The fact is, David always had limits. He might not have felt like he had limits. But God allowed him to be in a set of circumstances where the reality of his own dependence on God was exposed as never before. And God does that. We get frustrated. Why does God allow us to go through hardship? And why does God allow us to go through trials? Well, he does it because if he didn't do that, we would never realize how dependent we are on him. Why does he want us to pray? It's because we would never be acknowledging that it's him that does it in these circumstances. Why does God allow us to go through challenges? He wants us to know that he's good and compassionate and he cares about us. And so if it's not for God's work through these circumstances, we would never understand our dependence on Him. And verse 4 he says Lest my enemies say I've prevailed against him, and those that trouble me rejoice when I move. He says, I know that there are people watching me and they can't wait. To see me get chopped down to the side. They love that they're prevailing over me, my enemies. And he says, My only hope is you. It's not my sword. It's not my strength. It's like the proverb that says that safety of the Lord. We can prepare for the day of battle, but it's ultimately God who gives us The safety in that moment. David's expressing that. He understands his vulnerability. Because of his circumstances, he became deeply aware. Of his difficult position and complete vulnerability before his enemies. The fact is that we will not have a proper sense of our own frailty and vulnerability if we never end up in desperate, vulnerable positions. We won't. I never encourage people to ask God to let them suffer to reveal that to them. Okay? I would never encourage that. He's big enough. He knows when we need that. He knows when our heart is getting a little bit too haughty, a little bit too self-dependent. And that we need to be brought back to reality. He knows it. But when he does it, don't look up and say, why are you persecuting me, God? Realize it's his way of getting us back to where we need to be. It's the grace of God that keeps us humble and aware of our limits. You know, I think about I think about Paul And Paul has had a thorn in the flesh. We have absolutely no idea what his thorn in the flesh was. Lots of people surmise what they think it was. The fact is, we don't know what it was. And he said to God three times, he said, please remove this thorn and the flesh from me. And you know what God said to him? My grace is sufficient for thee. For my strength is made perfect in weakness. And Paul responds by saying, Most gladly therefore will I glory in my infirmities. Because when I am weak, that's when I'm strong. And the reality is that God allows us sometimes to go through tremendous hardship because He wants us to be back on our knees again. He wants us to be refocused on him again. He wants us to see where we really stand in the worlds. He wants us not to be too proud and too self-dependent. He wants us to be fully dependent on him. He wants us to be reminded that he is a deliverer and he's ready to save. He wants us to recognize he's merciful and kind and compassionate. We then see a fourth truth, and that is this. This renewed sense of our frailty should lead us to grateful worship. You know, it's really interesting how the psalm moves. It begins with lament. David is pouring out his heart before God. He's absolutely overwhelmed and overcome by his circumstances. But he doesn't stop at lament. He moves from lament and he actually petitions God for two things. He says, Revive my spirits. Don't let me die. And then David says, I know that you're my only hope. And he expresses that in the Psalm. But David doesn't stop there. This isn't just about complaining to God and saying, I know that you're my only hope, and I hope that you do it. He moves from that, he moves to worship. And this is what it says in verses 5 and 6. But I have trusted in thy mercy. My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. I shall sing unto the Lord, because he hath dealt bountifully with me. In other words, in the midst of David's lament, in the midst of his crying out to God, in the midst of him understanding his dependence on God, he moves from that to saying, hold on a second. God, you're good In the midst of all this, there's still ways that you've dealt bountifully with me. My eyes have turned away from this. Now I see it again. In fact, as he's on his knees, he's reminded again, and his heart is restored and renewed and strengthened. And David goes, God, I can trust you. God, I can sing to you. God, I know that you've dealt bountifully with me. And it's not just that I can do these things, it's that I will do these things. He expresses worship in four ways. The first is trust. I've trusted in thy mercy. He knew he could trust God because he understood God's compassion. That's a really powerful thought, isn't it? In the midst of all that. Like, you know, you think about how you feel right now about stuff going on in our nation. Maybe you feel a little bit like David does here. And all of a sudden you go, you know what? I'm going to trust in your mercy because I know you're a compassionate God. I know in the end of it all, you're going to give me exactly what I need, and I'm going to be able to do what's right. I'm going to be able to obey you and honor you, and it's going to be okay. That's how we can feel. Rejoicing. My heart shall rejoice in thy salvation. Now when David talks about his salvation in the context, it would appear that he's talking more about the fact that he doesn't physically die, okay? But the reality is when David talks about his salvation, he could be talking about it in the spiritual sense that he understands he's forgiven, he's cleansed, he's God's child, he belongs to the Lord, he could be talking about it in a physical sense that he realizes God's going to preserve his life and rescue him from his enemy. But David understands he can rejoice because the gospel is the center of his thinking at that moment. In other words, if it wasn't for the gospel, David would have no hope. If it wasn't for his understanding of God's compassion, he'd have nowhere to trust. But he knows how God is. He understands there's deliverance from the penalty of sin. He understands there's deliverance from the power of indwelling sin that plagues us day by day He understood that there's going to be a moment where he stands in God's presence free from all sin in a perfect, eternal world. He understands that. And he also understands that God protects people when they have no other hope. He rejoiced. The third expression of worship was that David sings. He said, I will sing unto the Lord. I love the way that it's put. He doesn't say I'm going to sing about him. He said I'm going to sing to him. In other words, he's expressing to God praise in the most direct way possible. It's directly to him. He's expressing to God how much he appreciates God's work in his life. He's expressing to God that while he has felt weak and overwhelmed, he feels confidence now because he's trusting in the compassionate hand of God. There's a shameless, overflowing eruption of focused, appropriate, emotional, verbalized praise to God. And folks, that's really what singing is all about. In fact, if we gather together and we sing these wonderful songs of praise, we should be singing them to gods. You know that song we sang worthy of worship. You are worthy. Father, Creator, you are worthy. Savior, sustainer. You are worthy. Worthy and wonderful, worthy of all worship and praise. We are singing to God that He is great and worthy of our praise. And that's what David did. The last thing that he mentions is gratitude. He says, because he hath dealt bountifully with me. A God-centered life begins to see all the ways that God has dealt well with us. Hey, I'm not saying that everything in life is easy. I'm not saying that everything in life is smooth, but in the midst of our darkest moments, if we belong to God, He has dealt bountifully with us. We've been delivered from eternal destruction and hell. He's dealt bountifully with us. He's accepted us in the beloved. He's dealt bountifully with us. He's given us a reason to live. He's dealt bountifully with us. He's dealt with us in compassion. He's come alongside of us in our darkest moments. He's dealt bountifully with us. There is no limits to the ways that we could go on and on and on about how God has dealt bountifully with us. And the reality is this what David did in Psalm 13 is what we need to do this morning when we come to the Lord's table. Because when we come to the Lord's table, you know what we're doing? We're coming back to the heart and soul of what it means to be a Christian. We are remembering that there was a body broken, there was blood shed, so that we could be forgiven, cleansed, redeemed. We're reminded that because there's a Savior, we stand accepted by God and just before God because of his work and his person. And so in the midst of all that we're going through in our lives right now, we can refocus when we come to the Lord's table. I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together. To 1 Corinthians chapter 11. Because in 1 Corinthians chapter 11, we're going to read what Paul writes about the Lord's table. I do want to remind you, actually, we may be out of elements. I don't know. We had a limited supply today. Next time we're going to have more, so if we don't have any more, next time we'll have them all. But I'd like you to turn to 1 Corinthians chapter 11. And I want you to see what Paul wrote to the church at Corinth. He says, I have received of the Lord that which I also delivered unto you. But the Lord Jesus, the same night in which he was betrayed, took bread. And when he had given thanks, he broke it and said, Take. Eat. This is my body which is broken for you. This do in remembrance of me. After the same manner also he took the cup when he had supped, saying, This cup is the New Testament in my blood. This do ye as often as ye drink it in remembrance of me. For as often as ye eat this bread and drink this cup, you do show the Lord's death until he comes Now, I want to draw your attention to a couple of things about these verses. The first thing that really should stand out to us is that this whole section is about remembering. He says, do this in remembrance of me. Do this in remembrance of me. As often as you eat this bread and drink this cup, you show the Lord's death until he comes. The idea is that the whole reason we have the Lord's table is because we are people who forget. I don't mean that we we forget in the sense that we don't know what God did. But we forget in the sense as if it's filed away and it's tucked in the back and it's not on the front of our mind. It's like you're having a conversation with somebody about something that happened 20 years ago and they say, do you remember this? And in your mind you're like, uh And they start telling you about it. You're like, oh yeah, yeah, I remember that person. I remember that event. Did you forget it? Well in one sense you forgot it, okay, because you weren't thinking about it. But in another sense, it's still there. You know it's there. Well the gospel's there, we know it's there. But we don't think about it enough. We don't bring it to the forefront of our minds. We don't reflect on it, and that's the purpose of the Lord's table. It's to remember what the Lord has done for us. When we eat this bread, and by the way, it calls it bread because that's what it is, bread. Okay, we're not eating anything spiritual here. What's spiritual is what's being symbolized by the bread. He says when you eat the bread and you drink the cup. You show the Lord's death until he comes. In other words, this piece of bread and this juice that we drink, it is to remind us of spiritual reality. It's to remind us of the fact that Christ literally died so we could be redeemed. His blood was literally shed so we could be forgiven. We remember that in a visible, physical way. And he says it's as often as you do it. The truth is it doesn't tell us how often we're to do it. But the reality is we should do it as often as we need to to remember. We need to do this often. Whereas a church, we remember what Christ has done for us. And he tells us that when we do it, we show the Lord's death until he comes. It's as if the gospel is being proclaimed when we take these elements. It's being proclaimed in the sense that we're drawing attention to the fact that this actually represents the body of Christ, which is broken. This actually represents the blood of Christ which was shed. We are drawing our attention to the sacrifice of Christ. We are proclaiming it. We are remembering it. And we are testifying to the fact that that is what binds us as a local church. When the psalmist lamented and needed to have his heart refocused , This is what this actually serves as, a refocus. It helps us to refocus on what really is the heart and soul of our faith And so this morning, if you are partaking with us, I want to encourage you to not come lightly or flippantly, but to come to the Lord's table, recognizing the weight. In the value of what Christ did for us. In fact, he warns us. He says that we are not to partake unworthily. In other words, the way that we come to the Lord's table is not to be flippant, it's not to be irreverent, it's not to be trite, it's to be sobered. It's to be reflective. We are to come in a way that's consistent with the value of what Christ did for us. And so this morning, as we bow together and we ask the Lord to bless this time, I want you to just take a few moments to reflect on the sacrifice of Christ. How weighty it is, how precious it is, and then after just a few moments, I'll ask one of our men to come And he will ask the Lord's blessing first of all on the bread, which reminds us of the body of Christ which was broken. Let's bow together in prayer, and then we'll have just a moment of quiet reflection. Father, thank you for the 13th Psalm. A psalm that reminds us that in the midst of lament and suffering, we can find stability and we can worship you That it comes through a refocused heart. Help us this morning as we partake of the Lord's table that we would have a refocused heart, a heart that's refocused on the gospel. A heart that's refocused on the sacrifice of Christ. A heart that is a renewed sense of joy, a renewed sense of the worth and the value of Christ's sacrifice. I pray that this would be a sweet time of remembrance. And I pray that we would not come at any way, come in an irreverent or flippant manner. But that we would be sobered by this this wonderful, wonderful sacrifice. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen