If you could, let's go ahead and turn our Bibles together to 2 Timothy chapter 1. And I do want to remind you of a couple of things as you're turning there. First of all , On Friday night, we're having a college and career activity here at the church. It's a College and Career Fellowship, and we are studying in uh going through the book of Nehemiah. And I believe I said it was Nehemiah chapter 8, verses 1 through about 18 or something like that. So I don't remember off the top of my head, but I did put that in the Facebook chat group, so please do study over that section, Nehemiah chapter 8, as we'll be talking about um that that chapter in the book of Nehemiah. It should be a really good study. Also I want to remind you that on Saturday we're going to be starting up something new. It's going to be a men's meeting where we will gather together. We'll be uh doing some studies on some reflections, basically dealing with purity and accountability and encouragement for our men, and this is for not just our older men, it's for our younger men If you're a man, you're invited to come. And the the booklet that I'm going to be using is a book on meditations written by Ren Hummel. And basically what it is is it's encouraging us to get God's word in our heart. It's encouraging us to meditate and reflect on passages of Scripture that will help us to think clearly and to be responsible men. So I want to encourage you, if you're interested in coming to that, perhaps pick up one of those books. And it's basically a scripture meditation. It's a really Really, really good tool. And we're going to start out doing it every week, but we won't continue every week once we get into it. Probably we'll do every other week two or three times a month so people can go fishing. No, it's true. Uh so um we'll we'll do it uh every every second uh week once we get into it. But uh at the beginning we wanted to take a couple of weeks just to kind of get us acclimated to that. So just want to remind you we have those two things, our college and career, Bible fellowship, Nehemiah chapter 8. on Friday night and then on Saturday we'll be beginning um our men's study and we do have donuts and we do have coffee so if you're a donuts and coffee person that will be available. Okay, 2 Timothy chapter 1 is the passage we're looking at, and we're reading verses 15 through 18. 2 Timothy 1, verses 15 through 18. This thou knowest that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me, of whom is Phagelis and Temogenes The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesaphrus, for he hath often refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain. But when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me. The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in that day. And in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well. This evening we're going to be talking about an interesting topic. A topic that we probably don't think enough about. And when we think about the time that we're living in, I know a lot of people are suffering in lots of different ways. And the fact is that as God's people, we're supposed to be ministers of mercy. In fact, this past Sunday, when we were talking about the nature, the character of God , The topic that we dealt with in our Sunday school hour was beholding our God of mercy. And we talked about how mercy is something that flows out of God's goodness, and it really is a is a it's a topic or a concept that's very difficult. to give just one simple word description to. It has the idea of God is kind, God is compassionate. God looks at people with a heart that is moved towards them. when they are in times of tremendous difficulty. Well one of the ways that God demonstrates his mercy is through using the people that he puts in our lives and he brings those people around us in our times of need and he uses them as tools to minister his mercy to us. In fact, every single person in this room, every single person joining us on the live stream tonight, anyone that's going to listen to this message at another time, you can be an instrument that God uses to minister mercy to those who are suffering. I want you to realize you don't have to have deep theological truths stuffed into your mind to be a merciful person. Not that I'm discouraging us from being deep thinkers of God's word. You don't have to be a gifted evangelist to show mercy. You don't have to be extremely intelligent. You don't have to be extremely uh strong. You don't have to be Very old. The reality is you can be an instrument of mercy no matter what position you find yourself in. Compassion. Being there when people need it. Those things are so important. In fact, when we think about a person who loses a very close friend or someone like their spouse or a mother or a father or an aunt or uncle. Someone who's very special to them. Sometimes by just being there with them at that moment, it may not be anything that you've said. The fact that you are present in their moment of need may be exactly what they need to encourage them and strengthen them. But you know what's amazing about the text in front of us? What Paul expresses to Timothy in these verses is that when Paul was in one of his darkest moments, When I say he's in one of his darkest moments, I don't mean that Paul is discouraged or he's angry or he's quitting on what God has for him. I'm not suggesting that at all. But he's in a very difficult place. He's in prison. He knows that his days are numbered. He's going to pass on. He's writing this letter because he knows that He is soon going to be executed. The time of his departure is at hand. And he is convinced that he's fought a good fight and he's finished his course and he's kept the faith. At that point in Paul's life When he really needed people to come around him, what he's going to express in these verses is that everybody that he invested in, save one person in Timothy, They all forsook him. It's incredible. In fact, he's going to name two of the people by name, and if you search the New Testament, you won't find any other information about these people, except for the fact That these were people that Timothy knew and Paul knew, and they forsook Paul at the end of his life. That's all we know about these people But the reason that he takes the time to talk about this to Timothy is because the fact is he wants Timothy not to be like those people. He wants Timothy to be an instrument of mercy. He wants Timothy to be faithful no matter the cost. He wants Timothy to be willing to even suffer. If he's going to have to do that, if he's going to minister to people in their time of need. And so the purpose of the section in front of us is to challenge Timothy to rise up to the occasion before him and to remain faithful as some dear people had ministered to Paul. In some of his most difficult days. And just like Paul wanted Timothy to be faithful, God wants you , God wants me to be faithful people. That we will be a people who will minister mercy even if it leaves us vulnerable. So the question is, how can we do that? I want us to look at three very simple truths that we find in the passage before us. And I think that these three truths, if we understand them and if we're actually going to live in the light of them, I think it'll help us to be ministers of mercy to people in time of need. The first truth we find in this text is that we should count the cost of being a minister of mercy. You know, the Bible talks to us a lot about counting the cost before we take a step. Jesus talks about discipleship. He says, if you are going to build a building, don't just set out and build it, but plan so that when you get into the project, you won't quit. And you won't be able to complete it, and people will laugh and say, look at you. You didn't follow through with what you set out to do. We need to count the cost when it comes to being a disciple of Christ. We need to count the costs in so many areas of life. Don't be a quitter. Don't be a person who starts something and then backs down. Decide on the front side what's involved and step forward and don't give up on it. But the reality is if you're going to be a minister of mercy to those in times of need and crisis, you need to be willing to count the cost that may very well be associated with being a minister of mercy. You know, it's kind of interesting. I was reading the stories of some of the pastors who were ministering in Europe during the time of the bubonic plague. Now, you know, if I want to go and visit somebody that has coronavirus, they won't let me do it unless the person's about to die. And then I'm going to have to wear a hazmat suit and go into the hospital and visit them. But in those days when the bubonic plug was killing millions, tens of millions, literally hundreds of millions of people in Europe died of the Black Death. There were pastors in Europe who were faithful pastors who, believe it or not, actually did house visits. To go and see people who are on their deathbed to minister to those people in time of need. It's unbelievable to consider the incredible cost that these pastors took To minister to those in their congregations. They weren't being haphazard and foolish. But they trusted God and they took precautions, but they were willing to actually be vulnerable. I want you to notice what we find in these verses. In verse 15 he says this, this know that all they which are in Asia turned away from me, of whom is Fagelis and Hermogenes. I probably didn't say their names right, but that's okay. I tried. Phagellus and Hermogenes Now, you might say, well, why did these people forsake Paul? Well, to understand that, I think we need to understand what was going on at the time that Paul writes this letter. This letter was written probably around 67 years A. D. And about four years, three years before that, there was something that took place in Rome that really shook up the Roman Empire. Some of you may know the story, but basically a large section of Rome burned to the ground. And many people believe that it was actually Nero, the sadistic emperor of Rome, that was behind burning this section of the city of Rome. Well, people were obviously really angry with Nero, and so Nero wanted to appease the people, and he decided, I've got to divert attention off of me. And I've got to get somebody to carry the brunt of the blame for what took place here in Rome. So guess who he decided to put the blame on? Christians. Christians weren't liked in a lot of the cities for several reasons. The Jewish populations didn't like them because they were viewed as a sect of Judaism And they worshiped Jesus as God. And the Jews didn't like that very much. So they they received a lot of persecution from the Jews In Roman cities where the Jewish population shunned them, there were lots of pagan festivals that were associated with specific times of the year. And Christians would withdraw from those festivals. They had nothing to do with the paganism of their culture. They refused to worship the idols. And the Romans actually viewed them as people who were atheists. That was the way that they referred to Christians. Because Christians didn't believe in the gods. They believed in a god. Jesus who died and rose from the dead. And so people distrusted Christians. They lived in communities where they would gather together on Sunday and they would worship and they would do the Lord's table and they'd baptize and They were in many times, they were isolated in in some parts of the empire. So so Rome thought it would be really easy to put the blame on Christians. And so persecution is beginning to really rage in Rome. One of the people that was obviously probably the most well-known and prominent Christian of his day was the Apostle Paul. And so who did Nir arrest Paul? Paul is now waiting to be executed in prison. And so anybody that was associated with Paul was potentially in danger. People would say, you are with Paul, arrest that guy. You're one of those Christians, one of those troublemakers, one of those people that's disrupting the empire. One of those people that burned down our city. It was dangerous to be a Christian. It was dangerous to be a Christian leader. It was dangerous to be associated with a person like the Apostle Paul. In fact, we see that suffering is a huge emphasis in some of the books in the New Testament that were written at the same time that Paul is writing this letter, like the book of Hebrews. In the book of 1 Peter. Like in Hebrews chapter 10, verses 23 to 25, he says, Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering. Let us consider one another to provoke unto love into good works. And then he says, Let us not forsake the assembling of ourselves together as the manner of some is, but exhorting one another, and so much the more as you see the day approaching. So we see a phrase like, hold fast the profession of your faith. Don't forsake the assembling of yourselves together. Why is he telling them to hold fast their profession and to not forsake the gathering of the church? It's because there were people who frankly were afraid. They were afraid to be associated as a Christian. It was easier to withdraw from the Christian community, to withdraw your public profession of faith. and to live quietly in the shadows so you didn't suffer for the cause of Christ. And he says, don't do that. Hold fast. Don't forsake. Exhort one another until the day that you see Jesus. Be faithful. Why did he do this? Because it was going to cost them something. to be associated with Christ. Be prepared to face false accusations. In 1 Peter chapter 3, 14 to 16, he says If ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye. Be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled, but sanctify the Lord God in your hearts and be ready always To give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that lieth within you with meekness and fear. Having a good conversation that whereas they speak evil of you as evildoers They may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ. It is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well-doing than for evil doing I mean clearly, Peter is saying you're going to suffer for the sake of the gospel. You've absolutely got to stand fast. And don't be ashamed of your position in Christ. And recognize people will falsely accuse you. Later in 1 Peter 4:16, he says, Don't be ashamed of the gospel. If any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed. I want to ask this question: Do you think this could happen in America? I don't have any doubt it could happen in America. I don't have any doubt. I think the scene is well set. Well set for Christians to face hardship for the sake of the gospel. Now I pray that it doesn't happen I pray it doesn't happen in my lifetime, but I'd be a fool to think that it couldn't. And the bottom line is: we have lived in tremendous ease in this nation. And I asked this question. What would you do if it became illegal to attend church? What would you do? What would you do if pastors in America who were faithful were being thrown in prison and silenced? Would you stop assembling with other Christians? I mean how many Christians don't even come to church right now just because of the virus? Because they're afraid? And how many Christians would be willing to potentially face the hardships? Of imprisonment and stigmatization. This is why people withdrew from the Apostle Paul. They were afraid. They were very afraid. And perhaps many of us would have done the exact same thing. Paul experienced the difficulty of many friends turning away from him in fear. He says, All they which are in Asia Be turned away from me, of whom is Phagellus and Hermogenes. Once you realize Paul needed people to minister to him in his final days. And when I say that, I don't mean like Paul was this timid guy who was just being crushed under the load of going to eventually become a martyr for the faith. Paul was a bold and courageous man. He was absolutely ready to meet the Lord Jesus Christ. He says, I don't know what's better to part and be with Jesus or to stay for your sakes. This is the attitude of the Apostle Paul. But Paul needed people to minister to him in his time of desperation and need. But these people had to count the cost. And sadly, they weren't willing to do it. If we were to face intense scrutiny and persecution, would we still gather? If it would actually cost us our life, our reputation, our jobs, would we still come? The fact is, it's really easy for us to say, I love Jesus and I love his people, and I'm not ashamed of the gospel, and I'm willing to count the cost of being a disciple. And then to just settle into our obscurity on the side because we're simply afraid and not doing what God calls us to do. If we're going to minister to people in times of need, there are going to be times we're going to we're going to have to suffer for it. There are going to be times it's going to cost us something. There are going to be times that we're going to have to get dirty and be uncomfortable. And that's what God tells us to do. The fact is, we talk about the compassions of Christ. We're talking about someone who's compassionate in all circumstances. And he wants to use us to reach into people's lives. I am convinced that we American Christians do not have a lot of backbone. We don't have a lot of courage. We are fearful and intimidated when we should trust God and be faithful. And so I think that this passage really should sting us a bit in our consciences. Because Paul simply expresses, Timothy, don't be like those two men. And I encourage you, don't be like those two men. The second truth we're going to find in this text is that it takes sacrificial initiative for the sake of others. The word initiative means that you've got to actually take action. You gotta step up. You've got to move. You can't be complacent. You can't be lazy. You can't sit on the sidelines. Mercy ministry involves taking initiative. And we see in verses 16 and 17 he says, The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesiphrus, for he hath often refreshed me and was not ashamed of my chains. But when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me. Now there are three things about the resolve of Vanesiphrus that really stood out to me when I read this section here. The first thing that stood out to me was that this was his way of life. It says he oft refreshed. It wasn't like there was one day that he wrote a little letter to Paul and he says, I just want to encourage you today, and Paul never heard from him again. It wasn't like there was this one time that he went and he visited him in prison and he said, Paul, I just want to be a blessing to you, and you've invested in my life, and you've encouraged me, and I want to encourage you, and that was the end of it. Paul says, this is a man, this is a household, this is a family who has many times. Come into my life and ministered refreshment, encouragement, blessing to me. It was a way of life for these people. Secondly, the stigmatization, I can't say this today, the stigmatization of Paul's plight did not deter him. He said he was not ashamed of my chains. He wasn't going to just withdraw from Paul because Paul was in prison. He wasn't going to withdraw from Paul because he knew that Paul was going to be executed. Those things did not slow him down in any way. He loved Paul. He appreciated Paul's ministry. He loved Christ Christ. He cared about Paul's soul. And he wanted to minister refreshment and encouragement to Paul when he was in trouble. And so he wasn't deterred. And we see that he's persistent. This really is an interesting point that stood out to me. He says, when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently and found me. Now, what we know about Anesphorus, we only have two verses really where we hear his name mentioned. But what we know is this: when he was in Ephesus, he met Paul. And when he was in Ephesus, Paul wrote to him. Okay? Because at the end of this letter he says, Greet, Onefrus, who is with you at Ephesus. So we know that Rome was not his hometown. So the reality is that when Paul was in prison, this man Anecerus left Ephesus. Came to Rome and he said, I'm going to find Paul because I want to be a blessing to Paul. I want to minister to Paul. He was diligently seeking out Paul and where he was and how he could bless him Tells us that he was one of persistence. He took initiative. How easy is it for us To think about how we want to bless somebody, we think about someone in a time of crisis or need. We think, you know, I probably should drop them a note, I probably should give them a call, I probably should send them an email I probably should send them a message. I probably should put together something for them. And then that's the end of it. I probably shouldn't. I didn't. Anesphorus wasn't like that. He says, I'm going to go. I'm going to find him. Whatever it costs, doesn't matter. This is a man who's blessed my life. This is a guy who needs to be ministered to. I'm going to do it. You say, well, why is this so important? And 1 Peter 4 he talks about the importance of why these kinds of ministries are so important. Let me read to you what it says. The end of all things is at hand. Be therefore sober and watch unto prayer. Above all things, have fervent charity amongst yourselves. For charity shall cover a multitude of sins. Use hospitality one to another without grudging. As every man received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. In verse 12, he says, Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you. But rejoice inasmuch as you are partakers of Christ's suffering. That when his glory shall be revealed, he may also be glad also with exceeding joy. I'll put it this way in three simple ways. One, Christ's return is eminent. The end is at hand. When his glory shall be revealed, you also may be glad with exceeding joy. Once you realize we don't have a lot of time to minister like we should. You know, I mentioned the other day that one of my close friends' mother passed away recently, this past week. There are times that you stop and you think about it. How much more time do I have? I don't know. I mean I don't have a guarantee of another 30 or 40 or 50 years. I don't have that. I have no idea. How much time do we have till the Lord returns? We don't know. We'd like him to come very soon. Maybe tonight But what if he doesn't? How much time do we have? The reality is we have no idea. God puts us on this planet for a designated period of time according to his own purposes. He doesn't tell us how long it is, it's a mystery to us. He simply says, serve me faithfully with the time that I give you. And Peter says, the Lord is at hand. He can come at any time. We need to be serving him. We need to be faithfully ministering to one another. Secondly, God expects us to genuinely love other Christians. He says, above all things, have fervent charity amongst yourselves. This is God's will. People say, well, what does God want me to do? Well, He wants you to love people. No, what is God's will for me? Love the people that you have in your life right now. The lost people that need Jesus. Love them enough to give them the gospel. The people that are your your spouse, your your kids, your your relatives. Your neighbors love the people, the people in the church, love those people. Above all, have fervent charity. God expects us. commands us to have genuine love. Thirdly, God has specifically gifted each of us to minister to others. He says use hospitality one with another without grudging. As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. You can preach an entire sermon on that verse right there But the bottom line is God gifts you to serve. He doesn't gift you to sit. He gifts you to move, to action, to serve, to bless. Without partiality, to be a hospitable person, to minister to people, to pour God's good gifts that He's given you into the lives of the people around you. We then have a third truth that I want to mention briefly this evening. And that is we need to remember that God has compassion on the compassionate. Have you ever heard the phrase what goes around comes around? I think my mom used to quote this to me all the time when I was a child, and I was harassing my child my my siblings. Oh, what goes around comes around. If you're harsh, it's coming back to you. Well, sometimes we think, well, that's just a mom's statement to kind of like get her kids to be a little bit afraid and to be a little bit kinder. I want you to realize something. There's a God in heaven who causes what goes around to come around. It's the truth. When people do wicked and evil things and they seem to get away with it, there's going to be a day that God crushes them in judgment. I know that sounds harsh, but read through the Psalms, read some of the impregatory psalms, and see how David talks about how God will crush the wicked. The fact is, when people are evil, God judges. We also see on the other side that when people humble themselves, God shows incredible compassion. It says that he resists the proud. Stiff arm. He gives grace to the humble. He pushes away the arrogant person and he draws the person in humility to himself Who's broken? He's compassionate. He extends his loving favor to them. It's an incredible thing to think about. God deals with people in accordance with how they relate to him. And so when a person is harsh , arrogant, and foolish, they can expect that God will deal sharply with them. And when a person is kind and patient and loving and merciful, that is how God will deal with them. When you are in a situation and you have an opportunity to crush somebody and to be as mean as possible, I would encourage you to withhold and to say, do I want God to deal with me like this? You say, well, where in the Bible do you find it? Let me give you some examples. In verse 18, he says, The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy In that day. You might say, well, what does he mean? What day is he talking about? He doesn't actually define what he means by that day. There are really two possibilities. One is he's talking about the day that he stands before the Lord Jesus Christ. And I kind of lean towards that's probably what he's talking about. In other words, when this man, Onephra, stands before Christ, and Christ evaluates how he has served him The way that he has worked and moved and ministered, God is going to factor in the mercies of that man into how he evaluates his service. But there's really a second possibility, and it is a very good possibility. That he realizes that this manesphorus may very well one day be in the prison too. He might be in the same position that Paul's in And on that day, God will bring people to minister to him like he ministered to others. People who are cold and people who are arrogant often die in isolation. And people who invest their lives in others and have lived a life of mercy, people come alongside them in compassion because they remember the character of those people. He says, God grant mercy to this man. Why is mercy such an important thing? Let me give you a couple quick reasons. One, because God's wisdom is full of mercy. James 3. 17, we talked about this passage not too long ago. It says, the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, easy to be entreated. Full of mercy. That's what God's wisdom is like. Reason number two, mercy is factored into the execution of God's justice. How God deals with people. Is in accordance on some level with how they have dealt with others. Listen carefully to what he says in James 2. He says, he shall have judgment without mercy that show no mercy. Whew. If you got authority and you're a harsh person, you might want to read that verse. And you might want to think about that verse And you might not want to let that settle into your heart. He will have judgment without mercy, who has shown no mercy, and mercy rejoiceth against judgment. To put it very simply, God is compassionate to people who are compassionate. Matthew 7, verse 2 says, with what judgment you judge? Ye shall be judged, and with what measure ye meet, it shall be measured to you again. I don't think it could be a lot clearer. God deals with us in many ways how we deal with others. And reason number three, the merciful will be dealt with in accordance to mercy. Matthew 5, 7 says, Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. I want to encourage you, be a merciful person. I'm not saying ignore justice. There are times that you need to be just There are times you have to stand up, say this is right, this is wrong, this is what you deserve, and this is the consequence, and it's measured out. There are times we have to do that. But there are also times that we need to look at people with compassion. And we need to follow the example of the Lord Jesus Christ. I think of the woman taken at adultery who's thrown before Jesus. And they said, what are you going to do, Jesus? He says, well, the first one without sin cast the first stone. And they started walking away. What is Jesus doing? He was showing mercy. He really was. So how do we apply this concept? Let me give you some final thoughts that I think are very practical. First of all, we need to be willing to minister to others, even if it will cost us something. Folks, don't hold back because it costs. It costs to minister. It costs to serve. But it's worth it. It's worth it for you, it's worth it for them, and it's worth it for the glory of God. Secondly, this ministry must become a way of life. We should be a people who live ministry. Where we think about serving others as a way of life. Shouldn't be a burden. It shouldn't be something that we, you know, I'm sick of it. I don't want to do this. We simply serve because we are tools that God uses. We actually enjoy being instruments that he works through. Three, we cannot be lazy or complacent when it comes to ministering to others. There's no place for laziness, folks. God created us to work. Let's do it. For ministering within the local church is a sacred duty, not an optional preference. Just like being a member of the local church is something that God expects of us, it's a duty, it's something that he commands us to do. Just like he tells us not to withdraw ourselves from the local church, he also expects us to serve in the local church. To minister one to another. It's an important part of the function that we have as Christians. And lastly, compassion abounds towards those who are compassionate. I don't know about you, but by nature I have a little bit of a, I guess you could say, a hard streak sometimes You probably have that too. You see a situation where somebody's made horrific decisions and you say, you had it coming. No compassion at all. You see situations and you say, God, give it to them. I just want to see you take them out. We feel that way sometimes. I want to encourage you if you're inclined that way, ask God to help you to be a compassionate person. We need to be people that have mercy in our hearts towards others. Let God deal in justice and let's deal in mercy. I want to conclude with this final thought. God wants us to be ministers of his mercy, even if it leaves us vulnerable. So by God's grace, let's diligently obey him and humbly serve others. Let's bow together for prayer tonight. Father, thank you for the opportunity to study this text of Scripture. There's a lot for us to chew on here. Father, help us not to walk away and ignore the word, but help us to be doers of the word. I pray that this would change us, shape us, mold us. Father, help us to be compassionate people who love others, genuinely desire to serve others I pray that you would protect us as we are sometimes in vulnerable places. Father, help us not to shrink back. In shame, if one day our position in Christ and our willingness to acknowledge that costs us something. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.