Well, good evening. Hope that you had a good afternoon. Let's go ahead and start with a word of prayer and then we'll get our service going tonight. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you'd help us tonight to have settled hearts. And as we sing praise to you, help us to think about these truths and to uh to sing them with great joy and gladness toward you. And as we look into the uh into the scriptures tonight from the The life of Job, I pray that you would speak to our hearts and use these words to encourage us and strengthen us and shape how we understand your providence in our lives. We ask these things in Christ's name, Amen. Let's go ahead and take our hymnals and we'll open up to 416. We'll all stand. And we'll sing the first, second, and fourth on My Faith has Found a Resting Place. My faith has found a resting place, not in my story. I trust me at the one if health. Says he not Jesus died and then he died for me. He died for me that Jesus might be. I understand Hillary has been I need no longer I need no longer me My heart is meeting on the earth, no friendly nor gone. Thou makes that by my stable thing, the thank you. Turn over one page uh four eighteen trust. Trust and obey. We'll sing the first, second, fourth, and fifth on this one. Trust and obey. Solid time and go the failure, screw me down and be screwed, Want to bring up all the spinning. No it's come out all kinds, not all it gives down, fighting to the on the water , and all candy. You may be seated and we'll turn over to 448. Day by day. We'll sing all four or three verses of this day by day and with each passing moment. Day by day and will be passing spray and die to keep my toils go I can tell us where anyone too long after spanning up the stolen away. Every day it will load itself this minute Twilight 's best undertaking for each of my full wood All my tenure Miguel in T and Luk No , I screams we're being in the paramount rather than giving me further Tell me that in every trial South Like all the stables But I know that we contemplation Offer me , we can tell me more than for left double gaining to the week There 's a chance as one numbers than Well, on Sunday nights, we'd like to take a few minutes to give you opportunities to share testimonies. Chevy person, but it's a lot easier to say Ford than it is the other ones, okay? Give me gas in my fort. Give me all in my bed, give me burning, burning, burning, give me all in my brain. Give me little one in my hand. Eat me burning, burning, burning, give me burning, the break on me. Singh Mosana, Singh Osanas , Same Mosana, Singh Mosella , Singh Osana, Same Mosana. Give me gas in my Lord, give me trust for the Lord. Give me gas in my Lord, I pray, hallelujah. Give me gas in my Lord, give me trust for the Lord, give me Got into the break of days Stables and the stake was and a stay was as the king of kings stable stays And then his banner over me is love. So everyone stand. Follow the kids. They know, okay? Jesus is the Rock of my salvation, his banner over me is love. Alright And then opens to three ninety-five, just a first And second verse, make me a blessing. Three ninety-five. I'll just all find ways of mind in honestly as well very much time, time for life, making us voice. So find it. And I hide in the shadow of God You will say to the Lord, you're my pleasure straight. You're going to born in whom I can't draw You're my God You I can draw I will not fear the terror of no, or the error that flies in the day For the evil that stalks, where the darkness is strong, for the flesh that is ways before If I dwell in the shelter of Jesus, and I hide in the shadow of God But I will my happier. You're the one in whom I can Your my god thank you, my good Though a thousand may fail in my friends Four ten thousand should fall by my side. Here protect me from harm and the fierce of war Then the shade of your strength and all of God Live will in the shelter of Jesus. And I hide in the shadow I will say to the Lord, you're my refuge and strength. You're the one in whom I will trust. You're my God, in you I will trust. Thank you for that. And that song really fits very well with what we're going to be looking at tonight, if you could. Let's uh take our Bibles and turn to Job chapter 1. Job chapter one and uh we've been working our way through Old Testament passages that are pointing us to the gospel. And someone might be sitting here going, Well, I thought that we were uh done with the flood, and now we're talking about Job. Isn't Job like several books of the Bible after uh the book of Genesis. Why aren't we talking about Abraham next? Well if we were looking at the Bible chronologically and we were to think about the time when Job actually lived, Job lived prior to the time of Abraham. And the passage that we're going to look at, well really it's going to be kind of a quick synopsis of the book of Job and what was going on in that book. Um what we're actually looking at is something that took place before the time of Abraham. And there are tremendous gospel implications as we think about the story of Job. And so we're going to look at it this week, and then, Lord willing, we will also look at a second passage dealing with the life of Job and the discussion that we're looking at this morning or this evening. So Job chapter 1, we're going to begin reading in verse number 1 and we're going to look at a very important topic and that's the topic of suffering and a sovereign God. Suffering in a sovereign God. Job chapter 1, verse 1 says the following. There was a man in the land of Uz whose name was Job. That man was perfect and upright, one that feared God and eschewed evil. There were born unto him seven sons and three daughters. His substance was also 7,000 sheep and 3,000 camels and 500 yoke of oxen. And the man was the greatest of all the men of the East His sons went and feasted in their houses every one his day, and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them. And it was so, when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Jove sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning and offered burnt offering according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually. Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord. And Satan also came amongst them. But the Lord said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? And Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it. The Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? There is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Doth Job fear God for naught? Hast thou made an hedge about him and about his house and about all that he hath on every side? Thou has blessed the work of his hands and his substance is increased in the land. But put forth thine hand now and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face. The Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power, only upon him, put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the Lord. Now, the passage we're looking at this evening is a very interesting passage of Scripture. There are so many different details that we could really spend time dealing with. For instance, Job was described as a man who was perfect. That meant if you looked at him, he was blameless. There was nothing about this man that you could point to and say, that's a character flaw. That's something That uh is a cause for uh this man's integrity to be be brought into question. He was he was a very blameless person. Doesn't mean he was sinless, but he walked with God. says he feared God and he eschewed evil. In fact later on in the book we're going to see that as Job gives a defense before his friends, maybe I put that in kind of quotations, his friends uh were a bit of a scourge to him as we read this book, and they made a lot of very difficult assumptions about Job. Job demonstrates that he is a very upright man. He hates evil. He is very conscientious. Not only that, he was a very wealthy person. It says he was the greatest of all the men of the East. And so when people thought of great people, people who had lots and lots of substance and they controlled lots and lots of property, they had lots and lots of people that worked under their authority and they took care of those individuals This man Job was the greatest of the great. In fact, when Job was thinking about his own children Job was concerned about his children. He was concerned that maybe in some way they were not walking in accordance with the path that he had laid before them. And so Job even offered sacrifice, remembering his children, and saying, God, if they've done anything against you, I appeal to you, do not hold this against them. This is the kind of man that he was. But then we see some very interesting things. What we see in these verses is that God for a moment removes the curtain into the heavenly realm. And we're able to see a series of conversations between God and Satan about Job. In fact, it's really intriguing to realize that within the heavenly realm, there is observation of what's going on here. The fact is that Satan knows what's going on on this planet. He knows what's going on in certain people's lives. He observes them. He is an active, busy foe And Satan is watching this man, Job, and he comes into the presence of the Lord, and he says, you have blessed this man in so many ways. If you would remove those blessings, if you would take away those things that you've given this man, if you would allow him to suffer the same kinds of hardships that many people suffer in a fallen and broken world, he'll curse you. The only reason that he serves you is because of what he can get. Now, I hate to say this, but his indictment against Job, in fact, it would fall and land when we talk about a lot of people. A lot of people serve God simply because of what they can get from God. Job wasn't doing that. In fact, we're going to see that as we look at the story of his life. But that was the indictment. And then we see the shocking thing that God literally tells Satan, you have permission from me to touch him in any way you choose, except against this person. You can take his children, you can take his things, you can take his substance, you can take his strength and his health, you can take those things, but you can't take his life And that's exactly what Satan did. And then we will see how Job responds. He says, Naked came I forth, and naked I'll return. The Lord has given, and the Lord has taken. Blessed before. the name of the Lord. This man, Job, did not sin against God with his lips in the midst of this very intense difficulty. And the fact is that what Job has done here is a tremendous encouragement to you and to me of steadfastness And by the way, as we read the book, that wasn't the end of the story. That was actually just the beginning point. From that point on, Job went through tremendous affliction. And he had conversations with men who basically brought tremendous accusations against them as they were coming to try to encourage him. And get to the root of his problems. They discouraged him. They indicted him. They falsely accused him. And Job was at the end of his ropes, and God came in, and God strengthened this man, and in the end he blessed him. The story of Job is a powerful testimony to the fact that God is at work even in the sufferings of people's lives. And so let me give you a summary statement, and then I want us to begin with a couple of introductory thoughts as we look at this story of Job's life, and as we try to observe some very important truths in the text before us. Here's a summary statement. A sovereign God, who is entirely good, permits suffering in a fallen world when it can ultimately be used to accomplish good in our lives and bring glory to Him. Let me say that again. A sovereign God who is entirely good permits suffering in a fallen world when it can ultimately be used to accomplish good in our lives and bring glory to Him. Now, when I read that statement to you and I think about that statement, that's a really tough statement. God does not insulate us from every single form of evil and difficulty. Now, that is not to say that God does not insulate us from many forms of evil and many kinds of difficulty. He does. God preserves us and God protects us and God defends us and God blesses us lavishly And this man, Job, is a testimony to that. On the front side of this suffering, God blessed him lavishly. God protected him. God defended him. As he went through the suffering and has experienced tremendous loss. Tremendous grief, tremendous pain. God eventually came alongside. He strengthened and upheld this man. And on the backside of this suffering, guess what God did? He restored him. He brought into his life new blessings that were a lavish display of his grace. But God does not withhold all difficulty from us. This is one of the great challenges that we encounter in a fallen world. This is when our faith is really put to the test. And over the course of our lives, we can never predict the kinds of things we'll experience. But as we experience those hardships, God has a way of using those things to accomplish good in spite of the difficulties of those things. God wants us to learn to trust Him in all things. And that word learn is important. We learn to trust God. We are not born trusting God. We're born rebels, and God brings the gospel to us and he convicts our heart. He convinces us of sin and righteousness of judgment. When we place our faith in Christ, we are regenerated, we are made new creatures in Christ. And the Holy Spirit begins its work in us, and we have faith that is small, that is weak, that's immature, and that faith begins to grow and mature. And it begins to have substance and it begins to have strength as we go through the seasons and difficulties of life. God wants us to learn to trust Him. And learning to trust him. In fact, it's very hard. But that is a part of why God leaves us here after we trust Christ as our Savior. We're in the school of growing into Christ's likeness. So let me talk to you for a few moments, first of all, about God's sovereignty. Now we talk about the sovereignty of God. The word sovereign simply means he's a king. He's a ruler. And so when we say that God is sovereign, we say he is the highest ruler. He is the highest king in all of creation. There is no dominion that rises to the level of his dominion. And so when we think about Satan and all of his forces. And Satan is a powerful foe. Satan comes under the dominion, the authority of God Himself Satan cannot do anything apart from God's permission. It's an absolutely incredible thing to consider. Now, if God did not just God has given Satan the ability to do what he wants on many levels. In other words, he really does have authority. He really does have a power. He really is a vicious foe. But he's under the authority of God. And we're going to see how God limits what Satan can do, and how God will use what he allows him to do to accomplish good in our lives. We'll talk about that in just a moment. But when we talk about God being sovereign, what we're saying is God manages his creation in a wondrously mysterious way that should both humble and motivate us to walk in sober obedience. And it should cause us to anticipate that there will be redemptive value in everything that God permits. That statement, redemptive value, means That even the difficulties of life and the hardships and the evils of life, God can use them to cause redemptive purposes to unfold. Romans 8:28. All things work together for good to them who love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose. All things encompass good things and bad things. Bad things don't all of a sudden become good things, but bad things can be used by God for redemptive purposes. And so when Job suffered the experience of pain and hardship, those were terrible things. They were not good things. But God used them for redemptive purposes in the life of Job. And he does the exact same thing in our lives. So let's think about a couple of important facts that fall under this expansive category of the sovereignty of God. The first fact is this: God is the king, he is the sovereign. Daniel 4, 35, it says that his dominion, that means his sphere of authority, his dominion is an everlasting dominion. His king is from kingdom is from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing. He doeth according to his will and the armies of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth none can stay his hand. Or say unto him, What doest thou? That passage is really clear. God rules. You can't look at God and say, God, you don't have the right to do that. We can have a hard time understanding what he's doing or why he allows what he does. There's no doubt about that. But we cannot look at him and say, you're wrong, and what you've permitted. Or what you've done. He is the highest authority. And it was Nebuchadnezzar, the most powerful human living at the time, that made this statement. After he had been severely humbled, God used him to make this incredible statement about God as the ultimate ruler and king. Another passage that's very important, Ephesians chapter 1, verse 11. It says, In whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of him that worketh, catch this, all things after the counsel of his will. That we should be to the praise and to the gl and to his glory, who first trusted in Christ, and whom after we trusted, after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and whom also after you have believed, you were sealed with the Holy Spirit of promise. Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory. I go back to this little statement, he says , We were predestinated unto the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. That means that as a believer, God takes everything in my life and he works it together to accomplish a purpose in me. And I think the purpose that he's ultimately talking about in these verses are the purpose of maturing us into Christ's likeness. Making us more like Christ. In fact in Romans chapter eight it's the exact same concept. It says that all things work together for good to them who love God, to the called according to his purpose, whom he foreknew he predestined to be conformed to the image of his Son. In other words, the way that God takes the difficulties of life is that he uses all of them in the life of the Christian to make us more like Christ. To shape us into the image of Christ. And so the value of a person who is a child of God becoming like Christ is far superior in the eyes of God than the temporary sufferings that we experience. God is sovereign. Second fact. We're responsible moral agents. Now that doesn't mean that we make decisions responsibly. Okay. We're responsible. That means you have the ability to make choices. But when you make a choice, you gotta live with it. You understand what I'm saying? When you choose to do something or choose not to do something, You have to live with the consequences of the decisions that you made. You have to live with the temporal consequences of those decisions. You have to live with the long-term consequences of those decisions. And when it comes to an issue like the gospel, you have to live with the eternal consequences of those decisions. We are responsible moral agents. That doesn't mean we choose responsibly, but it means we're responsible to God and we have the ability to make the choices we want to make. Ecclesiastes chapter 11, verse 9. He says, Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth. Let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and in the sight of thine own eyes. But know thou that for all these things, God will bring thee into judgment. He says, Do what you want to do, young man, but remember you're going to answer To God. Responsible moral agent. He says later on, remember now thy creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them. So what he's basically saying is choose wisely because there's going to be a day that you can't reverse what you've done. Responsibility. That's the key. A third, another passage that I think that came to my mind as I was thinking about this concept is Matthew 12, verse 36. He says, I say unto you, every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof on the day of judgment. This is just one of many, many scriptures that teach this very simple truth. We are responsible, and we are responsible to God. Third, God permits evil. Now, I don't think that we have to go to lots and lots of scriptures to see that laid out. The book of Job is, we could say, an entire testimony of the fact that God allows Evil to unfold in the fallen world. We also see in the book of Job that God limits the evil that he allows. There's a verse that's very interesting that touches on this point. I want to read it to you. Psalm 76, verse 10 says the following. Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee. The remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain. Let me read that again. Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee, the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain. It's a very interesting statement, isn't it? God permits people to rage against him. But he draws a line, and where he draws the line, he does it for a purpose God can even use the rebellion of people to accomplish his glorious purposes. God doesn't cause people to sin. God doesn't cause people to do evil things. He allows it and he uses it if there's a redemptive purpose that can be accomplished through that thing. A fifth fact. He is patient with people despite their confusion, rebellion, and folly. And might I also add their weakness? We are weak people. All of us are weak people. In fact, God allows us to suffer sometimes to remind us that we are weak people. When we don't think that we're weak people, God's got to remind us again of those things. Psalm 103, verses eleven through fourteen, this is a wonderful passage because it really lays out the fact that we are rebellious, sometimes we're confused, sometimes we're weak, sometimes we're involved in folly, and God's consistent with us in In spite of where we are as people. the Here's what it says. It says, as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy. You love that word. Mercy. Toward them that fear him. As far as the East is from the West, so far as He removed our transgressions from us. A transgression is something that we do in rebellion against God, disobedience to God. So God is merciful towards us. He removes our sin through the cross of Christ. Like a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. Pity means that he he comes alongside of us and he comforts us and he encourages us and he strengthens us. So as God allows things to unfold, he doesn't abandon us in those situations. But he literally comes alongside of us and he encourages us and strengthens us. He says, He knoweth our frame. He remembereth that we are dust. That's a great scripture, isn't it? That tells us that God, as the ruler of the creation, is consistent and he is patient. And he is merciful and he is kind and he is strengthening to his people as we stumble along in a very difficult world. Fact number six, God will ultimately triumph over evil through the gospel. If there was no gospel , Then God allowing evil in the world to unfold would have no redemptive purpose. Because it's the gospel that gives us an eternal state where we stand righteous in Christ. And it's the gospel which allows us to grow into Christ's likeness. And so we talk about this thing of God allowing things to unfold that are difficult in this world. And he uses them to accomplish good purposes in our lives, redemptive purposes in our lives. It all drives back to the gospel. It's because of the gospel that we can say there's redemptive purpose in what God allows. For instance, Romans 8, 18. I reckon that the suffering of this present time is not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us. How is that statement true? Because of the gospel. 1 Corinthians 15, 55. O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory? The sting of death is sin, and the strength of sin is the law. But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast and movable, always abounding in the work of the Lord. For as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. What makes our labor not in vain in the Lord? The gospel. His triumph over death, his triumph over sin, because of the cross and the empty tomb, there's redemptive purpose to what God allows. And so when we talk about the story of Job and we think about how the story unfolds, we're reminded at the heart of how this points us to Christ is the gospel message strengthening Job. There's going to be a point in this storyline, we won't look at it tonight, where Job talks about how he knows that his Redeemer lives. Redeemer. He's alive. That he's going to stand in his flesh when he sees God. Not the flesh that he has right now, but a glorified state. The gospel was the heart of what gave this man strength. The gospel is what allowed him to persevere through the challenges that he faced. God will ultimately triumph over evil through the gospel. Fact number seven. God uses all things, even evil things, to accomplish good in our lives and to bring glory to Himself. Romans 8. 28, we know that all things work together for good, to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose, whom he foreknew he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son. The last thing I'll mention here is this. Fact number eight. It's a good thing I didn't tell you there were eight facts. You're wondering, are we going 12, 14? Where are we going with this? We must learn to trust what God has revealed about himself when our experience appears to contradict his word about his power, care, and goodness. Now notice I I use I spoke carefully here. When our experience appears to contradict In other words, how I feel about God and about myself and my circumstances is not consistent with what God's Word says I should feel about God, my circumstances, and myself. There's an apparent contradiction. We have to learn to trust God as we go through that period of seasons of life And we see this in Romans chapter 8, 25. If we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it? Hope means I'm trusting in something God's promised. But I don't see it right now. In other words, what God said and how I feel, they're not the same. But we with patience wait for it. He then says, The Spirit helpeth our infirmities, we know not what we should pray for as we ought, but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered. Now we know this passage, and this passage is a very comforting passage, but that passage tells us that when we're living in a fallen world, sometimes what we believe, because it's been promised. And how we feel because of experience, there's contradiction. And sometimes that contradiction is so great and it's so heavy that we can make sense of it In fact, we get to the point where not only can we not make sense of it, but we don't even know how to pray in the light of it. And so what does God do? He strengthens us in the inner man. And the Holy Spirit literally intercedes on our behalf in a way that we cannot express with words. That's what he's saying. So those are some introductory thoughts about such a small, simple topic as the sovereignty of God, right? So I want you to see for just a few moments how this unfolds in the story of Job. Let's notice a few details about Job's life. First of all, The story begins with him being a wealthy, conscientious man. And verses one through three it says that he was a perfect and an upright man. He feared God. He eschewed evil. He was the greatest of all the men of the East. This man, Job, was a great man. If God withheld evil from people on the basis of how good they were when it relates to other people, Job was a person who should have never Never experience hardship, difficulty, pain, and suffering. This is what it tells us. Just because you walk with God Does not mean he's going to withhold from you every potential hardship and difficulty that you could face. Or on the other side, just because you've experienced hardship. Experience suffering, experience grief, experience difficulty. That does not mean that you're not walking with God, and this is like the proof that you're not walking with God. Now, I think that we tend to fall into both categories. We kind of get this attitude: if I walk with God, everything will be smooth. Not true. If everything's not smooth, I must not be walking with God. Not necessarily true. Now there are other factors we could talk about. Okay, there are consequences for sin, and we make poor decisions. There's the consequences that unfold from those things. But the simple fact here is that this wealthy, conscientious man who walked with God experienced tremendous hard. Second thing we'll notice here is that he lived a God-centered life. It says that when this man in verse number five was thinking about his own children. He continually prayed for them. He continually sacrificed on their behalf. He was burdened for his kids. I'm sure that if you have grown children or you have children that think they're more grown than they really are, whatever the situation, you're burdened for your kids. You know, as your kids start getting a little older, you realize they're gonna like they're gonna fly away very soon. You start feeling the weight of this, like I can't make up for lost time. I've I what am I gonna do? You start feeling this pressure. Job felt this pressure. That's the pressure that someone feels when they love their children. They care about what's right. Job was a man who lived a God-centered life who thought about these things. He's not the person you would expect to suffer as he did. Third, the narrator permits, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit To allow us to see into the heavenly realm. This is so intriguing. It's like God pulls back the curtain and lets us step into his throne room and see something that you wouldn't be able to see with your eyes unless God had revealed it. This is an intriguing thing for us to consider. Verse number six: there was in the day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord that Satan came with them. And that phrase the sons of God is referring to the angels in this particular context. And as they're there before the Lord, God says to Satan, Have you seen Job? He says, Of course I've seen Job. God says there's nobody like him in all the earth. And Satan says, for sure, because you've given him everything that he could ever want. You protect him You bless him. He's enjoyed this wonderful life at your hand. Take it away and see what happens. That's the way that Satan comes to God and speaks to God. Now, what really intrigues me about these verses is that never in the book of Job do we see an indication that God tells Job that this was going on. You ever thought about that? You know, it's interesting. The scripture tells us that there is real thing called spiritual warfare. And there is battle that goes on in the heavenly realm, you can't see it. So sometimes when you see a contention that's going on, like in a church setting. Or within a family setting, or within a work setting. Sometimes you see all the bitterness and the resentment, and people get at each other, and things that were very calm and very peaceable, they begin to deteriorate. You go, where does that come from? What we do not see with our eyes is that behind the scenes there's somebody prodding and pricking and encouraging and stirring up and working to undermine the work that God's doing When a person's a missionary and they're planting a church, they experience these kinds of things. And you go, what is that? It's Satan at work trying to undermine the work of God. The spiritual battle is real and it's going on. But we can't see it. And Job, we have no indication, saw it. But that was at the heart of what was going on behind the scenes. It's fascinating to consider. God permitted Satan with specific restrictions to personally attack Job and his family. In verse number 12, it says this: And the Lord said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath Is in thy power. Only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went from the presence of the Lord. That means that Satan really has power. There are things that he can do. And we know what he can do by what he did. Because the next thing that we see is that Job experienced intense personal suffering without any explanation of Satan's hand. He talks about these two groups of people. We know about the Chaldeans. And we know about this group of people, the Sabians. And these two groups of people came down and they attacked Job's family. They killed his family members. They killed people that were working in his household. They took away his animals. Basically, they decimated everything that the man had. What's also interesting beyond that is that it says the fire of God fell upon them from heaven. There came a mighty wind from the wilderness and it. Smote the four corners of the house and fell on the young men, and they are dead. And this man says, I'm the only person who escaped. In other words, Satan had the ability. Because God permitted him to stir up these very evil people to come out against Job's family. And he even had the ability to influence catastrophic weather events. Satan has such power. Now, we don't know all the details of how this works out, but we know from this particular text that he does have such an ability. And so the question is, what happens? How does Job respond to these terrible, terrible tragedies? Here's the answer. It says that he trusted God even when things didn't make sense. Verse number twenty Then Job arose and he rent his mantle and shaved his head and fell down on the ground, and he worshipped and said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb. Naked shall high return thither, the Lord gave, and the Lord taketh away. Blessed be the name of the Lord. And in all this Job sinned not and were charged God foolishly. I'll put it like this: Job grieved. Grieving is not wrong, folks. Grieving is what you would expect when people suffer Jesus grieved when he saw the pain that was experienced by Lazarus' family at Lazarus' graveside. Grief is something that's not sinful. Grief is the normal response to suffering in a broken world. Job grieved. He felt the weight and the pain and the agony of these terrible events. The second thing Job did was he worshiped He bowed his knees before God and he said, You are greater than I. It's an amazing thing to consider. He recognized that everything that he had that had been taken away, it came as a grace gift to him. The children, the material possessions, all of it was God's grace. He wasn't entitled to those things We aren't either. He humbly confessed that he was not entitled to the good things that he enjoyed and lost. He did not call God's goodness into question. Job responded very humbly. Now, we know from the rest of the story that Job did struggle. And it's very understandable that he struggled. In fact, one of the reasons that we have the book of Job is to help us to understand that suffering is a part of living in a fallen world. And I think it's also something that is to warn us when we come into the position of trying to help people who are suffering, that the way that we approach them is very, very important. We shouldn't tell people we know things that we don't know. We shouldn't tell people that that certain things are, you know, we know that this is the case. If this is the case, if the scripture never tells us that that's the case. And that's exactly what Job's friends very foolishly and very hurtfully did. They said, Job, we know that you've sinned because if you hadn't sinned, then we wouldn't have these things going on. But that wasn't true. They didn't understand what was going on behind the scenes. But what we see by the end of the story is that God defended Job. Literally, Job had to pray for his friends in order for God to show mercy to them. It's an amazing thing to consider. God defended Job. Even though Job stumbled and even Job really struggled, God walked through this with this man, and in the end he defended him at the end of the story. He validated Job's integrity. Job truly was a man of integrity, not a sinlessly perfect man. And we see that because of how he responds in the book. But Job was a man of incredible character. When it says that he feared God and he showed evil, that was true. It wasn't just that people saw him this way, this is how he was. And God validates he is genuinely a man of integrity. This refined Job as a person. Job all of a sudden saw life from a different perspective. And by the end of the book He basically tells God, I'm not going to reply to you anymore. You're the creator. I'm a creature. These things are too great for me to understand. Job humbled himself. He was refined as an individual. And then we see at the end of it that God extended tremendous grace to him. God did bless this man at the end of the story. So what does this show us? It shows us that affliction It demonstrated his integrity, his fitness to be called the man that he was by the people around him. It demonstrated God's authority over all of his creation, even Satan himself. And it demonstrated that God is compassionate and And patient, and he has the right to extend grace freely as he chooses in all circumstances. These things were demonstrated in this passage. And so here's the question. What do we learn in wisdom from these things? Let me give you this very quickly. Number one, life in a fallen world is painful and complex. It's true. I've done a lot of funerals since I've been the pastor at anchor. I've visited a lot of people in the hospital since I've been the pastor at anchor in a very short time. Been at a lot of gravesides, a lot of bedsides. Been involved in very complicated situations where people are experiencing tremendous hardship, tremendous grief, tremendous difficulty. Relational difficulty, personal difficulty, all kinds of things. Why is that? Because life in a fallen world is painful and it's complex. As a general rule, God does not shield us from all hardships. Now, that's not to say that God doesn't shield us from any hardships. He does. But he doesn't shield us from all hardships. He allows us to make decisions that we want to make, and sometimes he allows us to live with the consequences of those decisions. What God permits and the extent to which God restrains hardship and evil is always in accordance with his perfect wisdom. If God allows me to walk through circumstances that are painful and they're harsh, and I can make sense of them, what I can know, and I can know it with eyes of faith. Is that there is something redemptive that God wants to teach me, and something redemptive in the way that God wants to shape me in the midst of these circumstances? Now, if you're coming alongside of a friend who's suffering, I don't want to encourage you to come and tell them that. Let them come to realize that as God works in their heart. But you come out and say, well, it's all going to be better in the end, and they're like, I'm pretty raw right now, and I don't want to hear this right now. That's not the time to say such a thing. But that's true. It's true that there's redemptive value in what God allows and what we go through. And as we move through circumstances, And as we get on the backside of these things, and as we can look back and we can see it in perspective, God begins to teach us that. It's how we grow, it's how we mature. God always manages circumstances to redemptive ends. We can trust Him when we can't see clearly. He is patient, He is compassionate with us as we navigate the painful circumstances of life. But in my opinion, the greatest truth of all is the last. The gospel alone is what makes all things work together for good. If there was no gospel, then there is no hope. But there is a gospel, and because there is a gospel, there is Hope. That is really the greatest takeaway of the story of Job's life. Because he had a Redeemer who lived Who he would see with his eyes, and he would stand before him in a glorified body, and all of those children that he lost in this terrible tragedy, he would be restored to those children. And he would have matured in the process of life in a way that he never could accept through those circumstances. And the fact that his integrity was demonstrated because it was tested. And the fact that God walked through him with those things and was close to him and strengthened and encouraged him, all those things, there's redemptive value in those things because of the gospel. And so I want to encourage you this evening. Let's learn to trust God in all things. I don't know what you're experiencing right now. But you may be carrying a very heavy weight. Maybe nobody knows it but you. Or maybe a couple people are very close to you, they know it The truth is they don't even know what to tell you. You don't know how to make sense of what you're dealing with. Or maybe you've gone through these things in in your past, or most certainly we're all going to walk through them in the future. Let's learn to trust God in all things. He is patient with us. He loves us. Because of the gospel, we can anticipate that there's redemptive valuing what he permits. Let's bow together for prayer, please. Father, we think about the story of Job's life. It's a tremendous testimony to the fact that life is hard That we are often without understanding, but that you are also good. It's a tremendous testimony to the fact that the gospel Is the solid rock that our lives must be built upon. And it's what gives us strength and stability when we go through the hardest and most painful circumstances of life. Father, help us to be a people who are maturing through the hardships of life. Help us to be a people who learn to trust you. Father, help us to be a people who are compassionate and patient with others. That we wouldn't be like Job's friends who come alongside and in harshness. With a callous disposition, we rebuke others without any understanding, to our own detriment and to theirs. Father, help us to be gospel-centered people who walk in obedience to you and grow through the process of life. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. Our closing hymn is hymn number four hundred, Take My Life and Let It Be. And uh I think we'll just sing the first and the last. I 'd have mentioned all four, but let's just sing the first and the last because of our time. Let's stand together, please. And let's sing verses 1 and 4 of number 400. Take my life and let it be. Take my life and let it be. God said great amount to me Take my demand Happy Emposal God That I need to present more, take myself and I 'll be able to do it. Is that we are clear Charlie, can you close us in prayer and then we'll take a short break to give you a chance to get water, use a restroom, whatever you need to do, and then we'll start our business meeting as As uh quickly as possible after our little break. So go ahead, Charlie. the message has brought forth a reminder of of who you are and uh and the great hope that we have in you and that um that even with the the difficulties that we can face in this world that you are thinking control and um and you are working out your plan and uh just pray you be with us this coming week help us to uh Go throughout our daily lives and take opportunities that you provide for us to to talk about you and to honor and glorify you and just pray you be with the the business meeting coming up that um We can do the work of the church in an orderly fashion, just thank you for all you've done for us in Jesus' name. Amen.