And tonight we're going to be continuing our study in James. The last two times I got to preach, we're looking in the book of James, chapter one. And so we'll be picking up in our um passage in the book of James. But before we do, let's come to God through prayer to ask him to work in our hearts through his word. Lord God, you are the God who has created us. The God who sustains us, who gives us the heart to love you in the first place, Lord. And so Lord, I ask that you would strengthen our hearts. To not be prone to wander, Lord, but instead to be gravitating towards you, Lord Jesus, and to be focusing directly upon you. And Lord God, even as we look at your word, I ask that you would give me clarity of thought and words, and that you would work within the hearts, every heart here and over the live stream. And Lord, that what is said and done would keep us closer to you. Thank you, Jesus. In Jesus' name, amen. If you think about these three people from the Bible, if you think about Joseph and the Old Testament, the one that had the coat of many colors, Daniel and then John the Baptist, the New Testament character, if you think of the three of them. What do you think would be the first thing that you would say would make that they would have in common? So there's Joseph, Daniel, and John the Baptist. Maybe you say they're a messenger of God. Maybe you say that they had their heart squarely set in God Maybe you'd say that these are people that even though imperfect, God still was willing to use. The first thing that came to my mind when I thought of Daniel, Joseph, John the Baptist, and many other people in the Bible. was that they had to go through much suffering in their life in order to achieve the things that God wanted them to. These aren't the only examples. I think almost any example in the Bible you'll see that there is a element of suffering and trials that the Christians or those that trusted in God's way had to go through. And this is kind of what the book of James addresses. is the Christian who is suffering, and yet how God is the same God who made the world and made the promise with Adam and Eve that he would be with them. The same God of Joseph, Daniel, John the Baptist, of Esther of every person in the Bible and the same God who you and I are worshiping today and who can sustain us even in the midst of trials. So we're going to be in James 1, 9 through 18, and we need to realize that in the midst of suffering, our proposition is in the midst of suffering , Focus on our trustworthy God. A summary of this passage would be, When believers suffer, they need to rest assured in their faithful God who gives what is best for his children. So let's jump into the passage of James 1, 9 through 18. It says here, let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted But the rich in that he is made low, because as the flower of the grass, he shall pass away. For the sun is no sooner risen with the burning heat But it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace and the fashion of it perishes, so also should the rich man fade in all his ways. Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, for when he has tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. So far in the book of James, in the first four verses, we saw how even in the midst of trial, God can use that trial to mature our faith in Him Yes, Christians are going to go through this trial. And it calls it a temptation, but that's meaning the trials and the hardship that we go through. Yes, we're going to go through this trial. But if we allow God to grow us through it and to mature our faith and grow our hearts closer to Him, then He can. But it's a choice we have to allow God to grow us through that trial. And then we saw how in the midst of trials we need wisdom. We need to know how we can respond accordingly. And we saw this in verses five through eight, where it says, If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask a God. And then in verse six it says But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. So we need to ask God for wisdom in faith, knowing that he can give wisdom, that he will give wisdom when our heart is set on him. And then we saw how God desires the believer to be so focused on him instead of on the temporal things, to not be that double-minded man, the person that's going between their own way and God's way, as it says in verse Yes, in verses 6 through 7 and 8, it talks about how we need to have our heart directly focused on God. So now, as we've talked about how even through the trials, God can mature our faith, he can establish us in Him. and give us wisdom. Now James takes a slightly different approach. Same type of thing, but I guess really what he's doing is he's take stepping back, saying, you've seen the grand picture of how God works in trials. Now we're going to look as specific examples of circumstances that Christians go through. And so our first point is God uses all circumstances, verses 9 through 11. And before we read these, it's important that we see that the book of James often talks about those who are financially well off and those who are not so financially well off. And most of the book audience of James in the first place were those who were suffering financially unstable because of the persecutions that they're going through, because of their faith And so James is going to talk to the specific people in the different circumstances of life and show them how, no matter what, they need to focus on their God. And so it says here in verse 9. Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted, but the rich in that he is made low, because as the flower the grass he shall pass away So it starts out by talking about the Christian with his humble circumstances can rejoice in God who can raise him up. So it says here, let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted. This is talking about that person who doesn't have much Sir and there's circumstances that they could say, This is something that I'm wealthy, I have a lot to boast about. They don't have much. Maybe it's the Christians who have gone through the persecution and most they have is taken away. They are looking for their daily food and they're wondering where are they gonna get this. And their circumstances around them don't look like much, and yet James says here that the brother that is of low degree rejoice, they can take joy in that he is exalted. Rejoicing, not in the circumstances, but in the God who can hold them through that trial, mature their faith, as it said earlier in this chapter, and who can sustain them in the midst of that suffering. So the choice the Christian must make to rejoice in God, who will lift them up in his due time. God desires for the believer to come to him humbly in this circumstance When they don't understand what's going around around them, why it's happening. And James 4, passage I've been kind of coming back to a lot, is it's kind of a focus of the book of James. In verse six he says, But he gives he, God, gives more grace. Wherefore he says, God resists the proud, but gives grace unto the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Draw nigh to God, and He will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners, and purify your hearts, ye double-minded. Be afflicted and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy into heaviness. Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up. So in light of that, in light of as it talks about humbly submitting yourself to God and drawing near to him and saying, God, I don't understand why this is happening in my life, why These circumstances seem like I have nothing why I am struggling in this life. As James 1 in our passage we're talking about today where it says Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted, is recognizing that God, the one who made him, values his spirit the persons, the individuals. spiritual well-being, and seeing that even though God may not change the circumstances around them in their life, knowing that God's way of exalting and lifting up someone is to spiritually bring them closer to Himself God lifts up broken people, and this is a theme throughout the Bible. So God wants us to cry out to Him in the midst of trial, knowing that He has what is best from us and that He is the same God that raised Jesus from the dead. 2 Corinthians 1. 9 says that we had the sentence of death in ourselves, that we should not trust in ourselves, but in God which raised the dead. This same God who brought Jesus back to life after he died is the same God that we worship in the midst of the struggle, in the midst of the pain that we go throughout life And maybe no one else knows about that pain that you're going through. And and up front it looks like you're you're okay and there's nothing else that's going on that anyone knows about. And yet something internally or something in your life is a struggle that you are going through day to day. And you don't understand, cry out to your God, the God who raised Jesus from the dead, the God who saved your soul if you know him as Savior The God who cares about you, cherishes your heart, and wants to lift you up to Him, closer to Him, when you come closer to Him And so James says that the brother of low degree rejoice and that he is exalted. The believer is rejoicing, not because of the things around them, but because the God. who loves and cherishes their heart. The believer can rejoice in Christ. And as it says in 1 Peter, 1 Peter 1, 3 through 6 says, Blessed be God the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy has begotten us again into a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. to an inheritance incorruptible, undefiled, and fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you, who are kept for by the power of God through faith unto salvation, ready to be revealed in the last time Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, that ye in heaviness through manifold temptations, or the trials. And saying you're yes, you're going through those trials. In 1 Peter, as it says, but it says, take your focus on the God who is keeping you. As 1 Peter 1. 5 says, you are kept by the power of God. And you can greatly rejoice because he has that plan for you. Jesus, when he was on earth, had a similar theme when he was talking to the people around him. Yes, he healed people's circumstances. Yes, he healed people when he was going around them and he brought people back to life, but he didn't heal every single person in the world at that time. And he certainly didn't heal every person in an entire time throughout any time of life. But Jesus was trying to bring people closer to God and showing them that he is the Messiah. And so when he spoke in Matthew five, he said, It says, And seeing the multitudes, he went up to the mountain, and when he was set, his disciples came unto him, and he opened his mouth, and he taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit. for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are they that mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness, for they shall be filled Blessed are the merciful, for they shall obtain mercy. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called the children of God. Blessed are um they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are ye when men shall revile you and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake. Rejoice and be exceedingly glad, for great is your reward in heaven, for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you. Jesus was taking that same theme, and likely as James was writing to the book of James, he had that in the back of his mind. Because he was the half-brother of Jesus, and he probably heard most of this. And although he didn't trust in Jesus as the Messiah until after Jesus' resurrection, Most likely the things that he had heard from Jesus never left him, because the mighty works that Jesus had done. And so now he is talking to them saying, Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted. But then he also addresses those whose circumstances maybe aren't struggling, and those who maybe aren't financially struggling. And so he says here to those who, in verse 10, he says, But the rich, and that he is made low, because of the flower of the grass, he shall pass away. For the sun is no sooner risen with the burning heat, but it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace and the fashion of it perishes, so also so the rich man fade away in his ways. The person who is financially well off, or their circumstances at least look like it's going well. God is addressing, James is addressing here And it's kind of the same theme. Just like the person whose circumstances were not going well and their finances were not going well, and they were to rejoice in the God who valued their spiritual mature maturity and and who values their heart. He also speaks to those whose financial situation, their circumstances seem to be going well. And he says Um the rich person, that person with that, let him uh in that he is made low. So let him rejoice in that he is made low. Why? Well he talks about here is the flower of the grass will pass away their life Is short. Every life is not forever. It's life is very temporal. And so the things that are around us, the things that often take our joy, the things that often fill our days. James is saying here, turn your focus off of that and onto the Savior who has saved you and purchased you with his blood. And so James is talking about here that the person can rejoice in the outcome that God can bring. So yes, maybe they're made low. It says the rich is made low. Maybe there's something that's going to happen in their life that will bring them their focus off of that. And they're gonna look at it in their life as something that's maybe detrimental and maybe it actually is. He's not downplaying the circumstances of these people at all. That's not James's focus. His focus isn't to downplay the circumstances and say it's not really a big deal. But rather they take their focus off of what's going around and focus on God. And so he's saying here that you can rejoice in the God who has saved you. In conclusion, both the rich and the poor that he's talking about here are brought to the same focus. No matter your circumstance, whether you're don't have much God wants you to come to your knees humbly before Him and to look to Him as the one who can sustain you. Or maybe you do have a little more and things don't seem like it's it's hurting you right now. God still wants you to come humbly to him and have your focus directly on him. Your identity is not found in the things that you have, your circumstances, the things around you, the position you have. Your identity is found in the God who saved you and purchased you with his blood. So James is calling them to rejoice in their position in Christ and their focus to be on God. So as James talks about here, he then points out in verse 12 our second point which is God values endurance. Verse 12. He says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation and his trials. For when he has tried, he shall receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to them that love him Now James is stepping back again and saying, no matter your circumstance, you as a Christian, you as one that is following Christ. He says, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation, or these trials, the hardships of life. He says, Blessed is the one that does. God has not forgotten you in the midst of your trials. So that's easy to think that no matter what um whatever's going on and you wonder where is God in the midst of this, God has not forgotten you God sees that the trial you're going through can produce endurance, as verse 4 of James says, it says, but let patience and endurance in your life have its perfect, complete work. You may be perfect and tired, lacking nothing or wanting nothing. They're saying here that God can use that circumstance, I mean the trying of your faith in your life. to mature you. So now he's saying in verse twelve, Blessed is that man that endures the temptation, the trials, for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life which the Lord has promised to them that love him. Now James is taking and have them step back, the Christian step back and say, forget the things that's going on in your life right now. Don't like disregard it in life or say it doesn't exist. But just for a moment, step back and focus on God. Focus on the eternal, where it says here, when he has tried, he'll receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. That crown of life, that heaven, that eternal focus is what God is calling people to. He wants your heart to be so close to him. Through the process, through the hardship of life, God is calling the people, and us as Christians to focus on him. First Peter 5 says, But the God of all grace who has called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after you have suffered for a while, make you perfect, establish, strengthen, and settle you. To him be glory and dominion forever and ever, Amen. So as we're looking at the eternal focus of what God's going to do forever to the Christian. It's not to make ourselves like, oh, I got all this heaven and I can be so excited that I'm gonna get all this. No, it's not to make ourselves proud or to make ourselves focused on what we're gonna get. but to glorify the God who for one day we're all going to be praising him forever. And to say life here is short. It's not long. Another part of John and I mean of James that says it's like a breath that you you breathe out and it's as soon as you see that breath gone, that's how sure our life is. It's not something to take be despairing about, but it's something to rejoice, and that this Temporary struggles that we go through is short, and that the eternity that God will bring us to is eternal, and we can focus on what He is going to do through that. God is trustworthy. He says here For when he has tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord has promised to them that love him. God is trustworthy. That promise that he has made. to the believer for the forever eternal life that he gives, he will not break. He will not give up on his promise. He will not back off. You can find comfort and strength in the God who will keep his word Who will keep the promise of eternal life for those who love him, for every Christian. And he will give that, not based upon what we do or anything that we earn, but because the Lord has saved us from our sin. And will give us that forever life. And so God wants to take comfort and strength in the God who will give us that forever life based upon his son, Jesus. So James is focusing our attention upon the forever life that God will give. But then the third point, God gives spir spiritual nourishment, which is the end of the portion here, 13 through 18. And it says here, let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God, for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. But he that is but when but every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed, then when lust has conceived it bringeth forth sin, and sin when it is finished bringeth forth death Do not err, my beloved brethren. Every good and per every perfect gift is from above, and comes down from the Father of lights, from with whom is no variableness. Neither shadow of turning. Of his own will begat he us with a word of truth that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. At first glance it looks like James is like completely shifting gears here. He was talking about trials and now he's talking about not being um tempted into sin and drawn away and how God doesn't draw us into this and we're like, wait, where's the connection? Well if we were to look closely in verse 13 it talks I mean in verse yeah 13 as it talks about the temptation it's a different the word temptation is not the same word that he's been using for verse 1 through 12 In the English translation, it looks like that, but the word temptation in the Bible has two different meanings. The first would be the trials of our life, the hardships. And the second is being lured and enticed into sin. And so now in verse 13, he's picking up and saying, okay, you're going through all these trials of life, the hardships, the pain, the suffering. But know that when you are lured away from in your own heart by sin, that's not something God's sending to you So maybe God in his providence knows that the suffering of life, the pain, is something that we need in order to mature, even though it's a struggle and we don't understand. But when we face temptation, something that's gonna lure our hearts to sin, that isn't from God. So he's trying to clarify for them and saying, look, God wants to nourish your soul. He is what is best for you, but he's not gonna give you Enticement to sin. He's not going to entice your heart away from him. He says here, let no man say when he is tempted, when he's enticed to sin, I am tempted of God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man. He s James starts out here by pointing out, God's not gonna lure you away from him into sin, because he himself isn't even tempted to sin. There's nothing that attracts God into sin. God is distinctly himself away from sin. And he himself has no sin in him. So God cannot be tempted with evil. He can't be enticed with sin. So why would he allure us away from himself? 1 John 1. 5 says, this is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all. And Isaiah says, in Isaiah 59, it says, But your iniquities, your sins, have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you that he will not hear. These two passages, 1 John and Isaiah, make it clear, and there's many other passages as well, that sin does not come from God, because there is no sin in God. So he's not going to lure us to sin. There's no excitement in sin for God. In fact, sin is a rebellion against him. So, James says that's the temptation, the lure to sin is not coming from God, so where is it coming from? And verse 14 he picks up, and he says, But every man is tempted when he is drawn away of his own lust and enticed. Then, when lust has conceived, it bringeth forth sin. Sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death. Do not err, my beloved brethren. So James points out here that it is our own heart, our own sinful desires that are pulling us away from God. James uses the word here, lust that I think is often um we don't have a clear definition of, but one would be that it's a natural desire for something, but twisted in a sinful wrong way that we want something that maybe was a natural desire to start out with, but now we're looking at it through a sin focused lens. We're drawn or we're lured away by our hearts into something that God did not desire I mean did not design for us in that way. to be lured to. Our own heart can deceive us. As the Old Testament points out, it says, our heart is deceitful above all things and desperately wicked who can know it. So we can't trust our hearts. We can't lean on our own understanding to direct us. We must go back to the God who has designed and saved us so that we can know truth. We can know that wisdom that James points to. And so he says, you are tempted, you are drawn away by your own lusts and enticed. And when lust is conceived, It bringeth forth sin, and sin when it's finished, bringeth forth death. The end, the final result of if you let sin rule, you let sin continue to drive you away from God, brings forth death. And this might be a little confusing. Like what does he mean when he says it's going to bring forth death? Well, death at his base level means separation from God in the Bible It talks about estrangement from God, not being near to God and fellowship with him. So for the believer, that bringing forth death would be separation and our fellowship with him. We're not having that joy with God. We're not having that vibrancy for living for God. And sometimes that's the thing that's pulling us down every day is our own sinful desires. And God wants us to ask for forgiveness from him, to ask for a restoring of joy. And for the unbeliever, when it says leads to death, that would be Forever separation from God. And so James says, do not err, my beloved brethren. Because this sin, full desires, these passions that are drawing us away from God are making it so as the psalmist says, our soul clings to the dust. And then the psalmist says, quicken me according to your word. These things that are pulling us away from God clearly aren't coming from God. They're coming from our own heart. And so really James is having the same focus that he started out with, with the man that's having better circumstances than one who has worse off circumstances. Remember back then he was saying in the beginning of this message, he was saying, refocus back in God. Come humbly to him. And so now James is saying, okay, there's maybe sinful learning and enticement in your heart. Come back to God. Don't allow this to rule you. Don't allow this to reck and direct and identify your life. And said, come to him. Come to him for forgiveness. Come to him for mercy. Because he is the merciful God. God will forgive. Like the common reference that we all know of in 1 John where it says if we do confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive our sins. and cleanse us from all unrighteousness. And as the psalmist cried out in Psalm 51, he says, Restore to me that joy of my salvation. Restore to me the vibrancy of knowing you and loving you once again. So James in verse 16 says, Do not err, my beloved brethren. Know the truth. Verse 17, Every good and gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. So now James says, yeah, God's not going to give you the luring enticements to sin, but what he does give is what is very best for us, our spiritual needs. And he says, every good and every perfect gift is from above, and comes down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. God not only gives us what is good, but he gives us beyond what we can expect. He gives us the very best. He wants us to come to him, knowing that he can give us the spiritual nourishment that we need. So he says every good and every perfect gift is from above. God alone gives us the needs of our heart, gives us the spiritual growth that we need. Comes down from the Father of lights The one who made all the galaxies, the God who made the things that we don't even know exist out there. The God who made this world, the God who made you, the God who alone knows your heart and the God who alone knows your thoughts and the struggles. The God who knows the struggle that no one else knows of, and that every single day maybe you experience that same God He gives us what is best. So come to him with a true heart, desiring that he can give you what is best. Come to him, telling him those those needs and those struggles. Don't be afraid to come to him. Because he loves you. He cares about you. As the Bible says, casting all your cares upon him because he cares for you. And so it says, every good and every perfect gift is from above, and comes down from the Father of life, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning. That phrase, there's no variableness, neither shadow of turning. That's important because up to this point in James, James has been contrasting things that are strong and established and have a foundation and things that are not strong and don't have a strong foundation. Look at verse if we're going back to last time's sermon, where it talked about um When we're asking God for wisdom in verse 5 and 6, and it says, We ask God for wisdom, but then it says, Let him ask in faith, nothing wavering, for he that is wavering is like the waves of the sea, driven by the wind and tossed. And then that's the comparison saying you aren't really seeking God completely with all you are, but instead of asking faith for wisdom. So James uses this illustration of something that is not established, the wave that is cast about. And then in verse 11, he points out that our life, the circumstances is like the flower of the grass that is passing away. And then if we scroll down a little bit, it says um That in verse 14, that everyone is tempted, and then that in verse 15, that temptation brings forth death, that separation from God. So he's making the contrast between the things that are eternal, the things that are established and will grow our life, will establish us as people of God, and then the other things that will make us Not have that foundation in God. So now, James is pointing out here , God himself is a sure foundation. As he says here, there's no variableness, neither even a shadow of turning with God. We can look to God, knowing that he will not Be like the lust and the lust and luring of our hearts, the sinful passions that for a moment gives us the temporary satisfaction but then convicts our heart and makes us feel ashamed because of the sin. God isn't like that. God isn't tricking us. He isn't trying to pull us away. No, God gives us true satisfaction, true joy. God isn't like a wave or a grass that is just short term and then over in a minute. God is that eternal God. There's no variableness or shadow turning in Him. So look to the God. Have your heart focused on the God who is sure and foundation the foundation of your life. Then in verse 18 it says, Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. It says, of his own will he begat begat he us with the word of truth. James does now point out here that God, the one who made everything, the one who loves you and cherishes your heart, is the same God who has begot us, who has born us again, given us spiritual life, and made us his child. This same God Is the one that cares about you, loves you because you have because of Jesus That beginning through the word it says of his own will. It was his own choice. There's nothing that forced God to make us his children. Begat he us with the word of truth, consistency. you can know for sure that you can rest it and rest in him. Knowing that when he says that you are forgiven of your sin because of his son Jesus, that you are forever secure in him. And this is that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures. One day, this temporal life that James says is like the grass that withers and doesn't last long. One day, even though all of this life is short, God will make all things new. God will make all things new New one day. And so it says we should be a kind of first fruits of his creatures. He's going to make all things new, but right now the thing that he is making new is your own heart. The thing that he is making new is your life. So allow God to do that work inside of you. That you would be that first fruit. In the Old Testament, the first fruit were the things that we are bringing to God before you take of all that crops for yourself. And so we are that first fruit. We're the one pointing to one day he's going to make all things new. But right now, he is making you new because of his son Jesus. And so James is calling that in the midst of suffering, as our proposition said, in the midst of suffering, focus on our trustworthy God. Sometimes there's things in our life, the suffering, maybe even the spiritual temptation, and it draws us away from God and we lose our awe of God. But all throughout the Bible, God wants people to refocus on Him and to have that awe of who God is, to be filled for the wonder of the God who made us and saved you. The God who saw that you were valuable enough to send his son Jesus to earth and give his own life's blood for you, so he could redeem you and bring you to eternal life one day. And not just one day, but today, right now, this very moment, if you know Him as your Savior, to strengthen you, to help you stand against that lure and that temptation that is drawing our hearts, to establish you in the time of suffering. That same God wants you to come to Him. So as James is pointing out here, he says, come to God. Come back to Him with your focus. Come back to Him because He is trustworthy. I think a key section in James, he says, be patient in James 5, 7, be patient, therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husband man waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth. As long patience for it until I receive the early and latter rain. Be ye also patient, stablish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord draws nigh all these things of life. They're real. God isn't making downplaying their making us see that things of life aren't real. They are. But to keep our focus on the eternal God, because the coming of the Lord of our our Savior Jesus Christ is coming near. Is drawing nigh. Any moment Jesus could return. But is that where our focus is? Have we lost our awe of God? Have we lost the wonder of the God who's saved us and is coming back one day? Maybe we have. Don't stay in that loss of awe. Don't stay in that loss of wonder and the complacency of life or just going through the grind of life. Don't stay in that moment. Come to God humbly. Refocus on Him. Ask God to reveal in your heart if there's anything that has become complacent or has lost your awe, has lost your joy for Him. and ask him to reestablish your joy, to restore to you the joy of the salvation that he's given you. Come to God Because in the midst of suffering, he wants us to focus on him. He cares for you, cherishes your heart. You are valuable to him. Dear child of God, come to God as the one Who can Recent store you, strengthen you through the midst of the trials of life? He cares for you. Lord God, you are the God who not only cares for us, but sustains us, strengthens us, Lord, who cares about the needs of our heart The struggles of our heart, the care, the things that we face, Lord, and you can sustain us. Lord God, I ask for you to reveal to us anything in our heart that'd be drawing us away from you. Lord God, reveal to us and don't let us walk away with an apathetic heart, Lord, or with a heart that would not have that wonder, but Lord, would you restore us the joy and the awe of knowing you? And Lord, if there's anyone here, Lord, who doesn't know you as Savior, Lord would you they come humbly to you, recognizing the need for your Son Jesus. Thank you, Jesus, for the power of your cross and the power that you are the same God who raised Jesus from the dead and who works within our hearts. Thank you, Jesus, for the book of James. In Jesus' name, amen.