I'd like to say we're so glad that you can join us today, and I hope that the service will be a real blessing and encouragement to you. If you didn't receive one of the visitor packets, I hope that you'll get that on the way out And uh one of the things that we ask visitors to do if they're comfortable with it is to fill out a visitor card and then to put it in the little box in the back. And if you do that, then that's one of the ways that we're able to follow up with you and just find out how we can minister to you and be a blessing to you. So please do that if you're comfortable with that, and we are so glad that you could join us today. I'd like to draw your attention to a couple of items that are in our bulletin before we go into our morning worship service. First of all, teenagers, tonight, you have this inspiration. So Please remember after the evening service, first of all please come to the evening service and then stay afterwards and uh you guys will be having a sing spiration in the back in the fellowship hall. And so uh that's always a good time of singing and fellowship. Um also I wanted to mention that since today was the time change and uh hopefully nobody got thrown off by that Uh but because today is a time change, obviously it's going to be getting uh dark a lot later, and so we're gonna start back our visitation program on Tuesdays. And so starting this Tuesday at 6. 45, we'll be going out. And so if you'd like to join us for that, please do reach out to me. so that you don't get left if you're running a little bit late. That way you'll be able to participate in that. But that's starting this Tuesday night Also, I want to remind you that on the second Tuesday of the month, rather than going on visitation, we go to the rescue mission. So please remember to pray for those who are going. And if you're interested in going, please reach out to me for that as well. I want to remind you that there's a college and prayer Bible study for our young adults, and we'll be having that on Friday at 7 p. m. And we are studying in Matthew on the Sermon on the Mount, so please prepare for that. I'll send out an email and a Facebook message just to remind you of those details. Also, on Saturday, we have our church work day, and that starts at 8 o'clock. Just want to encourage you to come out and participate in that. That's always a great time for not just our adults to come and to work hard, but it's also a great time for our kids to come and work with mom and dad and just help. uh clean up around the church and get ready for our spring season. Uh we'll have mulch and so I know that uh a lot of the young men and not just the young men the young ladies too like to join in with that. So Uh please do uh bring our young people out so they can participate in our work day. We'll also have uh inside jobs as well, not inside jobs, but jobs inside. Different kind of taste in there. And uh thought I'd remember that. Um also for our teens, uh, we are going to the wilds of New England this year. And so please do reach out to me or to Tori or to Angela in the office to let us know if you're interested in going to the wilds. So we can get you the information that you need for that. That's always a highlight of the summer for our teenagers. If you could, let's take our Bibles and let's turn together to Psalm 16. Psalm 16, this is our opening scripture reading for this Lord's Day. And I want to remind you that all throughout the month of March, We are focusing on the resurrection of Christ. And we're not just focusing on the resurrection, but we're focusing on the resurrection from Old Testament passages And so some of the passages that we're dealing with are passages that you may not have looked at as resurrection-related passages, but in fact they are And I think that they're very, very, very, very helpful to us. This is one of those passages, Psalm 16, verses 7 through 11. Let's read it together. It says, I will bless the Lord who hath given me counsel. My reigns also instructed me in the night season. I have set the Lord always before me. Because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved. Therefore my heart is glad, my glory rejoiceth, my flesh also shall rest in hope. For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine holy one to see corruption Thou wilt show me the path of life. In thy presence is fullness of joy, and at thy right hand there are pleasures forevermore. This morning, as we worship the Lord, I want to invite you to help us all together focus on joyfully reflecting on the blessing of the resurrection. And we will be looking at this passage as well as Job 19. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to bless our time and really help us to focus our attention on the Lord. Father, we are so grateful that we serve a risen Savior, and though we live in a broken world that is full of sin and corruption, a lot of pain and suffering. We realize that because of the gospel, one day we will stand complete before you and we will enjoy the blessings of communion with you forever. We look forward to that day when we stand before you glorified, and we look forward to that day when we will enter into your eternal kingdom. Father, we are so grateful for your holiness. We recognize that we serve a God who is distinct and separate from sin. You cannot have fellowship or communion with darkness. And we are grateful that we serve a God who is holy. Father, we are so grateful that you are righteous. All that you do is righteous and just. Father, we are so grateful for your goodness. We are reminded of your good character in so many areas of life. And so, Father, we pray that you'd help us to this morning reflect deeply on that wonderful aspect of who you are. Thankful. We're thankful for your patience, your mercy, we're thankful for your grace. in which we receive your blessings completely undeserved. Father, we pray for our nation. We pray for this state. We pray for our local governments. I pray that the men and women who are in positions of authority would govern in a way that is just, in a way that is righteous, a way that's consistent with your character. I pray that you would guide and move in their lives even if they do not know you as their Savior and are not knowingly submitting to your authority. Father, we pray that you would bring men and women who are in positions of authority to a saving knowledge of Jesus Christ through exposures to the gospel. I pray that you would open their hearts and convict them of sin, righteousness, and judgment, and that people in authority would be brought to repentance of faith. Father, we pray for those who are persecuted all over the world. As we gather together freely and openly, we recognize that we have brothers and sisters in Christ that cannot do that. I pray for those who are suffering for the sake of the gospel, people that have lost family members, people who have lost possessions, people who have suffered intense and vicious attacks. From people who hate the gospel. I pray that we would ever remember brothers and sisters in Christ who are persecuted for righteousness' sake. Father, we pray for our partners in ministry. I thank you for the missionary families that we support out of our church. I thank you for the churches that have been established. The men and women that have been trained and disciples and have been encouraged, those who have gone into gospel preaching ministry, and those who are pastoring local churches, those who are leaders. Deacons, pastors, I thank you for their labors of love and their commitment to the gospel. I pray that you would help them to be faithful. I pray that you'd protect them. I pray that you would meet their needs. and help them to be encouraged in these difficult days. Father, we pray for our church family. We recognize that this week there are people who have experienced tremendous difficulties. I pray for those who have had accidents that are now recovering. I pray for those who are carrying deep and heavy burdens that uh perhaps they carry alone or with just a few friends or close associates. I pray that you would strengthen and uphold those individuals. Father, I pray for those who are sick. I pray for those who've traveled. I pray you give traveling mercies and physical healing and strength to those who are weak. Father, we pray that you'd help us to be a church that is growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, that has a deep burden for souls, that has a firm conviction on the authority of Scripture, and that is walking humbly before you. Pray that you bless this service, may all that is said and done, point honor to Christ and encourage your people. We ask it in Jesus' name. Amen. All right, good morning everyone, Anchor members and esteemed guests, those that are tuning in with us. on live stream as we focus our worship on our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ during this time. We're going to start the song service off by turning to page 11 in our hymnals. If you'd like, please stand with me. Or page 12. Page 12, we're going to sing, all hail the power of Jesus. I'm proud and blood drink. Royal Ryan and Lord Albe chosen seed of Israel's greatly ransom. From the bar help him must take you by his grace and brown him water. By his face and found him called that with yonder spectrum, we asked his Make God spill joy the everlasting Son and crown him will join the. Everlasting song and ground in order. Amen. Musicians are gonna Turn all the way back to page 336. Page 336. And now it'll sing my hope is in the Lord. I see a few hymnals out there. Sing those parts out and Make a joyful noise. My hope is in the Lord. My hope is in the Lord forgave. Himself for me and then the price of all my sin and die. For me and everything I can might be free I'll marry my Is there to suppress my book this man? And now for his best , it for the stone should God and I space for him die for making this when the Amen. Sounding very good. We'll have turned to page 273. And at Easter time, this is one of my favorites As we enter into that season, Palm Sunday coming up, Resurrection Sunday, Christ the Lord is risen today. With your joy, then joy of eye. Where the birth is now by stay on the My boss in all the things are all bread. I have hope that I'm lasting out for me now right as let 's Amen. Let's remain standing for the reading of Scripture this morning from Job. Job chapter 19, I've got it marked here. Job 19, verses 23 through 27. And the word of the Lord says, Oh, that my words were now written, oh, that they were printed in a book, that they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock forever. For I know that my Redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold and not another, though my reigns be consumed within me. Please be seated. May the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his word. One more, a couple more songs. We'll turn to page 265 in the hymnal this time. Another one of my favorites. I love the resurrection Amen. Christ arose. All three verses. Baracolo , just my law. And he arose with a mighty triumph for his voice He arronged victor from the darkened moment And he lives forever with his saints to reign He arrives, he arrives, hallelujah, I the roads may watch his. She brings us what I said , the weekly has been mobile. He arose convicted from the dark moment. Venez Christ the laws death Cannot give his pray Jesus my savior born My law today be arose with a fighting trial for his voice We arose a victor of the dark domain Forever with this man will make me arrive , he arrived, and I will write the wrong. Oh, I can get chills from that one. Y'all sounded very good. Good singing. What a joyful noise to make at this time of the season. Okay, this time we've got a song out of our blue book. If you've got the blue book in front of you, it's page 38. If not, I've got the senior edition up here that I can read. So watch the screen. Great is the Lord. Why do you ever say the Lord for me? And I 'll proclaim That praises for the church. Unless you And when we will compare Praises holy next end on the west with me She is just that I confident. Worship is the morish. For the Lord gave it to me, but I love your Lord that prices how to Amen. Please be seated. Good singing. Okay, well that was wonderful singing. Uh children uh can be assists at the back or going to junior church. And the rest of you I want to ask you to take your Bibles and let's turn together to the book of Job, Job chapter 19. Job chapter 19. And we are looking at verses 21 through 27 together this morning. Again, that's Job 19, verses 21 through 27. Here's what the scriptures tell us. Job says, Have pity on me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends, for the hand of God hath touched me. Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my flesh? Oh, that my words were now written! Oh, that they were printed in a book. That they were graven with an iron pin and led in the rock forever. For I know that my Redeemer liveth, that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth. And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God, whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold and not another. Though my reins be consumed within me. You know, when we read this passage of Scripture, we need to understand that the statement that Job makes here is really just a small portion of a long conversation that he's having with his friends. And when I use the term friends, I'm going to put that in quotations. These were men who believed that they were comforting and helping Job, helping him to resolve an issue that was going on deep down inside that they believed that somehow was the cause for all of his suffering. But the reality is that these men did not know what Job was experiencing. In fact, I think if one of the greatest things that we learn from the book of Job is that sometimes what we see is not a simple fix kind of situation. Sometimes what we see is only the tip of the iceberg, and we can come along an individual kind of like Job's friends, and we can believe that we're trying to help them, encourage them, and in fact what we do is very, very, very harmful. That's exactly what's going on in the text in front of us. Job's friends are picking apart his life, a man who was practically speaking far more consistent than they themselves were. And they were telling him, God would never allow you to suffer like you have if it wasn't for something that you're concealing in your life. To be very frank, Job is very, very discouraged. He feels like there is no respite from his struggles. And so this statement is made to his friends that is really giving him the one source of hope and encouragement that he has in this very difficult situation. What we find in the text in front of us is that Job found comfort. He found strength and encouragement, not in circumstance. Not an assumption, but what he knew to be true about his final eternal state. He understood and was convinced that there would be a day that he would stand before God. And God would vindicate him when his friends obviously would not vindicate him. He believed that there was going to be a day that he was going to stand before God in a complete and glorified body And he was going to be accepted by God for eternity. That really is the heart and soul of what is going on in the text in front of us. So let me give you a simple purpose statement, and from that we're going to dig into what is an incredibly rich And deep passage of scripture talking about the hope for a believer who is suffering, how the believer can be sustained in suffering by the resurrection. Here's a simple summary statement. The following section of Job's Lament under intense suffering reveals that though his friends stood as his accusers, and he found no reprieve from his sufferings. He was confident that he would one day stand before God in a glorified state. You know, it's kind of interesting when we read the New Testament, there are passages that we see that are dedicated to helping the Christian Persevere, be faithful, bear under the heavy loads of living in a fallen world. I think of Ephesians chapter 6, where Paul tells us to put on the whole armor of God, that we can stand in the evil day. Well, Job was in an evil day, and Job needed to stand in that evil day, and one of the things that Paul tells the believer he needs to put on is the helmet of salvation. In fact, in another passage in 1 Thessalonians, he talks about the helmet, our hope of salvation. And you say, well, what exactly is Paul telling the Christian he needs to put on in the midst of the spiritual battle? It is to be armed with the understanding that there is an ultimate salvation that I've not yet fully understood and experienced, and that is what we call glorification. In other words, Paul is saying one of the ways that you stand in the Christian life under the onslaughts of Satan and the suffering that we face in this world is that we're armed with this understanding, there is resurrection. There's going to be a day that I'm going to stand before God in a glorified body, and I'm going to enter into heaven, and I'm going to be with him forever. That is the hope and the strength of the believer. Well, many times when we read passages like that, we understand that that's what the New Testament is referring to. A lot of times we ask ourselves the question. Did Old Testament Christians understand this as well? By the way, when I use the term Christian, what I should really say is the Old Testament believer, they weren't called Christians. They were called believers who were anticipating the Messiah. Did the Old Testament believer, the person who was saved before God, justified, did they understand the resurrection? Were they strengthened by a helmet of salvation like you and I are supposed to be strengthened by a helmet of salvation? Well the answer is absolutely they were. You say, well, how do we know that? Because that's exactly what this text is telling us was Job's only source of encouragement in the midst of this terrible situation he was encountering. God wants us to be a people who find strength from the resurrection, just like Job found strength from the resurrection in the text before us. The question we want to answer this morning is how can we be believers who are strengthened by the resurrection even when we suffer? Let 's first of all start with this section talking about the context of the statement that's made. I think sometimes we look at a passage like this And we kind of forget the overall context of this of where the statement is being made. First of all, I want to say this. The statement was made before any epistles were written. We didn't have Romans that talked about Romans chapter 8 and glorification, my absolute favorite chapter in the Bible. We didn't have Ephesians chapter 6 that talked about the whole armor of God. We didn't have 1 Thessalonians 4 that talked about the rapture. We didn't have 1 Corinthians 15 that talked about the mystery. that we shall all be changed in a moment in the twinkling of an eye, and this corruptible is going to put on incorruption, and this mortal is going to put on immortality. This statement was made before any of that was ever written. Now that doesn't mean that those things were not yet true. They're true, and they've always been true, and they always will be true. But the reality is those texts of Scripture were not given to Job. This passage of Scripture was recorded even before there was a cross. This passage of scripture was recorded before Abraham walked the earth and Isaac and Jacob. The fact is that what Job knew was what God had revealed to him. Really, what we know that Job knew Was connected to the promise made in the Garden of Eden. And we talked about this last week, where when God created the world and Adam sinned, God promised a redeemer who would crush the serpent's head. Job knew that. He knew more than that, and we're going to see what he knew because he reveals it in the statements that he makes. The second thing I want us to see is that it gives us a glimpse into the understanding of the Old Testament saying, even before Isaiah 53 was written. I love Isaiah 53. He has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted. He was wounded for our transgressions and bruised for our iniquities. He received all of our sin upon himself. When God looked upon the travail of his soul, he was satisfied. All of those truths, Isaiah 53, they'd not yet been written. Yet clearly in this passage, Job believed there was a redeemer. And he didn't just believe that there was a redeemer. But he believed that this Redeemer was the one source of strength and encouragement for him in the midst of all of the suffering that he was encountering. And when we talk about the sufferings of Job, Job's sufferings were very, very intense. It also reveals that the resurrection was the comfort for the Old Testament saying in the same way it is for you and for me Think about what the scriptures say in 2 Corinthians 4. 16. I know I've quoted this passage recently. It says the following. It says, for which cause we faint not Though our outward man perish, yet the inward man is renewed day by day, our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us. A far more eternal eternal weight of glory. While we look not at the things which are seen, but at the things which are not seen. The things which are seen are temporal, but the things which are not seen are eternal. I think of what First Corinthians fifteen says, When this corruptible hath put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass what is written death is swallowed up in victory. Thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast, unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for ye know that your labor is not in vain in the Lord. These New Testament truths, encouragement, bedrock principles, instruction that's meant to strengthen us when we suffer in the Christian life. That's meant to strengthen us when we're treated unjustly, when we are persecuted, when we go through the sufferings of a broken and fallen world. These truths That we go to as New Testament saints. Job embraced the same truths. We're going to see it revealed in the text in front of us. I'd also like to say this. It logically brings up the question: what was an Old Testament saint anyway? I hope that tonight you'll come back because we're going to deal with this topic pretty thoroughly. We're going to talk about the conversion of Abraham. We're going to talk about the basis and the means through which God declared Abraham righteous. And we're going to see that Abraham was saved in the same way that you and I are saved. By grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, on the basis of the work of Christ alone. declared righteous in a permanent position because his righteousness is not his own, but it's one that's credited to him by the work of the Redeemer. We're going to talk in great detail about that tonight. So I hope that you'll come back tonight and you'll hear that. But let me give you just a simple snippet of some truths about the Old Testament saint The first question I ask is, well, what was the basis of an Old Testament Saint's position? Well, it was the promised work of Christ. God promised a Redeemer. He had not yet come, but God had determined and was going to follow through with his promise. You know what's kind of interesting when we read passages like the story of Noah. And we think about how God destroys the world in a flood, yet preserves humanity through one man's family. A lot of times we tend to think of it not as God is putting his own plan of redemption on the line, but we think about it as just a momentary thing about sin and punishment. The reality is God preserved humanity Because he promised redemption, and you have no redemption if humanity is cut off in that passage of Scripture. By the way, every single time it comes to a head, what do we see? God fulfilling promise The entire Old Testament is about pointing to the promise of redemption and the fulfillment of that promise, the basis of Abraham's position And Job's position and your position and my position, it's the cross of Christ and his righteousness. The second statement is this, or question is this, what was the instrument through which they were placed into this position? If we're talking about theologically, what is the instrumental means of justification? It is faith. We are justified by grace through, by means of faith. When I turn to God and I trust in the finished work of Christ, God justifies me by means of my faith. That is not the basis of my position. The basis of my position is the cross of Christ. His righteousness, but the means through which I received the benefits of that position is faith alone in Christ. Thirdly, what was the object of the Old Testament Saints' faith? The answer is the gospel. He believed that a Redeemer was coming. We trust in a believer who or in a Redeemer who has come. We trust in the implications of Christ's sacrifice on the cross, his death, his resurrection, his righteousness. We looked back to the cross. They looked forward to the cross. But the object of the Old Testament saints' faith was the gospel. And fourthly, what was their position? The position was justified before God, declared righteous. We then move to a second section. I want us to talk for a few moments about Job's sufferings. I want you to realize that Job was a righteous man. We know that he was a righteous man because the Bible says he was a righteous man. And when the Bible says that Job was a righteous man, I want you to realize that he talks about the righteousness of Job in really two regards. One aspect of Job's righteousness was what we could call a positional righteousness. The other was what we call a practical righteousness. When a person is positionally righteous, what we mean is they've been saved. They've been declared righteous. When God views them before his courtroom, he sees them as not guilty, not because they haven't sinned, but because their sins have been placed on Christ. He has paid for their sins, and his righteousness has been imputed, credited to cr to that individual, the believer. Job was a man who was positionally righteous before God. When the Bible talks about Old Testament saints, they were positionally righteous before God. Job 19, 25. I know that my Redeemer liveth. That word Redeemer is important. There is a lot that is unpacked that could be unpackaged with the statement, he is my redeemer. It means that I need to be redeemed. It means I'm a sinner. It means that I can't save myself. It means that a price is going to be paid. He's the one who's going to pay the price. The price is going to be paid on my behalf. When the price is paid, what happens? I'm freed. I'm liberated I'm no longer under the bondage of my sin. That's what that word redeemer means. Job said, my redeemer liveth. And that he shall stand in the latter day upon the earth. Though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. He believed that his Redeemer was coming back. He believed that he was going to stand before his Redeemer. He believed that standing before his Redeemer was significant because at that moment he would be vindicated and all of these accusations that his friends brought against him, they were going to be proved to be wrong. He believed that In other words, he's talking about essentially the judgment seat of Christ. And this man understood that though he would physically die There would be a day that he would stand before God in a glorified body. Though my skin, worms, will destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God. Job was positionally righteous. But secondly, he's practically righteous. When I say practically righteous, we don't mean he was sinlessly perfect. When we read this accounting of Job's interaction with his friends, his relation to God, how he viewed his suffering, we see that Job was a commendable individual. But Job still fell short in parts along the way. By the way, he fell short a lot less than you, and I would have fallen short. Okay, had I been in Job's shoes, I cannot imagine Job was an amazing man. But this practical righteousness was what flowed out of that position in Christ. The fact that he was a believer, that he was trusting in the gospel. The coming of a Redeemer. That position was established by the work of the Redeemer coming. And that position was validated by the way that he lived his life. People could see the evidence of his position. And so that's what we mean when we say he was righteous in two regards, positioning practically. This is what God says about Job in Job 1. 8. The Lord said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job? There is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God and escheweth evil. When he uses the term perfect, the idea is he is fully matured. You will not find areas in this man's character where he has flaws. The word blameless is the word that should stand out. There's nothing that you can throw at Job that sticks. He is a blameless man. Practically, he walked with God. But we also see that Job was a suffering man. He lost his family. I say he lost his family. The Bible tells us that several of his children died just like that. And a terrible tragedy. He lost his material possessions. He was an extremely wealthy man. Talks about all the cattle that he had and all the servants that sustained what he did. And this was a powerful, rich man. His family was gone. His possessions were gone. His health was broken. He experienced intense physical pain. When we read about Job sitting on the dung hill, scraping the boils. You probably never been to a dunghill, have you? I have. On the back side of a an African village, I know what the trash heap looks like. I've been there. In many, many places. It's not a nice place. It's where you throw your refuse. And there's Job in dirt trying to find some kind of relief. Physical agony. Job was a suffering man. His wife gave up hope. You know, it's easy for us to be hard on Job's wife, but the reality is her kids died too, you know. She lost her possessions too. She says, Job, curse God. Die. She had no hope. The the one place that maybe he would find comfort and encouragement, his wife, she she she could not bear these things either. But then on top of all of that, his beloved friends came alongside of him. And what did they do? They encouraged him by telling him how guilty he was. How he was a hypocrite. How deep down inside he was harboring sin. And that this sin was being concealed and everybody else doesn't know about it, but God knows, and that's why he's suffering. And Job is not being an arrogant man. He's saying, I walk righteously. He could think of nothing. He gives an accounting of all these different things that he is so cautious and so careful of, and his friends accuse him, and they're harsh on him. He has no explanation from God. It would have been nice if God would have come to him and said, Job, here's what's really going on. Let me give you a glimpse into the storyline behind the scenes. And then he goes, okay, I don't understand all that, but at least I know that's true. He never gets that. Job didn't have the scriptures that you and I run to. Why? Because they hadn't been written yet. Job was a suffering man. And in verses 2 and 3 of chapter 19, he says, how long, talking to his friends, quote-unquote friends, How long will you vex my soul and break me in pieces with words? You realize when a person suffers, you've got to be really careful about how you speak to them. You don't want to be these men. These ten times have ye reproached me. You're not ashamed that you make yourself strangers to me. Judge says, on top of all the stuff that I'm dealing with, I'm dealing with all of this attack from you. In verses 21 and 22, he says, Have pity on me. Have pity upon me, O ye my friends, for the hand of God hath touched me. Why do ye persecute me? He says, I wish that my words were written in a book, printed in a book, graven with an iron pen, lead in the rock forever. Why? Because he wants to one day stand before God and say, all of these accusations that have been leveled against me, you know they're not true. Please vindicate me. That is the setting, the context of the statement we're looking at. So then we move thirdly to Job's comfort. I want you to realize Job's comfort wasn't rooted in his circumstances. There was nothing about his circumstance that would give him encouragement. Nothing. No explanations, no encouraging people coming alongside of him. It's not not good. He's not healing from his wounds. His circumstances were not going to give him comfort. Job was not going to be comforted by thinking positively about his situation. There are many people today that have been duped to believe the lie that if we just think positively about something, eventually our positive thoughts will change circumstance. Folks, that's not true. You can want something to be true a lot. It doesn't make it true. You can convince yourself that things are going to change. They may not. Thinking positively about a situation might change how you look at it, but it doesn't change what it is. Job's comfort was rooted in one place: the gospel. And the fact is that there are times in our life that that is the only place we can go to find the comfort and the encouragement and the strength that we need. We will not find it in circumstance. We will not find it in just a change of disposition towards our circumstances. We're not going to find it in our friends. We may not find it in our family. We are going to find it in one place, the gospel. And so I want to remind you of what this man understood. And I want to remind you of what strengthened and encouraged him. And if it encouraged him, in his circumstance it can encourage us. The first is he understood redemption. He says, I know that my Redeemer liveth. Though he was a sinner and a sufferer, he was a redeemed sinner Who had a living redeemer. That's significant, isn't it? You know, the kind of encouragement that the world gives us is very empty. It's hollow, it's shallow. It's all based on assumption. In the end, assumption doesn't prove to be true, does it Assumption, false violence, faith, and it discourages, it frustrates, and it further deepens the darkness of the places that we are. If what we believe is not based on truth, it's going to lead us to darker places. But this man found strength in truth. He says, I know that my Redeemer liveth. I'm a sinner, I'm suffering, but I have a Redeemer who is alive. The second thing we see is he understood that he's coming again. Now I use the term second coming, but I don't know that Job looked at it in second coming in the sense that the way you and I would be when we read the book of Revelation or we will look at the all of it discourse. He understood Jesus is coming back. God is going to come and he's going to make all things right. When he comes, he's going to establish his rule forever. When he comes, he's going to establish righteousness forever. When he comes, he's going to vindicate those who have been oppressed forever. When he comes, he's going to judge those who have done evil forever. He is coming again He says he will stand at the latter day upon the earth. His Redeemer is coming, and he's going to make all things new. Thirdly, he understood that there was this concept of both death and resurrection. He says, though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh will I see God. Now this is an amazing statement. Job does not believe that he's going to live forever in the body that he has. And by the way, if you were in his position, you wouldn't want to live forever in the body that he had. Okay? Now you think about that. That body was wracked with pain, sickness. Hardship. You do not want to live in a broken body. But he believed that though he would die and this body would decay and rot and would turn back to the dirt from which it was taken. He was going to see God in his flesh. Like literally with a body, with eyes, he would see his Redeemer. You say, well, how is that possible? It's only possible if God's giving him a glorified body. In fact, when we see that Abraham is willing to offer his son Isaac, Abraham believed that God could raise his son from the dead if that's where it ended up. These Old Testament saints believed in not only death but resurrection. He knew he would physically die, yet he would receive a new body that had a different quality, a glorified quality. And that sustains him. Fourthly, he understood the judgment. He says, whom I shall see for myself, my eyes shall behold and not another. Job was comforted by the fact that his accusers were not going to be his final arbiters of justice. The final arbiter of justice would be the one who knows everything. He knows the heart, he knows the words, he knows the action. God is going to judge perfectly according to perfect knowledge, according to perfect righteousness. And he knew that those who were accusing him who were wrong. Who were misguided, who were hurtful, those men would not be the final arbiters of justice for him. By the way, that should comfort you, shouldn't it? Even when people have all of the facts, sometimes they still get it wrong when it comes to executing justice. They can have all the facts and still get it wrong. God will never, never, never get it wrong. And so when he talks about how he understood judgment, the ideas he believed God would vindicate him. He knew that God, who knows everything, would one day vindicate him in the midst. Of his sufferings. And so he said, if I'm faithful and if I do what's right, one day God's going to say, He was faithful and he did right. The judgment seat of Christ. That is the whole purpose of the judgment seat of Christ. And lastly, understood the tension between positional and practical redemption. Now, this is a really interesting concept. That sadly a lot of New Testament Christians don't understand. There is a tension between positional and practical redemption. When we talk about positional, what we're saying is the moment I trust Jesus as my Savior, God forgives me. 100%. God declares me righteous now, forever. Why is that? Because the basis of that forgiveness, the basis of that declaration is the work of Jesus. His death on the cross, his righteousness, his resurrection. I don't have anything to do with it. He's not looking at my performance. He's not looking at my ability to obey him. He's looking at what Jesus did for me, my substitute, and I'm declared righteous positioning on the basis of that. On the other side, while I am saved, I am not yet saved in the glorification sense. On the practical side of redemption, I am growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus. We talked about this in Sunday school this morning. We talk about how repentance is a continual thing, it's a way of life. God is changing me a little bit at a time, and I'm growing more and more into the image of Jesus. Being transformed through the renewing of our minds. That is called sanctification. While I am declared righteous before God, forgiven, cleansed, I am going to heaven. I am secured in Christ. I am still growing as a Christian on this side of eternity. In other words, there's a tension between positional and practical redemption. And even though I'm going through this process, it's not going to be done until I die. Or until I'm raptured out of this world. And so when I stand before God someday, I'm going to have a new body. A sinless body, a glorified body. There's a tension between position and practice when we come to this issue of redemption. Job knew that. He didn't go to seminary, he knew that. Job never sat in a theology class. He knew that. He didn't hear this over and over and over again in church. He knew that. He understood, though my reins be consumed within me. That's an interesting statement. When he talks about his reins, he's talking about the internal part of him He's talking about his conscience. He's talking about his heart. What he's basically saying is, I know this reality is true. I struggle in the midst of this reality. I'm human, right? There are times that I sin. There are times I get discouraged. There are times that I don't respond correctly. And you know what? I'm caught in this tension between positional and practical redemption. And though my reigns are consumed within me, I know that I'm still going to stand before God one day. In other words, there's the guarantee in the midst of the struggle. The already, but the not yet. We talk about our salvation. He felt the painful consequences of living in a fallen world. He knew that positionally he was redeemed, yet practically he was not yet experiencing the full blessings of that position. When the Bible uses the term adoption, it doesn't use the term adoption the way that we think of it in the Western world. When we think of adoption, we think of going through this legal process And here's this 12-year-old, or here's this 14-year-old, or here's this four-year-old, or whatever. We go through the process and they say, you have adopted this child, they're now legally your child. But in the Roman thinking, it wasn't like that. You took this child and you became their legal guardian, but they were not adopted till they were a matured individual, 18, 20 years old. When they reached that point of maturity, Then they were adopted, and you say, well, why is that? Because at that moment they received all the full blessings of the legal status, the benefits of being your heir, your child. And that's the illustration that God gives when he talks about adoption in the New Testament. We are forgiven, we are justified, we are being sanctified, we will be glorified. Adoption is in the future. Positionally redeemed, practically he had not yet experienced the full blessings of that position. And he felt the internal agony associated with the struggle. Yet he realized his failure would not change the realization of those promises. That's encouraging, isn't it? Do you stumble? Of course you do. Do I stumble? Ask my kids. So I mean don't ask them. You know what I'm saying? Of course. We are all feeble individuals We fail. But the reality is our position is set and secured because of the work of Christ. And so what Job is basically saying is: even if deep down in my heart I fail on these issues, I'm still. Secure. God is going to follow through with every aspect of redemption. So the question is, what do we learn from this? Let me give you a couple of thoughts in closing. The first is this: life in a fallen world is exceedingly difficult. And there are times it's impossible to understand. There are people that come to me as a pastor with questions sometimes that I well I wish I had answers, but I don't always have answers. In fact, there are times that you look back and you realize the answers you gave probably weren't really good ones. As you go through life, you learn that. How would you have counseled Job? Probably a lot like his friends did. There's a lot that we don't understand, and life is tough. We will never find a lasting comfort in our circumstances. People that are living life based on what's in front of them, and they're finding all of their joy and all of their security and all of their They're everything in that. It's going to get stripped away at some point. There is no way that you will have lasting security and joy If that's rooted in the kinds of stuff that are in this world that are going to be taken away in a moment, we will never find a lasting comfort in positive thoughts that we hope will influence our circumstances. I believe this is one of the great lies of our culture today. People believe that if they believe it enough, it becomes true. That's not true. And that's not true in any realm. It's not true in science. It's not true in theology. It's not true in the practical world. Believing something that's false that we believe strongly is still false. It's called you believe a lie. It's called you have been deceived. And the fact is that we have to find strength in truth. The only place we can find a real sustaining comfort is the gospel. Now God gives us all kinds of good things in this life that we enjoy and come alongside and encourage and strengthen us and remind us of his goodness. I'm thankful for my family. I'm thankful for my wife. I'm thankful for my kids. I'm thankful for this church. I'm thankful for many dear, dear friends I'm thankful for so many things. But the bottom line is, while I'm thankful for those things, they're all temporal. They really are. There's going to be a day that either I'm going to lay my wife to rest or she's going to lay me to rest, or she'll be there when somebody else does it. There's gonna be day I can't do the things I'm doing. Physically, work all kinds of things If our security and our joy is all rooted in temporal stuff, we are going to one day have that come to a head. We're going to lose it and we're going to be devastated by it. But the gospel doesn't change. The gospel is sure. The gospel is rooted in the promise of God. The gospel is rooted in God's unchanging character. God who cannot lie has promised. Though we're sinners who suffer, we're redeemed sinners with a living Redeemer. We have a Redeemer who is coming again, he's going to make all things new. Though we will one day physically die, yet we will receive a new body. That has a different quality, a glorified quality. We are sustained by the comfort that God, who knows everything, will one day vindicate us in the midst of our sufferings. And we understand the tension between positional and practical redemption. I want to encourage you this morning to allow the way that Job spoke of his Redeemer be the way that you think of yours. I hope that you will recognize that what the world has to offer can never satisfy. I read this this morning. Jesus met the woman of Samaria. And he says, if you knew who I was, you would ask me to give you water, and you'd never thirst again. What was he saying? He was saying, I can sustain life Abundantly forever. And there's nothing else in this world that can. And that's what the gospel is. The gospel is us being connected to the unchanging blessings that were bought by Christ's redemptive work. Let's bow together for prayer and ask the Lord to help these trees to really settle into our hearts. As we bow our heads and close our eyes, I'm just going to ask a very simple question. Is there someone here this morning that would say, Pastor? I do not have that confidence that Job had. I don't know for sure that I'm saved. And I need to talk to somebody so they can go through the Bible and show me how to be saved. Is there anybody that would and I I'm the only one looking here and I'm only doing this so that I can connect with you if you need to talk to somebody. Is there anybody here that say, Pastor, I don't know for certain I'm saved? And I really need to talk to somebody. I need to connect so that you can take the Bible and show me how I can be confident I'm safe. I can have this comfort. That Job had. Is there anyone like that that would raise your hand and say, Pastor, that's to me, I don't know for sure I'm saved. And I need to talk to somebody. Anybody at all? I'll give you just a moment If you're not comfortable raising your hand, I understand that. You can come by, greet me at the end of the service, say, Pastor, I need to talk to you about this issue of salvation. You can send an email. There are lots of different ways that you can reach out. Please do that if you're not confident you're saved. And maybe there's a person here that says, Pastor, I'm saved, but You know, I've really been finding comfort in the wrong things. It could be that you're starting to realize that because God is allowing those things to be stripped away. And you're left with nothing that gives you true joy, strength, stability, and you're seeing that I want to encourage you to apply what you heard this morning. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father, I pray that you would work in every heart here this morning. This text is rich. It is deep. It is penetrating. It's foundational. I pray that you'd help us to live in the light of these wonderful truths to be impressed deeply by the implications of these wonderful, wonderful truths about the gospel. I pray that all that has been said would not be in vain, but in fact your word Would accomplish the purpose for which you intended it to accomplish. Pray that you would work in every heart through your word. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's take our hymn books out. We're going to turn to page 251. I think this is a really appropriate song for us to sing in light of what we have looked at this morning. Hymn 251 is near the cross. And this is often a song that we sing when we have the Lord's table, because we're remembering the cross and what Jesus has done for us. But the truth is there is no resurrection without a cross. And so we need to remember The sacrifice of Jesus. Let's stand together. We'll sing the first and the last verses together, please, near the cross. To all the king streams from God is not in the in the crossfire. In the cards, be my glory ever. Unless near the cross I'll watch and great. Till I reach the golden strand, trust me on the rail. In the cross, in the cross, in my glory. My notes shall find best be comedy. Amen. What a wonderful song. Well, I hope that you'll be able to make it back this evening as we continue our study through Old Testament texts relating to uh the resurrection. Tonight we're going to look at uh the conversion of Abraham. Talk about how Abraham was justified. And so some of the things that I casually got into this morning. We're going to go more deeply into them this evening. So I hope that you'll be able to uh to be with us for that. Also be in prayer for those in our congregation who are not able to be here. I know uh one of our church members had a very bad accident this week, and I know Angel sent out an email about that, but please do be in prayer for that situation. Pray for those who I know some of our seniors have been vaccinated and some of them will probably start seeing them again. And so I'm looking forward to that. So be in prayer for those individuals who we've not been able to see for a while, but we're going to get to start seeing some of them. Uh Brother Walter, can you close in prayer this morning? And uh looking forward to uh a restful afternoon and a wonderful evening. Also if you're visiting with us, please stop by and uh greet me and I hope that I can just be an encouragement to you. Dearly Father, thank you for this moment to come to church, dear Father. And uh Thank you for good preaching. Thank you for good pre uh teaching also, dear Father. And uh give us travel mercy uh on the way home. Give us safety as we travel home and help us turn back safe tonight for good preaching and teaching tonight again. In Jesus' own name we pray. Amen.