Good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you're having a really good week, and I hope that you're enjoying the passage of scripture that we've been looking at. If you have your Bibles, let's turn together to Luke chapter 8, and we're going to read verses 16 down to verse 21 together. Again, that's Luke chapter 8, verses 16 through 21. Here's what it says. No man, when he hath lighted a candle, covereth with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed, but setteth it on a candlestick, that they which enter in may see the light For nothing is secret that shall not be made manifest, neither anything hidden that shall not be known and come abroad. Take heed therefore how you hear, for whosoever hath to him shall be given. Whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to have. Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come at him for the press. And it was told him by certain which said Thy mother and thy brethren stand without desiring to see thee. He answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren are these which hear the word of God and do it Now I want to remind you what we talked about in the last two mornings. The first thing that we talked about was the fact that we are light. And so because we are light, we need to uh allow the fact that we are light, the distinction to draw people to God. And we saw that that that is an important function. The second thing we looked at is the reality of the judgment. And because there's going to be a judgment It's important for us to be proclaiming the gospel and the power of the gospel through the way that we live. And so we saw that it's important how we hear the truth and how we respond to the truth. Now what we're going to do, the third thing we're going to look at, is really what is the heart of this passage. And I'm going to read verse 18 again because this is actually the name of our of our episodes each week or each day. Here's what it says. Take heed therefore how you hear. for whosoever hath to him shall be given, and whosoever hath not from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to have So there's a logical connection between what we talked about on Monday, Tuesday, and now this morning. There's a logical connection between the need for Christians to live distinctly. so that people are drawn to ask questions. There's a need for people to respond to the gospel so that they'll miss that judgment and ultimately that judgment is poured out on Christ. Well here what we're going to see is the result of the response that we have to scripture. He says there's two different possible scenarios. Either one, a person accepts the truth, responds correctly to the truth, or number two, they respond wrongly to it. They reject the truth. And in those two different scenarios, Jesus draws our attention to the the downstream effect of our response to the Word of God. How we hear the word is very, very important. And so first of all, let's take up the negative side and see what he says. He says, Whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to have. Now the initial response you might have is, well, I thought Jesus would want people to know the truth. And so if he wants people to know the truth, then why would he be taking it away from them? Well what we do when we when we cause that or go down that line of reasoning is that we fail to recognize what Jesus is indicating. What he's teaching here is that when we respond to the truth Or whenever we're confronted with the truth, that response is going to really set us up for the next access to the truth and the next level of response. To put it very simply, when a person rejects the truth their heart becomes a little bit hardened to the truth. When a person is lazy with the truth, their heart becomes a little bit more desensitized and lethal Many times in the Gospels Jesus would say things like, whoever has ears to ear, hear, let him hear, and whoever has eyes to see, let's let him see, and he'll say things like, This people has become dull of hearing, and this people has become slumbering in their eyes, their eyes have become heavy. What's the idea? Well the idea is that because they were not responding correctly to the word, They began to be less engaged in the truth. They began to be less convicted by the truth. They began to be less uh aware of what was going on. In other words, there's a response that comes from that. And we have to remind ourselves that it's ultimately the mercy of God that gives us any opportunity. God really isn't under any obligation to continually give us opportunities to hear the truth. The reason that he gives us opportunities is because he loves us and because he's kind and because he's compassionate The reason that he gives us opportunities and continues to give us opportunities many times is because uh people are praying for us and through their prayer the Lord decides I'm going to extend mercy and I'm going to continue to give them opportunity. Even by the way that Jesus taught through the parables, he in some ways veiled the information so that those who had no heart to hear it would not become more callous to the truth or more hardened or more desensitized, they would just be unaware of it. And those who really wanted to know the truth, they would pause and they would focus, they would ask questions, and ultimately it would lead to more answers So on the negative side, he basically says, when you come in contact with the truth and you don't respond to it by humility and embracing it. you are going to lose the opportunities that you have. But then there's the the other side, the positive side. Notice the way that he puts it. Whosoever hath to him shall be given. And we see this principle in Scripture. When you have opportunity to respond and you reject, you lose opportunity. When you have opportunity and you accept, it gives you Further opportunity, greater opportunity. There are some truths that if you don't embrace them, then you don't have the heart for the next level. And there are some truths that are built upon others. Like for instance, let's talk about an issue like repentance in the gospel. Well what is repentance? Repentance is the thinking change that leads us to place our faith in Christ. What's the effect of the law? Well the effect of the law is to point us to the fact that we are broken, that we have no righteousness, that our works stand between us and God And so as a person is convicted by the law and they begin to humble themselves, what does that do? Well, it prepares them to place their faith in Christ. Once they see their inability to come to God through their own righteousness, and they see how their works fall short, and they see their need of salvation, that repentance of heart Points them to the gospel where they place their faith in Christ. So we can see how some truths prepare the heart to take on more truth. Or some truths are foundational. We could say that you have to get 1 plus 1 equals 2 before you start getting into Advanced mathematics. You have to learn the basics. You have to learn the foundations. And so there are certain truths that are foundational. We kind of saw that uh earlier on in some of our studies where we said the truths that were being laid out in the parable of the sower were for the disciple, not for the unbeliever, because They were telling a Christian, a believer, how he's supposed to proclaim the gospel indiscriminately, and ultimately how people respond to that. So we see that there are certain truths that are on the foundational level And if you don't have the foundation correct, then well then everything else doesn't really matter. Some truths are also contingent on maturity. And so if I have maturity, I can understand these truths. I can I can get to the point where I understand how to apply those truths. But then again, if I don't have maturity, they're too difficult for me to to to wrap my mind around and understand. And so in the book of Hebrews, he says You have become need that you need to be taught the basics, the first principles again. You need milk and not meat because you're not mature enough to be able to handle the meat. And so we can see both the negative and the positive. A person who rejects the truth loses opportunity. A person who embraces the truth is given more opportunity. And so that leads us to the application side. How do we apply this passage? Well, what it ultimately shows us is that the person who responds the right way to the Word of God can come face to face with the gospel. can embrace the gospel, can become a child of God, and then they can progressively grow in their understanding of who God is in the depth of their relationship, where it can become sweeter and richer and fuller. Let me give you a passage that I think will help us to understand the application side. That's 1 John 1, verses 5 through 7. Here's what it says. It says, God is light And in him is no darkness at all. If we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another. And the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanseth us from all sin. Now this passage of Scripture is foundational for helping us to understand what happens to a person who is brought into relationship with God through the finished work of Christ and how that person grows in that relationship. The text basically says God is light. So when you come in contact with light, the effect is a very simple effect. It gives you the ability to see things more clearly. And so uh on Sunday morning when we were talking about this passage, I use the illustration of a person sitting in our in our congregation there in the main auditorium. Well, during the preaching time, the lights are a little bit Dimmed so that people can see the back screen, they can follow the points of the message. It's not as bright as it is outdoors So let's say that a person has uh some lint or something on their jacket as they're sitting there in their seat. Well they may not see that in that room. It's there, but they're unaware of it because the lights are a little bit more dim and they can't see it clearly Well then they walk out into the lobby area and in the lobby area the lights are a little bit brighter and you also have the mix of the outdoor lighting as well. The sun is shining in on a sh a sunny day And when that person walks into that room, all of a sudden, that little piece of lint that was on their jacket that they couldn't see when they were sitting in the auditorium, all of a sudden man's wife says, hey, you got a piece of lint on your jacket. Let me pull that off from you. Well, why were they able to see that lint in the in the hallway, but they were not able to see it in the main auditorium? Well, it's because there's more light there. If that same person walks outside, Well, they may see that there's actually more limp than what they saw when they were standing in the main lobby area. The reason for that is because the light is brighter. Well, this is a great illustration of what happens as a person grows in their relationship to God. As a person draws closer to the Lord, they begin to walk into the light. And as they walk into the light, what happens is that the light begins to expose the differences, what's not right in that person's life. And all of a sudden, there is sin that was completely unknown to that person early on. And that sin becomes more apparent to them. And so what ultimately happens is that as we draw close to God, our communion with Him and our walk with Him can grow by degrees in the same way that as we walk from one room into another And the light is more intense, there's more that we become aware of. And so that greater degree of light gives us a fuller appreciation for who God is. So we begin to see God as pure and righteous and good and just and loving, we see a greater degree of that because we're drawing closer to him. At the same time The contrast between our own nature that is broken and unrighteous and his nature that is pure and holy, that contrast actually grows greater. And you know what that does It reveals to us a deeper level of our own sinfulness. Well, someone might say, well, well, when I see more sin and I see God being more holy, not that he is more holy, but I'm I'm more aware of my sin and I'm more aware of his holiness. Wouldn't that cause me to become introspective and and to live in misery because I see my sin to a greater degree? And the answer is it has that potential But if you're thinking in the light of the gospel, that's not what the effect will be. What it will actually do is it will give you a deeper appreciation for God 's grace. And you start to appreciate to a greater degree the need for the cross and what was accomplished on the cross. And as you do that, and as you begin to appreciate the gospel to a greater degree, what it ultimately leads to is what? It's a deeper love and a deeper affection for God, a deeper appreciation for what was accomplished for us on the cross And so what 1 John 1 verses 5-7 is ultimately saying is, as we walk into the light, and as you have fellowship with God, It grows by degrees. You see your sin to a greater degree, you see his purity and his holiness to a greater degree, and you begin to appreciate the weight of the cross to a greater degree. And the purity of his righteousness that's imputed to you, whereby you're justified, and all of a sudden his grace hits home deeper and fuller and richer. And your affection for God grows. That's how our fellowship, our communion with God grows by degrees. And so when we look at Luke chapter 8, verse 18, he says the person who comes in contact with the truth and says, No, becomes more calloused. The person who sees the truth and hears the truth and humbles themselves in the face of the truth and embraces the truth, then they grow by degrees into a deeper level of communion with God. So you might say, well, Joel, what do we take away from this? What is the practical implication of the text that we've looked at? Well I think we should ask ourselves some questions in the light of what we've talked about this morning. The first question we should ask is, how do we respond to the truth? Are we responding to the truth as the one who takes heed how he hears with humility? And with obedience and with a deeper appreciation and love. Is that how we respond? Or are we becoming desensitized by rejecting and becoming more calloused? Are we growing in our understanding of who the Lord is? Are we actually digging into the scriptures? Are we Laying it before us, and are we allowing the scriptures to get into our hearts as we ponder the truth? That's the question that we should be asking ourselves. Are we allowing the truth to confront us so that we can think biblically? You know, we've all got blind spots, we've all got areas in our life that we've not matured, we've not developed, we don't actually realize where we are before the Lord. And are we getting into the words that we dig in, we understand it, we ponder it, and all of a sudden it lays bare where we are, and it helps us to think biblically. It brings us to a repentance, a change in our thinking. And then the last question I'll ask is, are we actually responding to the truth with submission of our wills to His authority? That's what I want to leave you with this morning. This is a rich, rich portion of Luke chapter 8 because it emphasizes to us that the potential for us to grow never stops as we continue to come in contact with truth. And the potential for us to grow to a deeper appreciation for God's love and a deeper appreciation for his goodness. It grows as we continue to be confronted with truth. My prayer is that this morning as we take this passage, we will apply it. We will not be the one who responds with stubbornness or dullness or rebellion, but we'll be the one who responds with humility and appreciation and obedience. If this has been an encouragement to you this morning, I hope that you'll share that. Perhaps share some feedback, share it with another person, and I pray that this will be something we can think about throughout the day. Have a blessed day. Bye now.