Good morning, I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. Hope that you had a great weekend, and I'm really looking forward to digging into Luke chapter eight verses sixteen through twenty one. So if you have a Bible, let's dig in together, and I'm going to go ahead and begin reading and hope you'll follow along with me. It says No man when he hath lighted a candle covereth it with a vessel. or putteth it under a bed, but setteth it on a candlestick, that they which enter in may see the light. For nothing is secret that shall not be made manifest, neither anything hid that shall not be known and come abroad Take heed, therefore, how ye hear, for whosoever hath to him shall be given, and whosoever hath not, from him, shall it be taken, even that which he seemeth to have. Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come at him for the press. It was told him by certain which said, Thy mother and thy brethren stand without desiring to see thee He answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren are these which hear the word of God and do it. Now this passage of scripture is fascinating because what it does is it emphasizes some of the effects of what happens when a person responds properly to the scriptures. So what I want to do is begin with a summary statement, maybe a couple of introductory thoughts, and then dig into the first of the things that Jesus addresses. that ultimately are the result of someone responding properly to the Word of God. So first of all, our summary statement. The following portion of Luke chapter 8 gives us four proverbial statements that illustrate different reasons we should be motivated to respond to truth in a biblical way. And really the the key statement in this entire passage is the statement, take heed how you hear truth. That's really the key statement for the passage. And so I want to remind you of what we talked about last week when we were talking about the parable of the sower. We emphasized what the scriptures are. They are the breath of God. Every single word is breathed out by God. The second thing that the parable of the sour emphasizes is what the power what the Word of God does. It has the power to cause people who are spiritually dead. to be made alive in Christ and then to be fruitful, produce fruit. And so the word of God is effective. It works in people's lives and hearts. Bringing them to salvation, and then ultimately causing them to be fruitful as they live out their Christian life. So The last question I'll ask is, well, what does that actually look like? What is that distinctiveness that is produced by the Word of God? What does it look like? Well, that is what this section of Scripture is all about. There are four proverbial statements or parable type statements that Jesus makes that give us that indication. The first one I want us to look at is that when a person responds properly to the truth That person has a distinctive walk. Their life begins to demonstrate a distinct position. And we see that in verse number 16. He says, No man When he hath lighted a candle, covereth it with a vessel, or puteth it under a bed, but setteth it on a candlestick Now this sounds very familiar to what we see in the Sermon on the Mount when Jesus says, You are the light of the world. A city that is set on a hill cannot be hidden. Now there is some debate as to whether or not Jesus is using this statement in Luke chapter 8, the exact same way that he's using a similar statement in in in the Sermon on the Mount. But I think what Jesus is ultimately saying in both places is that people who are his disciples are light. Not that they're supposed to be light, but that they actually are light. And so that's what we're going to focus in on The fact that if you've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as your Savior, you are a person who is characterized as light in a dark world. Now before we dig into what he means by that, I want to mention a couple of warnings that I think we need to consider that will help us to look at this appropriately The first warning is that there are some people that come to the Christian life with this attitude that because I'm under grace, it doesn't matter how I live the Christian life And that that that that uh question was actually answered on Wednesday when we were talking about um Romans chapter six in our Bible study, and we covered this in our bonus episode. on Friday night. In Romans chapter six it says, Shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? And Paul writes, God forbid, may it never be, may a person never think in such a way. And so What I think is fascinating about Romans 6, probably the fullest passage in all the New Testament about dealing with temptation and how we should uh be walking in newness of life. What really amazes me about that particular scripture is not just the way that he appeals to the motivation, but what he does not say. And so the first thing I'll mention is He never says, well, if you want to stay a Christian or you want to become a Christian, then you need to walk in newness of life. There's a there's a reason for that Because Romans three, four, and five indicate that a person is not saved by the deeds of the law. We don't work our way to God. And so Obedience to the law isn't something that gives us eternal life. It's not something that causes us to keep eternal life. We are eternally secured in Christ. The second thing, though, that is very interesting about Romans chapter 6 is that he never makes an appeal to their need to walk in obedience to you need to have a good testimony. And I think that that's the way that a lot of times we will argue that, well you need to make sure that you stay away from this activity, don't do this, don't say this Because your testimony would be compromised. Now, I'm not suggesting that a Christian should not be concerned about the fact that what people see is a life that is consistent with the Christian life. But what is important to notice is that in the fullest passage in all of the New Testament dealing with why we should walk in newness of life, Paul never uses that as a reason. You say, well, what does he appeal to? He appeals to our position. He appeals to our union with Christ. And so in Romans chapter 6. 3 he says We've been baptized into Jesus Christ. He's talking about our union with Christ. In verse number five, he says, we've been planted together in the likeness of his death. The idea is that We've been buried with him. That's a positional reality. In verses 6 and 7, he says that our old man is crucified with him. And so he says our old man has been crucified with him, and we've been raised to walk in newness of life. We're new creatures in Christ. Even verse number eleven he says, you were dead indeed unto are you not were. You are dead indeed unto sin but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. And so he says, you're dead to sin 's rule and you're alive to the authority of Christ. In all four of those cases, what the Apostle Paul does is he doesn't say, well, you need to live the Christian life because that's how you become a Christian, or you have to live the Christian life because that's how you stay a Christian, or You have to live the Christian life because you need to have a good testimony. He says, you need to live the Christian life because you are dead to sin but alive unto God. You need to live out the Christian life because you've been baptized into Jesus Christ, planted into the likeness of his death, and raised to walk in the iness of life. That means that his his emphasis is all about your position. Another way to put that is You need to live like a Christian because that's what you are. You need to live out practically who you are. That's the point that he's making. It would almost be like if I'm talking to one of my children And I say something like this, Joel, Porsche 's don't do that. You are a son in my house, and our children do not do those things. Well he just did it, so we know that he's capable of doing it. But what I'm actually saying is someone who is my child does not do those things because that is inconsistent with my expectations for my own children. That's inconsistent with them. The way that we're supposed to conduct ourselves. I think that's really the sense of what Paul is saying in these verses. A second danger that I want to mention is that sometimes people think that a lifestyle is enough for them to evangelize. And if I'll just live out the Christian life in front of people Well, they'll get saved as a result of that. Now there is a sense of truth to what you're saying when you say that. It is true that there is power in a person living out the Christian life. But that distinctiveness isn't the gospel. You and I don't live the gospel. We live in the light of the gospel. We live out the the life that is uh we could say empowered by our new position with the gospel, but we don't live out the gospel. The gospel isn't how you live. The gospel is what Jesus did for you so that you can live. Okay? And so in Romans 10, 14, and verse 17, he says, how can they call on him of whom they've not believed, and how can they believe on him whom whom they not heard? And how can they hear without a preacher? Faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the Word of God. Well Your testimony is something God may use to strike up a conversation, but your testimony isn't the gospel. Your testimony isn't Christ died for sin, he rose from the dead, and you can be saved. It might be what opens the door to give the gospel. And so while the first danger is that some people say, you know, how I live doesn't matter, and that's not true. The second danger is, well, how I live is everything. And so if I live out the Christian life faithfully, those people will get saved. And the answer is, well, that's part of the story. The third danger is that some people think that uh that Some people think that the externals, what people can see, are the primary focus here. And that's really not the primary focus The primary focus is how the gospel fundamentally changes you as a person. We see that come out in John chapter 13, verse 35. He says, By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye You ask, well what? If you have love one towards another. That's a character issue. In other words, if somebody was to live with you And you were formerly not a Christian and now you are a Christian, they're going to see that distinction because they say, you know, the way that you relate to people has changed. Or if somebody worked with you, or if somebody was under you as you're their boss, or if you were working for somebody, and all of a sudden you become a Christian, they're going to say, you know what? There's something about your character, your demeanor, the way that you think. It's changed. That's the sense that that we see in these verses. So when he talks about us being the light of the world, and he talks about a person being put on a candlestick so that they're not hidden. That's really what he's talking about. Don't let people miss what is distinct about you. That's what he's saying. So let's get into the application of this. We've kind of talked about the dangers. I want us to talk about the content. The first thing I'm going to mention is that we see that light is put on a candlestick for a reason. He says it this way. No man, when he hath lighted a candle covereth it with a vessel or putteth it under a bed. Why does somebody light a candle? They do it because they need light in a room. It's dark. And so the the correlation is the reason that you are light is for a purpose. The second question is that we place the candle strategically for a reason. And so he says it this way. He set it on a candlestick that they which enter in may see the light. So if a person lights a candle, they don't take the candle and put it under their bed or put it under a basket or put it somewhere to the side. They put it in the center of the room so that it lights up the whole room. And so the idea is that you have been made light for a reason, and you have been positioned as light for a reason. To put it very practically, God's people are distinct by nature, and God's people are purposefully positioned by God so that their light will shine and ultimately point people to God. That's really the sense of it. So he wants his people to live openly as new creatures in Christ before others, so that the distinction between the world and the believer is so significant that people are drawn to the light and they start asking questions. And they start saying, why is there a difference? What's going on in your life? What has changed? That's the sense of it And so we see this in 1 Peter chapter 3, because 1 Peter 3, 15 and 16 tell us that exact thing. Here's what it says: Sanctify the Lord God in your hearts. And be ready always to give an answer to everyone that asketh you a reason of the hope that lieth in you with meekness and fear. Having a good conscience, that whereas they speak evil of you, as of evildoers, they may be ashamed that speak falsely against you of your good conversation in Christ. You see all the dynamics that we've talked about in this in this little uh episode, they come together. We see the nature of what's changed, and that's the person's character. Your good conversation in Christ They're asking you a question. They're coming to you and going, what's changed? Okay? And then you're answering them. You're giving a reason for the hope that lieth within you with meekness and with fear. And so we're seeing the that when a person is light, And the light is actually being displayed through the dispositional change that's going on in that person's life. It gives them a platform, it gives them an opportunity to proclaim the gospel. We could say the inverse is true as well When a person who is a true believer chooses to conceal that distinction, then they will not have opportunities. that perhaps God wants them to have. And so what's the practical question or application that we should ask ourselves? Well the application is very simple. We need to live like we are If I am a new creature in Christ, I need to live like I'm a new creature in Christ. Since I'm a new creature in Christ, I shouldn't conceal that. I shouldn't hide that. I should live openly before others That means when I'm working with other people, when I'm uh interacting with someone that knew me before I was a Christian versus today, my life should be distinct in its character. And as that person begins to ask questions, what should I do? Give them an answer of the hope that lies within you and meet to sin with fear. So you know the reason that I look at things differently today than I used to is because today I'm a Christian. Hey, the reason that my character has changed is because I'm now a new creature in Christ. Yeah, I used to I used to say these things, I used to do these things, I used to respond this way, I used to think this way, and I don't anymore. The reason is because I've become a Christian. I'm a new creature in Christ. That is the sense of the verse that's in front of us. I'll read it again, verse number sixteen. No man when he hath lighted a candle covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed, but setteth it on a candlestick, that they which enter in may see the light. I hope that as you think about this study this morning, it will remind you to live like your position. And to not be intimidated or fearful or try to conceal the fact, hey, I'm a Christian. Just live out the Christian life faithfully in front of others And when God gives you opportunity to share the gospel, take advantage of those opportunities. Make the most of those opportunities. That's what I pray will happen today. Hope you have a blessed rest of your day, and Lord willing, tomorrow we'll continue our series. Bye now.