Psalm one eleven, verse one Praise ye the Lord. I will praise the Lord with my whole heart, in the assembly of the upright, in the congregation The works of the Lord are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein. His work is honorable and glorious, and his righteousness endures forever. He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered. The Lord is gracious and full of compassion. He hath given meat unto them that fear him. He will even be mindful of his covenant. He hath showed his people the power of his works that they may give them the heritage of the heathen. The works of his hands are verity and judgment. All his commandments are sure. They stand fast forever and ever, and are are done in truth and uprightness. He sent redemption unto his people. He hath commanded his covenant forever. Holy and reverend is his name The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding have all they that do his commandments. His praise endureth forever. You know, the purpose of this psalm, I would put it this way, it's to convince us to publicly express our gratitude and praise to God. And you know, all of us have different personalities and we talk about something like our love languages. I know there's a book about love languages and And some people their love language is gift giving and some it's spending time and some it's words of affirmation and different things like that. The truth is that we all have different personalities and our personality kind of is reflected in the way that we feel loved by people and the way that we express love to people. You know, some people are not very affirming. It's not that they're mean and they don't appreciate things. They just they don't generally express it. And maybe part of it is because they don't feel like they have to have somebody express gratitude to them all the time. And so some people, I think, you know, maybe have a little bit of a hard time expressing praise or thanks, not that they don't appreciate, but they don't maybe feel comfortable saying that. There are some people that say thank you often, and it's good to have a person like that around you, because then you know that they appreciate what you're doing. Well, you know, the truth is this. No matter what our personality is, God wants us to. God expects us to be people that aren't just grateful in our hearts, but we actually express that to God. Not just privately, but even publicly. And that's really what this Psalm is all about. It's about us expressing our thanksgiving and our praise and our glorying in God. in a very public manner. And God wants us to do that. In fact, as we read this Psalm, we'll see that that's probably the most appropriate way that we could respond to God. As we meditate on these on these truths that are laid out in these scriptures, we're going to see that this all being true and these being the facts, we we are compelled. to worship God. I remember I don't know when this thought first popped into my head, but it's something that you know, is something I continue to think about. And the truth is that when we look at worship in the Bible Worship in the singing and the expressing of worship to God is actually more of a response to studying the Bible. being taught the Word of God, meditating on the Scriptures, it's actually through the meditation on Scripture and the teaching of Scripture that we feel compelled and pressed to worship. Maybe one of these days we'll sing at the end of the service instead of the beginning. Because really what prepares our heart to sing is the preaching of the word. We tend to think of music being what prepares our heart for the preaching, but And scripturally, it actually kind of is reversed. And so these truths, as we think about them, the more that we think about them, the more we'll feel compelled to worship and praise God. So how should we, or what would motivate us to do that? Let's look at the passage together, and we'll look at the first truth here in verse number one. We are commanded to praise God. It's not just that we should, because it makes sense, and it does, but God actually tells us to praise Him. God actually commands us to praise him, and godly people command us to praise God. He is the one who deserves the ultimate praise. Even when we thank somebody for something that that that they have done for us A way that they have blessed us. I think it's very important that we don't just thank them, but we recognize that their ability to bless us and encourage us ultimately is part of God's good hand and blessing us. We're commanded to praise God. And look what it says in verse 1. Praise ye the Lord. Bottom line, you need to praise God. In fact, in Psalm 150, verse 6, it says, Let everything that hath breath praise the Lord. Praise ye the Lord. If you have breath, that means three things. One, somebody gave it to you. That's God. Two, he's keeping you alive and you still have breath, okay? And three, he is continuing to sustain you That's true of all of us. If we're here tonight, it's because God gave us life, God keeps our life, and he continues to hold us And so the fact that we can breathe and the fact that we have these benefits means that we need to express gratitude to God. Psalm 147, verses 1 to 11. I'm going to read some of this because it's kind of along the same lines here. He says, Praise ye the Lord. It is good to sing praise unto our God. It is pleasant, and praise is comely, it's beautiful. The Lord doth build up Jerusalem, he gathers together the outcast of Israel. He healed the brokenhearted and bindeth up their wounds. He telleth the number of the stars. He calleth them all by their names. Great is our Lord, and of great power. His understanding is infinite. The Lord lifts up the meek, he casts down the wicked to the ground. Sing to the Lord with thanksgiving, sing praise upon harp unto our God, who covereth the heavens with clouds, who prepareth rain on the earth, who makes grass to grow on the mountains. He gives to the beasts his foods, to the young ravens which cry. He delights not in the strength of the horse, he takes not pleasure in the legs of a man. The Lord takes pleasure in them that fear him, and those that hope in his mercy You know, in this psalm, he talks about all kinds of amazing things that are really testimonies to why God is praiseworthy. We talked about how God looks at people who are who are in the lowliest of places, the outcasts, and he takes those people and he puts them in good places He looks at people who are brokenhearted and they're grieved and their heart has hurt them deeply. And God looks at them with compassion. He reaches down to those people and he encourages and he strengthens them. He talks about the creation and the stars. And he just he emphasizes the fact that the heavens declare the glory of God. And because of God's handiwork, such an amazing thing, we should praise God. He then talks about how God is just. He casts the wicked down. He lifts up the meek. He's great in power. He's infinite in understanding. He makes the grass grow. He gives us water and rain. God does all of those things. He feeds the animals. He takes care of us. And he's not impressed by our physical strength. That's what God is like. He's worthy of our praise. We should praise him. The second truth we're going to see is this that we're commanded to praise God in a very specific manner. It's not just that we're told to praise God, but the way that we praise God needs to be a certain way. And he states it in a couple of simple ways. In verse 11, verse 1 he says, I will praise the Lord with my whole heart. Now that little statement tells us three things about the way that we should praise God. The first is this. We need to praise God from our heart. You know, there are a lot of people, and I I think we've all been there at some point, okay, where we come to church, we open our Bibles. We do what we're supposed to do. We pray. We sing. We give. We listen to the word. We don't do something we're not supposed to. We keep everything in line. We follow through with everything we're supposed to do. And my question is, is that really what God wants? Well, if your heart's got nothing to do with those things that you've done, it it it really isn't worship in the sense of what God expects of worship. There are lots of people that come to church every single Sunday. It is their custom, and they really haven't worshipped in years. Worship begins with the heart. It involves our mind, our thinking, our affections. And the reality is when the psalmist says he's going to praise God, He's not saying, well, I'm just going to praise God by giving him a lot of money. I'm going to praise God by showing up. I'm going to praise God by reading the Bible. I'm going to praise God by seeing. He says, I'm going to praise God with my heart. What's going on inside is really actually passionate about God. What I'm doing is because I'm motivated internally. It's not simply a matter of saying the right thing or doing the right thing. What we say, sing, and do should be motivated from a heart that is overflowing with praise to God. We all know what it's like to go to the store and and you know buy a Coke and it's a hot summer day and it rolls around in the car. And you get to the house, you didn't think about the fact that it's hot. It's been rolling around in the car, and you open that thing up and it just explodes in your face. In fact, just a couple of days ago, I had that experience. I'm in the kitchen. I open the city like boom it's just gushing over, and my son's like, oh, that's great. And I'm like, no, it's not great. I have to clean this up. I've got sticky all over my hands. And now I can't drink half the bottle because it all came out. Well, you know what's interesting? That picture is really a great illustration of what should be going on in our hearts. When we come to church to worship God, It should be that what's going on in our heart is so affected by the truths that we're thinking about. That we just want to we explode with praise to God. That's what we want. That's what we should have. And that's what the psalmist is expressing here. I am praising God with my heart. Next he says, not just with his heart, but with his whole heart. Now, our heart is something that can like have lots and lots of competing thoughts and ideas and affections. It's true. Um there are times that we have something going on and we our minds going two different directions at the same time. You know, you come home from work and somebody's asking you something here, and somebody's asking you something over here, and You're not listening to either of 'em. Anyone ever been there before? You know, it's an undivided heart, right? No, it's a divided heart. We got lots and lots of things pulling at us The reality is that even when we come to worshiping God, we are still affected in that kind of way. We all are. You know, it's amazing sometimes the things that pop in my head when I open up my Bible to read, when I get on my knees to pray, and I'm like, where did that come from? The reality is that God wants us, when we worship Him, to focus all of our attention on Him. And actually that takes some level of discipline. And I think in many ways it takes God's grace, asking him, Lord, help me to set aside all of the stuff going on in my head. To just focus my attention on you. And help me to really focus on your goodness and on your character, on your ways. So that all of my heart is given to that. You know what is so important about coming and setting aside a day of worship to God is that it helps us to just for that time set aside all those things. So that we can focus on God. And what's amazing is when we focus on the Lord and we've truly worshipped Him as He desires us to, the byproduct of that is it brings a lot more clarity to all that stuff that's going on in our lives. But he says, my whole heart. Matthew 22, 37, Jesus says that we are to love the Lord our God with all of our hearts. And all of our soul and all of our mind. God wants all of it. Matthew 5. 8, he says, Blessed are the pure in heart. That word pure means that it's It's not tainted, it's not divided, it's not, it's it's whole and focused on God. In Psalm 24, verses 3 to 4, he says, Who shall ascend into the hill of the Lord? Who shall stand in his place? He that hath clean hands and a pure heart. We see this concept of an undivided heart, a pure heart. God wants us to have a pure and focused heart on him. And so the psalmist mentions that. The third thing, though, is to me very important. He doesn't just say he's going to praise God with his heart, with his whole heart, but he tells us where he's going to praise God. And this is very interesting. He says, I will do this in the assembly of the upright, in the congregation. Now, you know what's really interesting? I I can only imagine what it would would have been like to live in a culture that was completely focused on the Lord. And Israel's culture was supposed to be that. I mean we have holidays like Thanksgiving, you know, who decided to have Thanksgiving? No, an American president. It's a great idea, but it wasn't God who said, you need to have Thanksgiving on November, well it changes every year, right? No, we didn't have that. The reality is a lot of our holidays, a lot of them really aren't even religiously oriented at all. They're more patriotic or something like that. But when we talk about Jewish holidays Those holidays were God ordained holidays. They were appointed by God. And those are very festive times You know, like we stop and we have Thanksgiving and we eat more turkey than we should and you know, spend time with family and friends and we travel and all that kind of stuff. The Jewish people would set aside holidays, God wanted them to, that they did that. They were festive times. There were times that people didn't work. They just enjoyed each other's company. It was a time of tremendous festivity. And the reality is during that time they were to enjoy themselves And focus on the Lord. He was supposed to be the center of their delight. In other words, all this enjoyment that they had as a culture and as a family and as a people, it was connected to God's goodness and God's blessing. When he talks about the assembly and the congregation in this context, he's really not talking about a local church. He's talking about these festive times. But I think by implication they do flow into what we do every Sunday. We gather together to express praise to God. You know, there is something very helpful about having other Christians who talk to us and pray with us and worship with us and those things. Because when they do that, and when we do this together, we encourage one another in an incredible way. It's a wonderful thing. You know what it's like to work alone in the workforce without any Christian around you Pretty lonely, huh? And you find you got like one person who's a believer. And all of a sudden there's like this instant, like some kind of a connection there. They might go to a church that's like totally different than this church, but you have this connection with them because they're a believer. You encourage one another. It was interesting. This this week I was um I'm a I'm a marketplace chaplain, so there are a couple of businesses in the community that I go, and I just I'm available to talk to people and be an encouragement to them if they need that. something that I do each week. It's not tons of time, but sometimes it's some some really neat opportunities. This week I was over at the Chick-fil-A where I uh where I'm available and young man, I say young, he and I are about the same age. He came up to me, he's like, You really look familiar. It's like, I don't know what to tell you about this. He said, You look so familiar. Where'd you go to college? I said I went to a little college in Florida. He said so did I. He's like, are you Joel Porchet? I was like, Yeah. He's like, are you the marketplace chaplain here? I was like, yeah He said, we graduated together in college. I knew your roommate. I was like, wow, I knew Tori and Joanna Snow. Didn't know that, did you, Joanna? What an interesting thing. We had a wonderful conversation and we talked about ways that we could try to connect with some of the employees at that place who, you know, they're going through challenges. And issues. There was this this this connection. This is something I something I didn't really know, but the fact that they're a believer, the fact that we had some mutual friends and things, there was a connection there. And the reality is that God wants us to worship with other Christians so that as we praise God, there is this encouragement that goes on between us. The third truth is this. We're commanded to praise God because the facts compel us to praise Him. Basically it's kind of like this. If you write down on a piece of paper, should I praise God or not? And I write down the reasons why I should and why I shouldn't, you're gonna look at that paper when you're done and you're gonna go, well, it's pretty clear. I should praise God. There's lots and lots of reasons for me to praise and worship and magnify the Lord. And what this psalmist does is he kind of gives us a grocery list. And I'm just going to mention it kind of briefly tonight. The first category that he deals with is what God does. The things that God does are worthy of all of our praise. Verses 2 to 4, he puts it this way. The works of the Lord are great. They're sought out of all them that have pleasure therein. His works are honorable and glorious. His righteousness endureth forever. He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered. He mentions that what God does is great. It's honorable. It's glorious. We say glorious, it's something that you step back and you just go, this is incredible. You ever had a situation in your life that you step back and you look and you go, man, only God could have done that. That's just a fantastic thing. God doesn't necessarily do this every day that we experience these kinds of things, but we have these situations and we have these moments where we just step back and we go, God, you did something amazing there. And I just have to marvel and glory in you. They're glorious. His works are enduring. You know, it's interesting. What God does Isn't just this temporary thing that happens for a moment and then it's all done. You think about these faith healers. They they claim that they've healed people. And there are lots of major organizations like the BBC and um other groups that have gone and tried to investigate these faith healers and said, you know, is this legit or not? There are some portions of the world, like when I worked in in West Africa, that huge numbers of people, thousands upon thousands of people, would go to these crusades, and they had real health issues, and they were hoping to be healed. And so basically it when they would go and do interviews and they would go and sit in these crusades and meet people, they would watch and they'd just catalog what's going on. And they would from time to time find people who had at least for a moment appeared to have some sort of a healing. In other words, they felt like they weren't sick anymore. They felt like they didn't have the problem anymore. The problem is this. That feeling of being made whole was very short-lived. And what they'd find out later was that the problem hadn't hadn't left. It was still there. You know, when Jesus gave sight to the blind, the blind man didn't receive his sight for ten minutes, and then, you know, an hour later he's back trying to find stuff. When he healed the lepers, they were able to go back to their families. When Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead, He got to go sit down and eat dinner with him at another point in time, down just a short time afterwards. And when God does something, it's legit. It's real. It's enduring. It lasts. Imitations don't. They have the appearance of the real thing, but time reveals whether it's genuine or not. What God does is memorable. He's made his wonderful works to be remembered. There are times in our life when we really need God to do something. That he does things that we don't forget. Maybe you can look back over your life. You can think about certain times that you needed clear direction about an issue that you had in front of you. You were just very down and discouraged and broken and you didn't know what to do. And God ministered to you in a very memorable way. That's the way God works. And because God works in these ways, He's worthy of our praise. We see a second category. It's not just what he does, but it's who God is that makes him worthy of praise. In verses 4 to 9, it says, the Lord is. In other words, what he does and who he is, they're connected. And here's who God is: He's gracious. He's full of compassion. He has given meat unto them that fear him. He'll ever be mindful of his covenant. He has showed his people the power of his works, and he may that he may give them the heritage of the heathen The works of his hands are verity and judgment. All his commandments are sure. They stand fast forever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness. He has sent redemption unto his people. He's commanded his covenant forever. Holy and reverend is his name. This passage tells us that God is gracious. We say gracious, that means that God's kind. He's benevolent. He looks down at people in need and he wants to show his grace to them. He wants to give them good things. You know, there are many Christians that believe that God gives good things only to them as a reward for their goodness. I don't know if you've ever been in that place before, but there are many Christians that feel that way. They live their life believing that God is either going to crush them because they stumble, or he's going to give them good things because they finally did good things. Folks, God's gracious. When God blesses us, it's not because we earn it. It's not because we deserve it. God blesses us in spite of our failures, in spite of our weaknesses, and in spite of our sin. Look at the patriarchs. Look at Jacob. Was Jacob a good man? Jacob was a disaster. His life was full of all kinds of problems. Yet God showered that man with blessing. He didn't earn any of it. Look at David. There's lots of examples of people in the Bible that God blessed richly, and he did it because his character is good. We should never be in a place where we think we've earned God's goodness. We should delight in it because it shows us not that we've earned it or deserve it, but because he's good. He says he's full of compassion. There are many times that we desperately need to be reminded that God is full of compassion. When we are at our lowest points. And you can't always predict when it's going to happen. You can be doing great. Everything is moving smoothly. And you're in a good mood and everything's great. And just one thing just like it completely sets you down. And it'll be a goofy thing. You know, time you later on you look back, you're like, I can't believe that happened. But it does. Sometimes they're really serious things. And they're things that they persist for a long time. And we think, does God care? The fact is, he's full of compassion. You know, think about when you've seen a person in need and you looked at them and your heart just aches for them and you wish that you could do something to change their circumstances. You wish you could do something to make it all better. I'm sure you've been there. The fact is, that compassion that you felt towards that person, God actually feels that way towards people. He feels that way towards us in our time of need. That makes us want to fear him and makes us want to praise him. He's caring. It says he has given meat unto them that fear him. He actually takes care of us. Meets our needs. He's sovereign. It says he showed to his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen. The reality is that Israel had many, many enemies, many people that hated them Yet God continued to preserve that people group. He continued to preserve the covenant promises that He made to them. There's one psalm that really stands out to me. Where the way the Psalm goes, I'm going to paraphrase it here, but it basically says, look around this city, look at the walls, and look at the towers. Let me tell you something. They're there because God's kept them there. Because we've had a lot of enemies that wanted to tear these walls down and destroy the people in this city. And the fact that it's still standing is God 's providential care. And the reality is that that's how God works in our lives too. He's sovereign. He demonstrates that. He's true. His works are verity and judgment. That word verity has the idea of truth. All his commandments are sure. They're reliable. He's a reliable God. And he's the Redeemer. It says he hath sent redemption unto his people. The reality is, all of the things that we've seen, and protector, I don't want to forget that, he has commanded his covenant forever. Holy and reverent is his name. That word covenant has the idea that God has committed himself To the care of his people. And that word covenant is a very important one. He protects his people. We could really spend time taking each of these character traits of God and telling a story about how God's character in that way was demonstrated in that story. We could give examples of how God's works are demonstrated in these ways all throughout the Bible. We'd be here a while if we did that. But what I'd like you to do is not think about how we see it in David and Joseph and Daniel and people like that, but how about yourself in your own life? Here's some questions to think about. What aspects of God's character are you most thankful for? I hope you think about that. This is a great time, Thanksgiving. You know, we are thankful people, and I say, Thankful to who? When I look at the world around us and I say, well, you know, who are you actually giving thanks to? If you don't believe that God is the giver of these things, who are you praising and thanking? We should think about God's character and ask ourselves, what are we most thankful for? When's the last time that we privately or publicly praised God for these things? It's a great question. Three What are some things that God has done for me and you, or in us, or through us, that we want to praise Him for? When's the last time that we publicly or privately express praise to God for the things that we're thinking about right now. I want to encourage you with that. One final truth. The God-centered life is an eternal, as a life of eternal, clear-minded praise. The last verse of the Psalm is verse 10. He says, That the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom, and a good understanding have all they that do his commandments. His praise endureth forever. We say that God's praise endures forever. The question is, who's praising him? His people are. The reality is that this final verse basically says that the person whose life is centered on God, he fears the Lord. That means he has a right respect and awe and reverence for God. He obeys God because he recognizes God's right to rule in his life. He praises God because he realizes how glorious God is. That person with a God-centered life is wise. He has a good perspective, he has good understanding, and he is in a position where he'll praise God forever. And that's a wonderful thing for us to close out to think about. We want our lives to be God-centered so that we'll have wisdom, perspective, and we'll praise God not just today, but forever. I hope this psalm ministers to you and challenges you to be one who expresses praise to God. After reflecting on this psalm together, it should be abundantly clear that public praise to God is the most appropriate response. that we could have to a careful reflection on who he is, what he's done, in us, through us, and for us.