Alright, well let's turn in our Bibles tonight to Psalm 103. Psalm 103. And we're going to read not the entire Psalm. I actually kind of referenced this Psalm on Sunday. And I think it's a psalm that's that's very, very helpful to us if we are struggling in any way to be grateful. And so Psalm 103, we're going to pick up in verse 1 and read all the way to verse 14. Here's what God's Word says, Bless the Lord, O my soul, and all that is within me, bless his holy name. Bless the Lord, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits. Who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness and tender mercies. Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. The Lord executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed. He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel. The Lord is merciful and gracious, slow to anger and plenteous in mercy. He will not always chide, neither will he keep his anger forever. He hath not dealt with us after our sin, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him. As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. For he knoweth our frame, he remembereth that we are dust. It's an amazing passage of scripture because it really emphasizes some wonderful truths about our God. And what it reminds us about God is that He is a merciful God and He is a gracious God. And uh during this Thanksgiving season, what I want us to do is focus in, and it's it's going to be a very general study of what we see in these verses. But before we do that, I'd like to talk to you a little bit about some of the history of the Thanksgiving holiday that we celebrate. here in the United States. Thanksgiving is not found in the Bible. Neither is Christmas. And uh Easter we could say, hmm, well we celebrate the resurrection every Sunday. Uh but the way that we celebrate these things here in the United States That's not found in the Bible. So the question is, what is the story of this Thanksgiving season that we celebrate? Well, the history of Thanksgiving as a national holiday is a fascinating story that goes all the way back to the 1600s. And in 1621, the very first Thanksgiving was celebrated. It was a three-day feast. It was enjoyed in the Plymouth uh Massachusetts area with the pilgrims and uh I should say those who are left of the pilgrims and a tribe called the Wampanoag tribe And in addition to the various foods that were available, a lot of the foods were corn. There were turkeys, and there were five deer that were brought actually by uh those from the Wapanog tribe. And so um if you eat venison this Thanksgiving, you're doing a real Thanksgiving thing right there. In 1789, George Washington proclaimed the first national Thanksgiving celebration. That does not mean it became a national holiday. It simply was more or less a proclamation. And then on October the 3rd, 1863, there was a lady who had been really hounding Abraham Lincoln about this issue. It needs to be made a national holiday. Abraham Lincoln declared Thanksgiving a national holiday. But it still has had a little asterisk next to it because an act of Congress had not declared it to be a national holiday. That did not happen. until nineteen forty one. Interestingly, Abraham Lincoln declaring it a national holiday in eighteen sixty three uh was in the middle of the American Civil War and then in nineteen forty one that was at the beginning of uh the Americans um being a part of World War II. So uh we're talking about not too long after um some of the things that took place there. So uh Franklin Delanore Roosevelt had a joint res after a joint resolution of Congress officially declared uh the fourth Thursday in November to be Thanksgiving. And that's why we celebrate Thanksgiving on the fourth Thursday of the month of November. Those are all very interesting details, but what really helps us appreciate the holiday is the story of the people who had the very first Thanksgiving. And those are the pilgrims. So we know that the pilgrims lived at a very tumultuous time in England, and their desire was to get away from persecution in England. So they went to the European continent, mainland, and they lived in Holland. And they were not happy with the conditions there in Holland because they believed that their children were being diluted by those Europeans. And uh so what they did is they decided they wanted to try to go to the new world and they wanted to have their own place where they could have religious liberty. And so in 1620, 102 Englishmen, and there's a caveat, some of them were born in the Netherlands, but they were Englishmen and women, uh, got on a ship called the Mayflower. And they headed to the New World. And for 66 days, these people traveled across the ocean. Not six hours if you wanted to fly to London. Sixty-six days. And actually one of them, one of the members of the crew died on that terrible trip. When they arrived, they were not prepared for what they were going to encounter. It was New England and it was November. And uh it was very, very cold already, and they did not have have proper shelter, they did not have uh the amount of food that they needed, they had a very serious problem, and in fact they thought that they were going to be further south. They were going to the Virginia colony, which by the way went all the way from Jamestown up to uh up to current day New York City, uh, but they were not in the Virginia colony. They were in Massachusetts And so that first winter was brutal. In fact, by the end of that winter, over half the people had died. There was one point that so many people were dying and sick that there were only about six or so people who were healthy enough to be able to actually take care of the sick and the dying. It was an absolutely horrific series of circumstances. They even lived on the ship during a lot of the winter because they did not have proper shelter on the mainland. You can only imagine how miserable that would have been. But after the spring came, those who survived started working on building their community. By the end of that summer, because of God's providential work and bringing some of those who lived in the local community, Native Americans who were there, they didn't all die. They survived. They taught them how to farm. They taught them how to fish. They taught them how to how to actually uh harvest from the woodlands, and they celebrated the very first Thanksgiving with enough food to actually survive and prepare for the winter. A lot of interesting things about the story, by the way, it wasn't just the first winter and spring that almost killed all the people. It was also their economic system. People don't realize this, but there was a common core system, a a form of socialism that was imposed upon those individuals by the Virginia colony, and um basically people I know desired work. Because they had no desire to work, there wasn't food, and because of that there was complete chaos. And so they had to reverse course and people were given land and they were responsible to till that land and they were going to have to eat by the work of their own hands. And uh it encouraged the people to be industrious. But the important part of this story is this. They understood the reason they survived was because of God's mercy. They understood that in a way that you and I don't really appreciate. We when we want to get Thanksgiving food, we go to the grocery store and go. Man, what happened to the cost of turkey? What happened to the cost of all these foods? It's just getting worse and worse every year. You didn't have to shoot that turkey. Or shoot that deer or raise that corn. If you did, you would have starved. It's that simple. Very few of us could actually support ourselves making uh basically taking care of ourselves from the land. And so we don't have an appreciation like these people did for how dependent they were on the Lord. Even in some of their writings they talked about how the timing of the rains in the summer months was exactly what they needed so that they would have the kind of crops that they needed. And you know what they were saying? They're saying, it's God who sent the rain at that time. They understood the misery of the winter. They also understood God's provision. And so that's the story of Thanksgiving in a very short nutshell. Okay? If you're a historian, maybe you think that that falls short. But the truth is that this concept of having Thanksgiving festivals is not just an American tradition. Do you realize that in the Old Testament system, God instituted many festive occasions where the people were to stop their work? They were to focus on the Lord and they were to delight in him and enjoy him. In fact, every single week, God instituted a day of rest. And the purpose of that day of rest was not just to rest the body and the mind, that is true, but it was also to delight in the Lord as you rest your body and your mind. Genesis 2, 3, God blessed the seventh day and he sanctified it because in that he rested from all his work which God created and made. God did not make the Sabbath rest for him. He made it for us. We need that rest. We need our bodies. to rejuvenate. We need rest and we need refreshment. And then what I think is very interesting is as we look at the Old Testament, I'm not going to go to all these verses, but there were seven different festive occasions that took place on the Jewish calendar. The Passover week was the beginning of the year. And by the way, I know there was a Passover day, but from the beginning of the week where they set aside that Paschal lamb, it's a full week of celebration. And then after the Passover There's another week called the Feast of Unleavened Bread. And then at the end of that week, on the final day of the 14-day period, they had what they called the first fruits. So you know what that tells you? They took two weeks off at the beginning of their year to just enjoy each other, to eat good food, and to worship God. That's what they did. You know how many of us would benefit if we took a little more time off. I guess I should say that and feel very guilty about it myself. We're taking time off this week, all right? We really are Fifty days later they had the Feast of Weeks, which is often called Pentecost. And there's another festivation. So basically two months later. And then about three months after that, you have the Feast of Trumpets, and then you have the Day of Atonement, and then at the end, you have a seven-day period called the Feast of Tabernacles or the Feast of Booths. And you know what's really interesting? A lot of these festivals, people would go up to Jerusalem as a family, as a large community. Think about when Jesus went up to Jerusalem and he was lost in the crowd. Sometimes we kind of don't we don't picture what's going on here, but here are all these people, these are these are cousins and these are all these relatives and all these friends from all these communities and they're They're moving together as this massive pack, and they're going up to Jerusalem, and Jerusalem is just packed to overflowing. And there's all this excitement and all this energy. And then they're going back after this festive season. And His parents didn't know where he was. And they probably didn't think twice of it. They're like, ah, he's probably hanging out with with his cousin John or something like that. He's okay, right? And then all of a sudden they realize he's gone. We don't know where he is. Nobody knows where he is And then could you imagine how terrifying it would be to go to Jerusalem to try to find your son? That'd be crazy. But here's the point. The point is this: God instituted times of rest. And refreshment and focus on him. And by the way, some of that was eating lots of good food. Kind of interesting. Did you know that part of the tithe system was to set aside food for festive occasions? Deuteronomy 14, 22. This is a really interesting passage. Thou shalt truly tithe of all the increase of thy seed that the field bring forth year by year. Thou shalt eat before the Lord thy God in the place which he shall choose to place his name there. The tithe of thy corn, of thy wine, of thy oil, of thy firstlings of the herds, of the flocks, that thou mightest learn to fear the Lord thy God always. And if the way be too long for thee, so that thou art not able to carry it, unto the place, if it be too far, which the Lord shall choose Thou shalt turn into money, bind up the money in thine hand, go to the place which the Lord thy God shall choose, shall bestow thy money for whatsoever thy soul lusteth after, and it's not he's not he's saying what do you want to eat? Okay, that's the idea And then he he lists all these different things. He says, Oxen, sheep, wine, strong w strong drink, whatever your soul desires, thou shalt ye eat before the Lord thy God. Thou shalt rejoice, thou and thine household. What a really interesting passage of scripture. Really interesting passage of scripture. So this tithe , this is a portion of the tithe. was set aside so that the people could stop what they were doing and enjoy these festive occasions. So we find this in the Bible. We also see in Deuteronomy 12. 7 a little bit of insight into why. You shall eat before the Lord your God, rejoice in all that ye put your hands unto, ye and your household wherein the Lord thy God hath blessed you. So what's this stuff all about? It's about celebrating God's provision. It's about fellowshipping as a community and fellowshipping with God. It's about there being a sense of you're a part of a community. Very, very important. And then it's about worship. And so you say, well, what does this have to do with our Thanksgiving celebration? What I am saying here or encouraging you to do is to make sure that your Thanksgiving festival is not just a gluttonous occasion. I hope it's not a gluttonous occasion. I don't mean you can't enjoy the food, don't get me wrong. I hope it's not just football and just a secular observance. As Christians, we should set aside this time to delight in the Lord and enjoy him So very very important. You say, well some of the people I'm getting together with, they don't delight in the Lord and enjoy him. Okay, I get that. Alright, if that's the case, then what you can control where you actually can have some influence. Then do it, okay? And I'm gonna mention a couple of practical little things here at the end. But make sure that this time of festivity is not just a secular occurrence. But it's actually about God's blessing and your gratitude to Him. So let's look at the Psalm for just a couple of minutes. I know that was like a really long runway, but it's going to be a really short flight. Don't get me wrong. What does this psalm remind us of? Really, three things. The first thing is God's character is highlighted. In verse 8, it says that the Lord is merciful and he is gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. Let me just put it like this. There are times in our lives that we need the Bible to remind us that God is merciful, gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy. And you know why that is? Because our conscience, when we have sinned against God, our conscience crushes us. And by the way, it's not horrible that we should feel guilty when we sin. Don't get me wrong. We should. But once we have dealt with our sin before God, as He says we are to do it, once we have confessed our sin to Him, acknowledged our sin to Him, there's been a repentance of heart, a desire for restored communion with God. We need to take the Bible at face value in what it says about how God relates to us as His children He is faithful and he is just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. That's true. And the question is why? Well, it's because of the cross, but it's also because of God's nature. He's merciful. The word mercy has the idea of compassionate. When you look at someone who is in a very difficult position, do you look at them with disdain or do you look at them with compassion? God looks at us with compassion. And by the way, when we're in trouble, most of the time, if I'm to be totally frank about myself, most of the time it's because I've made some really bad decisions. Not always. Sometimes other people's choices have affected me. Sometimes it's something entirely outside of my control. But when I have a difficult situation many, many times, it's because I'm eating the fruit of bad choices. And when God looks at me in that situation, he would have absolutely every right to say, you made your problem, you live with your problem, come back to me once you've cleaned it all up. He'd have every right to do that. That's not what he does. He's merciful. He looks at us in our brokenness, and he has a kindness and disposition towards us. us. This passage really emphasizes that. He's gracious. Now gracious goes beyond mercy. Mercy is I feel bad for you. Grace means I'm going to do something about it. I'm going to extend kindness to you and you don't deserve the kindness. I'm going to show you love. I'm going to actually And so God isn't just compassionate, He is, but He's also gracious, and He gives abundantly to people, all of us being here, who don't deserve his goodness. Undeserved favor. Third statement, slow to anger. Now, do we know that God is righteous? Yes. Do we know that God is just? Yes. Do we know that He is holy? Yes But God is slow to anger. You and I are not slow to anger. We are fast to anger. That's just the truth by nature. Some of us are more fast to anger than others are. And so in our minds we tend to think, when I step out of line, boom, God crushes me instantly. That's not true. It's not true at all. If it was , nobody'd be here. It's that simple. God's very patient with us. If we were to be able to look at ourselves from his perspective with his character, it would be a little scary. But God is a slow to anger God. And then I love this last statement. He's plenteous in mercy. That means it's not just he's a little merciful, he's very merciful. Very, very interesting. All of those statements talk about who he is. And by the way, who you are determines what you do. That's important. That connection's there. You can't disconnect what people do from who they are. But the second thing that's highlighted here is that God's mercy is something that needs to be examined a little bit more. And so in verses 11 and 13, here's what he says: as the heaven is high above the earth, So great is his mercy toward them that fear him. Like as a father pitieth his children, so the Lord pitieth them that fear him. So when he talks about this issue of mercy, he's going to use two analogies to describe the greatness and the nature of God's mercy. So that first one is as high as high as the heaven is above the earth. Now, when you look up into the sky, how far can you see Really far, okay? And a lot of us have just no comprehension of how far we can see. When we are looking up into the sky, we think we're seeing stars. And yes, we are seeing stars, but we're not just seeing stars. If we could pull out a telescope and we could examine those scars, those scars, those stars that we're looking at, we might figure out that they're not just stars. Some of them are galaxies. So it's not just a star that I'm looking at. It's actually a galaxy that's filled with stars. And the question is, how far away is that? So far away that you and I can't even fully comprehend it. And so what does he say? God's mercy is as far as the heaven is from the earth What does that mean? You cannot quantify it. That's what it means. You can't quantify it. That's pretty awesome, isn't it The second analogy he uses is one that sometimes as a father I go, hmm, I don't know why I use that one, but like a father pities his children. Some of you are going, I do not know the pity of a father. I'm sorry if that's the case. But a godly father, a father who has character like our heavenly father, is a father who is compassionate and tender. Now that doesn't mean that a father doesn't have to say hard things and do hard things. Okay? A father sometimes has to say things we don't want to hear. And it's he's not doing that because he's cruel. Because he just wants to, you know, smash you. No, the reason that a good father confronts us is because he loves us. And he sees beyond just what's going on in that moment and he goes, where does this lead? What's the end of this particular behavior? And so the the the hardness of a father who's doing things the way he should Is actually one of love. But this is another interesting statement. Like a father pities his children The truth is that if you're a loving father and you see that your child is in a very difficult position, your heart is moved towards that. More than it would be towards other people. There is something, there is a tenderness that I have toward my own children that is different than other people. And that's not because I'm a bad person Okay? It's because they're my children. And so I feel drawn to meet their needs in a way that's different from other people. That's not a bad thing. That's because I'm their father. And God puts that into our hearts. And so He uses this analogy of tenderness, and it's one that, by the way, it's not in every family. Some people live in families, they don't know what it means to have a father that's tender. And that's a tragedy. And so when they come to a passage like this, they go, I don't even know how to wrap my mind around that. And when they when they see someone who is, it really, really stands out to them. But if that's been your experience, you go, ah, I know how comforting that is. And so what's his point? It's to highlight how great God's mercy is. His mercy is something that we can't quantify, and it's also something that is very very tender. It is it is very deep. It is in God's innermost being that He has this compassion toward us. The third thing that's highlighted in these verses is that it's deeply personal. It's deeply personal. In verses 3 to 5, and then 10 and 14, he says it this way. who forgiveth all thine iniquities, who healeth all thy diseases, who redeemeth thy life from destruction, who crowneth thee with loving kindness. and tender mercy, who satisfies thy mouth with good things, so that thy youth is renewed like the eagles. He's not dealt with us according to our sin, not rewarded us according to our iniquities. He knows our frame. He remembers that we are dust. I know it sounded a little bit like I was emphasizing something, right? The personal side. It's not just he heals you, he heals me, he heals us. And so what really makes this personal, or what really makes this drive it home, is that he's saying, it's not just that God does this with other people, he's done it with you. And the truth is that God has dealt with us so, so kindly. But a lot of times we get so busy we don't think about it. And that's why a season like this is so important. Because it's our way of stopping whatever everything that's going on around us and just kind of focus our attention on God, how have you dealt with me? Forgiveness, he emphasizes us here, healing when we're sick, redemption, provision of our needs. I love that statement. He satisfies your mouth with good things. So that your new youth is renewed like the eagle. Some of you go, that's kind of cool. Feel like a young guy again, right? Why is that? Because he provides. He's faithful to his promises. That's what he means when he says that it's uh he's crowned thee with loving kindness and tender mercy. That word loving kindness. It's a very, very rich Hebrew term. And it has the idea of God's covenant faithfulness. So when God promises a thing, he follows through with it. That's the idea. He passed over our sin. And I we've been de we've been dealing with this on our Sunday morning in Sunday school. But you gotta remember that David is an Old Testament saint. God forgave David, though the basis of that forgiveness had not been yet dealt with at the cross. And that's why in the Old Testament uses the term atonement so many times, because it provided a covering that's pointing to something that's coming. But at the cross. God dealt with David's sin and so he demonstrated he was righteous to actually pass over those sins in the Old Testament. So that's why the I that's why he has the idea of you've not dealt with us according to our sin, you've not rewarded us according to our iniquities. You've passed over our iniquities. That's why he uses that language. And then he says, You have compassion on us and our weakness. He knoweth our frame. He remembereth That we are dust. You ever had somebody tell you to do something and you know that you are physically unable to do it? You know how frustrating that is? Go do this. And you're like, I can't. And some may say, well get the get the tea out, I can't, and it's can. Okay, but there are some real life limitations that some of us have. Okay? I can't pick up a car, neither can you. There are certain things that if I'm told to do them, I can't do them. And so one of the things that's very helpful is that when someone gives us a task, we know that they understand what we're capable of, and they're not requiring of us something that cannot be done. That makes sense, doesn't it? You appreciate that when a person does that. They're giving you a task, they can do it. They know you can do it. Doesn't mean it's gonna be easy, but you can do it. And so what does he say? He knows our frame. He knows what we're capable of. He remembers that we're dust. All of this tells us of God's wisdom. So, all of that boils down to one very simple fact. We need to be thankful people. So during this Thanksgiving season, how can we do that? Let me give you some final practical thoughts. First of all, I'll say this. Remember that Thanksgiving always has an object. If I'm saying thank you, I'm saying thank you to somebody. Doesn't it make sense? It makes no sense to me that somebody would celebrate Thanksgiving and they don't believe in a God who actually gives them things, right? Who actually takes care of them. Like if you had a completely secular mindset, what is the point of having an event called Thanksgiving? Really? I mean, what is it? Now you could show gratitude to the people around you. Fine, I understand that. But the concept, as it goes back to the original founding of this issue, it was gratitude to God because of his provision. So make thanksgiving about him. Take this time to teach your kids or grandkids. So if you have children, use this as an opportunity to talk to them about God's presence. I don't I don't mean preach a sermon, all right. Everybody's like sitting there wanting to eat the food and they're like, I'm smelling this food and I don't want to listen to dad pontificate about some theological concept. I'm not talking about that. But make it about God Make sure that your children understand this isn't just a secular thing. We're Christians. We recognize that God has taken care of us. We're to develop a sense of community. Some people this is the only time they get together with family. There's reasons for that sometimes. Could be distance It could be how well people get along. I don't know if we're going to be able to sit in the same room for three hours without something really crazy coming up, so we're going to give it a try and see how it goes. And then when it's time to walk out, we'll walk out and we'll try it again next year. I know that's how it goes sometimes. But the truth is that this is a great opportunity to develop a sense of community. Consider those who have great need. This is especially true in this area. Lots of people live in this area that don't have family. So keep that in your mind. If you're getting together for Thanksgiving, go, you know, there might be a family in the church that doesn't have somebody to get together with. I'm going to think about having them over. Think about that. There are people that have experienced loss of a loved one this past year, and Thanksgiving's not really gonna be fun for them. Because they're gonna remember, you know, dad always sat in that seat right there and dad's not here anymore. Or my wife is the one who cooked all the meals every year for the last 50 years. And today will be the very first time that we've had Thanksgiving, and she's not the one who did it. And that's really going to be hard for people to go through. It's a very painful time. The holidays are a time of great difficulty for especially older people. Because there's all the energy and all the work that goes into that and everybody leaves and then it's just like I remember what it was like when and now it's different and it it really is a hard time for me. people. Not to mention it's cold and dreary and dark and all that as well. So look out for people that have need. There are people that have financial difficulties. And it's not easy for them to put together a meal. If you know that there's somebody that has maybe a tight budget, get them a turkey. You know, bring something over to their house. Just say, hey, just want to be a blessing. I mean, maybe bring it cooked or bring it early enough that they can cook or something like that. But but the idea is, you know, look out for those people. The rescue mission, man, they I can't remember how many turkeys that they cook for Thanksgiving. It is a massive, massive spread. It's really something. But think about the fact that some people are really going to have a tough time. Look at this as an opportunity to make good memories with your kids. This is something that I'm starting to think about a little more. And that's um, you know, the amount of time you have with your children when they're your children under your house, it it gets shorter every year. And all of a sudden one day you're like, I guess you're in college and And there it is. Times have changed. And so make memories with your kids. You know? Do some fun stuff with them. Last thing I want to mention is this. Don't allow the busyness and the stress of the season to rob you of the joy that you should have. Lots and lots of people get so focused on having everything perfect at that meal that they make it miserable for everyone who comes. Don't do that. Be more focused on the fact that you have people there who you love and you want to have interaction with. Make it more about that than the perfection of the turkey. And the perfection of all the different decorations in the house and everything working out perfect. In life, very few things come even close to optimal. You just gotta learn to roll with what you got. And so that's my encouragement to you tonight. I know it's not exactly an expositional sermon, but it's a reminder of some of the history of this season. It's a reminder of how God, in his wisdom, created Periods within the week and within the year where people needed to stop and focus on Him. Reminder, some wonderful truths from Psalm 103, and then some practical things to think about as we celebrate together. Let's bow for prayer. Lord, we are so grateful that we can gather with family and friends over the next couple of days. Or we can just gather as our own our own family with our children. And I pray that when we do that, that we would not waste the opportunity. That we would make it about you, that we would make it a time that is not a burden, one that is miserable, one that is wanting everything to be perfect. But that it would be just a good time of fellowship and reflection on you. I pray it actually would be restful for us. I pray for those who are traveling that you give them safety, as there will be a lot of people on the roads and in the air over the next couple of days. Father, I pray that you'll keep us safe and healthy. Help us to be a blessing to people that might be in great need right now. And we ask that you would also give a special measure of grace to those who have lost family over the last year or two, and this is going to be a lonely period for them It's going to bring back that loss. I pray that you would comfort them and that you would really work in their lives through this. And we ask this all in Christ's name. Amen.