Take your Bibles and turn to 1 Peter chapter 4. 1 Peter chapter 4. And once you get to that text, we will read it. And then we will go to the Lord in prayer and ask him to bless our time together and really to come to the Lord and say, would you help us to be more like Christ? Because that's really what the intent of the passage is that we'll look at. First Peter chapter 4, we'll begin in verse number 1. For as much then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh. Arm yourself likewise with the same mind. For he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin. That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lust of men, but to the will of God For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, revelings, banquetings. And abominable idolatries. Let's bow our hearts together in prayer and ask the Lord to really consecrate this time, that it'll be a special time where we See the Lord, his hand at work in our hearts and our lives through the text that's before us. Let's bow together in prayer. Father, we confess to you that we are great sinners. We confess to you that within our hearts are innumerable wickednesses Father, we recognize that we are in our core very self-centered people, very prone to wander, very prone to excess. Father, we're certainly not as grateful to you as we ought to be. We certainly don't walk in consecration, holiness, as we ought. And Father, we confess that to you this morning. Father, we acknowledge our sinfulness and we glory in the Lord Jesus Christ. And the work that He has accomplished in full so that we can be redeemed, so that we can be declared righteous, so that we can be cleansed and forgiven. and purified, so that we can be regenerated by the Spirit's power, and so that we can walk in newness of life Father, I pray that this morning as we open up this text of Scripture, that you would speak to our hearts in a very precious way. Father, I pray that you would open our understanding. I pray that you would bring conviction of sin , righteousness, and judgment to those who don't know the Lord Jesus Christ as their Savior. And Father, I pray that those who have placed their faith in Christ, who have the presence of the Holy Spirit, would be pressed in our souls that we might walk to a greater degree in Christ's likeness. I pray that you'd help me as I communicate the text to do it effectively. Father, we pray for those in our midst who might be carrying heavy burdens. You know those burdens very well. And Father, we know that you care about those things very deeply. You love the people that are carrying these burdens. And Father, I pray that this morning you might strengthen and encourage and bless those individuals. Father, I know that in our midst and those who are not with us, there are some who are sick. There are some who've traveled. There are some who can't be here today. I pray that you would minister to them as well. Pray that you would strengthen them and enable them to think clearly that this would be a very special day of worship and reflection, a day that you minister to them in a special way. And then Father, I pray that you'd be with the children as they're in the back at Junior Church. I pray that those who are teaching them might effectively communicate the scriptures before them, and that you'd be at work in the hearts of our children. We ask for your blessing on this time, and we thank you for it. In Christ's name. Amen. I'm going to ask you this question. And before you answer it in your mind, I want you. Well, I'm going to ask the question. Here it is. Why did God save you? Why did God save you? You know, more than likely, the way you answer that question is one thing, and then all of a sudden you start sitting there and you go, well, you know, there's another side to this. Then the more you think about it, you say there's another side to this and another side to this. Let me put it this way. God saved you to magnify his glory. He saved you so that he could proclaim his goodness and his power and his might and his grace and his love. So on one level, God saved us so that he could reveal himself in all of his glory. On another side, he did it because he was pressed by his goodness and by his love and by his compassion and by his grace and by his mercy. In other words, because God's heart loves people, he saved us. He saved us because he's merciful. He was pressed with a desire to restore his creation to its original beauty. And perfection, the design that He had for us. He wants you to fulfill the purpose he created you for. And so he saved you. It was to rescue you from sin and the terrible consequences of your sin. But here's one that I want to mention. And this really is what is emphasized in the scripture that we're looking at this morning. It was to rescue you from the emptiness of a life lived under the oppression of your flesh. I want to say that again. It was to rescue us from the emptiness of a life that is lived under the oppression and the domination of our flesh. The reality is, before I was saved, not only was I lost and under God's wrath and deserving of his judgment, but I was living in a way that was empty. It was void of the kind of value and purpose that God has designed for people. And so God had to Save me from my sin and make me a new creature in Christ and put his Holy Spirit within me so that I could begin to grow into Christ's likeness and begin to live the way that God intended me to live. The text before us, 1 Peter 4, verses 1 to 3, was written for this purpose. It was to remind us that God saved us to rescue us from an empty life lived under the oppression of our flesh. The fact is that God wants us this morning to walk out of this room with a mind that is armed with the mind of Christ. And he makes that very statement. He says this, you need to have the mind of Christ. Arm yourself likewise with the same mind. That's what this passage is really all about. In fact, it's interesting as we've been looking at the flow of Roman or 1 Peter chapter 3 into 1 Peter chapter 4, we've seen a couple of things. First of all, we've seen that our lives as Christians are to be distinguished by a steadfast. Trust in God's providence. And so he talks about people who are in very difficult circumstances. They've trusted the Lord Jesus Christ, but they're in a very difficult place. And because they're in that place, they're going to be tempted to compromise. They're going to be tempted to push outside of what God has for them. And he says, trust God. He is sovereign. He's in control. He rules in the affairs of men. He's allowing you to go through difficulty, but it's not outside of his control. Trust him. And that was really the emphasis of 1 Peter chapter 3. In the various circumstances that those people found themselves, he says, trust God, do what's right, he's going to settle the matter when the time is right. We see a second part of the flow of these verses. Our commitment as Christians to Christ should be distinguished by a willingness to publicly identify with him no matter the personal cost. And so last week, as we looked at the text dealing with baptism, we saw that baptism saves the Christian from a soiled conscience. And so these people were tempted to rather than, I've trusted Christ and I know I'm saved, rather than publicly identifying with Christ and saying, I'm unashamed to let people know I'm a Christian, they wanted to kind of go under the surface. And we talked a little bit about why it was so tempting for them to do that. And the reality is it's tempting for us too as well, sometimes, in the places that we might find ourselves. But he says, no, don't do that. Identify with Christ. Be willing to publicly stand up and say, I'm a Christian. That's what the baptism represented. And so he said, rather than having a compromised conscience, Be willing to identify with the Lord Jesus Christ. The second aspect of the flow of the thoughts in those chapters. Well then we come to a third, and that really is what we're looking at this morning. Our lives as Christians should be distinguished by a separation from fleshly thinking and fleshly patterns. Now it's interesting in this passage we're going to see that before he talks about conduct, he talks about the root, the source of conduct. We're going to get into that in just a moment. So, how is it that we are to arm ourselves with the mind of Christ? Let's look at a couple of truths that we find in the passage before us. The first truth is this: Christ's denial of self. Is our foremost example of how we are to think. Christ's denial of self Is our foremost example of how we are to think as Christians. Look down in verse number one, it says this For as much then as Christ hath, what is he doing? He's emphasizing the fact that there is an example That I'm bringing to your attention, somebody did something that you're to look at and you're supposed to actually imitate or follow. For as much then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh Arm yourself likewise. That's the statement. Look at Christ. Look at how he lived. Look at what he did, and you were to follow that example. You know, I think as Christians, we tend to think of the faith in terms of what Christ did. And by the way, there's a reason for that. We think about it because if we did not think about what Christ did, there'd be no reason to try to follow his example. The fact if if I was an unregenerate person If my sins weren't forgiven, if Christ hadn't gone to the cross and accomplished redemption for me, I couldn't follow his example because I'd be dominated by my flesh. So we tend to talk about propitiation, the fact that Christ's sacrifice in full satisfied the Father's wrath. And what a wonderful thought We talk about redemption, the fact that his shed blood paid the price in full for the purchase of our freedom. Wonderful, wonderful truth. We talk about our justification, the fact that his righteousness has been imputed to us so that we can be declared righteous before God. When God looks at me, he says, Pastor Joel, well let's just call me Joel probably They're gonna call me Pastor Joel. Joel, you are righteous. Not because you are, but because you're in Christ. And that's what he'd say about you. And the reality is it was the work of Christ accomplished for me that allows me to stand righteous before God. Justification. We talk about glorification, the fact that Christ triumphed over death, guaranteeing our ultimate triumph over death and this fallen body. Because there's an empty tomb, not just the cross and the shed blood of Christ, but an empty tomb, because Christ rose from the dead. He conquered death. We will too. We will stand in his presence in a redeemed body, a glorified body, because he rose from the dead. We tend to think of the faith in terms of what Christ did for us, and we should do that. But it's interesting in this passage, he goes to a second aspect of how we should relate to the work of Christ. This passage emphasizes the example of Christ that we are enabled to imitate because we are now a child of God. We are new creatures in Christ. We've been regenerated. And this is what he says, as Christ suffered in the flesh, likewise you must arm yourself. Christ's humiliation is the greatest example of self-denial known to man. We could talk about someone who has made a tremendous sacrifice for the sake of their family. And there are wonderful examples of that. We can talk about in a military situation how someone has paid the ultimate price to lay down their life for their brother in the battle. We can talk about self-denial on a lot of different levels, but I will tell you there is no illustration in all of the world, in all of human history, that rises to the level of the Lord Jesus Christ. There is no example. In Philippians chapter 2, verses 5 to 8, it says this let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus. Who being in the form of God thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross. Let me break down to you what the text is saying there. Basically it's saying this: when you look at Christ, you see God That's what the phrase who being in the form of God means. If you see Jesus, you see God in flesh. He says he thought it not robbery to be equal with God, but made himself of no reputation. The idea is this that the divine are when we look at Christ, not only do we see God, but we see a divine nature that he didn't have to grasp and steal. He owned it, it was him. Yet what did he do? He laid aside his authority. He still is God. But he comes in humility. He comes in humiliation. He empties himself. And he comes in the likeness of men. And not only does he come as God in flesh in humility, But he goes to the cross. You can't think of a more horrible way for a person to suffer and to die than the cross. And Christ did that for us. The just, for the unjust, to bring us to God. And Peter says this: you need to deny yourself Like Jesus denied himself for your redemption. We're commanded to deny self after his example. He denied self by willingly humbling himself to the Father's plan, going to the cross, taking on flesh. We deny ourselves By putting to death our fleshly desires. In fact, it's interesting, Brother Doug was talking in Sunday school about mortification. And that's exactly what the passage is talking about. Our flesh needs to be put to death. And the Bible talks a lot about that. Romans chapter 8, verse 13. If we live after the flesh, you shall die, but if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, you shall live. Colossians 3 verse 5, Mortify therefore your members which are upon earth. And he lists a whole bunch of sinful passions that we are to put to death. Romans chapter 6, verses 12 and 13, he says, Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal bodies. That ye should obey it in the lust thereof, neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin, but yield yourselves unto God. One of the things that we must be willing to do as Christians, and not just willing to do it, but we must be persistent day by day, moment by moment, is as our flesh begins to boil inside. We have to put to death the sinful passions. And we're all made of the same stuff. There are no exceptions in this room. None. We all boil with the same fleshly passions. We might express it differently Some of us may be more visible in what people see as we express those fleshly desires, but we're made of the same stuff. And we as Christians, as Christ denied himself to go to the cross He humbled himself to the will of the Father so we could be redeemed. We have to put to death our fleshly passions. And we did to do it day by day, moment by moment. We come to a second truth that's very important. And this one really flows out of the first. Our foremost calling as Christians is not to a code of conduct. But to a radical transformation of thinking. Let me say that again. Our foremost calling as Christians is not to a code of conduct, but to a radical transformation of thinking. Notice what he says in verse 1. Arm yourself likewise with the same what? I didn't hear it. I'll try it again. Arm yourself likewise with the same what? The same month. Now just think about this for a moment. He just stated that Jesus suffered in the flesh. And he says, arm yourself with the same what? Minds. So what is the emphasis of the passage? Is the emphasis what Jesus did or the way that he sought? Clearly, it's the way that he thought. And you say, why is it not over? Does God not care about what we do? Folks, he absolutely cares what we do In fact, as we get into this text a little bit later, we're going to see that he's very, very specific about things that they had done before conversion that are no more part of their life. But what is the ultimate root of what you do? It's what's in here. It's what's in here. It's your mind. It's your thinking. It's your worldview. It's your passions. In other words, what you do is not everything, it's what's actually flowing from a source. It's the tip of the iceberg to use that illustration. And I want to remind you of this very important fact. Dealing with symptoms, addressing behavior alone, does not provide lasting change. It absolutely doesn't. Just dealing with the symptom, just dealing with the effect, just dealing with the activity is not enough for there to be a full change. But when you deal with the source, what follows is change of behavior. It's interesting, if you go to Matthew chapter 12. It's a really interesting discussion. I'm not going to read this passage in depth and deal with it in depth, but Jesus makes this statement. He says, when the unclean spirit is gone out of a man He walketh through dry places seeking rest and finding none, and he saith, I will return into my house from whence I came out. And when he hath come he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished Then goeth he and taketh with him seven more spirits more wicked than himself. It's a really interesting passage. I'd encourage you to jot it down, go to it. You say, what in the world is Jesus talking about? This is what he's basically saying. They're having a discussion about people who have demonic oppression internally. They are being dominated by demons. And the Pharisees and the Public and the Sadducees, these individuals were masters of wanting to exercise those individuals who had those problems. But this is what Jesus says to those people. If you can remove the demons and nothing changes internally, guess what? He's coming back. That's basically what he's saying. You can remove the problem, but if you don't replace the problem internally, he's coming back. And when he comes back, it's going to be worse. And want you to see how this relates to this issue of dealing with what we do without going deeper to lie. It has no ability to provide a lasting change. Because what's going on inside stays the same. It's interesting you could have a cup that's full of dirt. And you can get Windex, you can get antibacterial soap, you can wipe the outside of the glass and make it really clean, but if you don't get rid of the dirt inside It's just as dirty as it was when you picked it up. In other words, what's inside is extremely important to address Dealing with externals only provides superficial change. Jesus, in his talk with the Pharisees, says this in chapter 23 of Matthew. Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. Ye make clean the outside of the cup. There's where the illustration came from. Jesus had it first. And of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess. He basically says to these people, you look very good on the outside, but I know what's in you. And the change that has taken place is completely superficial. It's not real. It's not genuine. It's not lasting. I want to remind you that the law really is powerless to change a person. Romans chapter 8, verses 3 to 4 says this: what the law could not do, and that it was weak through the flesh. God, sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh, in force and condemned sin in the flesh, that the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not after the flesh. But after the Spirit. This passage of Scripture is one of my absolute favorites in all the Bible. Because basically, what the passage says is this the law can't make you righteous. And the reason it can is because you are not righteous. You are a fallen creature. You are a fleshly person. You can put yourself under e any legal system. It's not going to change you internally. And God knows that. And so you know what God did? God provided redemption through the cross instead of the law, because the law is powerless to make you clean. In other words, Christ came and he did it all, and he makes you a new creature in Christ, and all things pass away, and all things become new, and the Holy Spirit indwells you, and all of a sudden you're empowered to actually do what's right. It's an amazing concept. Go to that passage. Reflect on it. Romans chapter 8. But the point is this: the law's presence doesn't make people righteous. All it does is say you're not. That's all it does. It's like you have high blood pressure and you put the cuff on your sleeve. Putting the cuff on your sleeve doesn't make your blood pressure go down. It actually makes your blood pressure go up after you see the reading. You know what I'm talking about? It has no power to remove the problem. It just reveals it. I also mentioned this: it's only the Spirit's internal work in the thinking and affections of new creatures in Christ. That provides lasting change. And that's why in Romans 12, 2, it says this: Be not conformed to this world, but be transformed by the renewing of your mind. In other words, the way that you change is by God getting into your heart and changing how you think. That's where it starts. If your thinking hasn't changed, then there will be no lasting change in the way you live and what you 've I want to ask some practical questions in light of what we've just stated. Are you a Christian? When I say are you a Christian, I don't mean are you a cultural Christian? Do you go to church? Have you been baptized? I'm not talking about that Have you understood the gospel? Where you've placed your faith in the finished work of Christ, you realize your righteousness is unacceptable, you realize you're a sinner, that's condemned, and there's no hope apart from the work of Jesus. And in repentance, you've placed your faith in what he did for you on the cross. Have you been born again? You say, why does that matter? I'll tell you why it matters. You cannot live a Christian life if you're not a Christian. It's impossible. Two, are you seizing the opportunities that God has provided for you to be exposed to His Word? One of the reasons that the church of our generation Is so weak. Lacks holiness, lacks passion and fervency Lacks the power of God. It's because the church of our generation neglects the most important thing that God uses to change people, and that's the Bible. There has never been a time in human history where there has been more knowledge available to Christians. Never We are an information overload. It's not a lack of opportunity. It's a lack of discipline to actually get into the word. Are you seizing the opportunities that God has for you so you can grow? Are you growing in your ability to correctly interpret the scripture so you know what it says? It's interesting, on Wednesday night we spent a lot of time talking about Bible interpretation and how we need to be so cautious that we ask questions of the scriptures and let the scriptures speak for themselves rather than us forcing onto the Bible what we want to see there. Do we have the ability to rightly divide the word of truth? That's how we grow. That's how we change. That's how we mature. Are we growing in this discipline of meditation upon God's Word? I remember when Rand Hummel was here at around Christmas time. I think he was teaching Sunday school and he was talking about meditation. And I remember I was sitting right there And he's walking there and he was asking people about about meditation. And let me tell you, I was really hoping he wouldn't ask me the question. I'm just sitting there going, look past, look at my wife and ask her. Well we just hide. Because you know a lot of us read the Bible. And we get to the point where we understand what it's saying. But we don't chew on it. We don't meditate on it. Folks, meditation on God's word is how the book becomes a part of you. It's like the cow that chews the cud. Why does the cow do that? Because it gets nourishment and nutrition out of that continuing to chew on the grass. As we continue to chew on the word, it not only stimulates our minds, but it changes our hearts. It changes our affections. It shapes our perspective. It shapes everything about us. And I asked this last question, internalizing, or I make this statement, internalizing God's word is the most important factor in growing as a Christian. We have to internalize the word. That means we have to be going to the source. And I ask you, are you growing? We come to a third and final truth that I want to mention this morning. And that's this. God not only saved us to deliver us from his wrath. But also to deliver us from the emptiness of a life lived under the domination of our flesh. And that really is the whole point of this passage. Everything that I've said, I believe, is theologically important. But this is the point of the text He says this in verses one and two. He says, He that hath suffered in the flesh cease from sin, that he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God's. God saved you, Christian, that's what he's saying, so that you would not live under the domination of your flesh. So that you would not be a slave to your passions, but your mind would be focused on God and you would live life as He intended you to live it. It's an amazing concept. We think about this. Here's the reason God saved me. He's emphasizing the passage that we no longer live the rest of our time to the lust of men, but to the will of God. And I want you to think about this for a moment. The Bible presents God As an infinitely wise creator of everything. And I put it this way: if God made it the way He made it, He had a reason for it. Does that make sense? If God made it The way he made it has a reason. And you know one of the things that we find out in the world today is that what God has made Rather than people understanding God made it, he had a reason for it, I want to figure out what that is, and I want to do it because that's the way it works, they find their own ways to do it. And let me tell you, man's way of using God's good creation is abusive. It is. It's abusing God's good gifts. Let me give you some examples. God created our minds. Crimeans are an amazing thing. They really are. We only use part of our minds really. And as we get older And as we get more and more distraction in our life, it's harder and harder to focus our attention on those things. It's kind of like going back to school after 20 years. How would that go for us? Or after forty years sitting in a classroom and going through those disciplines, it's not going to be easy. Why? Because we lose those disciplines. But God created our minds for purpose. He created our minds so that we could know him intimately. He created our minds so that we could take care of what he's made and manage it wisely. It's interesting. We go to the garden, what do we see? We see that God created man to take care. Of the creation. One of the most basic, simplest things. Take care of what God has made. Create things that reflect the beauty and the majesty and the wisdom of God. Creativity is something that God gave us. And so God wants us to use our minds for good purposes. We think about our emotions. Think about something like joy. God wants us to experience joy and a God-centered worship of Him. God wants us to experience the thrill of growing and a knowledge of Him. God wants us to experience the warmth of healthy human relationships. God created us not just with a head, with a mind, but with emotions. And the reality is that God made us that way for a purpose. And that purpose is good. God created our bodies, distinctively male, female, for a purpose. God wants us to work diligently with our bodies to take care of what He made God wants us to glorify God through our bodies, which He's given us. God wants us to use our bodies for His good, sovereign purposes. And the fact is this: when you become a Christian and God transforms you internally, and the Word of God becomes a part of your life. and you begin to have a worldview that's shaped by the Bible, and you're growing in grace and the knowledge of the Lord Jesus, all of a sudden that mind that God gave you begins to be used more and more and more for the purposes God gave it to you for For. And those emotions that God gave you become more and more conformed to the purposes that He gave you those emotions for. And this body that God gave you is used more and more for the purposes that He created you to fulfill. Yet I want you to see what happens when people reject God. When they reject his ways. And his purposes. And one of the most pronounced examples of this is in Romans chapter one. I want you to read I want you to go to Romans chapter one and we're going to look at a couple of ways that the good purposes that God has designed for our minds, our emotions, our bodies, how they get twisted. And they get perverted and they get misused when we reject God's ways A tragic misuse of the good gifts of God. In verse 23, it says this that mankind changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image like unto corruptible man. In other words, it's a tragic misuse of the mind. Rather than people going to the Word and seeing who God is and glorifying Him as He is , they say, I don't like what the Bible says. I'm going to shape God in my image. Taking our mind and misusing it. Verse 24, it says, God gave them up to uncleanness. through the lusts of their own hearts to dishonor their own bodies between themselves, a tragic misuse of the mind, the emotion, and the body. Dishonor, don't miss that words. Dishonoring our bodies amongst ourselves. When we take our body and we use it in ways that God never intended it to be used. We dishonor the good gift of God. A tragic misuse of God's revelation of Himself. Verse 25, he says this: they changed the truth of God into a lie. And worshiped and served the creature more than the creator. In verse 26 and 27, a tragic misuse of our sexuality and God's good gift of marriage. For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections. In other words, the emotions that God gave us that are designed for good purposes have been perverted. They've been twisted. They're no more what they're supposed to be. They're called vile affections. Their women have changed the natural use into that which is against nature. And likewise also the men leaving the natural use of the woman burned in their lust one toward another, men with men, working that which is unseemly. And I ask you a question, what's that talking about? You can't escape 21st century discussion, folks. That's talking about something that's very acceptable in our society. It's a perversion, a twisting of God's good gift of sexuality and marriage. In verse 28, we see a tragic misuse of our ability to reflect and recall and synthesize truth. It says they did not like to retain God in their knowledge. In other words, rather than sitting down and reading the scriptures and seeing God's hand in creation and God's hand in history and how God works and moves in wonderful ways in the lives of people, they don't want to see it. Rather than sitting down and absorbing this and seeing what it means and recalling it and reflecting on it and worshiping God, there's a rejection. And then we see a tragic misuse of the minds. God gave them to a reprobate mind to do those things which are not convenient. That word convenient there means it's not appropriate. It's not fitting. It doesn't meet the purpose for which God designed it. I moved very quickly through that passage because I wanted to emphasize one very important point. Those people who rejected God misused his good gifts. And the reality is that all of us would find ourselves in that position until we're saved. Until we become a new creature in Christ, and old things pass away, and all things become new. And we continue to function on some level in that way until we we become transformed through the renewing of our minds. In the passage, 1 Peter chapter 4, he mentions some things that they did. Look down in your Bibles at what it says. The time of our life may suffice to have wrought the will of the Gentiles. When we walked in lasciviousness, lust, excessive wines, revelings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries. We move quickly through that and we don't think about what those words mean. We don't understand what they mean. We don't look them up, and I'm going to tell you what they mean. Lasciviousness. It simply means this, a life that's dominated by a shameless, unrestrained lust. To put it like this If you want to do it, you do it. You don't care the consequence. You don't care if it's right or wrong. You feel it, you do it. By the way, that's what our culture says we're supposed to do. That's what they tell us. It's called lasciviousness. Doing what feels good simply because we feel like doing it Lusts. A life that's dominated by craving for the forbidden. We think about power, money, sexual pleasures. There's lots of different places we could go, but those are some of the most dominant ways that we fulfill lustly passions. Lustful passions, excess of wine, a life that's dominated by drunkenness. Putting it this way, you're constantly drunk. You know what's interesting? He's actually going to talk about drunkenness in about four different ways, because not every person who drinks a lot drinks the same way and for the same reason. This person simply is always drunk, always intoxicated, never in their right mind. There are many people that live that way. They go to work, they do their job, and the rest of the day, they're gone. He talks about revelings. It's a life that's dominated by drunken parties. In other words, a person is not an alcoholic, they're not always drunk. But when they get drunk, they do it for a reason. They want to remove the inhibitions. They want to have fun with other people who are intoxicated so they can all do the same things. And folks, that's what he's saying. Revelinks. Getting drunk to remove the inhibition for a big party. This is a major problem in our culture. It really is. It's a huge problem in our culture. But that's not new. That's something that has been a part of mankind all the way back to the fall of man. He then mentions banquetings. The idea is a life that's dominated by binge drinking, getting drunk simply to experience it. It's like you have a kid he goes to college and he turns 21. Maybe he's turned twenty-one. We don't know. He turns twenty-one. And they're going to go to a party. He said, I just want to know what it's like. To get as drunk as I can get. Been drinking. And everybody's laughing, having a good time while this person is putting themselves in a stupor that may end them in a hospital. might end them with consequences that will last with them for the rest of their lives. And that's what he's talking about here. It then talks about abominable idolatry as a life that's dedicated to offensive idolatrous practices. You know, it's very interesting in the ancient world when they talked about idolatry. Generally, it was associated, worship of idols is associated with drunken parties. Go surprise, right? That's what it was generally all about. And what he basically is saying is you used to. Do all those things. The last thing he mentions is riots, a life that's out of control. You don't care about order, appropriateness, or respect for others Just people out in the streets doing whatever they want to do, and they don't care what it costs anybody. But you know what's amazing about this section right here? He basically says this. That's what you used to do. You used to do it. He said, but you're not doing that anymore. The scripture presents living by the Spirit's power as living in fulfillment of the purpose of our existence. He says that God saved you, that you no longer should live the rest of your time. and the flesh of the lusts of men, but to the will of God. Ecclesiastes 12 it says, let's hear the conclusion of the whole matter. Fear God. Keep his commandments. This is the whole duty of man. 1 Thessalonians 4, 3 to 4 says, This is the will of God, even your sanctification, that you should abstain from fornication, that everyone should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honor. First Corinthians six eighteen says that we are to flee fornication. Our body is the temple of the Holy Ghost. We're bought with a price, therefore we should glorify God in our bodies and in our spirit, which are God's. And in 1 John chapter 1, he says, that I've written these things to you, that you might have fellowship with us, and that your joy might be full. Folks, this message is about one very simple truth. God saved you, so you don't waste your life. And I want to ask you a question: Are you wasting your life? Are you wasting your life? Are you living the way that God intended you to live? Are you saved? Is your life being transformed through the renewing of your mind? Because if it's not, then this message is calling you to return to Christ or to trust in Him as your Savior. God saved us to rescue us from an empty life lived under the oppression of our flesh. Let's arm ourselves with the mind of Christ. I want you to bow your hearts together in prayer, please. And I ask you those questions. Is there a person here this morning that would say, Pastor? I'm not sure that I'm saved. Something I've struggled with for a while is something I'm just now thinking about, but I'm not sure if I'm saved. Can you pray for me? I need to talk to you. Is there anybody here that just quietly raise your hand while everybody's Eyes are closed and heads are bowed and says, I don't know for sure I'm saved. Anybody like that? Because if you don't know for sure that you're saved, they don't want you to leave this place without having somebody sit down with a Bible and show you how Second question I ask is this, is there somebody here that says, Pastor, I'm saved, but the way I'm living, from an eternal perspective, it's Pretty worthless. I'm convicted about that, and I want to arm myself with the mind of Christ. Anybody like that would raise your hand and say, Pastor, that's me. That's me. Several hands. Put them down. I'm going to pray for you. I want to encourage you when you go home this afternoon, really think about the text in front of us And ask the Lord to help you to respond correctly to it. Let's bow together for prayer. Our Father in heaven, we are so grateful for the Word of God and the power that it has to change us. And Father, if there's one here today that's not trusted Christ as their Savior, may today be the day that they recognize their need to turn to you in repentance and faith, trust in what Jesus did for them on that cross. And Father, for those that are saved but are not living as they ought, not internalizing the word and walking as a Christian, I pray that you would convict the soul and help each person in that position. To arm themselves the mind of Christ. Father, help us to be godly people who walk in obedience to your word and according to your ways. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen.