Good evening. Good to see each of you tonight. Let's go ahead and get started with a word of prayer and then we will uh sing our Christmas songs and then uh take testimonies and then take some favorites tonight. So let's bow together for prayer. Father, thank you for the opportunity to gather again this evening. I pray that you'll bless our service, help each of us to be richly blessed as we sit under the ministry of your word. And I pray that as we sing these songs of praise to you, that our hearts would be encouraged and that we would express genuine worship from our hearts and genuine worship as a body together. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. All right. Oh sweating a bit, I thought I might be leading a cappella up here. All right. 193, let's get started. Christmas Carol 193. Can we call it that? Let's stand. Angels from the realms of glory. We'll sing verses 1, 2, and 4 Ling elves , make else from the mouth of glory bring your. Thanks so much. Please be seated As we turn over to Hymn 197, it came upon a midnight clear. We'll be singing verses one, three, and four. Great singing, one page over, one ninety nine. Psalm hundred and ninety-nine. Hark the Herald Angel sing. We'll sing all three verses. All in the man Christmas. I say more they fold them up and I'll never have to. To attend Amen. Great singing. Okay, well on Sunday evenings we'd like to give you an opportunity to share testimonies All right, that Which one? Is that in the hymn book? Two hundred three. Two zero three. All right. Any others? Joanna? Two twenty eight. One more. I'll try and get a different all right. Yes. Four eighty three All right, let's see what we have here. Two oh three. Oh holy night. What's that? That's fine. Thank you. Thank you. We're gonna keep going. Oh, for me night, the sun at night may start. Then the night of my gas in your work on day the world has been an Your man and the soft of the sun But now for God We will rejoice and for your honor And over to two twenty eight. What child is this? What 's on my happy And four eighty three Four eighty-three, like a river glorious. Love this hymn. My God. But I can 't wait. Instead of the whole time I told me by the sleep command. Alright, let's see if we can get three more in. I think we can do that. Yes. Chris. 229. Two twenty nine. Two twenty nine. All right. Kell uh Kelly. Yes. Two thirteen. In the hymn book? You have too much of a mischievous look on your eye. Dare Darien, Damien, Darien. Four seventy-five in the red book. All right. Two twenty-nine. Oh come, oh come. Oh come, oh come. That never as well, that one that 's fine. Great and two thirteen. Oh, it's not a trap. Thank you. Is that my Christmas gift, Kelly? Two thirteen, the first Noel Some. Was this birth more sabbath? And for our last song before the special four seventy-five 475, let's all stand. Rejoice in the Lord. Let's sing the first and the last verse. God never When the buttons are in the morning the man Gord for your justice We know when we have a big time right there, or we 're mine I 've not come on. Now I can say that they were above God 's friend and the sun. When that my father of us And I trust them on the time For when I try and don 't mind I shall come and told. Amen. Great singing. Please be seated. There is a redeemer Jesus, God's own son, precious Lamb of God Messiah. Thank you, oh my father, for giving us your song and She's lost my remote, name of all names, precious Slam of God must I up for sinners say Thank you, oh my father, for giving us your strength. And leaving your spirit till work on earth. When I stand in the morning, I will speak his name. There I'll serve my team forever in a holy place. Thank you all my father for giving me. Us was lawn and leaving your spirit help for work on earth is gone. We don't get anything. Alright, turning your Bibles to Luke chapter 2. It's probably a fine imprint in Luke chapter 2 from this month. That's a wonderful passage. I love I love reading Luke chapter two Just gonna move this so it's not rubber. Does that help? Alright, Luke chapter 2. The message tonight is actually a part of a four-part series. It's a third part. And in this series, I worked through the introductions or the beginnings of each of the Gospels in an effort to demonstrate the importance of who Christ is. And before we get into this particular part of that series, I want us in the background of our minds to think about The purposes of the books of John and Matthew. If we look at the topics of each one of the Gospels, we'll understand that the book of John is demonstrating Christ's deity. It talks about Christ Being the Son of God. And Matthew, it's written to Jews. It's written to help demonstrate that the Messiah, Jesus Christ, is their king, is the king of the Jews. So with those two facts that Christ is God and that Christ is the King of Kings, the King of the Jews, that with that in the back of your mind, tonight we're going to be looking at Luke chapter 2. In an effort to help have insight into Christ's humanity So when looking at the importance of who Christ is, we need to look at Christ's humanity and Christmas time really is a great time to emphasize this. Because although Christ is God, is 100% God, we can't lose sight of the fact that Christ came to be a man. Came to be human. And before getting ahead of myself, let's go ahead and read Luke chapter 2, just the first seven verses. Just to get ourselves reacquainted with this beloved passage. It says in verse 1, It came to pass in those days that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus and all the world should be taxed. And this taxing was first made when Cyrenaeus was governor of Syria. And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city. And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem, because he was of the house and line lineage of David, to be taxed with Mary his espoused wife, being great with child. And so it was that while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered, and she brought forth her firstborn son. And wrapped him in swaddling clothes and laid him in the manger because there was no room for them in the inn. We're going to be moving through the entire chapter. Um, not that you haven't done that before. recently, right? Luke chapter 2, we're going to be looking at how God wants you, especially during this Christmas time, especially during this time where we reflect on the birth of Christ. We ought to be meditating on the unique humanity of Jesus Christ. Meditate on the unique humanity of Jesus Christ. It's always good to spend time just thinking about Christ's humanity. We can do this by reacting to three unique aspects, particularly revolving around the birth of the of Christ, three unique aspects of the birth of Christ. The first is this. Christ had a unique physical One we ought to celebrate. We need to celebrate Christ's unique physical birth. We read about it here in the first seven verses, but really The birth at w is is in the first twenty-one. I'm not going to read all of that. I know that you you've done plenty of reading of those first twenty-one verses. But the first thing we need to recognize about the physical birth of Christ is that it was very providential. It was very providential. I just read to you those first seven verses. Have you taken time to consider how God's hand moved to bring about this unique physical birth? If we were to think about it, we would recall that this physical birth in its providence, in God's providence. was brought about in fulfillment of a very distinct, very specific prophecy found in Micah 5. 2 We won't turn there, but I'll read to you that verse says, But thou, Bethlehem Ephertel, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel. whose going forths have been told but have been from old from everlasting. Very specific prophecy. Bethlehem Ephraim, though thou be little among the thousands, thousands of places that Christ, that the Messiah, could have been born in Israel. God chose Bethlehem. God chose Bethlehem out of thousands of cities. If you think about the fact that out of the many descendants of David, out of the thousands of cities in Jerusalem or in Israel, Out of the thousands of years of time, out of the many, many nations that God could have used to bring about all of these very specific events. God brought all of it together in a miraculous providential way Christ's unique birth. You think about it. God brought Rome, a specific nation, to rule over a specific geographic location, Israel. And made one specific decree that affected thousands of people, that directed two distinct people, to go from Nazareth 70 miles south to Bethlehem. At the exact time that it would take for Christ to be born. All those little tiny events Which culminated in one great physical birth. Christ's physical birth was providential. But on top of that, it was accessible. And this is the part I really get excited about. Verse 8. Notice there in Luke 2. In verse 8. Says, and there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night And lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them, and they were sore afraid. And the angel said unto them, Fear not, for behold, I bring you good Tidings of great joy which shall be through all people, for unto you is born this day in the city of David a Savior, which is Christ the Lord. And this shall be a sign up unto you, you shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes lying in a manger. This physical birth was accessible. We know about the shepherds waiting in a field. Minding their business, going about their work. And all of a sudden, angels appear and tell them of the Messiah's birth and tell them where to find him and tell them how to get there and to get there. And what did the shepherds to? They went, they saw the baby, and they told people about it Now there's many aspects of this, and some may say that shepherds, of course, were despised by society. That's actually was a common uh a common thought regarding the nations surrounding Israel, but when you consider that Israel knew about the Lord being their shepherd That these shepherds were the ones who raised these sheep so they can sacrifice to God for their sins. I'm not convinced that shepherds were necessarily hated by society. But whether they were hated or they were considered your average, normal, everyday person, the fact is they had access to the Messiah. They could go. They could see him. On top of that, Bethlehem A city filled with travelers on a very specific night. You know, we we tend to think mainly about Mary and Joseph, but they weren't the only descendants of David. You know, if you've ever traced your family history back, you realize there's a lot of people in that. In fact, David had many, many descendants. Whether they were direct or indirect, they were still required by law to go back to Nazareth or to Bethlehem. Bethlehem was a packed place. And it wasn't just packed with strangers, it was packed by people who were relatives, distant relatives, generally people who knew each other. And they were staying with each other, trying to find places to stay so that they can be taxed by Rome. An interesting fact that might come up in study, the word for in, when it says that there's no room for the in, is actually referring to a specific spot in a person's house. And whenever there was no room for the in the inn, it means that that house was packed. And Mary and Joseph were likely staying in the house of a relative, not some barn. And when there was no room for the end, where do they go? They went to the manger right outside that house and lay them there. Was it dirty? Probably, but Bethlehem was a rural place. It's probably a pretty dirty place to begin with I'm not saying that to try to destroy any kind of imagery that we have of Christmas time, but I say that to say this. Bethlehem was filled with a very close knit community. Families, friends, distant relatives, people That may have known each other from a time past or are for the first time meeting each other. People from all over coming together. And what do they have access to? The shepherds went around telling each and every one of them, the Messiah is born. The King of Israel is born. Emmanuel is born. And they all had access. to Christ. Master, tell us. We all have access To Christ. Christ, of course, we've heard it before. Christ wasn't born in a palace for only the rich people. He was born in a rural town. Filled with travelers and family members and everyday ordinary workers. All these different aspects of society brought together to have access. To the Messiah. You and I, no matter what made up class or societal status or whatever position we hold in life, we all have access to Christ. Not because necessarily he was born in a manger in a specific place, but simply by the fact that he was born His physical birth, his unique physical birth, was providential and accessible. As you meditate on the unique humanity of Christ, we ought to be celebrating the physical birth. That's what we're doing this this time of year. We're celebrating the physical birth. But we need to go on in the passage. And understand that in order to meditate on that unique humanity of Christ, we need to not only celebrate the birth, but we need to understand the physical Death. You and I must understand the physical death. Look in verse 22. And when the days of her, Mary's purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished. They brought him, Jesus, to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord, as it is written in the law of the Lord, every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. And behold, there was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. And the same was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel. And the Holy Ghost was upon him. And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost that he should not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. He came by the Spirit into the temple, and when the parents brought in the child Jesus to do for him after the custom of the law, Then he took him up in his arms and blessed God and said, Lord, now letest thou thy servant depart in peace according to thy word, for mine eyes have seen thy salvation which thou hast prepared before the face of all people, a light to light into Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel. And Joseph and his mother marveled at those things which were spoken of him And Simeon blessed them and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel. And for a sign which shall be spoken against, yea, a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also, that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed. Then he goes on to talk about Anna, a prophetess who in a very similar situation grew old waiting for the Messiah and got to see him. Why? Just so they can see Christ as a baby? Well, no. That's not the end of it. To understand the physical death, we read about Joseph and Mary going to the temple with Christ. They meet uh Simeon and Anna, who rejoice in the fact that the Messiah, the Redeemer of Israel, the one who would save his people from their sins, had come. Not just to be a baby, though. The Holy Spirit had kept them both alive until that day so that they can rejoice in that fact and then to teach. Joseph and Mary, something very special, very specific about their child. Joseph and Mary didn't just go to the temple with Christ, they learned at the temple about Christ. We read it there in verse 35. Mary was reminded that her firstborn son would die in her sight. I don't know that Mary would have specifically had something like Isaiah 53 on her mind. I don't know that she was completely understanding of Christ dying on the cross for their sins. The disciples, of course, were not Really all there whenever Christ was going to the cross. I do I wonder if Mary was in that same position. At the very least, we know that Simeon knew exactly what was going to happen, and he told Mary and Joseph, listen, the one that you hold in your arms, this child , He's going to die. We need to remember, especially in this wonderful time, we we get to celebrate the birth of Christ. It's a joyous time. But yet let's understand that Christ was born to die. Without his death, there would be no payment for sins. And that death can only be. It can only happen because Christ came to be a man. Christ came to be human. Christ had a very unique humanity. But you know, and this is why I I recall I help have you recall John. Talking about Christ being the Son of God. It wasn't enough that he came to be a man so he could die. He is God so that he could die for all of man Without his deity, his death could not pay for anyone else's sins. This was the perfect, flawless Lamb of God who was born to die for you and for me. We need to understand the physical death. We need to celebrate the physical birth in light of that physical death. As we do that, we meditate upon Christ's unique humanity. But as we talked about, Christ was a man, but he's also God. And in that, as we meditate upon Christ's unique humanity, we must always remember the undeniable mystery. Notice in verse 39. Verse 39 says, and when they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee to their own city, Nazareth. And the child grew and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year to the feast of Passover, and when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast. And when they had fulfilled the days as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem. And Joseph and his mother knew not of it. And they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day's journey, and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance. When they had found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking him. And it came to pass that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them and asking them questions. And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers. When they saw him, they were amazed. And his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? Behold, thy father and I have sought thee, sorrowing. And Jesus said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? Wis ye not that I must be about my father's business? They understood not the saying which he spake unto them. And he went down with them and came to Nazareth and was subject unto them, and his mother kept all these sayings in her heart. And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature. And in favor with God and man. You know, we don't tend to read all the way through chapter 2 as we read our Christmas stories on Christmas morning. But in reading this, we we need to remember the undeniable mystery. Now, I'm I'm not talking a mystery like Sherlock Holmes or Scooby-Doo or something. Talking about something that God has chosen not to reveal to us, something that God has chosen specifically to keep us from understanding. And this is something in our finite human minds we could never completely understand these things We notice there in verses 39 and 40, and then at the end there at 51 and 52 that Jesus grew as a normal young man. Look there again in verse 39. He performed all things according to the law of the Lord. And then verse 40, the child grew and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom, and the grace of God was upon him. He grew. You think about it, in his humanity, Christ had to learn how to walk. He had to learn how to speak. You know, we we understand that, we hear that, but you also need to think he had to learn how to build relationships. He gained understanding. He learned how to apply wisdom and to demonstrate godliness. Now I'm not saying that he did it imperfectly. He was perfect. He was flawless. He understood the scriptures. He understood how to apply them immediately. Why? Because he wrote them. But Christ grew. He matured. As a young man. I don't understand this. How is it possible for Jesus, who is God in the flesh To grow and to mature as a young boy into a young man is because he's 100% human. Don't over-deify Christ to where you diminish his humanity because Christ came to be a hundred percent man. But as he grew, he grew knowing he is God. And I say is on purpose. Christ is the eternal God. He's the one who stands outside of time. As a 12-year-old boy, we read about it in verses 41 to 50. Christ was in the temple teaching grown men the scriptures. He was answering their questions. He was asking them questions. And if you read on in the Gospels, you know how Christ answered asked questions. He asked questions knowing the answer You think about a twelve-year-old boy who's educating educated men. It's astounding. It's beyond comprehension. And it wasn't just that Christ knew the scriptures. It's that he was aware of who he was, who he is. As a 12-year-old boy, Christ reminded Mary and Joseph that God, his father, had sent him to do his work. What does he mean by that? It wasn't that he was just, you know, doing what the Bible says every day. No Christ came on a specific mission. He was born to die. He was born to fulfill the prophecies we find in the Old Testament. He was born. To fulfill his calling of God, to be the Lamb of God, to be the Son of God. How is this possible if Jesus is a hundred percent human? It's because he's a hundred percent God. It's impossible to wrap your mind, your head around this concept. Christ is a hundred percent man and a hundred percent God. The two don't mix, but the two are not separated. He's able to be, he's able to learn and yet be all-knowing. He's able to grow and yet be all-powerful. He's able to be separated from his earthly parents and yet be omnipresent. an undeniable mystery that during this Christmas time as we meditate upon the humanity of Christ, this unique humanity , As we rejoice in the birth and as we remember the physical death, we know that Christ was fully man and fully God. God wants you to meditate on the unique humanity of Christ. Not just so you can think about it and fill your mind, but so that you can understand this very important part of who Christ is and celebrate and understand the physical birth and death of Jesus Christ, all while never losing sight of that undeniable mystery. That baby in the manger, the one who grew up, learned to walk, learned to talk, became a young man into an adult. He's the eternal God who created all things. Let's meditate on that. Let's meditate on those truths. Not just during this Christmas time, but on into the new year. Let's bow for a word of prayer. Father, thank you for this enormous passage that can be examined and re-examined. over and over and truths can be drawn from it that are that are insightful and impacting and ultimately bring us to worship you In a deeper and more meaningful way. Help us to meditate on these truths going into Christmas, going into 2021, and let it draw us closer to you, for it's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. I think uh I don't know if we 've got enough to show anything. You know, when we identify ourselves as Christians, an essential aspect of what we're saying is not just that we believe that there was a man named Jesus who lived. But we believe that there was a man named Jesus who is God in flesh. And when Jesus talked to one of the reasons really that Christ was crucified is because people rejected who he claimed that he was. And he said very clearly in the book of John, it says, if you do not believe that I am he, you will die in your sins. And when he says, I am he, he's talking about, I am who the prophet said I was. And the fact is that when a person, when those people heard that, What did they do? They took up stones to kill him. They understood what he was saying. You know, somebody that might say, oh, Jesus never claimed to be God. Well, that's the way that they interpreted it, let me tell you. And it's not just that they interpret it that way, but from that time forward they plotted how they could destroy him. And ultimately, Christ goes to the cross, fulfilling the evil intentions of those men, and ultimately fulfilling the will of the Father so that we can be redeemed. And so this is a wonderful season for us to reflect on the miracle of the incarnation. And that's really the heart of our faith. It's the heart of what makes us Christians. And if you don't accept that very important doctrine, then you really have nothing. You do not have a Christian faith if you do not believe that the Lord Jesus Christ is God in flesh. So with that in mind, uh let's go ahead and take out our hymn books. And I don't know where the launch is. There we go. Our closing hymn was going to be the first Noel, and that is uh hymn 213 for those of you who want to turn there. And the rest of you it'll be up there on the screen. Hymn 210, the first Noel. We're going to sing the first, the fifth, and the sixth verses together. So let's stand together, please. And let's sing this. And let's really reflect on. What we heard about tonight. Then if you always get dreams for my No well no well What is the king of yeah? Alas, and where 's all in our joy? She praises to have been born. Oh well, no well, no well , or else I keep. All right. Well, I want to remind you again that this Wednesday we do not have our midweek service as we normally do. Instead, that's going to be on Thursday night at 7 o'clock, and that will be our Christmas Eve service. So really want to encourage you to come back out to that. That's always a highlight of the year. It's really a wonderful time where we're going to have lots and lots of singing. We're going to have nine songs, okay? Nine Christmas carols. We have quite a few favor uh specials that are going to be uh that are going to be done. Some are instrumental, some are solo, some are group. Um we're gonna have scripture reading that's going through the whole storyline. of the birth of Christ. It's going to be a wonderful time. It's going to be very gospel centered. It's going to be a great opportunity for you to bring someone who maybe doesn't know the Lord as their Savior. The gospel is going to be given and people are going to be challenged to respond to the gospel. So please do pray that we'll have a wonderful Christmas Eve service, that we'll have a good group of folks that come out. And who knows, maybe it'd be snowing when we leave. I don't know. It's supposed to rain, get up in the fifties, and then it's supposed to drop down below freezing overnight, and somewhere in there it's gonna turn to snow showers or something. something. So who knows, we'll see. Um this guy from Florida just just wants to see it snow. Now I don't want it to mess up the roads or anything on the way home. Just just want to see it come down. So uh anyway, uh but be in prayer for Thursday, that the Lord will really bless and that uh what is presented will be very Christ-honoring. and uh really get the gospel to people's hearts. Uh Walter, can you close us in prayer tonight? And uh yeah, just go I'm throwing you off there. Uh but we'll look forward to seeing you guys on Thursday, Lord willing. Okay, let's pray. Every father, thank you for today. Thank you for the opportunity to come to church, Lord. Thank you for a free country. Still, let's get still continue to come to church and worship you and learn about Christmas, what Christmas is all about. Heavenly Father, give us trouble and mercy, dear Father, whom and I'll bring us back uh Thursday, midweek, dear Father, have a wonderful time. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.