Well good evening. Hope you had a good afternoon. Looking forward to our service. I do want to remind you that we're going to have the Lord's table this evening. So if you're planning to uh partake of the elements, please make sure that If you don't have your elements that you pick those up during the first song when we do our singing, and then uh that'll that'll be good for later this evening. Let's bow together for a word of prayer, and then we'll open up our service. Father, we're so grateful for the local church. We're thankful for each believer that you have brought together this evening and those who will join us on the live stream. Tonight, I pray that as we partake together of the Lord's table and we remember the body of Christ which is broken and the blood of Christ which was shed for the remission of our sins. And as we reflect on Isaiah 53, I ask that you would help us to have just a greater sense of awareness of how great Christ's sacrifice was on our behalf. And may we be very humbled by that. May we recognize that what we have in Christ is so rich and so sweet. And it is all of your grace. And so just renew that sense in our minds this evening as we reflect on what Christ has done for us. We ask it in Christ's name, Amen. I apologize. I'm a little casual for Sunday night, but I was not expecting a song lead tonight. So I'm a late last minute substitution as they say. Please stand with me. Open your hymn books to hymn number four hundred and sixty-three. Blessed assurance. I can still sing just as Four sixty three, verses one through three. Oh once a lotation glory divine error salvation purchase of God born of his spirit Perfect subject realize Angels descending break from the floor Echoes of sleep whispered along Live my soul free , live my song, bringing my famous , my sorry , live my God. Bringing my name on my lawn, perfect submission only, I in my legal. Watching and waiting for me alone Filled with his word and crossing law this is my glory. Great singing. Let's turn back to hymn number 371. A passion for thee. 371. We'll sing both verses. But I remember the new thing with the word because uh absolutely much uh the woman Great singing. Please be seated as we turn over to hymn number three hundred ninety-one. I am resolved no longer to linger. We'll sing all four verses. The way when we go out and break , the bell and pray and No I think I 'm gonna win the ride, I believe on the water, I believe the weld and God For I am felling with the words of God I think in contemplation All right. Let's go to three forty, three forty in the red book. Verse three, verse three, three forty All right, six hundred three. Six hundred Six oh three. Obedience is the very best way to show that you You believe the merry man. Alright, let's jump over to the blue book. Number one Make me a servant like you, dear Lord If you want to lie, if my life is very hard, if we go into the Help me for us to be like my friend , here we are , here we go. Number nine in the blue book I surrender all. You see what I 'm aware of. One ninety one. One ninety one. We will follow. Can we play through this one once, please? All right, got time for a few more. Four ninety two. Four ninety two. Four ninety two. All right. All right. Yes. Four sixty nine. Four sixty nine. Let's see. Adrillian called It is well. So whatever page it is well is. 478. All right. Yes, sir. Five ninety-six. All right. Oh, yes. One in the red book. All right. Four ninety two, so we have For the beauty of the earth. It's a good one. Four sixty nine. Four sixty nine. Rejoice ye pure it of heart. I'm pretty sure I know this when we played through once, yeah. Haven't heard that one in a while. Alright, uh four actually let me see what this one Five ninety six. Let me check that one first. The Star Spangled Banner. Let's see that one. 596. Did I get that one right? Alright, got a stand. Amen. Please be seated. Praise the Lord for our country. Amen. All right, number one in the Red Book. Rejoice the Lord is King. При чего есть? And please stand with me as we sing 478. We're going to sing the first verse and the last verse, and I'd like to sing the last verse. A cappella and out to the Lord. 478. Versus one in four The core shall be brown and love. Amen. Please be seated. It's a great song, isn't it? Please let's all turn together to Isaiah 53 this evening. And this is the text that we're going to be reflecting on as we prepare our hearts to partake of the Lord's table together. Isaiah 53, and I love this passage of Scripture because out of all of the Old Testament texts of Scripture that talk about Christ's redemptive works, this is probably the most thorough out of all of the texts that we find in the Old Testament. And I think it's also important to mention that when people like the Apostle Paul were giving the gospel And they talked about going to the scriptures and talking about Christ and laying out what Christ had done for them. This would have most certainly been one of the texts of Scripture. that the Apostle Paul would have dealt with. Or when we think about Jesus on the road to Emmaus and he's walking with these people and they don't understand what's taking place in Jerusalem. And Jesus begins to open their understanding. Where do you think Jesus went? I mean, there were lots of places that he could have gone, but most certainly this would have been one of the main texts of Scripture. that Jesus would have walked through and just expounded to those two individuals on that road. Or we think about That man that the Lord Jesus or that that God Himself sends Philip to, who is there in Jerusalem, the Ethiopian eunuch. And he's going back to his home country. He had been there in Jerusalem. And he's so confused about all the things that had been going on in Jerusalem. And he's reading in Isaiah. And he's reading from Isaiah 53. It didn't he didn't say, oh, I'm in chapter 53, because they didn't have this chapter divisions, but that's where he was reading. See, I don't understand these things. And Philip says, well, let me explain them to you. This text of scripture is one of the absolute Deepest and richest text in all of the Bible talking about, here's a word that I want you to remember tonight, the propitiatory nature of our redemption. Ask your kids if they can say that word propitiation tonight, okay? You say, what in the world does the word propitiation mean? It has the idea That there is a big time problem between us and God. You know what that problem is? It's sin. Because God is holy and God is just. His justice and his holiness demand his wrath against our sin. And the only way that wrath can be removed is if a price is paid. And that price is the substitutionary death of Christ. And if he hung on that cross, he paid in full that penalty that stood between us and God and brought peace between God and man. Not between man and God, between God and So Isaiah 53 is where we'll be tonight. Let's read together the entire section of this text. He says, Who hath believed our report? To whom is the arm of the Lord revealed? For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant and as a root out of a dry ground. He hath no form nor comeliness, and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He is despised and rejected of men A man of sorrows and acquainted with grief, and we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God and afflicted. But he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquities. The chastisement of our peace was upon him, and with his stripes we are healed. All we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned everyone to his own way. And the Lord hath laid on him Now I'm going to stop there, but we are going to look at the entire chapter this evening as we reflect on what the Lord Jesus Christ has done for us. But before we do that, I want to ask the Lord to help us to understand this text. So let's bow together for a word of prayer. Just ask the Lord to help us to appreciate these very rich truths. Father, as we as we read your word As we open up this scripture, I pray that the Holy Spirit indwells every believer in this room would take the word and press it deeply on our souls. Help us to understand. the weight and the significance of these truths. Help it not to be just an academic sense of reminder that we remember that God took on flesh and he dwelt among us and he went to the cross. But may we reflect in a way that impacts our hearts. I pray that our souls would be touched by these truths again. As we go to partake of the Lord's table together as a body, I pray that we would remember freshly the tremendous sacrifice of Christ that removed the wrath of the Father against our sin. That when the Father saw this agony, he was satisfied. And now we are freed and forgiven and cleansed, and we are your children. Help us to remember this again tonight and to be richly encouraged by it. In Christ's name. Amen. Okay, Isaiah 53 is a very simple text of scripture that could be sort of summarized this way. It explains the propitiatory nature of Christ's death on the cross and the tragic rejection of that sacrifice. So he talks about the nature of the cross. This morning we talked talked about the fact that the cross is the wisdom and the power of God. And so God knew that the only way that man who has sinned against him And God who is holy and righteous can be brought into communion with one another is through the cross. The only way that the Jews and the Gentiles could be brought into one body is through the cross of Christ. The only way that there could be an equal footing amongst all people is through the cross. The only way that people who are unrighteous, who are completely incapable of making themselves righteous before God, can be brought into the presence of a holy God is through the cross. So we talked about that this morning. Tonight what I want us to do is I want us to understand a little bit more about the nature of the cross. what it accomplished, how it accomplished that. And Isaiah 53 is going to tell us that. But part of this text of scripture is also The fact that people rejected this. Notice how he starts it. He says, who hath believed our report? That's a question. People don't believe this. He says that when we see him, there's no form or comeliness, there's no beauty that we would desire him. He's despised and rejected of men. You know what that tells us? That when Christ came, the vast majority of the people that interacted with him, they looked at what he what he did, and their attitude was not, our Savior has come, but they say, what a tragedy. What a waste. How sad. That's too bad. That was the mindset. They didn't appreciate the weight of that. And this is part of what is being revealed in Isaiah 53. But if we look at these truths, what we're going to see is that if we understand the nature of Christ's sacrifice, we'll be in the position to rest and be grateful in it. So let's think about this for a little bit this evening as we prepare hearts for the Lord's table. First of all, I mentioned this. There's no passage in the Old Testament that I can think of. that gives us more information in a small passage of scripture about the nature of the cross than the text in front of us. It's filled with all kinds of rich doctrinal concepts. And some of them we will lay before you tonight. But the truth is that there's a lot more than I can actually put in front of you this evening. We'd be here a really, really long time if we were to take each of these concepts, break them down, appreciate them as they are, and then really reflect on them. This is a text that is that is talked about often in the New Testament There are over 80 places in the New Testament that they quote from Isaiah 53. Tells us it's a pretty significant text, doesn't it? And what this teaches us more than anything else is that Christ could not be exalted without first facing the humiliation and the suffering of the cross. Because we cannot enter God's kingdom without there being a just basis to enter into his kingdom. And we see this in the verses leading up to this. In verses 13 and 14 of chapter 52, he says, My servant shall be exalted and extolled and be very high. His visage was so marred more than any man, his form more than the sons of man. You go, well hold on. Is he high and exalted or is he being humbled? The answer is it's both. It's both. The cross has to come before the glory of taking that kingdom. And you and I being able to be participants in that kingdom, being citizens of that kingdom. There is no kingdom for a sinner apart from redemption. And so we see that in these verses. So first of all, let's talk about how Christ humbled himself and took on flesh. A major part of these verses is understanding that God Stepped into his creation and he literally takes on flesh so that we can be redeemed. Now when I say God, what I'm saying is the second person of the Trinity, the Lord Jesus Christ took on human flesh at a point in time. We call this the incarnation. We don't tend to talk about this as much during this season. We tend to talk about this a lot around Christmas. And that's because we remember the birth of Christ. But it's important for us to understand that part of what makes Jesus qualified to be able to go to the cross for us is that He's fully God. And he's flowing man at the same time. And part of what makes him qualified to be able to bear our sin debt is that he is a sinless man, the second Adam. This is a very important piece of the gospel story. It is an inescapable part of the story that God takes on flesh. And he goes to the cross. And I want you to see a couple of verses that talk about this concept. The first one is Hebrews 1, 1 to 3. Here's what it says. God hath in these last days spoken unto us by his son, whom he appointed heir of all things. By whom he also made the world, whom being the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he himself purged our sins. Now those scriptures are clearly talking about Jesus. He had by himself purged our sins. But notice the way that the writer of Hebrews describes Jesus. He calls him the brightness of his glory, the expressed image of his person. Now, God would never use that kind of statement about you or about me because it doesn't fit. Only one person could be called the brightness of his glory and the express image of his person. And that phrase, the brightness of his glory, means that he possesses in his very nature the full glory and majesty of the other two persons of the Godhead. Jesus was not of lesser value or of lesser glory or of lesser deity than the Father. or the Son. We talk about the Father, we talk about the Son, we talk about the Spirit. We're talking about three distinct persons who are of the same essence. They are all fully God. And that's what he means by the brightness of his glory. The express image of his person means he's of the same substance or essence. as the other persons of the Godhead. And I'm not going to get into the history of the church talking about this issue and debating this issue, but But a major discussion at certain centuries in the church was who is Jesus? And how do we describe the fact that this is God in flesh? He's of the same essence as the other persons of the Godhead. Another text that talks about this, John 1, verse 14. And I really love this one. Not that I don't love the other ones. It says the word was made flesh. Now that tells us that Jesus did not have a human body for all of eternity. He is the eternal God, yet there was a point in time where the eternal son takes on humanity. That's the incarnation. The word was made flesh, and he dwelt among us. When John says that, he's saying, we the apostles, we saw Jesus. We walked with Jesus. We know this is true. We beheld his glory. The glories of the only begotten of the Father. That phrase was made flesh means that he literally took on full humanity at a point in time. Now when Jesus took on humanity, he didn't stop being God. Okay? He's still God. He still has the full nature of being God. Yet he's also now God in flesh. You say, well, I don't understand that. That seems like a miracle. Can God do that? Of course he can do that. If he can create the world out of nothing, if he can speak the worlds into existence, if he can create an a man out of the dirt and breathe into his nostrils the breath of life, And he can stamp his image in that individual, say, this man is created in my image. Well, most certainly God can take on flesh if he chooses to do so. And so we see that that is affirmed in this text. He's called the only begotten of the Father. And that phrase the only begotten is not emphasizing his birth, but it's actually emphasizing the uniqueness of his person. He is the one of a kind, son of God. There's none like him. There's never been anyone like him. There never will be anyone like him. He's unique. But the text that really lays this out well for us is Philippians chapter 2. Listen to what it says in verse 6 and 7. It says, being in the form of God, he thought it not robbery to be equal with God. But made himself of no reputation, took upon himself the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men. Now there are several statements in those verses that we need to understand. The first is being in the form of God. That means that when he talks about him being God, it conforms with the reality of what it means to be God. Jesus is God. He's not like God. or partially God or God-like. He is God. That is how you describe him. And when it says that he thought it not robbery to be equal with God, It means that he didn't have to sit down and say, you know what? I would like to have the nature of being God, so I'm going to go and I'm going to take it by force and steal it. He can't do that. Why? Well, because he possesses it It contrasts this with Lucifer. Lucifer says, I want to be like the Most High God. Jesus is God. Such a great distinction. He's not seizing something that doesn't belong to him. It is rightfully his. It is literally the essence of who he is. And when he says he made himself of no reputation, it means that he willingly humbled himself, he willingly limited himself to live as God in flesh. He didn't stop being God, he was God the whole time. And then in Hebrews 4 he says that this Savior was tempted in all points, like as we are, yet without sin. Now, I want you to keep this in your mind because this will help us to appreciate what we're reading in Isaiah 53. We're talking about the Creator who upholds all things by the word of his power. We're talking about the eternal Son of God. And he chose at a point in time to step into this world and to take on human flesh. And to lay aside the rights and the privileges of who he is as God so that he could go to the cross and die for our sins. And listen to the way that Isaiah 53 describes this. When Jesus took on flesh, he was overwhelmingly rejected. Verse 31, or verse 1 of 53. Who hath believed our report? People rejected him. They didn't believe it. Verse 2 When we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him. He talks about him being viewed as a tender plant and as a root out of a dry ground. When you look at this very young plant, you say, Oh, it's an insignificant saint. It's such a fragile thing. It's something that doesn't have any strength and it doesn't have any future. We look at it, we say, this is nothing. That's how people viewed him. A root out of a dry ground. It appears to have no potential. Yet it wasn't true. He was stepping into this world and he was taking on all of these weaknesses. So that he could do something that no one else could do. And he did it for us. Verse 3, he was despised. He was rejected. He was a man of sorrows. He was acquainted with grief. Later on in verse 3, it says that we hid, as it were, our faces from him. He was despised, and we esteemed him not. He's basically saying that when people saw Jesus, their response was one of repulsiveness, of a turning away from him. And most certainly when he nailed it was nailed to that cross. And as he hung there in the agony and the shame and the weakness of the cross, and you think about how they had planted this plate of thorns on his head, and they had beaten him nearly to death. As he hung on that cross there, people said, I can't even look at that. They turned away their faces from him. Folks, let this sit down, sink into your minds. Realize that the reason that Jesus did all that was for you. So that you and I, who are sinners, could be brought into the presence of a holy and righteous God. And if he was unwilling to do this, or if God, the Father, was unwilling to send him to do this, you and I would have no hope. There would be no other alternative. There would be no other place that we could turn. We would be lost and without hope in the world. The second truth I want you to notice is that his sacrifice should humble us and remind us that our redemption came at a tremendous price. Christ literally removed the Father's wrath against our sin by his death. I want to mention a couple of New Testament scriptures. that state this explicitly, and then I want us to see how it's stated explicitly in Isaiah 53, anticipating what Jesus would do. 1 John 2. 2 says, he is the propitiation for our sins. 1 John 4. 10. Hear in his love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Romans 3:24, being justified freely by his grace, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, God hath sent forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood. That he might be just and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus. What does he mean by propitiation? Well, let's look at Isaiah 53 and see what it says. His death shows us That we in our ignorance turned away from God and did not understand what he was doing. Isaiah 53, 6 All we like sheep have gone astray and have turned everyone to his own way We went our own way. We didn't think about the implications of our sin. We didn't think about the seriousness of our sin. Yet what does God do? He lays on him the iniquity of us all. It shows us that his death was willing, that his death shows us that he was willing to pay this price. In verse 7, he was oppressed and he was afflicted, yet he did not open his mouth. He was brought as a lamb to the slaughter and as a sheep before a shear as his dumb, so he opened not his mouth. When Jesus went to the cross, he wasn't kicking and screaming and He wasn't argumentative and he wasn't defending himself and say, I'm an innocent man and you have no right to kill me. Those things were true. He didn't say that. Why is that? Well, because he was willing to suffer because he knew what it was accomplishing And he loved you and he loves me, and he was willing to do the will of his father 100%, no matter what it costs. So while we were going astray our own way, he was willing to lay down his life in our place. And that sacrifice was a substitutionary death that involved the payment of a price. The word we'd use is penal substitution, literally punished in our place. That's the idea. Listen to these verses. Verse 4. Surely he hath borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. What does that mean? Well it means that he was our substitute. Yet we did not esteem, or we esteemed him as uh stricken and smitten of God and afflicted. Literally, he carried our guilt. Now was he guilty? No. He took our guilt so that he could be punished in our place. Verse 5, he was wounded for our transgressions. He was bruised for our iniquity. Who really deserves to die for the sins that we commit? We do. Yet he goes and he takes our place. Verse 5, the chastisement of our peace was upon him. With his stripes we are healed. He established a sufficient basis. To bring peace between God and man. That word chastisement is a word that we think of when we think of someone being disciplined. Okay? So what he's basically saying is when Jesus goes to the cross And he's nailed to that cross, and our guilt is placed on him, and our sin is placed on him. He literally takes the punishment. That brings peace between us and God. That's actually a great way to explain the concept of propitiation. And then in verse 6 he says, he carried our sin. The Lord hath laid on him the iniquity of us all. You know, one of the things that we really take away from Isaiah 53 is the concept of substitution. But the truth is that every time a person went to the tabernacle, and every time, once the temple was established, a person went to the temple. And they took their animal and they watched him die. And by the way, they would even put their hand on that on that goat or that lamb and they would confess their sin and they would watch that animal die. And then they would see that it was consumed as a burnt offering to God. You know what the people are supposed to remember with that? I deserve to die because I've sinned, but that animal took my place. And that animal is a picture of the once and for all sacrifice of the Messiah, the Savior. And so when we talk about the sacrificial system , That word propitiation is just the description, or we could say the explanation of what the whole system showed. He carries our sins. Third truth I want you to notice. That Christ's suffering on the cross is an essential component of God's greatest triumph. And notice the way this is worded. Look down in verse number 10. It says, it pleased the Lord to brise him. Now ask you this question. Do you think that God the Father takes joy in seeing the suffering of his son? The answer is no. He wasn't happy to see him suffer. He was happy to see what his suffering Accomplished. In fact, I was listening. You know who Johnny Erickson Tata is? She's actually from this area, believe it or not. And there's a statement that I I heard her make one time where she said, God permits things that he hates in order to accomplish things that he loves. That's a really amazing statement. He hates injustice He hates the sufferings that people experience in this world. It doesn't bring him joy and delight to see people suffer. Yet he was pleased because as Christ went to the cross and he suffered in our place, he purchased eternal redemption for us. The Father was pleased with Christ's sacrifice and what it accomplished. Verse 10, it says that the pleasure of the Lord shall prosper in his hands. Verse 11, he says, he shall see the travail of his soul and be satisfied Out of all the statements in the Old Testament about the sacrifice of Christ, I think that one right there is one of the absolute greatest. When the Father saw the agony of his son on the cross, and as the weight of our sin was placed on him and the wrath of God was poured out on him, he saw that sacrifice and he said, It's enough. It's over. I'm satisfied. That's what it means when Jesus says it's finished. He said, the Father has poured out his wrath, and there's no more. You can now be forgiven. You can now be cleansed, you can now be washed, you can now be reconciled to God through my death. And he gives up the ghost. He knew exactly what he was doing. And so when he said it's finished, he really meant it's finished. And so we see that in these verses. It was literally God's will that we come to him through this sacrifice. The cross was triumphant because it secured three critical blessings that were lost in the fall And we see them in these verses. We see them in verse 11, and we see them in verse 12. And here's what they are. The first is this. Sinners can be declared righteous. Now we use the word justify a lot. I use the word justify a lot. You hear it a lot in this church. Justification. The idea is that the sinner who in the courtroom of God should be guilty by virtue of what we who who we are and what we've done, God says, not guilty, righteous in Christ. The righteousness of Christ has been imputed to our account. Notice what he says in verse 11. By his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many. He shall bear their iniquities. Justification is not just a Romans concept, folks. It's a biblical concept that encompasses the whole Bible. He's going to look at this sacrifice and he says, I can now declare people not guilty And verse 12, we see that sinners can receive a full inheritance secured by the cross. Verse 12. Therefore will he divide him a portion with the greats. And he shall divide the spoil with the strong. Now this is a concept that we really, as modern people, don't really seem to understand very much, because when we think of warfare in our current American context, we think of things that are happening in other parts of the world and we don't think the way that people would have thought in the ancient world. But let me tell you that warfare was a normal part of life for everybody living in the ancient world. If you were a man, when you came of age, you were going to become a warrior. And if you weren't a strongwear, you'd probably die in battle. That's just the honest truth. And you would go into warfare to protect your family and protect your land and all those things. And when someone went to war , And they went into battle, all of the people that fought and secured the victory, they were supposed to receive some kind of payment for their service. Called the spoils of war. And so when Paul writes about the spoils of war in Ephesians, he talks about how Jesus made a triumph of the devil. and he gave gifts unto men. It's in Ephesians, he talks about this concept. In his mind we see this Roman soldiers, these Roman soldiers that are marching through a city. And there is their general, and there are all their leaders, and they're marching through, and they're bringing the spoils of victory, and they're saying, here's what we accomplished in the battle. We don't think this way. But it's not just a Paul concept. He says he's going to divide a portion with the great and divide the spoil with the strong. Here's what he's talking about. The cross didn't just give you forgiveness and a justified position and cleansing, which it did all those things, don't get me wrong, but it also purchased an inheritance for you. An eternal inheritance, secured by the death and the resurrection of Christ. For all eternity, you're going to get to enjoy that inheritance. And so sinners are not only justified, but they're recipients of inheritance. Third thing is sinners have continual access to the presence of God. Verse 12, he bare the sins of many and made intercession for the transgressors. You and I can come into the presence of God because we have a mediator of the Lord Jesus Christ Now, there's a lot more we can talk about in what we have in our salvation, but those are three very simple things that are stated in these verses. We are justified, we are forgiven. I'm putting those together, but they're actually two different concepts. We have this inheritance that has been secured for us by the cross, and we can come into the presence of our Father. And so I ask you this evening, have you gotten over that? Have you kind of gotten to a place where the cross is just a symbol? That you wear? Or do you realize that the cross is your only hope? And do you realize the tremendous sacrifice that Christ took upon himself? so that you could be justified, forgiven, cleansed, brought into the presence of God through the mediator, Christ Jesus. That you are going to get to enjoy an eternal inheritance secured by his cross. As we remember the Lord's table this evening, let's not forget these things. They are so very, very important. And we should live this should shape the way we live every single day that we have received such a great inheritance. This morning we learned about how the cross demonstrates the wisdom and power of God tonight. We've learned about how the cross is just an inescapable piece of his redemptive work. He took on flesh, he secured our redemption, he bore our sin and our guilt. He received the full weight of the Father's wrath against our sin, and the Father was satisfied. We have everlasting peace with God through our Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to never get over this message as we prepare our hearts for the Lord's table. Father, thank you so much. For the love that you have demonstrated toward us and sending your son to die for our sins. We are thankful that we are a redeemed people because he was willing to suffer for us. And we are a people who await a wonderful eternal inheritance because he secured it for us on the cross. And we have direct access into your presence through the mediation of the Lord Jesus Christ, our high priest who is faithful. Because of this sacrifice. Father, help us this evening to remember it with great joy. And I pray that as we leave this place today and go into our regular work week, That this would shape the way that we think about life. That we would have joy, that we'd have peace in our hearts, that we would live like the people that we are in Christ. And that we would face the challenges of life with the strength that is available to us in Christ. We ask all this in Christ's name. Amen.