Well let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles to First Corinthians chapter three tonight. And uh we dealt with this passage a little bit last week and I did not get through the entire section. And so what I'm going to do is not reteach over what I talked about last week, but uh just kind of remind you of the things that are there in the text. And then from that, we're going to kind of give you a little bit of a summary of the main points that are being drawn out in that passage. And then I want to address a couple of doctrinal issues that are connected to this passage of Scripture that I think will be important for us to think about tonight. So 1 Corinthians chapter 3 verse number 10 says the following. According to the grace of God, which was given unto me, as a wise master builder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ. Now If any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble, every man's work shall be made manifest. For the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire. And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. If any man's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward. If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. But He himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. Now I summarized this last week with the following statement: a healthy view of ministry. begins and ends with God. And if you remember that this entire section that we've been working our way through in 1 Corinthians is talking about a wrong view of ministry and ministers in the Church of Corinth. And Paul is just systematically addressing different things that that are kind of at the heart and the foundation. of their wrong view. And so he's working to correct those things. And so what he's driving at in these verses is that if you want a right view of ministry, you've got to recognize it's about God. It's not really about you. It's about him. And so a healthy view begins and ends with him. It is his work. It is to be done by his enabling. It is to be done for his pleasure, not suggesting that there's not joy in doing ministry. There is. There's also a lot of sorrow in doing ministry as well because You know, we we see the blessings of ministry, but we also see the heartaches of ministry. Not everyone that we give the gospel to trusts Christ, not every single person that has opportunity to grow into Christ's likeness will do that. Not every person that we spend a lot of time with in discipleship will actually grow and mature and be a strong Christian. Not everyone that we invest in and we hope to see go into ministry. We'll end up doing that. Not every family, not every couple that gets married stays married, has a successful marriage, has a good relationship with their children. And so ministry has both positives and negatives. And so it reminds us it's about his pleasure, not ours. We shouldn't be doing it for ourselves. And then the last point that I made is, and it is to redound to his glory. So we don't do ministry for our own edification. We don't do it for our own glory. We don't do it because we get this warm, fuzzy feeling. We do it because we want him to get glory. And that goes into any area of ministry for people. So that would be the ministry of raising your children. That would be the ministry of being a godly husband or a godly wife That'd be the ministry of being a godly grandparent. That'd be the ministry of being a faithful church member. That'd be the ministry of being a Christian witness in a secular work environment. Lots and lots of areas. that we can go into. So starts and ends with him, done by his enabling, done for his pleasure, redounding to his glory. So we need to serve with a God-centered motivation, and that is what this passage is going to drive us at. So the first part that we looked at last week was kind of how Paul uh lays out these topics. And so we could call it the progression of the passage. He says in verse 10, let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. And so the question is, buildeth on what? Why does he need to consider the how? What is the standard that we are to judge the how we're building based upon? Well, Paul's going to lay all that out for us. First thing he does is he identifies the foundation in verse 11. He says, other foundation can no man lay than that which is laid which is Jesus Christ. You do not live the Christian life outside of him. He's the foundation. There is no substitute that can be put in the place of the Lord Jesus Christ. Secondly, he identifies the reality of our situation. Verse 10, he says, Let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon. He doesn't say, let every man take heed if He's going to. He's saying you are building. The question isn't are you doing it? The question is how are you doing it? What is the quality of what you are doing? And then thirdly, he identifies the enabling. Verse 10, again, according to the grace of God which is given unto us. And so the Spirit of God gives us the strength to accomplish whatever it is that God has purposed for us to do. So whatever God puts in front of you He is faithful to give you the tools that you need to do it. God wants you to be successful. He is not in the business of wanting to see you fail. And so If he puts something in front of you or allows you to pass through some situation, he will always, always, always give you the enabling to get through that. He's sovereign. He does that. Fourthly. He stresses the seriousness of the evaluation. Verse 13, every man's work shall be made manifest. The idea is that it's going to be revealed on that day. The day will declare it, because it will be revealed by fire. And the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is. And I think that this is very helpful for us to think about. Fire purifies metal and it destroys wood. Okay? So you put you put wood in a fireplace and uh you come back in the morning and guess what? There's just going to be ashes there. There's no wood left. It completely incinerates it. But if you have a metal that is mined out of the ground And it has impurities in it, and then they heat it and it passes through the fire. And what it does is it separates out the impurities And then what you have is you have a pure metal that you did not have before. It has separated out the draws. And so it's a beautiful illustration of what our work is like in this world. There is good, there is bad, and so what does the fire do? It separates out the true value from that which does not have true value in what we do. And so, you know, maybe I'm uh going on a mission field, all right, and I'm gonna go be a missionary, and part of what I'm doing is properly motivated, and it's done uh by God's enabling And it's it's being done the right way, there's true value in that. But you know what? Sometimes ego gets in the way. And sometimes the fear of man gets in the way, and sometimes Uh people go about things the wrong way in a way that doesn't really honor the Lord. And so how does God deal with that? Well what he does is it passes through the fire and the dross is separated out and the true value is what is left That is the picture that we have here. He is stressing the seriousness of that evaluation. Fifthly. He stresses the permanence of the evaluation. Verses 14 and 15. If any man 's work abide, which he hath built thereupon, he will receive a reward. But if any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer what? What's the next word? Loss. And the question is, how long does that loss last? The answer is forever. You don't get to go back and relive those moments and say, okay, my bad, let me retake the test. It's not how it works. I think uh my wife and I are recently having some conversations about some homeschooling tests. And uh, you know, we had some questions about, you know, what do we do if a If one of our kids doesn't follow the instructions or if they, you know, maybe forget to uh finish a section of the test, the answer is well. They're marked wrong. That's the way it works. If they're in a regular school situation with the teacher go, oh my bad, you forgot to back test. Go ahead and rewrite the thing. Are they gonna do that? I mean some might. Maybe you'd be inclined to do that as a teacher, but no. They need to pay attention. They're going to have to pay the price for it. And so it's not like we get to go to the judgment seat and go, oh my bad, let me try it again. Nope. You lived your life. You had your opportunity. All of the things that God called you to do. Either you did them or you didn't do them. Either you did them well or you didn't do them well. It's over. You can't go back and rehash it. And then lastly, he stresses that the believer is secure even in the loss. And this is very fascinating to me. In fact, we see this pattern a lot in Scripture, not just when we talk about this issue of the believer's security, but when we talk about God's faithfulness to his promises In fact, today I was listening to a podcast and uh they were talking about God's covenant promises to Israel. And the question was, if God says he's going to do something, is he going to do it? And the answer is, well, obviously yes. In fact, when we look at the book of Romans and we go Romans chapters 5 and 6 and 7 and 8, the whole point of Romans 5, 6, 7, and 8 is to say God saves, God keeps, your salvation is all the work of God. Your salvation is secure. That is the whole point of chapters 5, 6. seven and eight in the book of Romans. And so then Paul addresses what he believes would be an argument or a question that people would have. And that question would be, well didn't you make promises to the nation of Israel? And if you made promises to the nation of Israel, are you going to keep those promises, fulfill those promises? And the answer is, well, of course he is. Because he is faithful when he promises. So when we read chapters 9 and chapters 10 and chapters 11, that is all Paul basically demonstrating that God has promised that he is going to fulfill all these promises to Israel and he's going to do it. And he lays out exactly how he's going to do it. So you can make an argument about this issue of the security of the believer that Romans chapter 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, and 11, that entire section of the book of Romans is dedicated to to one primary theme. God keeps those whom he saves. Very, very important. And the reason I bring this up is that we see this pattern in the Old Testament over and over and over again. That at the darkest, worst, most discouraging moment in the history of Israel, guess what? God promises he's going to judge. And you go to the book of Isaiah, you go to the book of Ezekiel, you go through the book of Jeremiah, I'd encourage you, look at these books and you'll see this pattern. He says, here's how you've broken my laws. Here's the judgment, and it will be serious. Here is me reaffirming my faithfulness to my word. And he does it over and over and over and over and over again. He even does this in the Gospels when the nation of Israel essentially is rejecting the Messiah and he says, this generation is under judgment. And then the very next thing that he does is he gives kingdom parables. So this is the pattern that we see in Scripture. We see this exact same pattern here in 1 Corinthians 3, verse 15. If a man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss. That's the negative. But he himself shall be saved, yet so as by fire. Do you see that? Do you see how there's the negative you're going to lose because You weren't faithful, but you are kept, because that is the work of God. And so we see that emphasis in these verses. The focus of the passage could kind of break it down this way. Be prepared for the judgment seat. Invest your life diligently in eternal pursuits. Draw on God's grace that is available to you as you do it. Stay motivated by the reality of the judgment seat of Christ. That's where we stopped last week. Now, what I want to do is I want to step into a couple of areas that I hope you'll see that they are a part of this discussion on the judgment seat of Christ. And so the first thing I want to want to address is the doctrine of the law of sowing and reaping. There is an eternal law of sowing and reaping for the believer. I want you to turn to two passages of scripture that I think teach us very, very clearly. The first one is Galatians chapter 6, verses 7 and 8. Galatians chapter 6, verses 7 and 8. Notice what it says there in your Bibles. Be not deceived. God is not mocked. For whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap. So if you plant something, it's going to produce a harvest. It's a law. Don't be deceived. God is not mocked. He says, for, and he develops this, he says, He that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption. But he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting. And let us not be weary in well-doing, for in due season we shall reap if we faint not. Now, there are a lot of questions that we could ask about this passage of Scripture, but what I think he is saying here is that this is a law that is true for everybody. It's true for people who are believers. It's true for people who are not believers. So if we want to talk about the unbeliever, we would say it this way. Because the believer is not in, or the unbeliever is not in Christ. When he stands before God on that final day, guess what? He's going to face the full wrath of God. Because he has not turned to Christ. and found his satisfaction in him and his justification in him and his forgiveness in him and his sins being washed away in him He's going to face the full wrath of God against his sin for all of eternity because he rejected the gospel. He's going to reap what he sows. But in this particular passage, I think his emphasis is actually not on the unbeliever, but on the Christian. The Christian who sows to his flesh is going to reap corruption. The Christian who shows to the Spirit will reap life. And interestingly, he talks about how long that life that they're going to reap is going to benefit them. And what's the word? Everlasting. Now this passage isn't teaching you get saved by doing good. What the passage is teaching is that there is a qualitative aspect to our eternal life that is contingent and is going to be actually, we could say, realized at the judgment seat of Christ based on the way that we live for Him. There is the real potential for loss Or the real potential for reward at the judgment seat of Christ. The way you live matters. It does not affect our position in Christ. It does not affect whether or not we go to heaven or hell. It does affect Certain aspects of reward or loss. And I think that's exactly what he's talking about here in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 If a man's work abides, he has a reward. If a man's work does not abide, what does he have? He has nothing. He suffers loss, but he himself is saved, yet so as by fire. And so the emphasis of Galatians chapter 6, verses 7 and 8 is, listen. Don't be weary in doing what's right. Be diligent. Be faithful. It's not a waste. We then go to 1 Corinthians 15, 58. This passage is kind of like the capstone of everything that he says in 1 Corinthians 15 about the resurrection. And his whole argument is that Christ is alive, and you and I are going to enter into glory, and this corruptible body is going to be put away. And when this corruptible body is put away, then we're going to put on an incorruptible body that we're going to experience all of eternity in. And so at the end of the passage, he makes this fastening statement. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye steadfast. unmovable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. Now, just think about this for a second. If the judgment seat of Christ did not actually determine some kind of reward or some kind of loss, then that passage makes no sense. It really doesn't. What is the point of saying, don't be weary in well-doing? You will reap in due season if you faint not. If there's not something that is actually contingent on that day. Again, we see this consistency between what he's talking about in 1 Corinthians chapter 3 And what we see in Galatians chapter 6, and what we see in 1 Corinthians chapter 15. So, there's a law of sowing and reaping. Second doctrine I want you to notice is that there are two different judgments that are talked about in the scriptures. The first one is the great white throne judgment. And when we talk about the judgment seat of Christ and the great white throne judgment, you're going to see that there's a distinction in the way that he talks about these events. By the way, there's also a timing difference when we talk about these events as well. Because the great white throne judgment is something that happens after what we would call the millennial reign of Christ. So listen to what it says in Revelation chapter 20, verse eleven. It says, I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heavens fled away, was found no place for them. And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. Now, I just want to make a comment here. When he says the dead I think that he's using this in a very specific way. He's not just talking about people who have physically died. He's talking about a particular category of people who have physically died. In fact, when we talk about Ephesians chapter 2, he says, you have he quickened who were dead in trespasses and in sins. In times past you walked according to the course of this world. The spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. We all had our conversation in times past, fulfilling the lusts of the flesh, and the desires of the mind, and we were by nature the children of wrath, even as others Notice how he uses the phrase, you he hath quickened, that means he's made you alive, who were dead. A living person who is dead. You could be a dead person who's dead as well, okay? So when he uses the term dead here, he's not just saying everybody who's physically died. He's saying a particular group of people who have physically died and those who have never been redeemed. That's what he's talking about. I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God. And the books were open. Another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged out of those things which are written in the books according to their works. And they were judged every man according to their works. And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire. Now, what is he basically saying? What he's basically saying is these individuals who have rejected Christ are going to stand before the Lord Jesus Christ on that final day. And when they stand before him on that final day, there's going to be a record of how they have lived, the choices they have made. Their life is going to be laid right in front of them. And you have the perfect standard of the righteousness of God and his judgment. And you have the sinfulness of these individuals and the choices that they have made. And then you have this record of all those who have been redeemed, and guess what? They're not there. So whoever is there on that day, guess what? They're cast into the lake of fire. Eternal destruction. But then we see a different type of judgment that is talked about in other places. And that is the judgment seat of Christ. Let me give you a couple of passages that you can look at. The first one is Romans chapter 14, verse number 10. Here's what it says Why dost thou judge thy brother, or why dost thou set it not thy brother? For, notice the word, we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. Notice the we is talking about another brother. Okay? And what's interesting about it is that what Paul's argument here is, is that you don't have to settle every single issue with people on this side of eternity. You don't have to worry about being right all the time. Sometimes you just let God deal with situations. In fact, there's a lot of conflicts in life that would just not be conflicts anymore if we just learned to say, you know what, there's a God in heaven. And I know that's a brother in Christ. I know that's a sister in Christ. We have a difference of opinion. We have this conflict between us. But you know what, God, that's yours to deal with. I'm just gonna let you do what you're gonna do, and I'm gonna trust you. And I'm going to respond properly to this person, and I'm going to let the judgment seat of Christ settle the issue. That's what he's saying. It's not our place to be God for other people. It's our place to recognize we are brothers and sisters on equal plane. So he says, why do you judge your brother? Why do you sit at not your brother? You're gonna stand at the judgment seat. He's gonna stand at the judgment seat. She's gonna stand at the judgment seat. You're all gonna be held to the same evaluation. So be careful. Be careful about how you try to put yourself in the place of God. It's not the place of the Christian to do such a thing. He says, For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, every tongue shall confess to God. So then every one of us, notice the word us, Paul includes himself in this. Every one of us shall give an account of himself to God. Now, when Paul, when John writes about the great white throne, he talks about the dead. Who are not in the book of life. When Paul speaks of the judgment seat of Christ, he says, Why do you judge your brother? We will stand at the judgment seat of Christ. Every one of us shall give an account of of himself to God. Do you see how he includes himself in that? These are different places. These are different evaluations. The purpose of these judgments are very different. Or 2 Corinthians chapter 5, verse 9. He says, Wherefore we labor that whether present or absent we may be accepted of him. And interestingly, that word accepted is not the typical Greek term that we think of as like, oh I accept you, but it has more of the idea of being well pleasing And so when we talk about how God accepts us as his children, that is actually not the Greek term that is used there. This is more of an evaluation of what a person has done, whether or not it is pleasing or displeasing. He says, we, again, we see the word we must all appear before the judgment seat of Christ. Every one may receive things done in his body according that he hath done, whether, what are those words? Good or what? So there's something that's going to take place on this day. An evaluation, whether good or bad. So we see the facts of the judgment seat. Second thing I want you to notice under this is the point of the judgment seat. It is to receive, and there's there's several different passages I want us to look at here that that speak of different aspects of what is really at stake here. The first passage I want to mention is in Matthew chapter 19. This is an interesting one. In fact, the text that I dealt with in Luke this past Sunday, if you look at the parallel passage in Matthew, this is actually the exact this is the text. where the next thing that's said is what we're going to read tonight. And so Luke, we actually see a rendition of this as well. But I think the Matthew passage is a little bit more specific in what Peter says here. Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all. You remember the rich young ruler, what good thing can I do to inherit eternal life? And Jesus says, Why do you call me good? Nobody is good but God. You know the commandments. Don't do this, don't do this. Oh, I kept them all from my youth. Oh, but you're lacking one thing. Show everything you haven't come and follow me. Oh So here's Peter and John and the rest of the disciples, and they're sitting there and they're listening to Jesus and they're like, Well, we've left everything. We walked away from our business. We left our families. We left our nets. Ooh, I wonder what we're going to get out of it. That's what Peter's thinking. So what does he say? Then answered Peter, behold, we have forsaken all and followed thee. What shall we have therefore? Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto you, you which have followed me in the regeneration, he's talking about Glorification. He's talking about the period of time when we enter into the kingdom. Okay? When the Son of Man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel. And every one that hath forsaken houses and brethren or sisters or fathers or mothers or wife or children or lance for my namesake shall receive a hundredfold and shall inherit everlasting life. But many that are first shall be last, and the last shall be first. It's a very interesting passage, isn't it? Because this is clearly talking about a reward-oriented discussion. He's not talking about how a person enters the kingdom. He's talking about the fullness of that entrance into the kingdom. He's talking about the reward. He's talking about the position. He's talking about Certain things that are at stake based on what we have done with the allotment of opportunity that God has given us. Another passage, Colossians chapter 3. Verses 23 and 24, he says, whatsoever you do, do it heartily as to the Lord and not unto men. And here's the next statement. Knowing That of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance for ye serve the Lord Christ. You see the reward concept there? We have another series of examples. Revelation chapter 2, verse 10. Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer. Behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison. But ye may be tried, and ye shall have tribulation ten days. Be thou faithful unto death. I will give thee a crown of life. It's a fascinating statement. So here are these people that are in danger of being martyrs. These are the letters to the seven churches there in Asia Minor. At the beginning of the book of Revelation. And he's challenging these churches, be faithful, endure, don't quit, don't give up, don't compromise. And what is the motivation? They might kill you, but I will give you a crown of life. He's not talking about how people enter the kingdom. He's talking about reward that is available to people who are in the kingdom. There's a difference. 1 Corinthians 3. 14, if any man's work abide which he has built thereon, he shall receive reward. Our text. 1 Peter 5, 4, when the chief shepherd shall appear, you shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away. You know, someone that's a pastor who's laboring in the word week in and week out and gets into situations where they feel like, hey, I don't know if I want to do this anymore. I feel like It's not worth it. What does the scripture say? Endure, be faithful. You will receive a crown that does not fade away. I think the same kind of thing is true for someone who's in other areas of ministry that God has placed them. But it's specifically talking about this in 1 Peter. Revelation 22 verse 12, Behold I come quickly. My reward is with me to give every man according to his, according as his works shall be. James 1. 12, Blessed is the man that endureth temptation. When he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life that the Lord has promised to them that love him. You know, a lot of times when Christians are suffering temptation, people are treating them wrong, they're enduring difficulty, they go, what's the point? What's the point? What's the point? Well, this text tells you. Blessed is the man who what endures temptation. When he's tried, he'll receive a crown. And so God is literally, I'm not, we're it's not, it's not just what you do with your life. It's how you navigate these kinds of situations. They matter. Interestingly, there are passages that warn us about the potential to lose reward. Listen to this one. Colossians 2. 18. Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary humility and worshiping of angels and turning into those things which He hath not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind. This is what this passage is talking about. There are some people in the Christian life They know sound doctrine. They're walking in the truth, and somebody turns their head. What I mean by they turn their head is they start tapping them and they start pushing them with some ideas that they're not biblical ideas. And they start getting pulled into false doctrine. Okay? Now, do these people lose their salvation? No. But you know what they do? They get their head turned and instead of them being faithful, diligent, godly people who are focusing their attention and their energy on the things that God has for them, they're getting pulled to the side by these things that are just false ideas. And this is what his warning is to the church at Colossae. He says, be careful that no one beguiles you of your reward. Don't let somebody pull your head and get you dragged in a direction that ultimately is going to lead you to a lot of miss opportunities. And it can happen. It can happen in midlife when people are going through midlife crisis. You know, and they're they're a little bit unsettled in life. And and somebody says, hey man, you should start following this podcast that I've been listening to. They start listening to that podcast. And you know what that podcast does? It starts pulling them off of Sound Doctrine. And they start following these ideas and all of a sudden this person that was steady and stable and doing what was right is now off in left field And it creates a lot of problems in their lives. So we've got to be very, very cautious. Reward can be lost. Second John 1. 8. Look to yourself that we lose not those things. Which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward. This is a fascinating text. Because this is an example of John as uh a very old pastor, okay, he's an old man, and he's writing to this woman in the church that he knows is very well meaning. She's a very hospitable person. She's a very caring person. She's a very compassionate person. But she is, we could say, supporting people that are false teachers, and she doesn't even realize it. She doesn't have the sense to recognize this. She's welcoming these folks into her home. She's taking care of them. She's sending them out with God's blessing. And she does not understand the implication of what she's doing. And so John sits down and he writes a letter to this woman whom he loves and he cares about and he says, be very cautious. that you do not lose the fullness of the reward that you have wrought. And so we see this warning. We also see some passages that talk about ministry opportunities in the kingdom. These are fascinating. Revelation 2. 26. He that overcometh and keepeth my word unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations. He shall rule them with a rod of iron, as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers, even as I receive of my father. That's an interesting passage, is it not? He's talking about people being a part of God's administration, his kingdom. But what is the qualification? That's determined at the judgment seat of Christ Revelation 20, verse 4, I saw thrones and they that sat on them, and judgment was given unto them, and I saw the souls of them who were beheaded for the witness of Christ. Which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, nor received the mark on their forehead. They lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years. The rest of the dead live not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection. Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection, on such the second death hath no power. They shall be priests of God and of Christ and shall reign with him a thousand years. Do you realize that what you do with the opportunities that God gives you today , Are actually going to affect what you are doing in his kingdom someday? You say, no, it's not. How do you explain these passages? How do you explain these scriptures? You're going to explain them all away? The answer is the judgment seat of Christ absolutely matters. It's important doctrine. It's something we need to be clear on in our minds. One day we're going to stand before Christ. And we're going to give an accounting for what we did with our lives and the quality of the work that we have done. It will be revealed on that day. The dross will be separated out. The wood and the hay and the stubble will be incinerated. And the true quality will last forever. Third doctrine I want to mention is that every believer is absolutely secure no matter how he may stumble. And I think this is an extremely important doctrinal concept. I know I've kind of already touched on this a little bit. But the fact is that when we talk about the security of the believer, we're talking about a doctrine that ultimately goes down to the heart of what you believe about the gospel itself. Is the gospel a work of God or is it a work of man? Is the gospel a cooperative work? God does his part, I do my part. Does God save us because of how strong our faith is, how enduring our faith is, how mature our faith is? The answer is no. He saves us because of what Christ did for us. That 's why it says it's by grace we are saved through faith. It doesn't say we are saved by grace, by faith, by grace through, through faith. The basis of our salvation is all 100% the work of God. Not our work. Not our endurance. Not our ability to persevere and hold fast. It's what God does on our behalf. Listen to the wording of John 10. He says, you believe not because you're not of my sheep. As I said unto you, my sheep hear my voice. I know them, they follow me. I give unto them eternal life, they shall never perish. Neither shall any man pluck them out of whose hand? My hand. He doesn't say, you know, as long as they hold on and they don't they don't stumble, they don't fall. No, that's what he says. You can't pluck them out of my hand. Salvation is of grace. It is by the power and work of God. My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all. No man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand. I am my Father of One. Or think about Ephesians chapter 1. Listen to this statement. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ who has blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ. Question. Was Paul in heaven when he wrote that? No, he was not. Then how in the world could he write that if it wasn't if it wasn't something that was absolutely guaranteed, no questions asked? Well he couldn't have written it. He says these things are already established. I don't taste them yet, but they are guaranteed. It is based on the promise of God who cannot lie. He goes on to say this. According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world. That we should be holy, without blame, before him and love, having predestined us unto adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself. Now the question is, what is adoption? Adoption is when we receive all the full best blessings of our salvation. To put it in simple terms. God's people are going to get it all. That's the way it works. And it's not because of their endurance, and it's not because of their strength, and it's not because of their wisdom. It's because of God's grace. Move on to verses eleven through fourteen. In whom also we have obtained an inheritance being predestined predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will. That we should be the praise of his glory who first trusted in Christ. In whom also you trusted after you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and whom also you were after that ye believed, you were sealed. with the Holy Spirit of promise, which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession to the praise of his glory. So what is the point of the Spirit? It's to seal us. What does it mean that he seals us? It means that he stamps us as his possession. The word earnest means that this is the guarantee that in fact what God has promised, He's going to give it to us in the end And so when we read Ephesians chapter 1, it's basically saying this: there is absolutely nothing that can take away salvation from the believer. God gives it all of his grace. Second passage is Romans chapter 8. And I think this one this one even breaks it down even more because remember we're talking chapters 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11. They're all dealing with the same fundamental topic. But Romans 8 is kind of like the crowning jewel of them all. He says, whom he did foreknow, he did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his son. Question. Is anybody in here conformed to the image of his son? Do you sin? Do you struggle with temptation? Do you have good days and bad days? Is any of your work so pure that God would accept it on the basis of what you've done? No, of course not. Yet what does the Bible say? Every one of God's people are one day going to be conformed to the image of his son. He then goes on to say this, moreover, whom he did predestinate, them he called, and whom he called, he justified, and whom he justified, he glorified. What shall we say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Paul's saying it's absolutely unthinkable that God would justify you and not glorify you. It's absolutely unthinkable that God would give you a portion of your salvation, but not all of your salvation. He says it's an impossibility. It's unthinkable. He spared not his own son. He delivered him up for us all. How shall he not, with him, freely give us all things? He says, Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? It's God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, ye rather is risen again, is even at the right hand of God, making intercession for us. This is interesting. As you think about this, there is Christ at the right hand of the Father saying, remember my sacrifice. Remember what I've done. Now, it's not because the father doesn't remember. It's like a memorializing of what has taken place. And so there he is reminding the Father that person is accepted in the beloved because of what I did. Not because of what he did. Not because of what he's gonna do. Not because of what he promises to do. Because of what I did. He then goes on to say this. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation? Shall distress So persecution, famine, nakedness, peril sword? He says, as it is written, for thy sake we are killed all the day long. We are counted as sheep for the slaughter. Basically, what Paul is saying by quoting from the prophet Isaiah is he's saying God's people have been beat up all throughout history. But what does he say? In all these things we are more than conquerors through him that love us. I'm persuaded neither death nor life nor angels nor principalities nor powers nor things present nor things So why do people doubt that? Is the Bible not clear on this issue? So when we think about this issue of the judgment seat of Christ, please be very careful that you do not conflate. the judgment seat of Christ with the potential for the believer to lose his position. Because clearly that is not what the scripture teaches. I'll close with this one final passage. I think it's very encouraging. 1 John 3, verse 20, it says, if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart. He knoweth all things. Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, we have this confidence toward God. You know, there are lots and lots of Christians that when they trust Christ as their Savior, it could be their temperament. Personality, it could be the way that they were discipled when they were very young. It could be the church background that they're in. It could be some book that they read, some message that they heard, but they can get shaken in mind and start asking the question. Am I really God's child? Because I feel this way. Because I did this. I don't remember what I said I don't know if I believed strong enough. I don't know if I'm going to believe long enough. And they go through all of these things in their heads that start making that confidence start getting a little bit shaky. And you know what the passage says? If our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart. Why? Because he knows all things. And so even the believer who stumbles in his confidence , is kept by the power of God. And that's a tremendous encouragement to God's children. So how do we apply what we've learned? First of all, we need to feel the weight of the work we are doing in the Christian life. Just because what I do doesn't give me eternal life does not mean what I do doesn't matter. It's like Paul says, shall we continue in sin that grace may abound? God forbid. He's like, I know that you understand that salvation is all of grace. But don't get in your head that, oh, if it's all a grace, then I can do anything I want. It doesn't matter. I might as well just go throw caution to the wind and live like the devil. He says, no. No. How? So we that are dead to sin live any longer therein. The way you live the Christian life matters. There's a lot at stake at the judgment seat, too. We need to we need to be encouraged that our labors and our struggles are not pointless. The fact is that there are times in the Christian life that we go through seasons and we really we ask God, why in the world do you allow this? And we really get we can get very disillusioned. You know, why am I suffering like this? Why is somebody that I love suffering like this Why am I having this conflict that I just can't seem to resolve? Why is it that every time I try to take a step, it seems like I take a step back? Why do I continue to struggle with this temptation? Why do I continue to struggle with this challenge in my life? Why doesn't this person finally see it the way that I do? We have all these different struggles that go on in our lives. But guess what? Not pointless. Whatever God permits, he has a reason for it. And there's grace available And at the judgment seat of Christ, we will have opportunity because of those very things that God permitted. Third, we need to be encouraged that every test has value. I think of that passage in James. He says, Count it all joy when you fall into diverse temptation, knowing that the trying of your faith worketh patience. Let patience have her perfect work. When you're tempted, when you're tried, you'll receive the crown of life that does not fade away. Pretty amazing stuff to think about. Our light affliction, which is but for a moment, worketh for us a far more an exceeding eternal weight of glory. Amazing passages. Fifthly, we need to consider how we are building and then purpose to the best of our ability to build in a way that pleases the Lord. And brings him glory. Every area of our life. How are you building? Build well. Lastly, we need to take comfort in God's purpose to set all things right in the end. I believe that this little principle right here might be one of the most helpful biblical principles for people to learn. You do not need to be God in people's lives. Let God be God and remember that you're just a brother or you're just a sister in Christ. Let God deal with it. Let the judgment seat of Christ settle the issue We've got to learn to live our lives by taking comfort in that. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for this opportunity to study it tonight. Take the truth and please cement it in our hearts. Help us to live in the light of it. Help us to glory in your purposes. Please uplift us when we are down and discouraged and frustrated. We feel like giving up. I pray that we would not do that. But that we would endure as seeing him who's invisible. Please use this word to strengthen your people to say in Christ's name. Amen.