We'll be specifically looking at verses eight and nine and a little bit of ten. I'll read the text again before we pray. John writes, and if we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. But if we walk in the light as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ, his son, cleanses us from all sin. If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us. If we confess our sins, He is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us. Let's bow our hearts again and ask the Lord to quiet our souls. to clear our minds so that we can focus our attention on God's Word, so that the Holy Spirit can move in our hearts, so that we might understand the significance of these truths, internalize them, and respond correctly to them. Let's bow our hearts in prayer. Father, again, we confess to you this morning that we are completely dependent upon you to understand these truths as you intend for us to understand them. to internalize these truths and to take action in the light of these truths. Father, as we read this text, I'm sure there are so many different thoughts that run into people's minds. I pray that as I open up the word and expound it, that it would be with simple clarity, that your people would be challenged and encouraged. And if anyone in our midst this morning does not know you as their Savior , If there's never been genuine repentance before God, a turning to Christ and trusting alone in his finished work on the cross, a dependence upon his righteousness. I pray that you would open the eyes of those individuals that you might bring conviction of sin, a conviction that there is nothing that they can do to save themselves or to offer to God that will appease his justice. but that they must turn alone to Christ and find that rest in what He has done for them, not what they will do for you. I pray that you'll be with those in our midst who are carrying great burdens. I pray that today would be a day of refreshment for them. A day of encouragement. I pray that they'd be able to set those cares aside and that you might enable them to focus their attention on the Word of God. That you might stir up their affections and their heart, that you might do a work in them. We thank you for many who are here today who have not always been in good health over the last few weeks. I thank you that you've given them the strength to be with us. I thank you for those who have traveled and they've come back safely. So good to see them in our midst. I pray that you will just give us a wonderful day in your house, and we ask it in Christ's name. Amen. As I like to begin when I look at a passage like this, I ask the question, what exactly is the main point that John was trying to communicate in this text? And this is what I believe John is trying to communicate. He wants his audience to have a renewed sense of their communion with God and cleansing from sin. Therefore, he explains to them the implications of confessing their sin to God as their Heavenly Father, and then they will recognize That they have been forgiven. That is why he writes this. He wants them to understand what took place at the cross. He wants them to understand that not only are their sins forgiven and they're going to spend eternity in heaven with God, but when they sin in this world, there is a way that God restores fellowship with his people. And so he wants to address that issues. He wants them, and he wants you, and he wants me to understand that God wants us to regularly confess our sin to Him so that we can have restored fellowship. When that fellowship has been compromised, that we can know that we are walking in communion with God. That is what God wants for us this morning. And so as we come to this text, I want us to address it in a few sections. The first section I want to look at some considerations, practical considerations, and then from there we'll look at the actual content of the text and some of the implications of that text. So let's begin with section one, three practical considerations when we come to 1 John 1, verses 8, 9, and 10. In our midst, there are likely people in at least one of these categories. Maybe not all of these categories this morning, but it is likely that you would find yourself potentially in one of these two categories. The first consideration is the person who is confused in his conscience about the nature of sin and righteousness and justice and forgiveness. If you will, it's a person that when you meet them and you knock on their door maybe and you ask them the question, do you know for sure if you died today you'd go to heaven? They look you in the eye and they say, I have no idea I have no idea. And you ask them, well, why don't you have any idea? And they say, well, I'm doing the best that I can, but I don't know if it's good enough. So, what are you really trusting in? Well, I I did get baptized when I was a little kid. I did go through a series of classes, and I learned some doctrinal things in those classes. You know, I've been going to church for a long time. You know, maybe I am going to go to heaven because I've done all those things. And so this person, their mind, believes the way that I get salvation is by keeping a list of rules, a list of do's and don'ts. So on good days they say I'm right with God and on bad days they say I'm in deep trouble. And so if you catch them on a good day, they have confidence. And if you catch them on a bad day, they're really concerned and they're really afraid They are confused about the nature of the gospel. And this is a very serious problem if you're in this condition. You might say, what would you say to a person in that condition? This is what I say God saves us by the work of Christ alone. The word that we use is we are justified before God And when God justifies a sinner, once and for all, he says, You are now saved. You are declared righteous. You can stand in my presence now and forever because of the work of Christ. Not because of your performance. What you do does not strengthen or weaken your position before me. It's all of grace It's all based on the work of Christ. It's all based on his righteousness, not your righteousness. You say, where do we find that in the Bible? We find it all over the Bible. But let me just mention to you a couple of texts. Ephesians chapter 2 says this. By grace, the word grace means undeserved favor. You don't get saved because you earn it. You don't get saved because you kept a list of rules. You don't get saved because you went through some religious rituals You get saved by grace and grace alone. You don't deserve it, I don't deserve it, nobody deserves it. How does God save us by grace? He says it is through means of faith. A person is saved by grace when their faith is properly focused on the object of Christ and Christ alone. His righteousness, his work, his death on the cross, his resurrection from the grave, his perfect righteousness, not their imperfect righteousness He says, by grace we are saved through faith, and that is not of ourselves, it is the gift of God. And then, just to emphasize, if he hasn't said it enough, it is not of works lest anyone should boast. Nobody who's in this room today who has a sense of pride and says, I'm right with God because I did this. Nobody in this room with that kind of a confidence is truly saved. Did you catch that? Nobody. I don't care if you've been a member of the church for twenty years or forty years, or I don't think we have any forty or fifties here, but It doesn't matter. If your confidence is in your performance, you say, I am saved because I do these things. Or because I come to this place, because I've read or I've memorized, I've gone through these rituals, you're not saved. You don't understand the gospel. It is by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, rooted in the righteousness of Christ alone, rooted in the work of Christ alone, not in yours and not in mine. Romans chapter eight, verse thirty-one says this. What shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He that spared not his own son But delivered him up for us all. How shall he not with him also freely give us all things? Who shall lay anything to the charge of God's elect? Notice the next statement It is God that justifieth. Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ. That died, yea, rather that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who maketh intercession for us. Do you not understand what Paul is writing here? Salvation is the work of God, not the work of men. We receive salvation by faith alone. It is all of the grace of God, not the work of man. And so there may be somebody here today who is confused in your in your soul and you say, I want to be saved, but I don't know if I've done enough. And I say, You can never do enough. I don't know if I did the right things. There are no right things for you to do. Save trusting in the finished work of Christ. To the person who comes to this text, please understand something. 1 John 1:9 is not an evangelistic text. It is written to people who have been justified. It is written to people whose hearts have been cleansed and see unrighteous in Christ. And there is nothing, according to Romans 8, that can separate them from the love of God. He writes, I am persuaded that neither death or life or angels or principalities or powers Nor things present, nor things to come, nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. So you ask the question How is it that John talks about forgiveness to people who are forgiven? And that is because when we talk about forgiveness in the Bible. In some contexts, he's talking about how we're forgiven legally before God. He's talking about how we're saved from our sins, how we stand righteous in God's presence. If you will, he's talking about Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. By grace you are saved through faith. You are forgiven by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. It is not by works of righteousness that we have done. And in many texts, when he uses the term forgiven, he's talking about legal forgiveness before God now and forever. Salvation, if you will. In this text, he's talking about forgiveness in the relational sense. You know, I have two boys and I love them very much. I think they're taking notes right now. I hope that's what it is. I'll find out later today. There's nothing that can change the fact that those children belong to me, that I am their father. Nothing. They are biologically my children. There was a born a day that they were born, that they received life. And nothing can change the fact that I am biologically their father. But I can tell you something. There are many, many days that those children need the fellowship between their daddy and themselves to be restored. Many days There are times that they say things they shouldn't and do things they shouldn't. They have attitudes that they shouldn't. And I have to pull them to the side and I have to deal with those issues And I always tell them, you need to go to your mommy and ask her to forgive you. You need to, what do you need to say to your father? What do you need to say to your little brother? What do you need to say to your sister? That matter is about fellowship. It's about restored communion between individuals who are in relationship with one another And when John writes in 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. He's not talking about how we are legally made right with God, how we are justified. That is a once and for all settled deal. And Romans chapter 8 expounds that in tremendous detail today. I read it briefly, but I encourage you to read it. There's nothing that can separate you from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord. Yet in 1 John 1. 9, he talks about how to maintain that close communion with your Father. There's a second group that I'd like to address, and that is the person whose conscience has become desensitized to sin. You know, if you were to do a poll and research people's opinion about issues that a hundred years ago were unquestionably viewed as sin. And you interviewed people today, do you think you'd get the same results? Of course not If you did it in churches, would you get the same results that you got 50 years ago? 40? 20? No, you wouldn't. The truth is that we live in a very permissive society We live in a very permissive generation. We live in a time where sin has been redefined as A little you know, a little mistake here or there. Do you mess up from time to time? Yeah, sometimes things don't work out so well. We don't want to call it what it is. Sin. We don't want to define things as God defines them. And so we have become accustomed to calling sin a little mistake, to excusing away serious matters And there are many people whose consciences have become desensitized and are not even close to what God says is right and wrong. Just because your conscience isn't bothered by an issue does not necessarily mean that you are thinking correctly about it. Okay? And we see a lot of examples in this text that give us the impression that John thinks that some of these people have become desensitized. He says in verse number six, if we say that we have fellowship with him and walk in darkness, we lie and do not the truth. Why did John say that? Obviously he believes that there are a couple of people in that congregation who are giving folks the impression That your sin doesn't really matter. It doesn't affect you. If you're right with God positionally, then practically it doesn't matter what you do. And sadly, today there are a lot of folks that have actually gone to that extreme. And have given us the impression that sin doesn't matter. Our sin does affect our relationship to God. It affects our fellowship if we're believers. In verse 8 he says this, if we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves. Very strong statement The truth is not in us, verse 10. If we say that we've not sinned, we make him a liar. His word is not in us. The truth is that there are folks who don't understand justification correctly, but there are also folks whose consciences have become desensitized. And when you see sin in your life, you don't think it matters at all. It does matter. Familiarity with a truth that has never been embraced. Being dominated by Serious sins can affect our consciences as well. We can get to the place where the way that we cope with our sin is we turn off our conscience. And so this text speaks to that individual. The third is this, to the very delicate conscience. You know, it is possible to go the other extreme, where everything that we do puts us in a place where we feel we can never be forgiven. We can never have communion with God. We can never have fellowship with Him. You know, it's kind of like this. Satan is sort of like when I well, I don't know if I want to use quite the like as kind of a thing, but let's say when you go fishing You know, you want to catch fish. So you take your tool your not toolbox, your fishing tackle box out, and you think about, well, I'm going to be going for bass today. And it's early in the morning, so how do I want to go for the bass? Well, I go and dig through my tackle box and I find a nice topwater lord. Right? The kind of fish. Now if I'm going out in the Chesapeake and I'm going to try to catch some flounder Well, I'm not going to use a topwater lure because they don't go up to the surface. And so I get a different kind of lure for them. Well, you know the truth is a fisherman who gets experience and learns how to fish, he knows what lure he wants for the fish that he wants. During the conditions that he that he has. Well, do you think that Satan is a little bit of a fool towards us? I doubt it. He has experience. He knows your disposition. He knows if your tendency is to disregard sin. And so he emboldens that confidence that you have. He intensifies the hardness of your conscience. So that you don't feel when you sin and it doesn't bother you anymore. The person sitting right beside you may be the very opposite. They have a very awakened conscience, a very sensitive conscience. When they read the Bible, they feel the weight of their sin. And so what does Satan do? He goes to them and he says, look at how miserable and how worthless and how troubled you are. God doesn't care about you. God doesn't love you. He's thrown you to the side. He will never allow you back into his presence. Do you see what he does? Like the fisherman picks the lure for the fish he wants to catch. Satan knows your disposition and he knows how you think and he knows your background. He knows the books you've read. He knows all of that. And he's going to go after you in the way that he knows his best to make you to fool. The delicate conscience needs to be reminded that our sin is not an insurmountable obstacle to fellowship with God. And God loves us, and He wants us to commune with Him. We move to a second section. I want you to re recognize some of the truths that are drawn out in this text The first truth is this communion with God is possible, even in a fallen condition. Let me say it again. Communion with God is possible. even in our fallen condition. In verse 9 it says this, if we confess our sins. Then he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. The fact that that verse is in the Bible tells us something. We need it And it's available to use. Do you get what I'm saying? We need that. We live in a fallen world. We are fallen creatures. We sin. We need cleansing. We need restored fellowship. We need this text. And because we need it, God has made it available to us. He's willing to do what he says he's going to do. If you will, it is a promise that he has made. Yet we find in the Bible that there are many, many examples of people who, though that kind of a statement is available to them, there were times they didn't feel that way. Let me give you some examples. Psalm 38, verses 1 to 4. David writes, O Lord, rebuke me not in thy wrath. Neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure, thine arrow stick fast in me, thy hand presseth me sore, there is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger. Neither is there any rest in my bones. Mine iniquities are gone over my head as a heavy burden. They are too heavy for me. Have you ever felt like that? You ever felt like that? There are people that do. They feel like they are crushed by their sin. They can tell you when they trusted Christ. They are trying to walk in obedience to the Lord. They try to read His Word. They spend time in prayer. It is their desire to commune with God. But when they sin, they feel crushed by their sin. And what does Satan do? He says, remember that verse? God is light, and him is no darkness at all. You can't have fellowship with God In fact, this morning I was reading about Christ's temptation in the wilderness. And on the second temptation, Satan comes to Jesus and says, It is written. He does. Satan quoted the scripture to Christ. He says it is written. He abused that text. He misrepresented that text. The way that he was applying it was wrong. But he did quote it. And sometimes Satan will take the word of God and he will press it into your soul in a way it was never intended to be understood. And you will feel it is impossible to ever be in fellowship with God again. Psalm 77, David writes. I cried unto God with my voice. In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord. My sword ran in the night and ceased not. My soul refused to be comforted. Listen to what he says. I remembered God. And was troubled. I complained. My spirit was overwhelmed. Thou holdest my eyes waking, I am so troubled that I cannot speak. David was overwhelmed by his sin. You know, it's a good thing when you sin and God convicts you over it. But it's not a good thing when you wallow in that conviction. It's not a good thing when you come to God and you confess your sin and you say, I'm sorry. and you call it what it is, and you confess it to him and you desire that restoration. And when the scripture says he's faithful and just to forgive and to cleanse you from all unrighteousness, you have a hard time accepting that. And believing that and embracing that. And Satan continues to press you and remind you of your failures. We have to have a correct balance When we think of these things, it is possible to have communion with God, even as those living in our fallen condition. Truth too, our communion with God is his consistent priority. In spite of our fallenness. Notice in verse 9 it says this: He is faithful. He is faithful. I'd encourage you sometime to reflect on how many times in the Bible the scriptures Emphasize. Sorry, I got a fro frog in my throat all of a sudden. How many times the scriptures emphasize how God pursues us? You ever notice that? Go to Genesis chapter 3 in Adam's sin. Did Adam go looking for God? No. It says they heard the voice of the Lord walking in the garden, and Adam and his wife hid from them. And God called unto Adam and said, Where art thou? In the Gospels in John chapter 6 it says, No man can come to me except the Father has sent him. In verse 12, he says, If I be lifted up, I will draw all men to me. The idea is that we don't seek after God. He pursues us. Second Peter chapter 3, verse 9, the Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness. But is not willing that any should perish, that all should come to repentance. God's heart is to see people repentant. Trusting in the work of Christ, conversion. First Timothy 2, verse 4, it says: God wills or desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. In Revelation chapter 3, verse 20, Jesus says, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If any man hear my voice and open the door. I will come into him and will stop with him and he with me. You know what's interesting? He doesn't say, you're knocking at my door, and one day I'm going to come and answer it. It's not the way he presents it. This is I'll stand at the door. And I'm not. The truth is that God is very concerned in our salvation, and God is very concerned about our walking in fellowship with Him Far more than we are. If it wasn't for his initiation, if it wasn't for his spirit's conviction, if it wasn't for God bringing people into our lives to give the gospel to us. If it wasn't for Christians to come alongside of us and are backslidden situations, if it wasn't for circumstances, we would just go astray. God is faithful. He cares about us in this area. Truth three, our communion with God, it's not a miscarriage of justice. He says in verse nine that he is just to forgive us our sins. When God forgives you, he doesn't just ignore your sin. In fact, the gospel is the means and the only means through which God pours out his grace and mercy on sinners. whom he loves. He does not compromise his holiness. He does not compromise his justice when he saves a sinner. The Lord poured out the iniquity on Christ. As Christ hung on that cross, God's justice was satisfied. I love when it says in Isaiah 53, he will see the travail of his soul and be satisfied. I love that text. Because what it tells me is this: when God forgave me, he didn't ignore my sin. He poured it out on Christ. In Romans chapter 8, it says this, what the law could not do, and that it was weak in the flesh, God did. By sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh and for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh. God dealt with sin. He didn't sweep it to the side. And God does not ignore his justice when he forgives you and cleanses you and restores you. Truth number four, and I love this one: there is no limit to the depth of God 's forgiveness. Look at the end of verse 9. He's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and catch the phrase and to cleanse us from what? All unrighteousness. All unrighteousness. The Bible is full of amazing examples of God-forgiving, tremendous, evil, sinful people. You remember the story of Manasseh? The Bible says there was no wickeder king in Israel's history. Yet when we come to 2 Chronicles chapter 3, it says that God brought this man Manasseh to his senses. And this man was humbled and God restored him. It's an amazing story. Manasseh, the most wicked king in Israel's history, was brought to humility and repentance before God at the end of his life. I look at the story of Nineveh in Jonah chapter 3. It says, Jonah entered into the city, and he cried and said, Yet 40 days and God will overthrow this city. And how did the people respond? It says, the people of Nineveh believed God and proclaimed a fast And put sackcloth from the greatest of them to the least of them. And they cried mightily unto God, Yea, let them, every one of them, turn from his evil ways. And from the violence that is in his hands. Who can tell if God will turn and repent and turn away from the fierce anger that we perish not? And you know what God did? He withheld that judgment. The wickedest king in Israel's history. Probably one of the wickedest cultures that has ever lived in human history. Their capital city, Nineveh, and that is how God dealt with them by preaching to them through Jonah. And turning from his wrath when there is repentance and faith and a desire to be cleansed. Even Ahab in 1 Kings 21 We see the wickedness of Ahab, and at the end of his reign, God comes to Elijah and says, Do you see how Ahab has humbled himself before me? He humbleth himself before me. I will not bring the evil in this day. Lots of examples in the Bible of God showing mercy and grace to tremendous sinners. You read the book of Hosea, and what is Hosea? It is God using Hosea and Hosea's wife to teach the nation of his unconditional love for them. His mercy, his grace, his forgiveness, his restoration. Look at Psalm 51. What a wonderful psalm expressing repentance to God. And a desire to be restored and forgiven and cleansed and used again. And it's in the shadows of the darkest days of David's life. When Jesus tells us that he forgives, when John writes he's faithful and just to forgive us our sins and cleanse us from all unrighteousness, he means it. It could be that there's someone sitting here today that is wallowing in guilt and discouragement because of something that you've done. Please fix your soul on this text. I move to the third section. That is our response. Maybe today you realize you haven't understood the gospel. As I was beginning the sermon And we talked about justification. And I mentioned Ephesians 2. 8. 9, by grace you are saved through faith, not of yourselves, the gift of God, not of works less any man should boast. You sat down and said, That doesn't sound like what I believe That doesn't sound like what I've ever heard taught in the churches I grew up in. That's not what I learned, but that's Bible. Maybe as you sat here this morning you said, I do not understand salvation. I've always thought I'd do this and I Be good and I try the best I can, and I present to God what I have. And at the end of the day, He's going to look at my good, He's going to look at my bad and say, Okay, you can come. This is heavier than this If the Bible is so clear, it is not by works of righteousness that we have done. It's according to his mercy he saved us. Maybe as you sit here this morning, you realize you're not saved. You've never turned to Christ in genuine repentance. You're realizing your righteousness is filthy rags. Realizing you're a sinner before God, and there is nothing you can bring to him. You have no hope outside of Christ. You've never genuinely repented toward God and turned to Him and placed your faith in the finished work of Christ. His death on the cross, his resurrection from the dead, his righteousness. You are trying to stand in the filthy rags of your own righteousness and never turned in humility to Christ. What do I say to you? Repent and believe in the gospel. Do that today. Before we close our service, we'll have a few moments of invitation where we'll be seeing him. And during that time I'd invite you, come and say, I don't know how I don't know if I'm saved. Maybe after the service, pass through and say, I'm not sure if I'm saved. I need to talk to somebody You can do that. To the second, if you become cold and calloused in your conscience You've gotten to a place. You know it in your heart. God's Spirit and His grace is convicting you right now. And you realize that you've lived with a desensitized conscience. It doesn't get pricked anymore. When you sin, it's as if it doesn't matter. Maybe you even know when it started and how that began. My encouragement to you is repent and humility before God. Plead with Him to soften your heart, to restore a soft conscience. An awareness of sin, a desire to be reconciled or restored or brought back into communion, whatever the place might be. He sees your sin It stands between you and him, but it doesn't have to. And to the third group, if you've been driven to despair by your sin. Maybe you sit here today and it's not the first service that you felt this way. You have felt this way for days, weeks, months, years, decades. I don't know. But as you sit in this service, you sit down and you say, I could never walk in communion with God. I'm not good enough. Nobody is. The reason that salvation is through Christ alone is because we can never merit God's favor. We can never reach his standard. We are sinners by nature. When we sin, it's simply an expression of what's in the heart already. I encourage you, confront the lies that you have embraced. Communion with God is possible. It is his desire, it is his priority. He's pursuing you, even through this text right here. His spirit is working in your soul and showing you this is true. It's not a miscarriage of justice. There's no limitation to the depths to which God will save sinners and the depth to which He will forgive His children. If he can forgive David, if he can show humility, or he can show compassion on Nineveh and Manasseh and Ahab and the nation of Israel. Don't think you're outside of the scope of his love. God does care about his children. He wants us to confess our sins when we are out of fellowship with him. He wants us to not compromise. He wants us to commune with him. And this morning, that's what he invites you to do. Deal with your sin. Deal with your thinking. Let God work in your soul as He is trying to do. Let's bow our hearts together for prayer. Father, this text is a glorious text. It's a glorious text because it hits at the most practical parts. Of our Christian experience. We cannot have joy outside of your presence. We don't have meaning and value in what we do outside Of your presence. We cannot have life experience as you intended it apart from you. And our sin does come between us and our Savior. Our sin does stand between us in reconciliation if we're unbelievers. Yet the invitation is clear. Come. I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice, I'll open the door. And come in to him and sup with him, and he with me. Father, you are inviting people in this congregation to commune with you, and I pray that they will heed that invitation And respond to it as you desire. May you bless this text and these truths that we might meditate on them throughout this week. In Christ's name. Amen.