Good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we are back in 1 John chapter 2, and we will be looking at verses 10 and and 11. So if you're joining us this morning, I'd like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to 1 John chapter 2 verses 10 through 11. I'm going to go ahead and begin reading the passage. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness and walketh in darkness. And we come to this passage, it's important for us to just pause and give a simple summary statement. So I'm going to do that. Because John wanted his audience to live out a vibrant Christian walk, he drew their attention to the significant contrast between walking in the light and and walking in the darkness, so that they would reject the temptation to indulge in fleshly temptations that would rob them from a joyful Christian experience. And so if you remember, we talked a little bit about this passage yesterday. I want us to go back and kind of focus on the last two verses that we read in that section dealing with light and darkness. And so I kind of want to begin by setting the tone by looking at another passage in the Old Testament. And that's in Deuteronomy chapter 30, verse 19. Now when we go to the book of Deuteronomy, we're talking about basically God re-giving the law and reminding Israel of the covenant that they've entered into. And the Mosaic covenant was interesting in that it was different from the Abrahamic covenant because it was a conditional covenant. The Abrahamic covenant was unconditional. God said, I'm going to fulfill what I've promised, I'm going to fulfill fulfill. But when he came to the Mosaic Covenant, he said, I'm going to put some conditions with this covenant. If you obey me, I'm going to bless you. If you disobey me, you're going to experience a difficult time. the land. I'm not going to bless you. You're going to experience difficulty until you come into a place where you're walking in fellowship with me. And so this is what he says in Deuteronomy 30, verse 9 He says, I call heaven and earth to record this day against you. I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing. Therefore choose life that both thou and thy seed may live. Now when God talks about setting before them life and death and blessing and curse , The idea is this. He's saying, you can live in fellowship with me where I will bless you as a nation, and you can have a joyful experience in this land. or you can reject me, reject my law, and you're going to experience hardship and difficulty, and you're going to be isolated from me. And so you have a choice to make. Either you're going to choose life or you're going to choose death. Is you're going to choose blessing or you're going to choose judgment. It's up to you. What are you going to do with that? Keep that in your mind as we move to this passage in 1 John 2. Because in this passage he's going to set a contrast. You can choose light or you could choose darkness. You could choose the path of blessing, or you can choose the path of difficulty. You could choose the path of walking in fellowship and communion with God, or you can choose the path of In other words, the first truth that we find in this passage is that there is a contrast between light and darkness, and we can choose the light or the darkness. Here's how he puts it in verse 10. He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him. But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes So you can see clearly in this passage there are two paths that a person can walk down, the path of light or the path of darkness. And so I want us to kind of meditate for a few minutes on this concept of how there is a contrast between light and darkness. Notice a couple of passages that talk about this that are kind of related. Think about Galatians chapter 5, verse 16. This is what Paul writes. He says, This I say, walk in the spirit, you shall not fulfill the lust of the flesh. For the flesh lusteth against the spirit, and the spirit against the flesh, but these are contrary the one to the other, so that ye cannot do the things that you want to do. would. Paul is saying, listen, you can either walk in the spirit or you can walk in the flesh. You can't do the two at the same time. They're in conflict. They're in contrast with one another. He says later in verses 19 to 20, now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these. And he lists a whole host of things that are sinful patterns of life On the other side, in chapter 5, verse 22 to 24, he says, but in contrast, the fruit of the Spirit is love and joy, peace, gentleness, peace. Goodness, faith, meekness, temperance. He contrasts these two different ways of life. Paul's saying either you walk in the flesh or you walk in the spirit. John says you walk in the light or you walk in the darkness. Deuteronomy says you choose the path of life or you choose the path of death, the path of blessing or the path of cursing. The idea is there's a contrast between those two two things. These two principles are in constant conflict. You can't be living in both realms at the same time. So let's look for a moment at this concept of walking in the light. Notice how he puts it in verse 10. He talks about it being a grace-empowered kind of a life. He says, this is a person who loves his brother. And when the Bible talks about Christian love, it talks about love as a quality that really comes from God and it's not natural in us. In other words, when I love people , in a biblical sense. I'm loving them because I have love flowing out of a walk with God that is healthy and right. So this is a grace-empowered kind of a living. He also says in verse 10 that we have fellowship with God. He uses the term abiding in the light. And that reminds us of Jesus' statements in John 15, of how we are to abide in Christ, and how we will be fruitful if we are abiding in Christ. And so this is an analogy related to fellowship and communion with God. He also talks about us being in the light, and the idea is that we're going to have clarity, we're going to be able to see things clearly that we would not be able to see. if we were walking in the darkness. And the fourth thing he mentions is this idea of stability in the Christian life. He says there is none occasion of stumbling in him. So this is a person who has a grace-empowered life. He's in fellowship with God. He has the ability to see things clearly. And this is a person who has stability. He's not stumbling because he's walking with God. God. This is both an internal stability and this is also a consistent pattern of godliness. So we see the one side walking in the light, grace empowered, fellowship with God. Clarity, stability. On the other side, we're going to see the contrast, and that's walking in the darkness. He talks about the works of the flesh. This is a person that hates his brother. So loving my brother is something that flows out of a healthy walk with God. Hating my brother is something that's rooted in my flesh. Either I love my brother or I hate my brother. They're in contrast with one another. He talks about being separated from God. He says this person is in the darkness. He's contrasting with that with he's abiding in the light. In other words, he's not walking with God, he's separated from God. He talks about there being a pattern of fleshly living. He doesn't just say he's in the darkness, but he says that he's walking in the darkness. That means that he's active. That means he's moving. He's doing things. His life is not just a position, but it's a practice, a pattern of fleshly living. In verse 11, he also talks about there being a lack of clear thinking. This person knoweth not whither he goeth. So one person can see clearly because he's abiding in the light, the other person is spiritually blind He doesn't know where he's going. His judgment is clouded. The last thing that he mentions is there's a loss of ability to see clearly. He says, because of the darkness has blinded his eyes. So because he's in the dark, he's lost his ability to see clearly. In other words, it's not just that because he's in the darkness he can't see, but his ability, the quality of being able to see, is actually diminished by the time that he spends in the darkness. And so we see this contrast, walk in the light or walk in the darkness. The second thing I kind of wanted to emphasize this morning is that we need to understand that there's a difference between the way that a Christian relates to sin and the way that an unbeliever relates to sin. In other words, when a person is a genuine believer, he is freed from the dominion and power of sin. And when he chooses to walk in the darkness, he's chosen it when he doesn't have to be there. On the other side, when a person is an unbeliever, they walk in the darkness not necessarily by choice, but by virtue of their nature. And we see this concept in Ephesians chapter 2. He says, you he hath quickened or made alive, who were dead in trespasses. sins. In time past you walked according to the course of this world, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience. You had your conversation in times past, fulfilling the lusts of the flesh. and of the eyes and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others. In Romans 8 it says that the carnal mind is enmity against God, and it's not subject to God's law. laws, neither can it be because those who are in the flesh cannot please God. And so when we take Ephesians 2 and we take Romans chapter 8, we recognize that a person who's not a believer is walking in the darkness by virtue of their nature. In other words, they don't have the capacity to walk in the light because they're spiritually dead. They don't have the capacity to walk in the light Because they don't have a nature that is alive and can fellowship and commune with God. They're spiritually dead, separated from God. On the other side, we see how the believer relates to sin. And in Romans chapter 6 it says, our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should no longer serve sin. He said, He that is dead is freed from sin. He says we're to reckon ourselves to be dead to sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord. We're to yield our members as instruments of unrighteousness, not to yield it as instruments of unrighteousness. But to yield ourselves to God and our members as instruments of righteousness unto God. In other words, when I became a Christian, I went from being spiritually dead to being dead to sin. Being dead to God, to being alive to God, being under the dominion and bondage and oppression of sin to being freed from sins. dominion, being spiritually dead to being crucified with Christ. In other words, I can, as a believer, walk in the light Because I've been freed from this bondage of sin that I had as an unbeliever. In other words, the unbeliever is a slave to a master, powerless to overcome the oppressive rule of God. of sin. The believer is freed to walk in newness of life. The unbeliever is powerless to overcome his sin. The believer is fully quit equipped and free to overcome sin. So you might say, Pastor, how can we just practically apply this passage this morning? Let me give you three thoughts that I jotted down. The first is this, our ability to enjoy the Christian life life begins with biblical thinking. We have to walk in the light. We have to choose to abide in Christ. And as we walk in the light and abide in Christ, he changes how we look at this issue of sin, and we begin to have more clarity and we begin to be empowered to walk as we walk in. A second point is this biblical thinking has to be united with godly discipline. So it's not just that I begin to understand things from God's perspective. But that understanding translates into new patterns of life that are changing how I think, what I love, what I do. Walking in the light is not just about a position , It's not just about a disposition of how I think, but it's about a pattern of life. And walking in the darkness is about living in a place that basically is going to leave me without Without walking in God's way. Lastly, is this we cannot treat sin lightly. Even though we are now in Christ, sin still has devastating consequences. And it's important for us to recognize that these verses are here because John recognizes that just because you are a believer, doesn't mean that you consistently walk in the light. It doesn't mean that you consistently fellowship or commune with God. And so it's very important for us to recognize that every day I have a responsibility to say, you know what? I'm going to choose to make my walk with God my my high I'm going to spend time with him. I'm going to walk in the light, and in that position, I can live the way that he wants me to live. I hope that this passage and this little discussion this morning has been an encouragement Let's bow together for a word of prayer. If it has, please share and uh make sure that you just just share a word of encouragement this morning. And I hope you have a great weekend. I will not be uh doing a recording tomorrow since it's Sunday morning. I need to be preparing for Sunday messages, but it's been good to see each of you this morning. Let's bow together for prayer. Father, we thank you for the time we've spent in your word. I pray that you take these truths and really use them to strengthen and encourage just today. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Well it's been good to see each of you. We hope that you have a wonderful day. Bye now