Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to our service this morning at Anger Baptist Church. And if you are visiting with us today for the first time, Or the first time in a long time, we'd like to warmly welcome you. And if you would like us to reach out to you sometime this next week, just take a moment to fill out one of our visitor connection cards. And if you put it in a little box in the back, we'll make sure that we reach out to you. And we'll really look forward to that. We have a couple of announcements and we'll open up our service. All right, good morning. This week's a little busier of a week. Tonight, following the evening service, there is a teens inspiration, so be ready for that, teens. I'm excited. We also on Tuesday will have our Baltimore rescue mission. Just a reminder, what that's like, is we're able to an opportunity to go to Baltimore, to um the Baltimore Rescue Mission, and we're able to just be encouragement. We're able to give a Bible study to the ladies and to the men. And then those are done separately. And we're usually back between 9 and 9. 30. Um the 15th, you have the senior luncheon back this upcoming Thursday, back on the fellowship hall at noon. College and career will be at Pastor's House at 7 p. m. Friday night. There is also going to be a teen activity, a back to school bash. So be ready. There's a lot going on just through Friday. And then Saturday, we have men's breakfast and churchwide visitation. There is a sign-up for Uh the men's breakfast, so if you guys would think about it, please head on back towards the hallway and sign up there. And the next Sunday there is a teen prayer meeting following the AM service. Just stay a few minutes and uh meet with Pastor Josh. Pastor Josh Our opening scripture reading is found in Psalm 36, and we will start in verse 5. Thy mercy, O Lord, is in the heavens, and thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds. Thy righteousness is like the great mountains, thy judgments are a great deep. O Lord, thou preservest man and beast. How excellent is thy loving kindness, O God! Therefore, the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings. They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house, and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures. For with thee is the fountain of life. In thy light shall we see light Our theme for worship this morning is for us to rejoice in God's incomparable grace. In just a moment, we're going to open up our service with a word of prayer, but I just want to draw your attention to the hymns that we're going to sing this morning. So that we are thinking about them. There's a very clear progression and we're focusing in on God's grace. So our first hymn is a very old one. It's O400 Tongues to Sing. And uh it's a very majestic song. It's one that really just focuses in on the greatness and the glory of God. And then uh the next song we're going to sing is a little bit more reflective. It's kind of Taking what we sing about in that first hymn and just reflecting on God's grace that is greater than our sin. And then a very familiar hymn after that is And Can It Be? And uh that's just really celebrating uh what we have in Christ because of him being our great Savior And uh so I really want to want to encourage you as we sing these hymns and we prepare our hearts for the preaching later on in the service that we're just going to really think about uh the depth and uh the incredible truths about God that we're going to. be sing about. So let's keep that in our minds as we sing. Let's bow for prayer and ask the Lord to bless our service this morning. Father, we're so grateful for the Lord's day. And the blessing that we have as your people to be gathered. And Father, I pray that you would help us as we focus our attention on you to be able to set aside the cares of the day, which may be many And I pray that you'd help us to reflect deeply on how great a God you are as we sing about your grace and as we reflect on the cross and And the resurrection and the position that we enjoy as your people by grace alone. I pray that you would help us to be just moved in our souls. Help us to have great joy as we think about these things. And then I pray that as we look at the preached word, that we would understand how we're supposed to not just think, but how we're supposed to live as a result of what we have heard from your word today. So bless our time of worship. Be with those in our congregation that are that are sick, that have traveled, that are not able to be with us today. I pray that your hand, a blessing would be upon them. And I pray that our fellowship that we enjoy around the Word today would be very sweet. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Well, good morning. Thank you so much for worshiping with us this morning. Please stand with me and open your hymn books to hymn number five. Hymn number five, please stand as we sing O for a thousand. Tongues to sing. We'll sing all five verses. I made it, but the buttons are in the law, my action. Great singing, please be seated as we turn over to him 157. 157, grace greater than our sin. All three verses. Where is it to be praying? Where is it? Where do we go? Great singing as we turn back to hymn 134. 134, we're gonna do something a little bit different with this. We'll sing The first two verses as normal. I'd like to have us sing verse 3, a cappella, and then come in strong on that fourth verse. Think about the lyrics as we sing through. And can it be? Sing out. Oh my I walk with it. If you My shame, my mother , my brother , and Amen. Great singing. Our scripture this morning will be found in the Gospel of Luke. We'll be reading Luke chapter 15, verses 1 through 10. Luke chapter fifteen, verses one through ten. The scriptures say Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying , This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them. And he spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you having an hundred feet? If he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety-and-nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost until he find it. And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep. which was lost. I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth More than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance. Either, what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece? doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it. And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbors together saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I have lost. Likewise I say unto you, There is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner. That repenteth, and may the Lord add his blessing to the reading of his words. All right, we're going to continue our singing this morning. Let's open our hymn books to hymn number 143. Please stand with me. Hymn number 143, I stand amazed in the presence. We'll sing verses 1, 2, and 3. After the third verse, we'll take a moment, greet one another, and we'll come back and we'll sing the fourth verse. Good morning. I am quite a version of the highlight. Our last song, you'll be able to play Find the words on the screen in front of you, four hundred two in the Rejoice book for our musicians. For the sake of his name, we'll sing the first three verses, and then we'll sing that last verse, a cappello. No, no, no, no, no. Take the remote. The wrong who will train. So we still pray with us very right for Christmas. So he might go Amen. Please be seated. The the When I am weak, I lift up my eyes to see my Savior plead for me. When fear closes in and doubt so the seed, I know my savior please for me. Of your love there is not of your mercy I am sure Jesus knows my name and for me to cease all my hope is When sin rises up, I fall to my knees to see my Savior plead for me. Storms may break on, but this is my peace. I know my Savior please for me. Of your love there is no doubt, of your mercy I am sure Jesus starts my need and for me. Intercedes all my Lord is cross and of your mercy I And for me to seat all my house cross. Show your cross. As you break in your name, show your breath. When I am weak, I lift up my eyes to see my Savior please for me Okay, well our children who are junior church age can be dismissed to the back of your class. The rest of you would like to ask you to take your Bibles and let's all turn together to Luke chapter 15. Luke chapter 15, and we are looking at a very important concept from God's Word. And this concept that we will be looking at from the scriptures is really the concept that we have been celebrating all throughout this service. And that is the immensity of God's grace. And the passage in front of us is a little bit lengthy, so we're going to work our way through it. And I hope that as we dig into this passage, you will find it to be an incredible, rich blessing to you. And so let's get into the scriptures together. Luke chapter 15, verse number one says this. Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners, for to hear him. And the Pharisees and the scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them. And he spake this parable unto them, saying, What man of you having a hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it? And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, for I have found my sheep which was lost. I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons which need no repentance. Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it? And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the peace which I had lost. Likewise I say unto you There is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth. Please let's bow together for a word of prayer. Ask the Lord to really help us to understand the text in front of us. and the very practical truths that we will find in it. Father, as we open up the word, I pray that the Spirit of God would take the truths of Scripture and really move in our hearts. Father, I pray that every person here would understand the rich intent of Christ's teaching. Father, if someone is not a believer and they are struggling with whether or not you could accept them, That you would actually save them from their sin and make them your child. I pray that as this passage of Scripture is laid before them, they will see that in fact you are a savior who loves. and rejoices in the salvation of all kinds of sinners. People whose lives are broken and destitute and stumbling in darkness. And Father, I pray for every Christian that is in our midst, every believer. I pray that as we look at this passage of Scripture, you would renew in our hearts that sense of how great your grace is. Father, help us to remember that we are saved by grace alone. If it had not been for this grace that worked in us and worked for us. We would be of all men most miserable. We would have no salvation. We would be stumbling in the dark. We would have no hope of salvation. And so I pray that you would help us to understand the words of Christ, his teaching, and how to apply it. We ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. The text in front of us is a fascinating passage. In fact, there are three parables that Jesus teaches. I'm going to kind of touch on all three, but we're not going to spend much time on the last one. That's going to be, Lord willing. next week. But before we look at that, I want to give you a summary statement of the passage in front of us. What we're looking at in these verses is Christ teaching three parables to a diverse audience to celebrate God's immense grace towards sinners. Warning the self-righteous and confronting and comforting the spiritually broken. Now when I use the word diverse audience, you need to understand that there were people in that audience who would have considered themselves extremely religious. People who would have seen themselves as very righteous, very good, and most of the people that lived at the time that they lived would have said, those are the most righteous and holy, the best people living at the time. In that same group of people, there are people who were notorious sinners. When he says that they were sinners, he's not saying they're sinners in the same sense that you and I were all sinners. But he's saying they were noteworthy sinners. These are the kinds of people that had a reputation for a particular kind of life. These were the kinds of people that were ostracized in society because the kinds of bankrupt lives that they lived. They were known to be sinful people. And when he mentions this other group, those who were associated with them, we'll talk about them in a minute, these are people that were known to be thieves and abusers of their authority. They were traitors to the people living at that time. So when we look at these verses, we're going to see that Jesus is actually hitting an audience That has all kinds of people in it. Some who were really good people in the eyes of the average person of their day, and those who were terrible, sinful people. He had an application for both of those groups. So no matter where you sit in this room or wherever you are listening to this live stream, there is something for you from this text. And so as we dig into it, we are going to see very simply, God wants us to respond properly to his grace. So, well, how do you do that? Well, that's what we're going to talk about this morning. So the first thing I want you to notice from the text in front of us is found in verse number one, and that is that anyone has the potential to become a disciple. Anyone has the potential to become a disciple. Do you ever walk down the street and you look at a situation and you go, those are people that could never be saved? You ever had a situation like that? Or you interact with a person and you talk to them in the conversation and their thinking is so far removed from biblical Christianity that you say that person could never become a Christian. Well I have news for you, if that's the way that you think you're wrong. And not only you're wrong, Jesus wants to confront your wrong thinking this morning with these parables. Anyone, no matter who they are, so long as they have breath of life, they have the potential to become a disciple of Christ. Look at what he says in verse number one. He says, then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him. I want us to consider the significance of that that statement for just a moment. It's significant, first of all, because of the kinds of people that came to Jesus. Verse number one It says that they were publicans and they were sinners. And that word publican was referring to someone who was known as a traitor to the Jewish people. This is someone who worked for the Romans. This is someone who collected taxes. They didn't just work for the Romans and they weren't just collecting taxes, which nobody likes tax season unless you're getting a nice little you know, chunk back, but you're getting your own money back. I just want to remind you of that if you pay taxes. But not only were they not liked because they were working for Rome, but they were known to cheat the people. You ever heard the word extortion? If you've ever lived overseas, uh you might know what it's like to be extorted. You're driving down the road and you see the police officers on the side and they call you to, you know, sit down and I was with some uh missionary friends the other day. We were talking about, we were exchanging stories of what it was like to live on another continent where we were uh extorted by the police often and how to navigate those situations. Well, these people were like that. They were thieves. They took the power that they had and they abused people. They became very wealthy off of the backs of their own countrymen. And so you could only imagine how much people despised publicans. In fact, I'm amazed when I think about the 12 disciples. And you had one who was a zealot, and you had one who was a collector of money, Levi. And you 're thinking about Levi. These two people together, Matthew the tax collector, and you have uh Simon the zealot, and you go, well, did those guys get along very well? I kind of doubt that they did. One loved his people and the other one abused his people. And these are the people that came to Jesus. And when he says sinners, again, all of us, scripturally speaking, are sinners. We all come short of the glory of God. But when it comes to the way that people look at sin, there is no question that people naturally compare the kinds of sins that people commit. And so if we see a person that has committed a sin that is very serious and the consequences are very serious, we have this tendency to kind of assume that they're worse than other people. But Jesus is going to confront that kind of thinking. It's fascinating and significant because of the kinds of people who came to Jesus. It's also significant Because of the way that Jesus responded to them. Look down in verse 2. And this is not Jesus saying this. This is the people who observed what Jesus was doing. It says The people said, This man receiveth sinners and he eats with them. Now, there's a big difference between choosing not to be nasty and callous and hard-hearted towards a person that is known for notorious behavior And inviting them into your home and sitting down with them at a meal and receiving them as if you are going to fellowship with them That's what Jesus did. You say, well, why did Jesus do that? Well, because he loves their souls. His desire was to save them from their sins. And the people that were observing this, they said, he received sinners. Now, why did they say that? Because in their minds, there's no way Jesus is the righteous, sinless Son of God. If he would look stoop himself so low as to receive these people to eat with them and to actually interact with them. But the third thing that I think is very fascinating is the flow of the teaching of Christ leading up to this event. I mean, do you remember that two weeks ago we dealt with a passage That really is one of the most hard-hitting passages in all of the Gospels, talking about discipleship. Let me remind you what Jesus had just taught. Chapter 14, verse 26, he says this. If any man will come to me and hate not his father and mother and wife and children and brethren and sisters, yes, in his own life also he cannot be my disciple. Is that not a stunning statement? Now we talked about this and we understood that the passage is not saying that we are supposed to have animosity towards her family, but he's talking about an issue of priority. If there is this conflict between allegiance to dad or mom or someone in the family and allegiance to Christ, Christ is the highest priority. And in the eyes of that person who you have set to the side to give allegiance to Christ first, they say, you hate me. You reject me. You don't love me. And you should. I'm your father. I'm your mother. I'm your child. That's a pretty hard statement. That's one of the things Jesus had just said. Or in verse 27, he says, Whosoever ever doth not bear his cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. Now, when people thought about bearing a cross, they were not thinking about jewelry, folks. They were thinking about what happened outside the city And as you walk outside the city, you'd see these crosses and people who were dying in agony for hours, in fact, sometimes even days, they were literally suffocating. And when he says you've got to be willing to bear your cross, people go, uh, I don't know about that. Verse 33, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath. Cannot be my disciple. Highest priority Christ. Verse 34. If the salt hath lost its savor, wherewith shall it be seasoned? It is neither fit for the land nor yet for the dunghill, but men cast it out. That's what Jesus was teaching when they came to sit down with him. Isn't that an amazing thought? There were people in the crowd when they heard Jesus saying that, they said, uh, I'm not going to follow Jesus. Bear my cross, forget it. Hate father and mother and wife and children? Forget it. My own life? Never. Who does this man think he is? These people came to him. What does that tell you? There was something about the message of Christ that they wanted to understand. They wanted to know this Jesus who demanded such a high level of sacrifice and such a high level of priority. They wanted to know who he was. They wanted to know why he was there. They wanted to know these teachings and what it was all about. They came to Jesus because they wanted to know him. As you think about that, I asked the simple question, what do you take away from that? Well, a couple implications. Though they had lived notoriously sinful lives, they came to follow him Though they had lived notoriously sinful lives, he accepted them. Though they heard hard teachings, they came to follow him. And there's a tremendous encouragement in these verses for perhaps somebody who's sitting here this morning or somebody who's listening outside on this particular thing and you go, you know, I know who I am and I know how I've lived. And I asked the question, could I ever become a Christian? Could I actually have my sins forgiven? Could I be washed clean? Could I become a new person? Could I follow Jesus? Could I live for him? Could I be a part of those people who are redeemed? And the answer is yes, you can. Because we're saved by grace. It's by grace alone. In other words, nobody gets saved because they deserve it. Everybody gets saved because it's a gift God gives it to them freely. It is by grace we are saved through faith. It's not of ourselves. It's the gift of God. It's not of works, lest any man should boast. That's the first thing we see in the text. Anybody can become a disciple of Christ. Truth number two, Christ's teaching was meant to instruct both believers and unbelievers. Now this is a fascinating thing for us to notice from the text. In verse number three he says, He spake this parable unto them. And I ask a question, who are those people? I mean he doesn't say he spoke this to the Pharisees Or he spoke this to the publicans and the sinners. It just says he spake this to them. In other words, Jesus' teaching was meant to hit everybody that was listening. And there were some people in that crowd who were believers. They were following Christ because they understood he's the Messiah, and they realized he's the one who gives forgiveness of sins. And they'd heard about John's teaching, preparing the way for the Messiah, the Lamb of God who takes away the sins of the world. They were baptized of John and Jordan, and they're following Jesus. They believe he's the Messiah. They're believers. They're saved people. There are other people who are in that multitude and they're like, I'm not a believer, but I'd like to know this Jesus. I don't know if he would receive me. I don't know if I can be saved. But I'm intrigued by who he is. I've seen these miracles. I want to know this Jesus. So they weren't yet saved, but they were being drawn to the Lord Jesus by the things they saw and heard. There are others who are just flat-out skeptics. They were looking for every opportunity to pounce on Jesus, every word he could say. I'm gonna find something he said, and I'm gonna twist it and I'm gonna present it, and I'm gonna say there's no way this guy is the Messiah. Guess what? Jesus taught all of them the same thing. You say He didn't make a distinction. No, he didn't. Why is that? Because the gospel is something everybody needs to hear You might say, well, I'm a Christian. I already received the gospel. I don't need to hear about it anymore. If that's what you're thinking, you and I need to have a conversation after church. That is a very dangerous viewpoint In fact, the Apostle Paul, when he starts out the book of Romans, he says, I'm coming to preach the gospel to you, the church at Rome also. Why do you say that? Because they need to hear the gospel. And the truth is that as the gospel is laid before someone who's unsaved, the Spirit of God works in their heart in a very particular way. to draw them to embrace the gospel. And when the gospel is preached to a genuine believer, the Spirit of God works uniquely in their lives to draw them not to salvation. but to enjoy and delight in and to revel in the truths that are true about them because of what Jesus did for them. He spake this parable unto them. Everybody needs to hear the gospel. Now to kind of help you understand this, I want to kind of point out to you a couple of particular aspects of the gospel message and the nature of God and how if you're a believer, they're going to hit you this way, and if you're an unbeliever, they're going to hit you this way. But it's the same message. For instance, I want you to think about God's grace. And this is really the focus of our service this morning, the focus of the worship songs. The focus of the scripture reading, the focus of the text in front of us, it's all about the grace of God. What is God's grace? It's his undeserved favor towards sinners. Well, what does the grace of God and understanding the grace of God do for somebody who's not a Christian? 1 Corinthians 15. 8, he says this, I was once born out of due time. I am the least of the apostles. I am not me to be called an apostle. I persecuted the church. But by the grace of God, I am what he what I am. His grace, which was bestowed upon me, was not in vain. What is he talking about? The Apostle Paul was this guy who knew who Jesus was. He knew about the cross. He knew about the claim of the resurrection. Jesus knew, or excuse me, Paul knew what was being taught by Jesus' followers, his disciples. He knew what was being instructed in the church. He knew what Peter was preaching. He knew what was going on in the church, and he hated it. Because it was contrary to the rabbinical teachings of his time. They're saying that salvation is through the death and resurrection of a man that they say is God in flesh. And I say salvation is through the keeping of the traditions of the elders. Those are two completely contradictory viewpoints. And Paul hated the gospel. But what did God do? He went after Paul. On the road to Damascus, what does he do? He humbles Paul. And Paul realizes salvation is through the redemptive work of Christ alone. Paul saw himself as a spiritually bankrupt person. I think about what he says in Philippians. Where he says, the things that I counted as gain, these I counted loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord. And I count them, but dung that I might win Christ and be found in him, not having my own righteousness, but that righteousness is which is of God through faith in Jesus Christ. The righteousness of God by faith. So, what does the gospel do for a guy like Paul? It draws him. It humbles him. It shows him you're lost. No hope apart from this message Well, what does the grace of God preached to the Christian do? Strengthens them. James chapter 4, verse 6, it says, He gives more grace, therefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, he giveth grace to the humble. And as we live the Christian life, you know what God does? He lifts us up and he strengthens us and he builds us and he shapes us. And he emboldens us and he guides us and carries us through the challenges of life. The same grace of God that humbles the sinner to trust Christ uplifts and strengthens the believer who's resting in the gospel. Or I think about another example, God's justice, his good and necessary removal of all evil. Folks, when we say that God is just, his justice is terrifying if you're on the wrong side of it. But justice is good. It's righteous. It's holy. It's the removal of evil. And so God's justice warns the believer or the unbeliever. Romans chapter 2 verse 2. He says, We are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against those who commit such things. And thinkest thou this, O man, that judges them which do such things, and do the same That thou shalt escape the judgment of God. Despise the riches of his goodness and forbearance and long-suffering, not knowing that the goodness of God leads you to repentance. He says, After thy hardness and impenitent heart, treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath, and the revelation of the righteous judgment of God, who will render to every man according to his deeds. It's a pretty amazing statement. As a person has access to truth, the justice of God reminds him, you reject this , you will face it. But then to the believer, what does the justice of God do? 2 Thessalonians chapter 1, verse 4. We glory in you and the church of God for your patience and faith and all persecution. Which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God, that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God for which you also suffer. Sing is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation unto them that trouble you and to you who are troubled, rest with us. When our Lord Jesus shall be revealed, in flaming fire, taking vengeance on them that know not God and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now what's the point? The justice of God humbles the unbeliever and comforts the believer. Or God's love. His benevolent action to the undeserving objects of his affection. We talked about this this morning in Sunday school It's to cause the unbeliever to love God. I love Romans chapter 8. He says, all things work together for good to them who love God. Why does he say that? Well, because people who aren't saved don't love God. It's that simple. We love him because he first loved us. Our love for God is a response To us understanding what he's done for us. First John 3:1. Behold what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us that we should be called the sons of God. Therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not. We love him because he first loved us, 1 John 4. 19. And so when the unbeliever hears of the love of God, especially when they understand their sin and God's justice, you know what God does? He draws them to himself and he opens their understanding to what he has done for them and they want to know this God. They want to embrace him. They want to trust in him. He changes how they look at him through the gospel. But did you know that a reminder of God's love is something the believer needs too? Because you could say, I know God loves me, but you don't Know the love of God the way you should. Why is that? Because it's something that's really broad and really deep and expansive. It's something that goes beyond our ability to completely comprehend. And so in 1 John 4. 9, in this was manifested the love of God toward us, God sent his only begotten Son into the world that we might live through him. 1 John 4. 12, no man has seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us. That's an interesting statement. Perfect it. What does that mean? It's something that grows in depth and maturity Or in Ephesians 3, Paul prays that Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love may be able to comprehend with all the saints. the breadth and length and depth and height to know the love of Christ which passes knowledge, that he might be filled with all the fullness of God. Wow, that's really something, isn't it? So the love of God that draws the unbeliever who understands his spiritual bankruptcy. That same concept of the love of God takes the believer who has tasted of God's love and his understanding of it grows. Deeper and wider and more mature. You see, Christians need the gospel. Not to get saved again, to grow in their comprehension of what God has done for them. God's mercy is compassion on the infirmities of the spiritually broken. This compounds, confounds the unbeliever. Romans chapter 2, verse 4. Do you despise the riches of his goodness and forbearance? not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance. What happens when a person becomes a Christian? All of a sudden they begin to recognize the God who I've sinned against is the God who loves me And has done everything that I need to be redeemed to himself. And he calls me to trust in what he did for me. And I don't even, I can't even begin to comprehend how good that is. That's one of the ways you know when somebody's like starting to get the gospel. You see those responses. You see that in their body language. You see that by the things that they say. But what does he do with the believer? He endears the believer to himself. Limitations 3. It's of the Lord's mercies, we're not consumed, his compassions fail not. They're new every morning. Great is thy faithfulness. The Lord is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him. I could sit here all day and pick apart different aspects of the character of God that are being revealed to us, we could say being celebrated to us. in the gospel and how the unbeliever, how they're to respond to that particular element of who God is, and to the believer how they're supposed to respond. And how the same gospel message takes the unbeliever and draws them to a certain conclusion and takes the believer and draws them to a certain conclusion. Why? Because the gospel is something we all need to hear. So there were two different implications. The publicans and sinners, you can be saved because his grace is immense. The Pharisees and the scribes, you need to be saved and rejoice in that grace. Notice, you need to be saved. What these people didn't realize is the lost sheep wasn't just the Pharisee. I mean not just the publican and the sinner. It was the Pharisee Pharisee. It was the scribe. It was the person who was so self-righteous. They were the lost sheep too. And Musa Truth Number Three. Three parables reveal the immensity of God's grace. Now, like I said, I'm going to touch on all three, but I'm going to deal with the third one, Lord willing, next week. The first parable we find in verses four to six, here's what it says. What man of you having a hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, does not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness and go after the one which is lost until he find it? And when he has found it, he lays it on his shoulders, rejoicing. And when he comes home, he calleth together his friends and neighbors, saying unto them, Rejoice with me, I have found my sheep which was lost. I think it's a beautiful picture. Here is this animal that's been running away, and he goes and he gets them, and what does he do? He takes them, he puts them on his shoulders. He carries him. And when he gets back, what does he do? He says, the sheep I went out to get is back. Let's rejoice. He didn't say, well, let's let's kill the sheep so we can enjoy it. He says, let's rejoice that I found my sheep. What's the point? He had a hundred sheep, but his focus was not on what he had. It was rather on the sheep that was missing. You know, we could take this attitude about evangelism, and we could say, you know, I'm thankful for this church. I like the people that are here. I'd kind of like it to stay the way that it is. Let's not worry about the people out there. Let's not worry about their problems. Let's just be a healthy, vibrant, happy church the way we are here. Well guess what? You won't be happy, healthy, and vibrant if you don't care about the people that are out there. Is that simple? And as we go out and we reach people with the gospel, you know, some of those people they've lived messy lives. Their lives have been just dominated by sinful passions. And they've made decisions that have made life very complicated for them. And God wants us to go and reach those people. And someone might say, well, I love America. Let the rest of the world do its own thing. And I say, well I mean, do we not realize it from the perspective of the first century? We were the Gentiles, not the Jews. The Jewish people wanted to reach their own people. And what did Paul do? Take the gospel to the uttermost regions of the world. world. And the fact is, what we're seeing here is that Jesus' teaching, like this shepherd, goes and pursues the lost sheep. That's what he does. And he rejoiced when it was found. And he called others to rejoice with him. The second parable is similar, but slightly different. In verses eight and nine it says, What woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle and sweep the house and seek diligently till she find it? And when she has found it, she calls her friends and her neighbors together, saying, Rejoice with me, I have found the piece which I had lost. Well, she had ten pieces of silver. Her focus was not on what she had, but the one piece that she had lost. She rejoiced when she had found what was lost, and she called others to rejoice with her. I know in life when we're dealing with our kids and you know this this difficult difficult situations happen, disappointments happen, a lot of times we'll have conversations kind of like this. You know son, you need to you need to focus on what you have, not what you don't have. Has anybody ever had a conversation like that? I mean I'm disappointed with you as for that as well. I know you you lost this or the team that you were cheering for lost, whatever the situation. But you know what? You have these blessings, so focus in on these blessings. And in those contexts, that's the way that we need to think. But when it comes to this issue of the gospel and the spread of the gospel to the nations and to the groups that are around us, that is not the attitude we're supposed to have. We're supposed to go and reach those who are outside, who do not know the Lord. The third parable is the most stinging of the three. In fact, it's building towards this. And we will save this for another time. But it says a certain man had two sons. The emphasis of the first two parables is this. It's natural to search for lost things. It's natural to rejoice when lost things are found. It's natural to rejoice over found things. How much more should we rejoice over people? Who are created in the image of God when they are found. Like, are we more excited about finding our dog that wandered off? Or something that we lost, like you know, we left something on our car and we drove out of the parking lot and we don't see it for a week and then somebody's like, hey, I want you to know that when you drove out of church on uh Sunday three weeks ago, this is what I found. And like, oh this is amazing. Like, does that mean more to us than people's salvation? I hate to say it, but sometimes it does And so his whole point is: if people rejoice over animals that are lost and over things that are found, how much more does God rejoice over those whom he created in his image? And his son went and died for their sins. And he rose from the dead. And so when we think about this, the point is God's grace is celebrated every time a soul is saved. I love Romans 5. 8. It says that God commends his love. What does that word commend mean? It's not just he showed it, he commends it. He presents it and he says, celebrate it. It's an awesome thing. It's an amazing thing. It's something that you are a trophy of God's grace. Not that you're the trophy. The grace that is being demonstrated in your salvation is something that is to be celebrated. The emphasis of the third parable is God's grace is incomprehensibly good. It defies our best natural inclinations. It is far beyond the natural expressions of kindness we see in life It's something that makes us uncomfortable when we see it. I can't wait to get into that one. That's just like a little taste of what's coming. He's building. He's like, here's an animal that was lost and it was found. We celebrate. Here's something that's valuable, but it's a thing. It was lost. We celebrate it when it's found. Here's a son that disgraced his dad. We celebrate him when he returns. Not to him, but to him who received him. We celebrate God's profound Demonstration of grace. And that's what this third parable is all about. So next week, come prepared for an exciting time in the Word of God. So the question is, well, what are the implications? What are we supposed to take away from this? The first thing is this, to the publicans and to the sinners, here's what Jesus was saying through these three parables. God cares about your soul even when others do not. That's important. There are some people that they frankly do not respect and value and care about other people. It's just the honest truth. It is a brutal reality of life. There are people get on social media and see the kind of comments people put on people's posts and you'll find out there are people that don't look at that person who put that on there as another human created image of God They will shred them and tear them apart. Look at how kids act towards each other in school, middle school, high school. Look at the power plays that go on between adults And ask yourself the question, are there people that maybe other people don't like very much? And they despise and they hate them? The answer is, of course, it's true. Even Christians. God cares about your soul even when others don't. You have access to the truth because he sought you out. Now why did these people come to Jesus? Because they had ears to hear. They heard what Jesus said and they came. Why did they hear it? Because of God's grace. He gave them opportunity. He went to them. And he preached the word, and as they came, it was a result of him working in them. If you will repent and believe, he will receive you to himself. Notice the word repent is mentioned many times in the text. There has to be a change in the heart when someone comes to the Savior. But if a person will respond to this gospel message, repenting and believing, they will be received by God. Next, he rejoices in their salvation because it celebrates his immense grace. Lastly, people who fail to celebrate him don't know him. Now when I say that, don't think too much into what I'm saying. There are Christians, truly saved people, who do not celebrate the grace of God like they should. In fact, I would say probably most of us. We grow in our understanding. You know, if you can look back at the the person you were five or ten years ago, and you're growing as a Christian, you can look back and say, well, there's a lot of things I didn't quite see right five to ten years ago Okay? So I'm not saying that a person is not a Christian necessarily if they're not celebrating the grace of God as they should, but they don't know him. They don't know him as he is. They don't know his character. They don't know his ways. They are not thinking like their savior. And so that was the implication to the publican and the sinner. To the Pharisee and the scribe, here's what he's saying. You do not know the Lord. That wasn't what he was saying. There's a reason that you scoff at the publicans and the sinners. It's because you don't know this Jesus. There's a reason that you disdain that he would sit down and eat with them. Why? Because you don't know this Jesus. In other words, he's drawing them to understand you don't know the parable and you don't respond to what you see of God's grace because you don't know this God's. You do not love him. How do we know that? Because you love those whom he's made. The reason that people love other people is because the love of God is being shed abroad in their hearts. Your unwillingness to celebrate this lavish display of his grace reveals the deadness of your soul. He's been seeking your soul just as he's been seeking their souls. Even you can be safe from your spiritual brokenness as they have been. But here's the problem. The problem is not the availability. The problem is not access to truth. The problem is one heart is calloused and says, I don't need And the other has been humbled and says, this grace is amazing. That's the difference. If you repent and believe, he'll receive you to himself, just like he received them. But you know what? To say that Those Pharisees and those scribes had to recognize they had the same fundamental problem as the people that Jesus received. And that takes a lot of humility. He'll rejoice in your salvation just as he has rejoiced in their salvation, because each example celebrates his immense grace. So that was the response of these two groups, what it should have been to what Jesus is saying. Now what's our response? How should we apply the truths? First application is this. We must ask ourselves a very important question. Have I been humbled by God's grace? Have I been sobered by God's justice? Have I been stirred up in my soul with a love for Christ? Have I been confounded by God's mercy? Am I a penitent sinner who is trusting alone in the finished work of Christ? Another way to put this is ask the question, are you a Christian? I don't mean do you go to church? Would you call yourself a Christian in our culture? I mean, do you know the Lord Jesus as your Savior? Have you placed your faith in his finished work alone? Application 2. We must get a renewed sense of his grace. The first question is for the unbeliever, but the second is for the believer. He cares about my soul because he's good, not because I'm good. He paid the ultimate price in the death of Christ for my redemption. He looked down on my spiritual brokenness with a heart of unparalleled paralleled compassion. He's lovingly pursued me through the preaching of the gospel, and I'm his child by grace alone. I'm no more or less deserving of every blessing I have in Christ than any other Christian. I ask you this, Christian, do you understand those things? Do you understand that the grace of God is equal in your life as the worst sinner you can imagine? You say that one? No. The cross is the equalizer of all humanity. There's those who are in Christ. And those are in Adam. And they all come through the same cross, the same righteousness, and the same resurrection. And it's all by grace. The third application is this. We need to express this renewed sense of God's grace in passionate worship. One of the things I really enjoyed doing on Sunday afternoons is taking a walk and listening to the congregational singing. from our service. This one will be a good one. Why do I enjoy that? Because it is so sweet to hear the praises of God's people. It's just an awesome thing. And the fact is, if my heart is filled with a love for Christ, then how can I help but not express that? And so there are two ways I'll mention. One is live an expression of worship. 1 Corinthians 15. Thanks be to God, which gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Therefore, my beloved brethren, be steadfast and movable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, for as much as you know your labor is not in vain in the Lord. When people understand the cross, the resurrection, and the righteousness of Christ imputed to us, you know what it does? It presses them. It presses them in obedience. They want to live for Christ. The second is seeing praise as an expression of worship. Colossians 3, let the word of Christ dwell in you richly. In all wisdom, teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, and whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him. That text gets it all. There's the living and there's the praising. And so I want to encourage you this morning as we close our service. Let's not miss this opportunity. to really glory in the grace of our Lord Jesus. Let's bow for prayer. With every head bowed and every eye closed before we close in prayer, I want to ask a simple question. Is there anybody here that would say, Pastor, I don't know for sure that I'm saved? I don't know for sure that if I died today, I'd go to heaven. You talk about the gospel and you you talked about all these implications and I I don't understand it. And I really need to speak with you. No one else is looking but me. Is there anyone that would quietly raise up your hand and say, that's me? If that's you, I want to meet with you so I can take a Bible and show you what it says. About how you can have confidence your safe. Anybody like that? I'll give you just a second. Put your hand up. I'm not going to call you out. I'm not going to ask you to walk forward. I'm just going to take note so that I can speak with you. Anybody like that at all? You might say, Pastor, I'm not raising my hand, but I need to. Okay, fine. Reach out. Reach out after the service. Reach out this week. I want to be a help to you. I'm sure that all of us can say we need a deeper understanding of God's grace. And we'll live a lot more intentionally if we have that. And so let's ask the Lord to help us with it. Let's bow for prayer. Our Father, as we think about the text in front of us and the wonderful truths that we have examined. Take the word and use it in our hearts. Father, fill us with great joy and gladness as we reflect on the grace of God and what he did for us. Father, I pray that if there's anyone in this congregation or anyone on the live stream who does not have a confidence that they're saved, they're not sure. That if they died today, they'd spend eternity with you. I pray that you would help them to reach out and help them to realize the great need to go to the Bible and get solid biblical answers so they can have confidence. That they're your child because of what Christ has done for them. I pray that you will take the word and use it in our hearts. May it dwell in us richly And as we sing praise to you in our closing, I pray that we would sing it with a heart that is filled with great gladness and joy. And as we leave this place, help us to leave with a purposed desire to walk in obedience. to your ways, knowing how great a salvation we've experienced. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. Please let's take out our hymn books and turn to our closing hymn. One of my favorites, it's a great one for this text, and that is 156, How Can It Be? And uh it's a very reflective hymn. Let's sing it together. Stand please. We will sing 156. How can it be? Oh, save your hand by my feebles of wonders of the I might I shall be done and take up on my own and you don't need. That's the only appropriate way for us to leave a service like this. How can it be? And uh may we live like we actually believe that that is true Brother Charlie, I'd like to ask you to come and close us in prayer. I do want to remind you that tonight we will not be live streaming our service because our missionary that's with us works in a sensitive area. And uh hope that you'll go by and greet him as he will be back uh with his new prayer cards. And uh really looking forward to our service tonight. So if you were with us last Sunday, uh we really had a great time. And And uh this will be another great blessing. So hope that you can make it back for that. Or Charlie, please close us in prayer. Heavenly Father, thank you for bringing us together this morning. Thank you for allowing us to hear your word and to um help us to apply that to to our lives. Just thank you for the It's a reminder of your your great grace, and we do so often take that for granted. Just uh as the song says, just how can it be that you would would love us? Send your son to die on the cross and to provide salvation for us. Just help us to go forth this week. Help us to be bold witnesses for you and to honor and glorify you in Jesus' name. Amen.