Well, good morning. I'd like to welcome you to another edition of our Anchored in the Word Morning Reflection. And today we're back in Luke chapter 7. So if you have a Bible, I'd like to invite you to take it. Let's all turn together. To Luke chapter seven, and we're looking at a fascinating passage of scripture that is uh teaching us about God's providence, how he works in the ordinary details of life. So Let's look down in Luke chapter 7. We'll begin in verse 11, but our focus will be on verses 16 and 17 this morning. Scripture says, and it came to pass the day after that he went into a city called Nain And many of his disciples went with him, much of the people. Now when they came nigh to the gate of the city, behold there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother She was a widow, and much people of the city were with her. When the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not. And he came and touched the bear, and there bare him they that bare him stood still And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, arise. He that was dead sat up and began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother. And there came a fear on all, and they glorified God, saying that a great prophet is risen up among us. And the rumor of him went forth throughout all of Judea and throughout all the regions round about. This passage of Scripture is um very, very important because of the way that it reveals God's providence. And we've looked at it In three uh parts leading up to this one, this is the fourth part. We start with an introduction, and then from that we looked at the fact that God is uh involved in the ordinary details of life. We saw that God wants us to see Him in circumstances. He wants to reveal Himself to us in not just an academic way, but in a very personal, experiential way. Well, this morning we're going to focus on the fact that when God works providentially, his intent is to call us to attention, to demand of us a response. And so His providence compels human response. And we see that in verses sixteen and seventeen. Here's what it says. There came fear on all. That's a response. They glorified God. That's another response. They said a great prophet has risen up against uh among us. Another response. God has visited his people. A rumor of him went forth throughout all Judea. And through all the regions around about him. They they spread the word of what they had just witnessed and what they believed to be the significance of that event. Whenever God interrupts visibly the ordinary course of human events He's doing it for a reason. When God allows something, he's doing it for a reason. When he when he causes something to take place, he's doing it for a reason. God directs to call her attention to think. In fact, uh the other night I was at the Baltimore Rescue Mission, and as I was preaching there, uh we were looking at a passage in Isaiah, and he asked the question, he says Why are you spending money on that which is not bread? And why are you going after things that have no ability to satisfy you? He asks a question. Why does God ask a question? Because He wants us to think. He wants us to ponder. He wants us to consider the significance of a thing. And He's doing that for our own good. So when God calls us to attention, it's not because he's cruel or unjust, it's because he wants us to learn a lesson. He wants us to grow and mature and develop. There's a purpose behind it. In fact, we see that when we go to Ecclesiastes chapter 3 and verse number 1. It's a familiar passage, and this is what it says. It says, To everything there is a season and a time for every purpose under heaven. Every word in that verse is significant. We we see the word everything, so this this encompasses all of life. There's not a series of circumstances or events that we'll live through. that don't fall into this category. Everything, he says there's a season, so it doesn't last forever, there's a period of time that God causes things to uh to come about as they do, or he allows things to come about as they do. So everything, there's a season, there's a time. So he's talking about uh the that when things unfold the way that they do, the timing is significant to God. But the part that really stands out to me is the statement, and there is a purpose for everything under heaven. That means that there is an intention behind why God allows things to do what they do. There's a reason, a purpose of something that God is accomplishing. So everything has a purpose in God's plan. That is the good and the bad. That's the sweet and the bitter. That's the humbling and the uplifting. And that is a concept that I think sometimes it's easy to talk about it when we are living through good times, but when we're going through hard times It's very difficult to actually live in the lie of that. But really what is at the root of this conviction is is a trust in God's justice and a trust a trust in God's goodness and a trust in God's wisdom and in his power. And so these verses are showing us Satan. When God works, He has a reason. He wants us to respond No moment in our human experience that can thwart what God is trying to accomplish and the way He's revealing Himself. There's nothing in in the purposes that God has for us that can be thwarted by an event in our lives. He 's shaping us in the image of Christ, and if we belong to him, he's going to finish that work. He's going to accomplish that work. He's going to use everything in our life to accomplish those things. And you know, this event is no different. In fact, what this event really does is it it kind of presents us an opportunity to see this principle uh being being visibly and objectively demonstrated. You know, for instance, think about this woman. She was a widow, so she'd experienced the grief of losing her husband. She had an she only had only one child. That would have been her her her her joy and her security and so much would have been wrapped up in this young man. And when he dies, she's experiencing uh incredible grief upon grief and incredible vulnerability upon vulnerability. Yet what does this ultimately do? Well, it provides an opportunity for God to allow this woman to experience his comfort. And his peace and his power. And so when God allowed something to unfold like this woman, he allowed her grief to ultimately redound to what? A demonstration of God's grace. We think about the crowd, and the crowd witnessed this event, and the response was that they were sobered. It says fear came upon all of them. They said We are witnessing not just a remarkable event, but the person who has done what he's done He must be someone very important. He must either be God or he is a spokesman for God with tremendous power. And by the way, we'll see as we Look at these verses that they didn't they didn't all recognize that he's God in flesh. He's Messiah Emmanuel. In fact, a lot of them thought he was He was a prophet like Moses or like Elijah or like Elisha. They were confused and they needed clarification, and we'll talk about how that is accomplished. But The the people were sober. So the woman is comforted, though she is grieved. The people have been sobered. The people have seen a power God's power displayed. And so it says that they glorified God. So they praised him. They said, only God can do what's happened here They realize he's actively at work in their midst. He said it they said, A great prophet has risen up among us and God has visited his people. So the people that witness this recognize God's doing something. But the problem is they didn't understand what he was doing. They didn't understand who they were witnessing. So God is working to call a response, but There needs to be more information for them to understand the true significance of what they're saying. And we're going to talk about that, Lord willing, tomorrow. But the last part about this is the other people couldn't help but but talk about what they'd see. It says that there was a rumor of him that went forth throughout all Judea and throughout all the regions abound. The the point of everything that I'm trying to say this this morning is is this. When God works, everything that he allows, everything he causes, he uses it. Every season, the timing of how it unfolds, it serves a purpose. And what God is doing when he allows us to walk through these circumstances is he's calling us to respond and ask, what are you teaching me? What are you developing within me? And what way are you trying to change me? What what are you trying to take about my understanding of you and move it from an academic and shallow to a deep and rich and personal experiential knowledge. What do you want me to do here? That's the question I think that we need to ask Uh it's okay for us to weep when it's time to weep. It's okay for us to ask questions to God. It's uh it's okay for us to pour our heart and say I'm grieving and I'm hurting and I'm frustrated and I'm I'm concerned and I don't understand and I need your grace and I need your wisdom. It's okay to do that. It's not okay to indict God and say he's done wrong But but the fact is that that's response. That's us going to God. That's us going to Him to find answers. And uh that's what we need to do in these situations. So that's my challenge to us this morning. Whenever God is working, we need to ask, what are you trying to teach me? What are you doing in my life? What is the response that I should make to the work that you are doing. What one that's been an encouragement to you today. I I hope that it'll challenge you. Tomorrow what we're going to see is that when it comes to getting the answer We've got to go to something that is sure and that is that is a foundation that is steadfast. It doesn't change. It's objective. We've got to go to God's Word. And I can't wait tomorrow to talk about that concept. Hope that you have a great rest of your day. And uh Lord willing, we'll meet back again tomorrow, and uh we'll talk to you later. Bye now.