Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord and the power of his might. Put on the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil. For rebrand We wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness. and high places. Wherefore take unto you the whole armor of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day. And having done all to stand, stand therefore, having your loins Skirt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness, and your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye As we look at this passage of Scripture, one of the things that we've seen is that we are exhorted multiple times And as we've been working through this section, we've seen that the writer understands both the reality of the constant conflict that we're in, we are fighting against spiritual wickedness in high places. the water. And he also recognizes the means that God has provided the strength in Each of us in the battle so that we can be victorious. As God gives us these words, he gives us these words because he wants us to be victorious Christians. He wants us to stand in the battle. He doesn't want us to stumble. He doesn't want us to fall away. He doesn't want us to quit. He doesn't want us to end up on the sidelines. He wants us to To continue to be faithful and to persevere in obedience and faithfulness to himself. We can, we can be victorious Christians. But we need need to put on the whole armor of God. to As we look at this section, we've seen that the first item that we are told to put on is actually a belt. In fact the way that it's put in the scriptures is we are to have our loins girt about with truth. The idea was that when a soldier in the ancient world went into battle They would take that robe and they would roll up that robe and they would place it into their belt and that belt would hold that robe there so that they were in a position to move quickly and to move freely and to be able to Stand their ground and then go on the offensive. And so when when Paul writes about our loins being girt about, he mentions that they're girt about with truth. And truth is what enables us to stand in the battle. The second thing that we see the scriptures state is that we're to have on the breast of righteousness. And the breastplate was supposed to protect the internals of the person. The fact is that if they were to receive a blood And so they needed to have a breastplate on to protect their vital organs. The breastplate that's mentioned in the scripture Is a breastplate of righteousness. And the idea is that we as Christians are to live in a way that's consistent with our position in Christ. If we let our guard down, if we don't walk in righteousness, we make ourselves vulnerable to Satan's attacks. And we talked about that in great detail. The third argument article that we mention is stated this way. Have your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace. And I I really do believe that when I deal with Christians, this is an area that I think is a tremendous area of weakness many times. Many times when a Christian comes and They're struggling in an issue like assurance, they are struggling with the concept that they are at peace with God. You know, as long as Satan can attack our assurance, and as long as as we feel as if we are not saved and we're not at peace with God, we are vulnerable to Satan's attacks. And so basically says this you need to have shoes That have good stable footing so that you don't fall in the battle. And those shoes are shoes that deal with the gospel of peace. That gospel has removed God's wrath from you. You. You're no longer under his guilt. You are under his favor. And he's forgiven you and he has cleansed you and he's made you his child. There's peace between you and God. Very, very important. Important instrument that we're to put on. Well, today we come to the fourth article, and this is how the text states it. Above all, take the shield of faith wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. Verse number sixteen. Tonight we're going to look at this question. What is this piece of armor? What does the text mean by the way that it's stated? And how is it that Satan undermines this particular piece of armor? And how is it that this piece of the armor is something that God has provided so that we can be victorious? So with that in mind, we're going to ask a series of questions that I think will help us to understand The first question, what was this piece of armor? In order to understand the illustration that God has given us here, we need to understand what was in the In the mind of Paul, when he talks about a shield, the Romans were masters of ancient warfare. For over 1,000 years, the Roman Empire dominated the ancient Mediterranean world. They developed three primary kinds of defensive shields. One shield was round, it was small, and it was held by shoul soldiers who were riding on Horseback. When these we could say the Calvary members went into battle, they would ride on horses and they had a small shield that they would go into battle with. There was a second kind of shield. And this is a shield that they would c carry that was very similar to the one that they used when they were on horseback. But again, it's a small round shield that they're using in hand to hand combat. This was what you would have seen had you gone to the circus or the games. Not that any Christians would have wanted to be in a place like that. Unfortunately, many Christians were in a place like that. They were a part of the spectrum. But when they went into the arena, they used these small shields. This is not what Paul's talking about. He's talking about the third kind of shield. Which would have literally been the size of a door. It would have been as tall as I am and probably about this wide. And basically what would happen is those Roman legions would march as a unit together with these shields. Basically, what they would do is they would take these large shields and they would lock them together. As they moved as a unit, there would be a sea a shield, we could say a wall of shields in the front and wall of shields on the top. You say, well why did they do that? As these individuals moved in unison together, they were moving like a tank in battle during World War I and II. This was the ancient version of a tank. And they would move this way and they'd move that way and they would move forward. And as they're moving forward they're There are many darts being thrown at them, there are rocks being thrown at them, there are projectiles being thrown at them, and people are shooting, archers are shooting fiery darts at the In fact what they would do is they would take these shields, and they were made out of wood and leather and metal, and they would actually dip them in water for a long period of time before they went into battle. So that they would be saturated, and as those those darts would fly at them, they would sink into that leather, and then it it would extinguish the darts. Shields were quite the force. They were not used in isolation, and that's very important for us to understand in the illustration. When he talks about taking the shield of faith, he's not talking about something that simply I by myself in isolation put on, but the picture that's in the shield the mind here is it's a large shield that's to be locked in step with other shields and you're going to move as a unit together. God has a purpose for the illustration. that he uses in this text. Second question I have is this. What exactly do the scriptures mean by a shield of faith? Well it was a defense It was meant to be used to cooperate with another with individuals who are units of one one soldier unit. There was an interdependence that was being emphasized There was a collective strength, a collective defense. Each individual had an important role. So if I'm a member of that unit and I drop my shield, I leave the entire unit not just me personally, I leave the entire unit vulnerable. Very important. When he talks about a shield of faith, he's talking about something that doesn't just protect me, it's also protecting the people that are beside me in the battle. Another series of questions I want to ask is what exactly does it mean by faith. What is faith? I think as Christians it's important for us to sometimes define terms like this. Terms like repentance, terms like justification. Faith is an important term for us to understand. And And I think it's important for us to understand the various dynamics or aspects of this concept of faith. Faith is a willful response to depend upon Faith is the willful response. Important. To depend upon someone or something. There's a vulnerability there. And it's based on Upon an internal conviction. In other words, it's not just my head, but my heart is actually convinced of this very thing. And It involves a choice to depend or rely on that object. Willful conviction dependence. Let me comment on those three Words because they're important. Willful. Faith involves a choice. When I trusted the Lord Jesus Christ as my Savior, I chose to depend on the word Now we can talk about why I chose to depend on Christ. It's not just because I'm smarter than everybody else or because I've got some internal quality That's better than other people. I chose because of the work of grace in me that led me to that decision. But there's a choice. It's an act of the will. That second word, conviction, is very important. A conviction means that there is a process whereby we become convinced internally of some kind of body of truth. Is this reliable or is it not reliable? What led me to the point to make the conclusion I need to choose to trust in this person This body of truth, specifically the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's because as I was presented with the truths of God's word, as I saw my Myself as a sinner, the Spirit of God convinced me of that. As I heard of Christ's death on the cross and his body that was broken, his blood that was shed, I became convinced of that truth. As I began to realize that Christ not only died, but he rose triumphant from the grave, I became convinced of that truth. And as I began to to understand the reason. Why did God do this? It was for me. That death on the cross was Christ burying my sin on this cross. He was becoming sin for me, though he knew no sin, so that I could be made the righteousness of God in him. I became convinced of that truth. In other words, faith involves becoming convinced of truth. And then that word depends. vulnerability we have to be willing to choose to depend on the work of somebody else. When I place my faith in Christ I was abandoning self-righteousness. I was abandoning self-dependence. I was saying, I'm a sinner and I'm condemned, and I just I cannot save myself. I cannot stand before Him in my own righteousness. I have no ability before God. I'm strong Spiritually bankrupt by depending on the work of Christ, I became vulnerable. If the gospel 's not true, I'm still lost. In other words, I Depending on what he did. Folks, the gospel is true. There is no other name under heaven given among men whereby we must be saved. He's the way, the truth, and the life, and no man comes to the Father but by Him. But faith involves the will, a conviction of the heart, and a willingness to depend. All three elements come together in what we call faith. And when he talks about a shield of faith, something that that is is supposed to take those fiery darts and extinguish them, this is what he means by faith. I could put it in another way. Faith involves the mind, the emotions and the will. You say, well how does it involve the mind, the emotions, and the will? Let me explain it. The mind is going to process information. Not Not just casual information, but the information that is necessary for me to determine to trust in the finished work of Christ alone. It is impossible for somebody to have faith apart from the gospel. There can be no faith if gospel is not preached. Because that is the means that God uses to bring me to faith. The gospel is not only the object of my faith, it's what God uses to bring me to that point itself. And the mind has to process that information. I have to hear about Jesus' death on the cross. I have to hear about the resurrection. I have to hear about my sin. I have to hear about the fact that there's no way I can stand before God apart from Christ. Those things are important. I have to process that information. Don't try to get somebody to place their faith in Christ if they've not been presented accurately with the gospel. The facts have to be presented. The mind has to process. God works through that. The emotion We must be inclined to either be favorable or antagonistic to the message that we hear. And you will see it. When you give the gospel to somebody, either you You see the light come on, and you see the heart humbled and softened. And you see that this person is humbled by their sin and humbled by the fact that they can't Stand righteous apart from Christ, and they want the gospel message. They want to depend. You can't stop them from trusting in Christ. They are compelled, they are pressed, they are driven to the finished work of Christ. their heart is inclined in favor of truth because of God's word. On the other side, you can see another person who as soon as these truths are expounded, there's a recording. There's an antagonism. There's an a hatred. There's an excusing. There's a truth Turning away. And what does the Bible say? Men love the darkness rather than the lights because their deeds are evil. And they won't come to the light lest their deeds be exposed. And the truth is that there are some people who, under the preaching and teaching of the gospel, as their mind processes that information, they are humbled and they place their faith in God. But the fact is that not only is the mind engaged for someone to believe, but the heart is either inclined toward or repelled from. The heart is either warmed or the heart is hardened. And then we see the will. You have to choose. Are you going to trust in what Christ did? Or will you stand in your own righteousness? The point is that That the mind and the emotion and the will, they're all involved in what we call faith. And so when a person trusts Christ, their mind is engaged, their heart is engaged, their will is engaged, and God has brought them to see the gospel and they turn and they trust in the gospel message. The example of salvation and submission to Christ Really, we are able to see this played out. In other words, my mind processes the details of the gospel, that I need to trust Christ alone for his redemptive work, that I need to trust need to rest in him as the sole object of my faith. My mind processes that. My emotions are inclined in favor or against. And I need to make decisions. Am I going to pro personally trust in what Christ did, depend on his finished work, or will I turn away? That is how faith works in the heart of a person who's under the ministry of the gospel. And the Same is true when we're dealing with submission to Christ's authority. The fact is that there are times in our lives that God says, don't do that, and we want to do it. Lots of times. There are times that God says, do this and we don't want to do it. And it ultimately comes down to a Matter of faith. Do I believe that what God said is true? Do I believe that what God says is something I must do? Am I going to submit? Am I going to trust? Am I going to do what God says, or am I going to reject what God says? And trusting God involves processing in the mind, turning our heart towards the Lord, and making a choice. That is what walking by faith ultimately is. Moment by moment, situation by situation, will I trust God and do what is right? Or will I rebel and unbelievable? So here's another question. What role does faith play in the Christian life? And I want to mention this a little bit tonight. The first ask the first thing that that faith accomplishes in our life is that faith is the means through which God justifies us. Yeah, I love that song that we sing, Yea, justified, O blessed thought And sanctified salvation rock. I love that song. There's some really great doctrine that song. The way that you and I sing And righteous before God is not by our works, it's not by what we do, it's that we trust in what God did for us. Romans 5:1. Therefore, being justified By faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. We are united to the benefits of the gospel when we humbly depend on on what the gospel has done for us. We are not Christians if we're trusting in anything but the finished work of Christ. Two, we walk by faith. Romans chapter 1 verse 17 says this therein the gospel is the righteousness of God revealed. From faith to faith, as it is written, the just shall live by faith We not only get justified by faith alone, but we walk by faith alone as well as Christians. In other words, God saves me when I trust in the finished work of Christ and God matures me and he develops me and he strengthens me and makes me more and more like Christ as I step day by day by faith He says the just live by faith. The question is, do they become alive by faith or do they live by faith? I'll let you figure that one out. Martin Luther took it as that we're justified by faith, and that is true. But I think the text is actually emphasizing the fact that the justified walk by faith There's a third aspect. Not only do we walk by faith, but we grow in faith. The moment that a person places their trust in Christ, Christ, there's a lot of doctrine they don't understand. All they understand is that they're sinners and that Christ is the Savior. And they've turned to Him humbly and they've trusted and what he's done for them on the cross. That's what they know, and that's not a lot, but that's enough. But the fact is over the course of a Christian's life, God God deals with them on so many different levels. That faith that was so small and so immature and so childlike is something that begins to Develop strength and tenacity and maturity and depth. Notice the phrase from faith to faith. In other words, God takes me from being childlike trusting in Him, and He brings me to a point of maturity and a point of Death and a point of strength. The Christian is saved by faith and walks by faith and grows in faith. And in this text God tells us that it is faith that extinguishes Satan's darts. Notice what he says. Taking the shield of faith Wherebywith we shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked. I'll add one more too before we move to the next question. Cultivated faith combats falling away. Hebrews Hebrews 3 verse 12 says this Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief and departing from the living God. God. The book of Hebrews really is about one fundamental issue. You're talking and you're thinking and you're considering walking away from the Christian faith. But I want you to know something. The Christian faith is the only way. And he lays out ways and arguments as to why these People who are professing to be Christians should stay in the community of believers. The fact is that if we will walk by faith, we will not In fact, Peter says that we are to add to our faith virtue and knowledge. He says, if these things be in you in abound, they make you that you'll neither be bare nor unfruitful in the knowledge of God. And he says he who has not done these things is blind and he's forgotten that he's purged of his old sins. He says, if you'll do these things you will not stumble. is if you cultivate a healthy, vibrant faith, you will not fall away, you will not stumble, you will not depart from this body of truth. Faith is important. Question three, how do we cultivate a healthy growing faith? How do you and I maintain A vibrant, healthy, maturing, growing faith? This is an important question. Psalm 1 gives us the answer. Psalm 1 1-3 it says this Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful, but is delighteth in the law of the Lord And in his law doth he meditate day and night. And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season. His leaf also shall not wither, and whatsoever he doeth shall Prosper. When I was looking at this passage, there were some statements that I highlighted in my mind and I put in bold. Maybe they're maybe they got in there on the PowerPoint that way. I don't know. The first one is This the way of sinners and the scornful is something I reject. If you want to cultivate your faith, then you You have to choose to separate from those who undermine it. You have to choose to not engage in activities that will undermine it. He talks about not walking in the counsel of the ungodly You need to be careful who you choose to get counsel from. He says you need to delight in the law of the Lord. You need to be careful what you think about on a regular basis. I'll put it like this. We need to establish and maintain a practice of studying and meditating in the scriptures on a daily basis. Where does faith come from? It comes from God. How do we get to the point where we believe? It's through the word. You say, are you sure? Absolutely. It says faith comes by hearing Hearing the Word of God. If you don't believe, it's because you've not come in contact with the Bible. And that's not just hearing the gospel, that also involves a day-by-day walk with God. If you want to have a strong faith, you've got to be in the Word of God. That's how God strengthens and develops and builds your faith. We have to meditate day and night in the Word of God. When someone is tempted to turn away from the faith, there's a really good chance that they've spent very little time in the Bible for a very long time. Two, work to develop deep godly friendships. I want to go back to that analogy. This is not a shield that is used in isolation. If he's talking about the little round shield that you're wearing or that you're carrying in your hand when you go hand to hand but combat that then fine he'd be talking about that. If he's talking about that shield that they would they would carry in their hand as they're riding into battle on a on a horse, then we'd be talking about that. But that's not is talking about. He's talking about that large shield that's locked with another shield and you're moving together as a unit and you're protected in the front and you're protected on the top. And as you move together in unison, you're able to do what you need to do in unison The fact is, many, many people have a crumbling faith because they do not have godly friends in their lives He says that the person who is blessed does not walk in the counsel of the ungodly, he does not stand in the way of sinners, he does not sit in the seat of the scornful. In other words, he chooses those people whom he associates with very carefully. Extremely important. Maintain a healthy connection to the local church. When people begin to stumble, one of the first things they do is they isolate themselves. They pull away from the church. They pull away from godly friends. And and and I can understand on some level why. Part of it is that sometimes people who are in the church are Not very compassionate. And that's a big problem. There's a fear. What will they say? What will they think? And they pull away. Folks, don't do that If there's ever a time that you need the church and that you need godly friends, it's when your faith is beginning to waver. If one of the those soldiers in the heat of the battle decided the battle is too hot, I'm gonna pull away from the unit and I'm gonna stand by myself. What do you think happens? The unit is going to be vulnerable. And he's gonna die in the battle. It's absolutely gonna happen every time. And so by pulling together and locking those shields, there's a good defense. And there's safe Shunning the damaging influences that are around you. Dealing with sin when it begins to rise to the surface. One of the things that undermines our faith is the entertainment of sin. The fact is when I'm sinning as a Christian, I know intuitively that what I'm doing is inconsistent with who I am in Christ. You know what that does? It begins to undermine my confidence that I'm a Christian. It begins to work and we could say it begins to undermine My affections for God. It makes me want to pull away from Him. It actually makes me draw away from the source that God uses to strengthen and build and mature my faith. We've got to deal with sin the moment that it rises to the surface. And lastly, we need to find stable, seasoned Christians to provide perspective when trials come. There is nothing new under the sun. Nothing. And you know, there are a lot of people in this room Who have gray hair that used to be sixteen and eighteen and twenty two and thirty-five. Ah, that'd be everybody that's got gray hair. Okay. And the fact is this somewhere between eighteen and where you are today, you learned a couple things. And you've seen the couple things. You've seen a lot. And the fact is You have a wealth of knowledge. And there are people that are going through circumstances and they believe wrongly so that they're alone and that nobody's ever felt the way they felt. And nobody's ever experienced what they're experiencing and they think, I'm the first person that's ever gone through this before. And they don't realize that they're like I said right there. He went through even worse than you did. You lay it out and you say, I've been there. I know what that's like. You begin to talk about how God worked in and through them. And how they matured and how they grew. The fact is that we need stable, seasoned Christians to provide godly perspective and try to Come. You will walk away from what is most valuable if you don't have people to pull you back. How does fault how does failing to Cultivate our faith affect our Christian walk and the walk of those around us? Simply put, it leaves us and the people around us vulnerable to Satan's attacks. I'm going to mention Very quickly, without development, how Satan attacks us in this area. He works to keep us out of the scriptures that God uses to develop faith in us He works to plant doubts regarding the things that we read and hear preached in the scripture. Think about the parable of the sower. That that seed fell on hard ground, and what did Satan do? He He snatched it away right away. He seeks to attack us when we're physically and emotionally weary. Think about Elijah after Mount Carmel. He wants to die because he was tired. Think about David when he was running from Saul. He was at the lowest of the lowest places. And Satan works to undermine our faith when we're weary and when we're worn out, when we're emotionally s He uses hardships experienced or witnessed to undermine our faith. Trial, his faith was spent. He was weary, he was weakened. But it's not just when we go through trials, it's when we witness trials I think many, many Christians begin to struggle not just because of what they experience personally, but what they see others experience. You watch someone go through cancer. You see someone die in a very terrible situation, and you know what happens? It shakes you. It shakes you to your very core. And Satan uses He exploits that. But he works to draw us into isolation from the church, godly friends, and seasoned mentors. He brings fleshly lust And he uses them to undermine our faith. How do we put on the piece of the armor and how does it meet the need? I'll mention this lastly. A faith that is Properly rooted and growing is a faith that is a shield. And it's able to withstand this withstand Satan's attacks and extinguish Satan's Why? A faith that is maturing within community, the local church is a faith that will also strengthen the people People around them. When I'm growing, it helps you. When you're growing, it helps me. When I'm stumbling, it affects When you're stumbling, it affects me. We need to lock shields and trust the Lord together. Colossians 2, 6 to 8. Therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted, built up in him, established in Traditions of men after the rudiments of the world and not after Christ. I think that that passage basically lays out a perfect parallel To what Ephesians 6 is talking about. Let's bear our hearts together as we prepare to take the Lord's table. Father in heaven, we pray that you would help us to be individuals who do not fail or who who do not neglect the tools that you use to strengthen and to mature. Our faith. The Word of God is not only the object of our faith, but it's the means that you use to strengthen and to mature us in the faith. Help us to stand side by side, shoulder to shoulder, in the midst of the heat of spiritual wickedness in high places. And help us to stand together and to be strengthened together And to mature together. I pray that as we come together to re reflect on the death of Christ and to partake of these elements, that you might do a special work in us. us as together as a body we remember the Lord's death that he comes. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen