Well good morning. I'd like to welcome you back to another edition of our Anchorage in the Word and Morning Reflection. And this is our final episode for this week. And if you've been joining us this week, this is a fairly hard-hitting topic for us to deal with. It really gets to the heart of not just what we're doing but why we're doing it. And it's so important for us to continually consider the fact that it's not just what we're doing that matters, it's why we're doing it. And longevity And our ultimate effectiveness really does in many ways come down to our motive, what's at the source of the things that we do. And so if you could, let's turn back to Luke chapter 9, and we're reading verses 46 through 50, and I would like us to look at the final section of this passage of Scripture. Here's what it says. Then there arose a reasoning amongst them, which of them should be the greatest. And Jesus, perceiving the thoughts of their hearts, took a child, and set him by him, and said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me. Whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me. For he that is least among you all the same shall be great. John answering said, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and we forbade him, because he followeth not with us. Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not, for he that is not against us is for us Now, this passage of scripture kind of ends in a in a fascinating in a fascinating finality. And what we see is is really one of the ways that this ambition, selfish ambition or pride, can manifest itself. And that is with this attitude that I've got to be the one who kind of controls everyone's, we could say, ministry philosophy, who they partner with, what they do, all those kinds of things. It's almost like we feel the responsibility to be kind of like the policemen of all the churches or families around us That's a great danger actually. And we see this out of all the disciples, it's not Peter. It's actually John, who is typically the most gentle of the disciples, it appears. He's the one that walked the closest with the Lord Um he he's a disciple that we would not have anticipated to say something like this. And I'm not necessarily you know trying to come down on John, but but the reality is that this is in some way an outflowing Of what's going on in these verses. Notice what it says in verse 49. It says, John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and we forbid him. Because he followeth not with us. Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not, for he that is not against us is for us. Now basically what John's saying is this guy claims to be casting out demons in your name, he appears to be able to do this, but I've not seen him amongst uh uh uh us. He's not one of the original twelve. Why does he have this authority? Where'd he come from? Well obviously if he has the ability to do it It's something that God is enabling him or allowing him to do. And the fact that John did not see the connection doesn't mean that the connection wasn't actually there. In other words, let's break this down a little bit. These disciples had been actually commissioned by Christ, a group of twelve. They had been given Delegated authority, they saw ministries success. Now, by the way, as we as we get later into the book of Luke, we're gonna see that Jesus actually calls seventy And he sends them out. So it's not just the twelve that Christ works through. But these disciples are starting to get this mindset that we're the only people that God can work through. That's really what they're ultimately saying. But then after that they experience this issue of failure. They're not able to help this desperate man and his son. And so in some ways the disciples are trying to process this. So God sent us out We were able to have success. Now we come back. We don't have success. We fail. Here's this person who is is following the same pattern that we are, but they're not one of the original twelve And they seem to be able to do this and we don't understand this. And so we told them, stop, you can't do this because you're not with us. That's really what's going on. In other words, they're saying he's not a part of our group, so he can't do this. Now this is a very subtle thing. This is a very subtle way that selfish ambition can manifest itself with this inordinate desire to control everyone around us. Now, as a pastor, I can kind of appreciate this a little bit myself, okay? Now, as a pastor, the way that we conduct our services is something that I do based on what I believe in principle I should be doing as a pastor. But there are lots of other churches in Enronbo County that frankly, there are aspects of the way that they preach, not theologically, but when it comes to the practical working out of how they structure a service. Maybe some of the things that they allow in their church or some of the things that they forbid in their church, or maybe uh whether or not they're officially an independent Baptist church, or whether they're SBC. Or whether maybe they're not even Baptist church, maybe they're uh um you know a a a Bible church or a community church or something like that. It's very easy for a pastor to sit down and say, well, you're not a part of our tribe, so you can't be doing the things that you're doing. I think that's kind of a parallel idea to the mindset that we see here. And Jesus strictly says, that's just not true. If they're for us, then they're not against us. In other words, if there's someone else who is preaching the truth, But you have some minor differences or you've never really been associated with this person before, but God is working through them and God is blessing them. Well well don't don't feel like you have to be the one to stop them from what they're doing. That's really what Jesus is saying. Actually, let me show you some practical ways that I think that this manifests itself that are kind of outside the realm of the pastor the missionary, the evangelist, uh, the person who's running a Christian college, those kinds of areas where we tend to see these kinds of issues play out. How about in just regular, ordinary church life? The Book of Romans, a major part of the Book of Romans, was dealing with the issue of conscience. I want you to hear what Paul writes about how Christians who have differences on conscience are to relate to one another within the church context. Here's what it says. Romans 14, 4. Who art thou to judge another man's servant? To who his own master he standeth or he falleth. Now, Paul is not suggesting that Christians are supposed to take principle and discernment and just throw it out the door. That's not what he's saying. What he is saying is that there are times that we get into areas that are frankly issues of conscience. They're very debatable matters as to whether or not It's acceptable or unacceptable. It's an area of hot contention amongst Christians. He basically says this, in those kinds of areas , You have to learn that you are not the ultimate judge in such matters. Your job is to do what's right in your own life. And to influence the sphere that God has planted you in, and to trust God to deal with people who are in other spheres of life We see it stated even more explicitly in verses 10 and 13. Here's how he puts it. He says, why didst thou judge thy brother, or why dost thou set it not thy brother? We shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ. It is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, every tongue shall confess to God, so then every one of us shall give account of himself to God. Let us not therefore judge one another any more, but judge this rather that no man put a stumbling block or an occasion to fall in his brother's way. So what is Paul saying? He's saying, listen, what you need to be concerned about, Christian, in Rome, is not convincing your brother to follow all of your mindset. Your job is to make sure that you don't have pride in your heart towards your brother, and you don't take that pride in your heart and use it to either condemn him. or use it to put something in his path that's going to cause him to stumble in his Christian life. In other words, your job is not to be God's policeman on the world. Now, as a parent, I have a responsibility to make sure that my children do right. I'm supposed to guide my household according to conscience and the word of God. As a pastor, my job is to oversee the church that God has planted me in. But the fact is, my job is not to pastor someone else's church. Or my job is not to parent someone else's children. That's outside of my jurisdiction And that would be outside of your jurisdiction. And so the question that we have to ask ourselves on these kinds of issues is does this matter actually fall under my jurisdiction or not? You might say, well, Joe, how do you actually apply this passage in a just a simple way? How do you do this? Well, let me give you a couple of things to say about this. Number one, we've got to guard our hearts against pride in the Lord's work. We can become very ambitious and all of a sudden we expect everybody to conform to our mindset. And by the way, as we mature, as we grow, as we get older There's certain areas that we look at differently as a 50-year-old or as a four-year-old than we did as a 20-year-old or as a 30-year-old The reason for that is our life experience, our study of the Word of God, our interaction with other Christians, is something that kind of refines the way that we look at some of these issues. And so we have to guard our heart against pride. We need to constantly put to death the fleshly passions that rise to the surface in our hearts in the midst of noble pursuits. So as we are doing what is good, we need to recognize that we are fleshly creatures, and we may very well have the temptation, as fleshly creatures, to live in a fleshly manner. We need to humbly acknowledge none of us is above this temptation, and none of us has figured out everything in life We need to tread with a very humble disposition before God and toward others. That really is the thrust of all of this text of scripture that we're looking at. So let me apply it this way Let's guard our hearts against the mindset to always be right. Now I'm not saying we should be unprincipled. I'm not saying we should be lacking in discernment. I'm not saying that we shouldn't call right, right, and wrong wrong. But what I am saying is There are lots of areas that are not as clear-cut and simple as we might present them. We don't have to always be right. Sometimes we can say, you know, I'm not sure. I hope the Lord gives you wisdom in how to work through that matter. Secondly, we need to guard our hearts against the temptation to always be the one who determines how things have to be done. The fact is when we have responsibility, that is a heavy thing. It's a heavy thing to be a dad or a husband because you know what? We're the one that God is going to hold responsible for what goes on in our home. It's not our wife who's going to be held responsible. It's us dads when it comes to issues of the church. It's not uh an ordinary member of the church who's been a believer for six months or a year or two years. The pastor is the one who is going to be responsible before God for the way that he taught the church, for the way that he handles counseling issues, for the way that he resolved disputes, all those different areas. What he allowed, what he forbid. All that. He's going to answer to God for that. That's a heavy responsibility. And so the fact is we should be concerned about what we've been given, not what has been laid apart somebody else. We had to guard our hearts against the expectation to make everyone strive to meet our approval and our expectations. The fact is, sometimes what we expect is not acceptable. Sometimes it is. But it's not our place to be the arbiters for everybody else. We need to be faithful within the jurisdiction that God has given us, not consumed with the jurisdiction of others. We need to learn to let God deal with people outside of our sphere of responsibility. That is really the driving point, I believe. of this portion of this study and really the entirety of the study. And so my prayer is that the Lord will help us to take these truths and rightly divide the word of truth and then diligently apply them with a humble heart. I hope you have a great weekend and Lord willing, we'll see many of you on Sunday. And I look forward to meeting together with you on the Lord's Day. Have a blessed day bye now