And I'll start in verse 1 and we'll just cover the first nine verses. And we're going to look at this section as it is the second time that the Lord appeared To Solomon. And we'll see what this means here in a little bit. But the Lord appeared to Solomon a second time. We are in 1 Kings chapter 9. I will begin reading in verse 1. And it came to pass when Solomon had finished the building of the house of the Lord, and the king's house, and all Solomon's desire, which he was pleased to do. That the Lord appeared to Solomon the second time as he appeared unto him at Gibeon. And the Lord said unto him, I have heard thy prayer and thy supplication. that thou hast made before me. I have hallowed this house, which thou hast built, to put my name there forever, and mine eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually. And if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father walked, in integrity of heart and in uprightness to do according to all that I have commanded thee, and wilt keep my statutes and my judgments Then will I establish the throne of thy kingdom upon Israel forever. As I have promised to David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man among the throne of Israel. But if ye shall at all turn from following me, ye or your children, and will not keep my commandments and my statutes which I have set before you, but go and serve other gods and worship them Then will I cut off Israel out of the land which I have given them, and this house which I have hallowed for my name I will cast out of my sight, and Israel shall be a proverb and a byword among all people. And at this house, which is high, everyone that passeth by it shall be astonished, and say hiss, and shall hiss, and they shall say Why hath the Lord done thus unto this land and to this house? And they shall answer. Because they forsook the Lord their God, who brought them forth their fathers out of the land of Egypt. Egypt, and have taken hold upon their gods, and have worshipped them and served them. Therefore that the Lord brought them all this evil. Shall we pray? Lord, we are so thankful that we can gather together this evening, that we can just go through this text, that we can apply it to our hearts and eyes as the Spirit of God does his work in each one of us as we come here. gathered to hear from your word. Would I just be your faithful messenger? And would all of us have just sensitive and open hearts and minds to be obedient to your commands, that we would desire not to forsake you, that we'd be sensitive to the Spirit of God and be led by your word And whatever is done, may it just point people to the glorious name and the great promise-keeping God that you are, and this could be done and made possible To your Son and our Savior, in whose name we pray. Amen. So the Lord appeared unto Solomon a second time, and first we're going to see in verses one through three that Solomon completed the houses. Solomon completed the houses. So once again, verse 1, it came to pass and Solomon had finished the building of the house of the Lord and the king's house, and all Solomon's desire, which he was pleased, to do. From this first verse, I just want to emphasize and point out here, Solomon had a great desire. It was actually of his father's desire that he longed to do. He wanted to build a temple, a dwelling place for God among his people. And he thought he was excited about doing this until a prophet said, nope, you're going to have to wait. You're a man of war, but your son will do it. Now Solomon understood this responsibility, but instead of maybe being intimidated by it, he was very pleased and felt very privileged to carry on what his father had started. Wouldn't that be nice of all of our boys if they could finish with their son or their daughter or their dads? Sorry. Wow Can I start that over and rewind? Wouldn't it be amazing if our sons would have a desire to finish what their fathers started? That's what I meant to say the first time. That's what's taking place here. So Solomon he had a desire, which he was pleased to do. But as we examine our hearts and our minds, and knowing our bent towards sin, a couple quick questions for us to think about before we go any further. What desires do we have? For any of us. What desires do we have? What helps us with understanding our desires? What do you pray for? When do you pray for them? I know that we could be tempted to run to God and to plead on the behalf of ourselves or whatever when we're going through a challenging way. When life has twists and turns and bumps along the road that we weren't accounting for, then we get spiritual. Then we pray. But who are we pleasing? Other used to be running to God as slamming on the brakes of God, you gotta help me now, because I've tried everything I can, and then we run to God. What are the things that we normally pray for? This will help reveal the desires that we have. Something that we want. Do we want what God wants? Here, Solomon, he was pleased, and his desire was to build the house of the Lord. He also built his own house. Took him thirteen years to build his house and seven years for the temple. And before you think anything, I mean obviously Solomon's gonna have a a large family. And the the temple already had exact sizes. He had a good measurement to follow. So before you give Solomon too hard of a time, I've had those thoughts myself. So seven years for the temple and then 13 years for your own house. Come on, where are your priorities? But he had pretty good instructions for the temple. But it did not change his desire. He longed to do this. So what is your desire? What do you want to do? What do you pray for? And when do you pray for it? Then we get to verse 2. After this is being said, in verse 2, it says the Lord appeared to Solomon the second time. As he had appeared unto him at Gibeon. So what happened this second time at Gibeon As we've been studying through the life of Solomon, we're not hitting every verse of everything, but we kind of went over, skipped over chapter 8. So I'm going to spend some time going back to there, but before we do, I want to remind us going back to 1 Kings chapter 3, when God appeared to Solomon the first time. What happened the first time? Because it's saying it appeared to him a second time as he did in Gibeon. So let's look at what he said very quickly to remind ourselves what happened the first time. In 1 Kings 3, starting with verse or chapter 3 and verse 3. We read, Solomon loved the Lord and walked in the statutes of David, his father. He's living a lifestyle, he's desiring to please the God, he's walking with him, he's following the footsteps of his dad, a man after God's own heart Only he sacrificed and burnt incense in high places. And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there, for that was a great place, a thousand burnt offerings did Solomon Solomon offer upon the altar. So he goes there, he's offering these things to the Lord, a thousand burnt offerings. And as he's doing this, verse 5, In Gibeon, the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night. And God said, ask what I shall give thee. So this first time, Solomon is just getting things off as a king. He's doing all the he's sacrificing unto the Lord with these burnt offerings and and he's just uh worshiping the Lord, trying to get things off. He's walking after uh the statutes of the Lord as his father was his example This is what he is doing. And the Lord appeared to him and he asks us the question. As you remember a couple weeks ago, you get excited. If we had something, anything that we want, what would we desire? What would we ask for if we could have one thing? And it can't be more wishes, it can't be anything more. What one thing would we ask for? And as a king, you'd be tempted to the heads of your enemies. I want to be popular, I want to be powerful. But Solomon, at least at this very beginning, he's recognizing the gravities, recognizing the depth of I am a young man trying to lead this great nation. I have some big shoes to fill for my father. And you know from there, the first time he showed you, he asked for wisdom, for a discerning heart, to judge between good and bad. That is what he asked for. So his heart was at least in the right place trying to understand what God had done. Then in 1 Kings, going back to 1 Kings 9 verse 3, it says this, and the Lord said to him, this is the second time. So the first time he appears to him. And he asks them what you would like, and he says, I want wisdom. I want a discerning heart, between judgment of good and bad. So this second time in verse three, and the Lord said to him, I have heard thy prayer and thy supplication. that thou hast made before me. Well what was this prayer? This is in chapter 8. We did skip over it, so I'm going to kind of go back and his prayer is very lengthy. But I'm just picking some snippets out so we can kind of get a good idea and a good flow of what Solomon prayed, uh what he prayed, because this is an answer, this second time is an answer to the prayer. Between asking for wisdom and then what just happened right before this in the previous chapter. And I'm going to start in verse 22 of 1 Kings 8. And Solomon stood before the altar of the Lord in the presence of all the congregation of Israel and spread forth his hands toward heaven. And he said, So he's going to begin this prayer that we're going to see be answered in chapter 9. But this is what he's doing in verse chapter 8. His heart is for the Lord. He's trying to do his best he can to walk after David his father. He's doing his best to serve the Lord and worship him the best he can. He's making preparations for that. And so in his prayer for the congregation, He said, Lord God of Israel, there is no God like thee in heaven above or in the earth beneath, who keepest the covenant and mercy with thy servants that walk before thee. with all their heart. He's understanding that we need to serve God. We need to walk with him and he knows our heart and what your desires really are. He continues. Who hast kept with thy servant David, my father, that thou promised him, and speakest also with thy mouth, the house fulfilled with thine hand, as it is this day. Therefore, now, Lord God of Israel, keep with thy servant David, my father, as thou hast promised him, saying, There shall not fail thee a man in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel. So that the children take heed to their way, that they walk before me as thou hast walked before me. And now, O God of Israel, Let thy word, I pray thee, be verified, which thou speakest unto thy servant David, my father. But, will God indeed dwell on earth? Behold, the heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee. How much less this house that I have built? So he's talking about building this temple. But Solomon understands here that God that he is serving to, the God he is praying to, the God he has desires after, that he's walking towards, as his father David did, he's understanding, I'm going to build him a house. But this God I'm building a house for really won't fit in this house. You cannot contain him into four walls. You cannot take God and keep him in this box. He is far greater. I mean, he is the creator, and nothing can really contain him. But what he understands is that this box, this house, is going to represent the very presence of God. And I think Solomon understands this. And feels humbled by it and is recognizing the God that he serves. And in building this house, I think he recognizes, yes, I am building this, and we'll see in chapter nine, but this is God's house. It's going to represent his presence among us. His people, which really a running theme throughout Scripture, really is being in the presence of God. Adam and Eve would walk in the cool of day, just walking and talking with God. What happened when they ate of the fruit? They went and hid themselves trying to get away from the presence of God. And God has made a way, ultimately, when you look all the way to Christ, to get back into the presence of God. Even in Teen Sunday school, we were going through Romans 5. We have peace with God. We have access to Him. that is now open and free, made possible through the blood, the death, that we could be justified through our Savior Jesus Christ. Which keep in mind, the temple had two sections, the holy place and the holy of holies. And that veil, that thick veil, ripped in half, helping us to have access and being in the presence of God Something that we can enjoy today when we pray, as Solomon is in right here, we are going to the throne of grace. As we remember from this morning. That we can go into the presence of God. This is a house of prayer. To worship and may God be the focus. I think Solomon is understanding these things. So he recognized, I'm building him a house. But this is not to try and contain God. The house is not really to be worshipped, but it's a place to recognize the very presence of God. And I think as we just open up the Bible and look at the big picture of this and be reminded of that before we continue. And then someday, when we get to heaven, we'll get to be in God's presence forever. Amen. And praise the Lord. That's made possible through Christ. So after that little insert, we'll continue here in 1 Kings 9. He says, Yet have not thou respect unto the prayer of thy servant and to his supplication, O Lord my God? 1 Kings, this is chapter 8. We're in the middle of verse 28. And hearken unto the cry and to the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee today, that thine eyes may be opened toward this house night and day, even toward the place which thou hast said, My name. shall be there, that thou mayest hearken unto the prayer which thy servant shall make towards this place. He is saying, your name is going to be there. That's why when we understand and look at this building of this temple, this is not just how great King Solomon is. This is only going to be possible. through the grace of God and their obedience to him and their following him as going to be more clear as we get into chapter 9. But continuing with his prayer. I want to skip down to 1 Kings 8 and pick it up in verse 40. It says, that they may fear thee all the days that they live in the land which thou gavest unto our fathers. Moreover Concerning a stranger that is not of thy people Israel, but cometh out of the far country for thy name's sake. You know, Pastor and I are not swapping notes, but God is a God that reaches to everyone. Even in Solomon's prayer and in building this temple, he's recognizing here that the stranger those outside of Israel, that they would recognize this is being done for your name's sake, not to build up Solomon, but that others would recognize the God that we serve and the amazing God that who he is. This is being done for him and for his name's sake, even to the stranger. Even to the stranger. Pick it up in verse 42, for they shall hear of the great name, and of thy strong hand, of thy hand, thy stretched out arm, when they shall come and pray towards a stranger, calleth to thee, for all people of the earth may know thy name. Boy, you'd almost think this sounds like it's in the New Testament. To fear thee, as do thy people, that they may know that this house which I have builded is called by thy name. You see the emphasis Solomon has here? He recognizes This house is for God's name. It is for his sake. It is for his reputation. It is to glorify him. I just have the privilege of building it. I just be the one that has the opportunity. Though my dad wanted to, God, for whatever reason, has chosen me to do this for him. We can be no different when we pray. What do we pray for? And why are we praying for? Are we praying that God would make me great? That God would meet all my needs? I'm not saying it's wrong. But in the big picture, Lord, not my will but thine be done. Whatever is going to make your name great, I am a willing vessel to be used of you. Are we praying as Solomon? For your name's sake, would you lead me and guide me? Far too often, just because of our natural bent towards being a sinner, we can find ourselves almost praying as if we're praying to ourself. What desires am I praying for? And do I only go to God when I really need something? Or do I have such a passion to walk with God and to know Him? that I'm willing to get on my knees and to pray to God every day just because I love him. It doesn't have to be in the morning or the evening. It could be throughout the day. I'm just enjoying spending time with God. Is that why we pray? Because we all know we're most tempted and most earnest and most fervent in our prayers when we want something. When we feel like we're at our wit's end and we have no place to turn. I'm not saying you can't pray then. We should. But if that is the only time that we are going to God, is that for his name's sake? Or for our own. Is that for our own desires? Or God, what would you desire for me? Let's look at the conclusion of his prayer to the congregation in 1 Kings 8, 54. He says, and it was so that when Solomon had made an end of praying, all this prayer and supplication unto the Lord, he arose from before the altar of the Lord. From kneeling on his knees with his hands spread to heaven. This is a king on his knees making a request before the God of all creation. And he stood, so he is getting himself up, and he blessed all the congregation of Israel with a loud voice saying Blessed be the Lord that hath given rest unto his people Israel according to all that he promised. There hath not failed one word for all his good promise, which he promised by the hand of Moses, his son. servant. He is making this known for all of the congregation. He is standing up. He is speaking out loud, thanking God for keeping his promises, for giving this time of peace. to make this possible. That's understanding the reason hey David was a man of war. He had to help God used him to help settle things down so he could take the time and materials and build this wonderful temple to Praise the name and point people to God. And then he concludes more of this at the very end of chapter 8, verses. uh 60 and following here it says that all the people of the earth may know that the Lord is God Once again, he's not just saying to the Jew, he's not saying to the priests, he's not saying to the righteous or those who think, he's saying, that all the people of the earth may know that the Lord is God. And that there is none else. Let your heart therefore be perfect with the Lord our God to walk in his statutes and to keep his commandments as at this day. He recognizes here, this is for all people. He's recognizing we need to walk in God's ways and not our own and to keep his commandments. I'm saying all this. This is what he prayed. Now he's going to get the answer to this prayer. And so we're going to pick this up in verse 3, going back to 1 Kings. Chapter nine and looking at verse three. And the Lord said unto him, I have hearkened to thy prayer and thy supplication I understand your heart's desire to build me a temple so I can be among my people and I'm keeping my promises and that you recognize you need to walk before me. So he says this, I have hallowed this house. Which thou hast built to put my name there forever. We know that Solomon already prayed this, but now God is responding to his prayer. He is answering his prayer and said, remember, this is for my name. You are doing this for me. I know you built it, but I am going to sanctify it. I am going to make it what makes it holy. It's not the stuff. It's not the gold. It's not any. God is the one doing the work. As far as this is what is sanctified and making it hallowed and to be separated from sin to make it clean. I am doing this. And then he continues. He says, and mine eyes and my heart shall be there perpetually. God is making it obvious. My presence will be there. You are being obedient. But it's going to hinge upon your obedience to me with the blessing. And we are reminded of this, at least I was, when studying this, it's very common in the Lord's Prayer in Luke 11. He says, when ye pray, say, Our Father, which art in heaven, hallowed be thy name. God's name is separate. God's name is holy, not ours. We're sinners. The only difference with us and the stranger, maybe, is that we're saved by grace. It's not that they can't be saved, but really, that's the only difference. We're just sinners saved by grace. We're to be holy as He is holy. But it's for his name's sake and for his kingdom. Then we continue on. So we've seen in verses 1 through 3 that Solomon completed the houses. Yes, his own was included in that. Then also We see he completed the temple. Then in verses four through nine, we're going to see Solomon's conditions from the Lord. So he's answering his prayer, but there's going to be some conditions involved. Let's look at the positive part of these conditions in verses 4 and 5 as we're going to be keeping God's commandments. Are we keeping God's commandments? Verses four and five. And if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father walked, in integrity of heart, and in the uprightness, and according to all that I've commanded thee, and wilt keep. My statutes and my judgments. Here's what's interesting. Isn't that what Solomon prayed? Sometimes when we come to the Lord. Lord, sometimes in certain situations, I don't know what to pray for, but would you just work it out and I can just be just receptive and at peace and in comfort in how you answer and how you work in and through the situation. Because I don't know what to do. But here, Solomon was specifically praying that you know what? I'm going to have to keep your commandments. Because what separates us from God from the beginning? Sin, doing things our way. That's what Adam did. Wherefore is by one man, sin entered into the world, and in that passed upon all men, for that all have sinned. We need God's commands to recognize the error of our way, but we also need to see that we need to keep his word and his way. If we want to keep that presence with God and to have his blessing. We need to rely upon him and in obedience to him he can use us to glorify his name. And by obeying his commandments and his judgments and his statutes, which Solomon understood, he prayed for it. Now he's getting what he prayed for. Sometimes that could be interesting thought. If you got what you prayed for, what are you praying for? And is it desirable of the Lord or is it selfish? What is it? Then in verse 5, then will I establish the throne of thy kingdom Upon Israel forever. As I promised to David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man upon the throne of Israel. God is saying, I keep my word. I can keep my promises. But Will you walk before me? Because this is what will happen. This is the positive part of the promise. The good part is God always keeps his end of the deal. Always, every time. He is faithful and he is just. He will keep his word. He can't not keep it. The problem is with us. The if is not on God's end. The if is with Solomon. And this is the positive. If you obey me, you keep me. These are the blessings. Even with the kids. Children, obey your parents and the Lord, for this is right. It's common. It's not hard. It's just difficult. And I say that because most of the time we know what to do. Solomon already prayed these things. He understood the blessing. He was always praising God in his prayer for God keeping his promises and the blessings he's seeing. He knows this to be true. But when God is now saying this I imagine Psalm X becoming a little bit more real. He appeared unto me a second time. And now he's saying, it's like, oh yes, this is for real. I imagine it was just a moment of reality check for Solomon. I do need to walk in your ways. I do understand these things. And he is getting exactly what he prayed for. And this is the positive side. Then, very quickly, in verses six through nine, we're going to see what happens when not keeping God's commandments. Basically, consequences can come. And before I even read this next passage, I want us to understand, because we see this struggle throughout time and even our own lives, and really, as Pastor pointed out this morning. Those that struggled the greatest with Christ and his teachings and who he was and his miracles and his healing on the Sabbath and going to the temple and cleansing up, it was the religious people. It was those that should have known better. And who are we to think that we're really different than them? Sometimes we're just like them. When we read this next part, I want us to see this is a warning for us. We need to keep God's commands. We need to obey his statutes because you know why? Because God keeps his end of the deal. God keeps his promises. He can't turn away from sin. He can't ignore it just because you're you. God is not going to justify you the way that you and I do. We can tend to justify ourselves and someone else does it. Oh, that's horrible. When I do it, I have my reasons. It's okay. God is sharing these warnings. We're not exempt from God's judgment. We're not exempt, even as Christians, in church on a Sunday night, exempt from God's warnings and his judgment and his chastisement. He does it because he loves us. That's why he is warning us. As you read through this, we know where this story goes. If you follow, we know a lot of this is going to come to pass. It's going to happen right quickly after Solomon's sons. He could not get his own boys to follow him as he was trying to follow David. That's a challenge in of itself. But God is giving them warnings. What happens if you don't keep these commandments? Consequences will come. It doesn't matter who you are, how long you've been saved, what church you go to, how there's no exceptions. God's going to keep his end of the deal. So let's look at this. This is the negative part. Starting with verse 6. But if ye shall at all turn from following me , Ye or your children. So it's not just you, Solomon. It's the next generation. As we all know, we're just one generation from losing anything that we have. If you don't teach the next generation, not only of God's love and God's promises, but of God's warning. I am so thankful my wife and I, we learned a lot of what to do and what not to do from our families and from other families. And a lot of it, even just being in youth ministry and learning from other parents that had teenagers before we even had kids, to me, that was a huge blessing. And we, by the grace of God, just try to learn both good and bad, and so we can apply the rod of correction to the seed of understanding of our children, and doing our best to apply much of Proverbs. We didn't really have it done right to us. We're kind of first time trying to figure this out. But if we love our children, we will correct them And like you, I've been to Walmart and I've seen the kid that you can tell gets everything he wants. And sometimes, within my own heart, I just want to go to the parent and say Could you just take that kid out and lovingly just spank them? Lovingly tell them, if you're not gonna do that, at least say you don't always get what you want to at least tell the child the dreaded word no you can't do that You're gonna ruin his spirit. Yeah. God 's love comes with one He's telling Solomon for you and for your children. And we know where this is going. This is gonna be it's gonna split here really soon But these warnings are for all you follow. Let's pick it back up. But ye shall at all turn from following me, ye or your children. And I will not keep my commandments and statutes which I have set before you, but go and serve other gods and worship them. Are you going to serve other gods? What are you going to do? Then, verse 7, then I then will I cut off Israel This is what I will do. If you obey, this is what's going to happen. If you disobey, this is what's going to happen. The choice is yours. Does it sound like he's being a parent here? I'll give you two options. You obey dad, and all goes well. You disobey dad and this is your consequence Maybe it's just me that has done that before, but just pretend maybe that you've been there as a parent before too. But he says, Then will I cut off Israel out of the land which I have given them, verse 7. And this house which I have hallowed for what? My name. Why do we raise kids? Why is he encouraging them and warning them? It is for God's name and for his glory, not for you. And sometimes parents, I've been here and done this Do you know why sometimes we you know why we crack our children sometimes? Because I get it. And so I react in a way that maybe was a little hasty made him operate because I'm ashamed. So I'm embarrassed with what they did. And so we get okay through our question. That happens. That 's a plan. Very kind of you just have to be embarrassed as nice. I well Julia had one of the best ones. I said her name. We were in Walmart checking out. This is she was just a wee little toddler. And she was asking all these questions out loud about this person. That I'm not sure uh a hundred percent. I think it was a male, but had like earrings and all this stuff. And this to Julia was like Why is he doing this? What is he why? And I'm thinking, oh, this is he's he's hearing all of this Yeah, I'd say, well I can't hand this cashier a a track. I mean what in the world? I mean and she uh you just you're just you're embarrassed to no end. And we're just like shh shh shh shh Maybe that's just me. But there are consequences. And why do I correct my children? Do I do this for God's name, or is it because I get embarrassed? Don't you ever do that again? Do you know what you did to me? Do you know what kind of situation you put me in? I mean she's like two and a half. She has no cool God give me patience. Because I am frustrated, I'm embarrassed, and they have no clue what's going on. They're just asking questions as an inquisitive little child Why? Why, Daddy? Why? I think actually that I just said ask him. I think that's what I meant. Eventually she was not stopping, so I think that's what you ask them why they did that. Maybe they'll have an answer that I don't have. I don't know. All that to say. Wouldn't we correct? It's for his name. He continues on the middle of verse seven. Will I cast out and he says, uh let me go back a little bit And this house, which I've followed for my name, will I cast out of my sight, and Israel shall be a proverb and a byword among all people. Continuing verse 8. And at this house, which is high, everyone that passeth by shall be astonished, and shall hiss, and they shall say, What hath the Lord done unto this land and to this house? So you have this beautiful temple, and there will be some in the future that can walk by and say, what happened here? This beautiful structure. is now flattened. It is now destroyed. It is now falling apart. It is in much need of repair. Why is this happening? What is going on here? He says in verse nine, and they shall answer because They forsook the Lord their God. Sometimes they know the right answers that we don't want to admit to. They forsook the Lord. If they would have followed God as his commands, this wouldn't have happened. It wouldn't have got been destroyed. God kept his promises. Solomon prayed for this. He even appeared to Solomon a second time. He told them what would happen if they obeyed and kept his statutes. He told them what would happen if they didn't. Well, obviously they disobeyed God. If nothing else, they will look at it and say, well, they didn't do things right. Their God must have judged them. Yes. And when you think about it from God's perspective, he has to do what's right and bring judgment and to keep his word. He was doing this for his name. But at the same time, don't you think there might have been a slight embarrassment of what happened to his nation and to his temple that bore his name? Because they forsook him. They chose to disobey. So consequences come to God's people. The conclusion of these consequences, right here, they hey they forsook the Lord. We saw it in Solomon's Prayer. We see this even back in Deuteronomy. I'm going to read Deuteronomy 29. As we start closing here. In verse 24 it says, even all nations shall say, Wherefore hath the Lord done this unto the land? What meaneth the heat of this great anger? Then men shall say , Because they have forsaken the covenant of the Lord God of their fathers. Others, which he hath made with them, and brought them forth out of the land of Egypt. For they went and served other gods and worshipped them Are we desiring to obey God's commands? Are we praying that God would help us to train our children, to lead them in footsteps worth following? Are we desiring to walk after God and his ways? Are we willing to keep his commands, knowing that God will keep his word, and consequences will come if we don't keep his commandments? And this is ultimately all done. For his name. And for his glory. What are we desiring? What are we praying? Because God will keep his end. Of the promises. Father, we come before you this evening and I thank you so much for what we can learn. Solomon greatly desired to build you a house. He understood. I really believe he understood the purpose and not doing it to put you in a box. Lord, he didn't do it to Try and limit you in any way. But as we know what's going to happen to the future, Psalm is a sinner just like we are. And if song can be tempted to do these things, and we are bent to sin the same, we understand that you warn us, you love us, you give us commands not to be grievous unto us. not to make it challenging to life. But for your name's sake, we can walk with you and understand there are consequences for wrongdoing. And yet there is blessing when we obey. And sometimes, Lord, we're caught in the middle and we don't understand the challenges we're going through. Just because we're going through a challenge doesn't mean we're not obeying, sometimes it's just being patient, adding experience. And through that we can be hopeful that you have a better way and plan for us through Christ. Help us to be obedient to your commands, recognizing your promises, that we hear under the sound of my voice in this building from your word, we would not forsake. the Lord our God, and that we would desire to keep your commands. Help us with your grace, mercy, and that we would be obedient to follow for the name and for the glory of you and your Son Jesus Christ. Whose name we pray. Amen.