Well, good evening. Good to see each of you. Hope you had a good afternoon. And And we're looking forward to a great service tonight. Let's go ahead and bow together for a word of prayer and then we will get started. Let's pray. Father, we are so grateful that we can gather together again tonight, and I pray that you'd help us as we assemble that we would think about the wonderful hymns we'll sing. Help us to sing from the heart. As we share testimonies of how you've been at work in our lives, I pray that you'd encourage your people through those things. As we sit under the ministry of the word, I pray that you'd help me tonight to Expound the text of Scripture accurately, consistently with the intent of the passage. I pray that our hearts would be open and tender to the Word. I pray that the Holy Spirit would take these truths and impress them Them upon our hearts. Father, we pray that our fellowship together would be very sweet tonight, and that we would truly center our focus and our attention on you. We ask it in Christ's name. Amen. All right, good evening. Let's go ahead and start our song time tonight by standing and singing hymn number three ninety-eight in our Red Books. Hymn 398, we'll start by singing, may the Lord find us faithful. My daughter doesn't work. Sain, ne soit mis. We are must be dark, we fall from the bread and all by the way. Where do we are dying? May I call it time for every day of me? Alright, let's turn over just two pages to hymn number 400. We'll sing all four verses of Take My Life. And let it be. Make my life every cover. Take my life and my body. I don't want Take my love, my war, I born, and I knew it 's more Take myself And let's go ahead and we can take our seats. as we sing number 392. 392. We'll sing the first, the second, and the last. Who else but the boy? Who else I think? Who well before? Will I bring Who will need the word night? Who will make the floor? Who is not the one thing? By thy call of mercy, by thy great divine And your way or die, not for bed of hobby. Not for that we are me bring the warriors not but for love that we By thy love constraining, by thy grace. On the last, if they be the complex, strong negative, but I can do nothing. Round is a good raising thing, bring his secure for his birthday. Joy dwelling and blessing by thy grace divided. Wonderful singing. And there. The I was at my garage, I darted with a rage in star. The Bible stands on the hills with I will let my teeth brother for a foundation for the Bible steps Alright, 93 in the blue book now. And I'm glad you guys were paying attention. I heard you singing the right verse. All right, ninety-three in the blue book. God of Bible is you promise you God present Just to linger with the water set me free As I lift my eyes and see his awesome for me I remember he is another knee Badani Badani , E that King Aladi A Radhani , Aladdal. Alright, and still in the blue book we're turning over to fifty-seven. Fifty seven The Spirit's Sword With God the spirit so we may have been swarmed in erring fruit of God's own art. The black is glad because I'm seeing the story of Christ almost the word. The Holy Spirit of blade can never fail to wound and say. Alright, now back to the red book. For ninety-nine and number ninety-nine The Lords are on him. We hide a shelter and a time of soil. Secure whatever we find, a shelter. The time of Jesus did the walking Oh where we land Oh where we land Oh where we land Oh Jesus is the walking on And now on over to number fifty and number fifty. Thou ignored forever and ever. God of eternity. Wonders and with non majestic and glory, early and holiness, and worthy of praise. My Sarah said angel did always go to the red on the wrong In the glory forever. Amen. Great singing. Let's go over now to 193 in the red book. 193. Oh, of course. Alright, let's sing out. Angels from the round of glory. He who is thankful is controlling your proclaim Call and worship, call and worship, the Christ on your born king. And let's now turn over to four hundred and eighteen. Four hundred and eighteen, then we'll have time for two more. When we walk with God in the light of God. Alright, we still got time for two more. And there's two in the sound room, so One fifty eight in the blue book. One sixty eight in the blue book. All right. All right, so let's go ahead and go over to our blue books. Start with 158. 158 God of heaven, God love me eating God breakfast. Master of our neighbor who gets but the smallest or always at ocean bed we are To the morning shortly, join his place to join, God of heaven, God of all the earth. And now on over to 168. 168. And I am not familiar with this one. Should we play it through once? Alright, let's go ahead and give it a shot. Let's stand and sing the first and the last of one six eight. On our place we went before peace with you to end our war. My family, my love was close to one. Okay, for the crossing to look my pain, now I make my voice and train you are the last Above all else. So now I will not be love and high. I'll come from you all my day and take my game for God. My poison friend. Rachel, you may be seated. I look around at all this sound of Christmas. I think it's true great last thing that I see. I must keep my eyes on Jesus my single. Here and I 'm gonna leave treasures to me. All that I need is my faith in Jesus. All that I need is my whole father. All that I need is my father's price. All that I need is I take more love. All the pretty joy I went to around. All that pretty happens with me Which is teacher offer is a try, treasure. Why is the lion 's only idea? All I need is my faith in Jesus. All I need is my mama. All that I need is my father's first. All that I need is my day for love. All that I need to do. Okay. If you could, let's all turn in our Bibles to really two passages of Scripture. The first one I want you to turn to is Genesis chapter 25, and we are going to spend a lot of our time looking at Genesis And then the opening text that I'm going to read is actually from Hebrews chapter 12, and we're looking at verses 11 through 17. So Genesis 25 and then Hebrews chapter 12, but Hebrews 12 is where we're going to start this section because this is Basically, Hebrews 12 is an instruction given to believers during the time of the Jewish persecution, right before AD 70 when Jerusalem was destroyed and The temple was destroyed. It was a very, very difficult time in Israel, but it was a very difficult time for Christians leading up to that time because of the persecution they experienced from uh the Jewish religious uh elites, you might say I'll put it that way. So Hebrews chapter 12, and then we'll move from there into Genesis 25 to understand the background to what the author of Hebrews writes. Here's what it says in Hebrews 12, 11. It says, Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous. Nevertheless, afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby. Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down and the feeble knees, and make straight paths of your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way. But let it rather be healed. Follow peace with all men in holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord, looking diligently, lest any man fail of the grace of God. Lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled. Lest there be any fornicator or profane person. as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. For you know how that afterwards, when he would have had an inheritance, inherited the blessing, he was rejected. For he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. Let's bow together for a word of prayer and ask the Lord to help us. to understand these two passages of Scripture, how they really fit together, and how we should live in the light of them. Let's pray. Father, I pray that this evening, as we look at our Bibles, you would speak very specifically to our hearts. Father, help us to recognize How absolutely dangerous it is to allow bitterness to settle in our souls. Father, help us to understand that many times the hurts that we carry in life, they are they are very legitimate grievances. They are very heavy burdens, but we've got to learn to respond to them biblically. And I pray that as we read the story of Esau and we see how he responded and how he treated very lightly what was Very sacred. I pray that our hearts would be really overwhelmed by the weight of this matter. I pray that you'd help us to be a people who deal with our sin. That we deal with the patterns that maybe are being established in our own hearts, and that more than anything else we would honor you and submit to you as you're working in our life, shaping us more and more into the image of Christ. Help me to communicate these truths of The passage before us is a very important passage for us to understand. In fact, there are really several different issues that are at play. The original audience that's reading these verses for the first time, the the Hebrew Christians. were a people that were they were experiencing tremendous hardship because they were Christians. In fact, when I read the book of Hebrews, my understanding of it is that you had a group of genuine believers who have truly trusted Christ. They've been baptized. They're assembled with Christian brothers and sisters. And because of the pressure they are experiencing, they are tempted to turn away from the church assembling. Uh not that they're gonna stop being Christians, not that they're gonna lose their salvation. We are secured in Christ. This is entirely of God's grace. But the reality is there were some very heavy consequences that were potentially in play. If they were to turn away from the church If they're to go back into Judaism, ultimately, they're going to experience a very heavy chastening from God because they were going to get caught up in what was ultimately going to happen to those who were their persecutors. There's a lot of historical significance in those verses. But when we come to chapter 12, what we see in these verses is that these are Christians, genuine Christians, who are experiencing chastening. When we talk about chastening, chastening is not just I've been doing things that I shouldn't, and now God is making my life hard. That word chastening actually has the idea of the training process. And so within that chastening, that training process, sometimes God allows us to go through lean times, harsh times. Sometimes it's not because of something wrong that we're doing, it's because But that's a part of the training process. And if you notice in these verses, he says, lift up the hands that hang down and the feeble knees and make straight your paths. And he says, lest that which is lame turn out of the way rather than be healed. Well, as he's talking about this, he's giving the picture of a person who's weary and discouraged and frustrated and getting beat down. And then he starts getting into this topic about the issue of bitterness. And he talks about a person being profane in their decisions. The idea is that they treat cheaply what has real value And they embrace this very simple and easy fix that it's sort of like I'm going to take temporary ease and they reject what has real value. He says, don't do that Well, I think at the heart of this is his concern that these are Christians who are going to become bitter, not necessarily against other people, but against God. They're going to become bitter because of what God's allowed them to walk through. Every single Christian is going to walk through hard times. Difficult times, circumstances we can't fully make sense of. Sometimes the person we are most inclined to be bitter against is not a parent or a spouse, it's God. God's the one that we are sometimes the most inclined to be bitter against because we say, how can you, in your goodness and wisdom, allow me to pass through these kinds of waters? Well, in this discussion, the writer of Hebrews refers back to the story of Esau. And I think as we go back to the story of Esau, what we will see is really what is at the heart of his warning to these Christians. And it's really at the heart of a warning that needs to stand at the forefront of our minds continually. So with that in mind, let's turn back to Genesis chapter 25. We're going to spend the bulk of our time in this passage of Scripture, and then we're going to move back to Hebrews chapter 12 for kind of our closing thoughts. So Genesis chapter 25 is where we are. I'm going to go ahead and I'm going to begin reading in verse 24. It says And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb. The first came out red all over like a hairy garment. So interesting way to describe this child. I don't know, anybody have children that were born pretty hairy? A couple of mine were. Not red, but I understand this. The first came out red all over like a hairy garment, and they called his name Esau. That word means hairy. After that came his brother. out and his hand took hold of Esau's heel and his name was called Jacob. Now that word means trickster or supplanter. It then says after he came out, yeah, his name was Jacob, and Isaac was three score years old when she bare them. He was sixty years old. The boys grew, and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field, and Jacob was a plain man dwelling in tents. Isaac loved Esau because he did eat of his venison. That's a really interesting statement. The reason that Isaac loved his son was because his son fed his belly. What's intriguing about that statement is that Isaac's love for his son Esau, which was a very fleshly centered kind of love for his son, was something that was really going to characterize Esau. And it also characterized Jacob as well. Then it says this, but Rebecca loved Jacob. I'm going to comment on that in a few minutes, but don't forget there was a division in the home over the parents' love for these different boys. Then in verse 29 it says, And Jacob sodtage. And Esau came from the field and he was faint. Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, that which uh with the same red pottage, for I am faint. Therefore, his name is called Edom. What does Edom mean? Well, it means red. And by the way, Esau's descendants were called the Edomites. And so whenever someone was called an Edomite, it was actually referring all the way back to this story because this story was a very significant moment in the history of these people. In fact, when we read the scriptures, we see that the Edomites didn't like the Jewish people. Though they were related people, there was a constant continuous Continual strain between these two people groups. It goes all the way back to stuff that went on in their household when they were just young men. So it says, Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, the red pottage. And Jacob said to him, Sell me this day thy birthright. Esau said, Behold, I'm at the point to die. What prophet shall be the birthright to me anyway? Jacob said, Swear to me in this day, and he swear unto him. And he sold his birthright unto Jacob. And Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentils, and he did eat and drink, and rose up and went his way. Thus Esau despised. His birthright. What is the point of all these scriptures? The Genesis 25 passage. And then the way that it is used in Hebrews chapter 12. Well, really, I think the main point is that it shows us that Esau was willing to disregard his birthright and his willingness to lay it aside is this vivid and tragic picture of what happens when people have no value for what is the true blessing. I think that we're living in a time, and it's not just in the world around us, it's within the church, it's within even Christian families, that we have chosen to embrace what has a lesser value. We're willing to disregard the things that God esteemed as sacred and holy and right, and we're willing to embrace those trivial matters in the place of. Jacob did that, or not Jacob, Esau did this in this passage, and the consequences are tragic, and the reality of it is that two peoples are going to live very different lives. And it kind of all starts in this moment. Now, let me say this. In the providence of God, it played out the way that it did. But when it comes to the actual decisions that the people made, this is the human explanation for why one was rejected and the other one was, in fact, blessed with the blessings that flowed out of the Abrahamic covenant. God wants us to be a people who walk in wisdom because we learn from the failures of others. God doesn't want you to go through life and have to learn everything the hard way. He doesn't. Not everyone has to learn that fire is hot by sticking their hand in a fire or putting their hand on a stove. But a lot of people learn it that way. Okay? Not everyone has to learn things the hard and the painful and the frustrating way. God wants us to learn because other people have made poor mistakes, poor decisions. They've dealt with the consequences of their own actions, and we say, whoa, I'm not going to do that. I'm going to stay away from that. I'm going to have a different pattern in my life than what I'm seeing. God wants us to learn. The wise man sees a thing happen and he says, I'm not going to do that. He can foresee evil and he hides himself. The simple season and just continues on. Does not learn from the tragedies of other people. I asked this question Are you a person who has to learn things the hard way, or are you willing to learn things in the best way possible? Life is full of examples of wasted opportunities, tragic losses. Every person in this room, if you've lived long enough, there's something in your life, history, that you go, I didn't seize that opportunity. I learned something the harvest. We've all got them. Nobody, we stand here by grace. We're forgiven sinners. We we glory in God's goodness and his patience and his love. and his willingness to pick up the broken pieces of our lives and do great things in spite of our failures. But we need to learn from people's mistakes so we don't continue these tragic decisions. And experience these difficult losses. One of the things we see in these verses is that some of the opportunities that people miss, they don't come back You know, when when Esau wanted to get the birthright later, it was too late. He could beg He could plead. He could stomp his feet and say, this belongs to me, doesn't matter. He was rejected. He didn't get the opportunity again. The truth is in life we don't know which situations will play out that way and which ones won't. We do not know on the front side. That's why it's so very dangerous for us to presumptively make decisions and say, I'm just going to take my chances and see what happens. This story illustrates in vivid detail what we're talking about. The writer of Hebrews wanted these Christians under pressure. To not look back at a season of life with tremendous regret and sorrow and difficulty. That's what he wanted That's what God wants for us. He wants us to make good decisions in life. He wants us to walk in wisdom. He wants us to experience A full blessing in the decisions that we make. He wants us to move past our failures. He wants us to grow through the difficulties that we've encountered. He wants us to learn from this pattern. So let's go ahead and let's look at some very simple details that are in this passage that I hope will be a help to you tonight. The first is this: there are necessary pressures that are introduced to dysfunctional families. Now listen, it is God's will for us when we marry to have good homes. Husband and wife love each other, they have a good relationship. The children that God gives them, they raise them well, those kids go on in life, and they're successful people, and they do the same thing. That's what God wants from people. God created marriage for our good. God gives us children to bless us. But that's not how it always plays out in life, is it? And the fact is, a lot of times the most difficult things we encounter within our family lives are completely avoidable. They're avoidable because they're there because we made bad decisions. And these are decisions that we didn't need to make. This is an example of this. I want you to notice what he says in verses 27 and 28, because this is kind of where the tension begins. I guess you could even say that the tension begins Even when the boys are born, but it really starts playing out in these verses, 27. It says, the boys grew. Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field, Jacob a plain man dwelling in tents, and here's the key. Isaac loved Esau, but Rebekah loved Jacob. You know how many people in their adults have major problems when mom and dad die? And they're kind of distributing up all the stuff that's left because when they were six, seven, and eight years old, there was terrible favoritism in the family. It's true. And by the way, favoritism is what people that are not principled in how they think about life And they're not growing and they're not thinking biblically. That is kind of the natural thing. There are some people that we frankly get along better with than others. That is true in life. Okay? Some people are our personalities just don't match. It might be that we say they're a good person, but we just we don't connect, we don't click. As people are raising their children, some of their kids will have personalities They click with more naturally than others and some they they have issues, all right? And all the parents here say it's true, okay? All right, your kids have trouble with you. Sometimes you have trouble with them But one of the things that's so very important is that we've got to be principled in how we raise our kids. We've got to be principled in how we treat our children. Favoritism, partiality, discriminating between amongst our children because we gravitate to one personality a little bit more than another. or because of common interest is deadly in a home. It brings unbelievable tension and dysfunctionality that's completely unnecessary. That is exactly what happened in this home. And you know what is the key to it? Or what was at the heart of it? It was self-centeredness on the heart of the parents I mean, we expect children to be self-centered. That's why God gave them parents. He gave them parents to teach them no. Yes, you will get up at this time, you will go out and cut the grass, you will wash the dishes, you will set the table, yes, you're gonna do your homework, yes, you're gonna go to school. We have to teach our children to do right. We have to instill disciplines within them. We're older than them. We're supposed to be more mature than them. But in this household, the example was not good from the top Why did Rebekah love Jacob? Well, it's because she liked him as a person. Why did Isaac love Esau? Because he liked eating his food. I mean these are kind of like very self-centered and kind of petty things. Yet you know how many families this happens over and over and over again? Really, this story begins with that going on in the home. It was a self-inflicted division. And that self-inflicted division ultimately brought a lot of pain. It established a pattern in their home of a short-sighted view of decisions, a self-centered view of decisions. And by the way, we're going to see that Jacob was a self-centered decision maker. Esau was a self-centered decision maker. They both looked at the immediate far more than the long term. When God chose to work through Jacob, it's not because Jacob was this incredible giant of the faith. He was a scoundrel, too. He was a very fleshly person. I'm going to flush this out in just a minute. Fact is it was God's grace that he chose to work through either of them. But a lot of the problems we see in these young men, they're the direct result of their parents not being the kind of people they needed to be, and therefore they were not instilling within them the values they needed. Second truth I'd like you to see is that heart issues don't stay dormant. We all have things in our heart that are there and we may not even know they're there So when a person gets married they believe that they are, you know, the most loving person ever and the person they're marrying thinks that they're the most loving person ever. But it's it's just amazing how like the dynamics totally change when you stop dating and you get married. They totally change. Or then once you're married and then you have children, like the dynamics completely change. Why is that? It's because within that relational dynamic, there are certain things that draw to the surface qualities, character qualities, flaws, heart issues that we're completely unaware of I mean when I was a 21-year-old guy on Christmas break, you know what I did? I went duck hunting every single morning. Okay? I did. I remember when I was in high school I had a uh my my my senior project for for uh for my science class. It was we were supposed to study something, and so I I took the the biology section and I decided to do a A study on catching fish, and I was comparing different kinds of bait, and I remember my dad looking at me, and he just shook his head and he said, Joe, how How in the world? Did you tell your teacher you could use fishing as a as a homework assignment? I said, I don't know, it just It's in the heart, you know what I mean? Well y here's the truth. When when you're eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty two, whatever You can get up anytime you want, you can go to bed anytime you want, you can eat whatever you want. Your schedule is completely flexible. If you want to, you know, do the fishing homework thing, you can do the fishing homework thing. All that stuff. You want to take a vacation, you take a vacation. Nobody's gonna look over your shoulder and say, hey, you know, I don't think that was really a wise expense. You just put it on the card and you forget about it. When you get married, things change. There's another person that's looking over your shoulder saying, hey, when you get up at this time, it makes my day rough. You have children, it's like, hey, I didn't sleep at all last night. I was up with your son, your daughter. What um what is the point? The point is that what's in our heart doesn't stay there. It doesn't stay there. Actually, it's good that it doesn't stay there. Because it needs to be addressed. We need to grow in the light of it. And so God, in his own way, allows circumstances to unfold in such a way that it draws to the surface our issues Not so that we can push them to the side, but so that we can deal with them. And so that's what happens in these verses. Verses 25, uh chapter uh verse 29 and following, it says this. Jacob was sodding pottage. He's basically making stew. Esau comes in from the field and he's faint. Maybe it was a day kind of like today. Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, the same red pottage, for I am faint. Jacob says, Sell me your birthright. What? Like, who does things like this? Like, what kind of a person? Well look at their brother who is tired and he's hungry and he's I'm gonna die, I'm so worn out. And he says, hey, I think I'll give you a bowl of soup if you'll if you'll give me your birthright. Like your inheritance as the firstborn. What kind of people do things like that? Fleshly, self-centered people, manipulators? That's what he did. And what kind of people go, okay, let's shake hands on it? People that have the same problem. Jacob and Esau both had major self-centered issues. Jacob was envious of his brother's position as the one who would inherit a birthright. He was extremely dishonest. He was extremely manipulative. One of the stories about Jacob that really always just kind of blows my mind is that when Esau is coming, this is he's he's a lot older by this time. What does Jacob do? He sends out his family before him, and he like hand selects who gets out there first, like which wife and which children go first. It's like why did he determine what the order was? Because in his mind Some family members had lesser value than others. Think about that for a moment. When Jacob is wrestling with God that night, he's saying, God bless me, and God's saying, I already told you I was going to. Why are we having this conversation? Jacob was a fleshly person. He was a manipulative person. You wouldn't want to be married to Jacob. You wouldn't want him to be your father. There's a reason that Joseph's brothers hated him and were willing to kill him and then ultimately sell him as a slave to their cousins. It's because the favoritism here, it kind of continued in the family. Jacob was dishonest, manipulative. Esau didn't value the privileged position and the responsibilities that accompany being the firstborn. Now think about this. When we talk about an inheritance, we talk about money. We talk about lands, we talk about houses, stuff, that kind of thing, right? Well, if you're a nomad, what's the land that you're going to give to your children? What's the house that you're going to give to your children? What's the money that you're going to give to your children? Actually, the land that would be passed down by inheritance was a land God promised to Abraham. and to Isaac and to Jacob and all the blessings that were associated with that position were the Abrahamic covenant blessings. Think about that for a moment. It wasn't just that he said, I don't value being the firstborn. He said, I don't value the covenant that God made with Abraham and with Isaac and with one of us. He was impulsive. He was foolish. He wasn't gonna die when he came in from the field The birthright wasn't just about material possessions. There's really more to this story. And remember, this is a part of our discussion on seeing the gospel in the Old Testament. This is a story that has significance in the redemption of the Old Testament. story. Why is it that that the lineage went through Jacob's descendants as opposed to Esau's descendants? This is a part of that story. But really this situation is a catlass for a very tragic interaction between two brothers. By the end of the story, Jacob is running for his life. He will never see his mother again before she dies. You know, some of the most personally destructive and painful sins that we experience are family-related issues. And we see that here. The third thing I'd like you to see is that wisdom learns from others' tragic failures. God doesn't want us to have to learn by getting burnt. He wants us to learn by saying, Do you see that's hot? Don't touch it. You say, Okay, I I I won't Touch it. And that takes us back to Hebrews chapter 12. In Hebrews chapter 12, we have this topic, this discussion, about these people that are under a tremendous amount of pressure. And as they're under this pressure and as they're experiencing the weight, they're being tempted to disassociate with the church And they're wanting to associate back with Judaism, which they have left, to embrace the gospel. For the sake of ease, for a moment, for a season. They're willing to turn away from what has real value, where they can grow and thrive and mature as Christians. And so the writer of Hebrews says: don't do that. Learn from Esau. So let's talk for a few moments about what really is at the heart of this discussion here in Hebrews chapter twelve. The first thing I'd like us to say is this Esau's life was tragically affected by just one moment. From this point on, things continued to go downhill in Esau's life. His foolish decisions really started with being physically tired. Think about that for a moment. When he came in from the field, there were things already in his heart, but what what what really made the catalyst happen, or what really made it so easy for him to make this decision, was he was just tired. Weariness often leads to what? Discouragement. Discouragement often leads to what? Bitterness. Do you see what's going on? Weariness isn't a sin. It's human. The fact that you get physically tired when you worked hard That's normal. That's human weakness. That's not sinful. But that weariness can ultimately get us to a place where we become disheartened, and all of a sudden we begin to dwell on some kind of grievance And we begin to become bitter in our souls. Bitterness, according to this text, is the root of all kinds of folly. He talks about fornication. He talks about a person who doesn't treasure or value what is sacred. Do you see the connection? Weariness, discouragement, bitterness, follow. And then he says, be cautious, because if that root of bitterness springs up, many will be defiled by it. Yeah, we've seen this played out in our lives or in the lives of the people around us. We've seen a person who allowed some kind of grievance to fester in their heart. They didn't deal with it in a godly way, in a biblical way. And as that grievance began to fester a little more and a little more and a little more, eventually this person becomes a very callous person. And they're willing to do things that are very destructive. What's the result? It's devastating. It's devastating to their to their marriage. It's devastating to their children. It's devastating to their church. It's devastating to their work environ It's devastating to their it extended families. And so what's he saying? He's saying, be careful that your weariness doesn't lead to discouragement, to bitterness, to follow In other words, guard your heart against a bitter spirit. Let me ask this question tonight Is there anybody here that, I'm not asking because I want you to tell me, just in your own heart, ask the question, do you have this bitterness in your heart? You say, well, what exactly is bitterness? And we get to that in just a minute. But bitterness is something that can start in a very subtle way. In fact, a lot of times the start of bitterness It's something that you were really truly wronged in. Maybe somebody really did treat you wrong. Maybe there was a situation that was not handled well, and you have a very legitimate grievance. But you've got to deal with that grievance appropriately. Everybody gets hurt in life. What do we do with the hurt? Bitterness can start very subtly. It can start with just being tired. It can start with a legitimate grievance. It can start with a difficult circumstance. And many times the one that we are the most bitter against is not the human that is the closest to us. It's God's. Because God didn't intervene the way that we intended, we thought He should. He didn't answer our prayer the way that we expected Him to. He didn't move as quickly as we thought He should. We get upset at God. Sometimes we're in a circumstance that we can't completely comprehend. We can't make sense of it. And so what does it do? It begins to stir in our hearts this bitterness, this resentful spiritual. Bitterness is a hurt that's never addressed biblically. And by the way, sometimes people wrong us. And the truth is that we will never be able to be reconciled to that person. It's true. For a reconciliation, there's got to be a real repentance on one side, okay? There's got to be an acknowledgement of wrong, a willingness to come and to make a restoration, to restore a relationship is not just I'll forgive and forget and move on, but there's actually got to be some repentance. There's got to be a change of behavior that connects that relationship back together again. But even if a person's unwilling to do that does not mean that we should harbor this bitterness and this anger and this resentment towards them. We've got to learn to release those burdens onto the Lord's shoulders. To say, God, you're big enough to carry this hurt. I'm going to trust you to handle this the right way. I'm not going to hold on to the right to be the judge of this person in this circumstance. That is what kills bitterness, or that's what allows it to fester. When the person says, no, God, I've got to take care of this. No, you're not working fast enough for me. No, you didn't handle it the way that I want you. All of a sudden that bitterness sets in more and more. And more. If left unchecked, it can bring terrible destruction and permanent damage That's what Genesis 25 and Hebrews 12 are warning us. Let me read to you again what it says, because it is so clear. He says, look diligently, lest Any man fail of the grace of God, lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many are defiled. When he says, lest you fall from the grace of God, I think what he's ultimately saying is God 's going to give you what you need to navigate any circumstance in life. His grace is available to you. His enabling is available to you. You can take it. You can stand in it. You can work move forward in it. You can release your burdens in it. You can have a different disposition in it. God's grace is available and you turn away from it. He says, Don't do that. Look diligently, lest the root of bitterness spring up And trouble you, and many are defiled. Lest any one be a fornicator or a profane person as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright. You know how that afterwards, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected. He found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears. I have good news for you. God really loves us. And he's extremely gracious. And he's very patient. And it blows me away many times how in some of our darkest moments, God takes those scars and he uses them to accomplish good. I'm just blown away by that. Like in Romans 8, where it says, all things work together for good to them that love God, to them were the called according to his purpose. God takes even the most painful, the most difficult circumstances. Circumstances in our lives. He has ways of using them to accomplish good. But here's what this text is also showing us: there are times that what we lose we don't get back. Doesn't mean God isn't gracious. It doesn't mean that God puts us on the shelf and we can never serve Him again or walk with Him again or enjoy certain blessings, but there will be things missed and lost. Because of the choices we make. God wants us to walk in wisdom. He wants us to learn from the failures of others. And here's the question. Will we learn from Esau's life? Not just Esau. Jacob. Not just Jacob and Esau, but Isaac and Rebekah. We've got to make sure that we're a people who have healthy homes, so that we are actually cultivating an environment where our children can thrive. We need our children to be growing up, maturing in an environment where they're seeing a good example from mom and dad. They're seeing mom and dad admit their faults. They're seeing their parents on their knees. They're seeing their parents in the word. They're seeing their their parents make things right when they've done wrong. They're in an environment where their parents come alongside of them and strengthen them and encourage them and they're pointing them in the right direction. Our children need that kind of a home life. Sadly, Jacob and Esau really didn't have that. And that is a contributing factor, not the entire thing. They're responsible for their decisions, but it was a contributing factor. My question is, are we slowly laying the groundwork for a tragic fall? These things don't happen overnight It's not like one person one day someone wakes up and they do something that completely devastates all the people around and there was not a long road being paved for many, many years before that takes place. There always is a a series of patterns being established. There are decisions being made on a day-by-day basis that are laying the pieces to the road that leads to tragic failure and tragic fall. And I ask this question. failure Are we at this moment slowly laying the groundwork for that kind of a tragic fall? Are we making compromises that seem so small? But they're tragic. Are we making excuses that seem so convenient, but in fact they're just putting another brick in that road? Are we dealing with sin now? That's the challenge that we take from the scripture. And the last question I ask is, do we have a bitter spirit? Every person in this room has been and will be hurt by somebody or something. This is a fallen world. We're all fallen people. Sometimes the hurts are maliciously intended hurts. Sometimes the hurts are carelessly stumbling uh uh in relationship. They're not even maliciously intended, but they're hurts. They're serious. They're heavy. Sometimes it's circumstances that have nothing to do with any decision that we made. We will experience hurts in life Do we have bitter spirits? Are we allowing those hurts to fester or have we dealt with them biblically Have we thought through the process in a godly way? Are we willing to take those burdens and place them on the Lord's shoulders and say, God, I'm not the judge in this situation. I'm going to let you deal with this situation. situation. I'm going to trust you with the timing and how you choose to work. It's all in your hands. When someone comes to you and they truly are repentant and they truly want to make things right, are you willing to forgive and restore? These are the questions that we need to ask ourselves. Are we willing to address our hurts biblically? Are we walking down a path That the consequences that we can potentially experience can actually be dealt with now so we don't face them. God wants us to learn from these people's lives. He wants us to learn that our decisions really matter. The patterns we establish really matter. What's going on in our hearts is going to come out. We've got to choose to deal with our sin in our hearts Let's bow together and ask the Lord to help us to learn from Esau's failure. Father in heaven, when I read this text of Scripture, it's really sobering. It's sobering because there are so many times in my own life that I've allowed hurt and grievance to fester. And I'm sure I'm not alone. Father, help us to learn to take our position in Christ and live in the light of it. Help us to learn to take a short account of our sin, to uproot it when it raises its ugly head, to put it to death and to replace it with godly virtues. Father, preserve us from painful and tragic falls that are the result of years. Of inattentive behavior, years of nursing wounds , years of rebellion. Father, help us to be a godly people, help us to raise our children well It's tough raising kids. It's a tough period in human history. It's a tough time in our nation. I pray you'd help our parents here to be encouraged. And to be faithful and help us together to grow as we point our children to you. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen. If you could, let's pull out our hymn books, please, and let's turn to our final hymn. 366 is Have Thine Own Way, Lord. Have thine own way. I think that a passage like this, uh, it really calls us to reflect personally. It calls us to As David said, God, if there's any wicked way in me, lead me in the way everlasting. Search me and know me. Try my thoughts. Know my downsettings, my uprisings. It's David saying, God, point it to me. I'll deal with it. That's what we need tonight. That's what we need to do in our lives. Let's stand together and we'll sing hymn 366. Have thine own way, Lord. Have thine own way. And let's really sing it from the heart. Have thine own way, Lord, have thine own way Thou art the fault true, I am the play Mold me and make me after thy word While I am waiting, yielded answer on the last Have thine own way, Lord, have thine own way Hold over my king as a Fill with thy spirit, till all shall see Christ only for ways Well I hope that you guys have a great start to your week. I know that we've been playing volleyball, but probably tonight. My my son Joel brought his clothes to play volleyball and I was like, Yeah, you might be alone there He cut the grass yesterday and and it was pretty hot so He's tough and ready for camp. But uh please do remember to keep us in your prayers as we travel. Uh hope that you have a sweet fellowship together. Uh Deanna Lee, Mrs. Lee, we're gonna be missing you when you travel. Travel down and that we'll be praying for you. And I look forward to seeing you when you're back in the area. I don't know what you call home, but we feel like this is home, but I don't know. You probably spend more time down south. But uh we'll miss you. Hope you have a safe trip. And uh good to see each of you out tonight. Um looking forward to sweet fellowship together. Um Charlie, can you close us in prayer, please? And uh then we'll be Heavenly Father, we do thank you for your love, thank you for bringing us Together this evening. to the Thank you for uh the messages brought forth and the um the example that we saw in the lives of Esau and Jacob Jacob, just help us to um just learn from this that we won't make the same mistakes and that uh that we can live um godly lives for you. Just be with us throughout this week. Help us honor and glorify you. Amen.