Just a couple more passages we're looking at in the Sermon on the Mount, and then we're almost done with that portion of Scripture. And also the song that we're going to sing sing this evening is a really good one for uh a rainy day and it's going to be number ninety nine a shelter in the time of storm so let's go ahead and bow together for prayer and then after that we will Uh sing this song together and then dig into the Word of God together. Let's pray. Father, we're so very grateful for the opportunity we have tonight to open up the Word of God and I pray that as we look at this passage of Scripture you'll speak to our hearts. Help me to be able to present it clearly in a way that is helpful to this person here tonight. Those who maybe will join on the live stream, I pray that you'll use it in our hearts and help us to understand how this text fits in with the things that Christ has already previously stated in the sermon and also the things that we read about in the epistles. And bless our time together of prayer as we lift up requests and bear one another's burdens. I pray that you would strengthen us, and we ask it all in Christ's name. Amen. Okay, ninety-nine is shelter in the time of storm. We'll do just two verses first in the last drinian. So let's uh sting it out. Here we go. What are we high? Closer in the time. Shelter is the time of dawn if I know that is dear Know there in the time of Lord, we thou art no whenever dear Knower in the time of Lord Oh even through It's singing. All right. And we are getting some of our young people involved in accompanying. So on Wednesday nights we have Folks that learn how to play the piano, they're accompanying kids in the back and in here. So trying to get the next generation learning how to play the piano and a company for congregational singing. So Excited about that. Okay, Matthew chapter 7 is where we are tonight, and we're reading verses 21, 22, and 23, so it's a very short section and I'm going to remind you again that the last couple of pieces that we're looking at here from the Sermon on the Mount are almost like Christ's conclusion on the sermon. And so When we're dealing with the text itself, we're going back over the sermon in places and seeing how Christ is basically applying what he's already stated earlier. And then tonight I'm going to add another piece to that. We're going to kind of look forward to where we find instruction about these things and other portions of the New Testament, specifically in the pastoral epistles. So you'll see where we're going with that tonight. Let's read the text. I'll give you a summary statement, then we'll dig right into these verses. Says Matthew chapter 7 verse 21, Not everyone that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doeth the will of my Father, which is in heaven, many will say to me in that day, Lord Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? And in thy name cast out devils, and in thy name done many wonderful works. And then I will profess unto them, I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquity Now when we read these verses, we're reading something that is extremely sobering. It's sobering because it reminds us that it is possible for someone to have a misplaced confidence. And because of their misplaced confidence, when they stand before God, in fact they will not be entering into the kingdom of God, but they will be separated from God forever in eternity. I I think it's important for me to make this statement. It is possible for someone to be a genuine believer and to have doubts of their salvation, so much as it is possible for someone to have great confidence before God and they're not truly a believer. So it's not about the level of confidence that determines whether or not a person is a Christian or not a Christian. And by the way, if someone is a believer and they're struggling with doubts, it's not a good thing. And we have to work through those things in our minds. But but that doesn't mean that a person isn't saved, in the same way that a person who's convinced they're saved may not necessarily be saved. We have to get down to the nature of one's profession of faith, or what we could also say is the nature of one's object of faith And in these verses, I'd like us to really look at that, examine that tonight so we can understand why this is such a tragedy that these people have a misplaced confidence. And what exactly is Christ dealing with in these verses? So our summary statement is the following. Christ concluded his sermon with an appeal to those who had a misplaced confidence. so that they would turn to the truth from their trust in self. And I could have developed that a good bit more than just Turn to truth from self, but we're going to develop that within our presentation of this text itself. So let's begin with the first truth that we find in these verses. Christ was concerned for people with misplaced confidence. The reason that Jesus says what he's saying is not because he wants people to be in this position, okay? He's saying this because he wants people while there is time. While they're in a position that they can actually turn to him and be saved from their sins, he's saying it because he wants them to be saved. That is his desire. And so in verse 21, when he says, Not everyone that saith to me, Lord, Lord, shall enter the kingdom of heaven, he's basically saying, if you're listening to this message. You need to ask the question, is it possible for you to be one of those people? And you'd say, well, how will I know if I am going to be one of them or I'm not going to be one of them? Well the answer is You need to look back at what Jesus has said in these verses. And then for us today, because we have the rest of the New Testament, we need to look forward at where this is expounded in other passages of Scripture. So let's consider for a moment Christ's audience. His audience is really twofold. One is there , these are the people who are the teachers of the law. And these are people who were extremely religious, but they were not genuine believers. And so in verse number 19 he says, Whosoever shall break one of the least of these commandments and teach men so He shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven. Why do you think he said that? Well, because there were people that were in the midst that he's talking to who were doing exactly that. They were teaching things that were not necessarily true, or they were teaching things that were true, and they were not following them. And so he's talking to an audience of people who were teaching the law. And ultimately, they were teaching that the law is a way to be made right with God, which is wrong, obviously, we know from Scripture. Secondly, he's talking to the disciples themselves. These are the people that have embraced the gospel. And they are citizens of the kingdom, and he's talking about what it what it's like to be a disciple of Christ. And so in verses 15 and 16, he says, beware of false prophets. Who come to you, those are the disciples, in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves. Ye shall know them by their fruits. So you see that he's talking to the people who are the false teachers in some of the sermon, and he's talking to the people that are going to be influenced by the false teachers in other portions of the sermon. So his audience is diverse in that sense. Secondly, I want you to notice his message. In verses 13 and 14, we dealt with this a couple of weeks ago. He says the following Enter ye in at the straight gate, and that word straight means it's a tight and narrow passage. For wide is the gate, and broad is the way that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat. Because straight is the gate, and narrow is the way that leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it. Now you'll notice in those two verses he talks about a gate. And he talks about a way. And the gate is representing something different than the way. The gate is referring to what we would call conversion. When a person is born again. So when he says, enter into the straight gate, he's saying, Come into the kingdom Through me. Jesus says he's the way, the truth, the life. No one comes unto the Father except through him. And so he's referring to conversion, those who need to be safe from their sins. When he talks about the way, what he's talking about is the other side of the gate. Once you are inside, you are a citizen of the kingdom, you have come through the person and work of Christ. Well, there's a way that you're to walk, and we call that discipleship, the Christian life. Narrow is the way that leadeth unto life. And that word narrow has the idea of, again, a tightness, but it's talking about the difficulty of this particular way. So his message is one of repent and believe, that's conversion, and secondly, walk in obedience to the Lord's commands as a disciple of Christ. He has those two pieces to it. The third thing I want you to notice is his heart. This is what he says in verses 17 and 18. Think not. that I am come to destroy the law and the prophets. I am not come to destroy, but to fulfill. Verily I say unto you, till heaven and earth pass, not one jot or tittle shall not one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law till all be fulfilled. Now, when we read that verse, we tend to go into a lot of different directions. Sometimes we talk about the preservation of Scripture. That's really not what the emphasis of this verse is. Or some people will go into the fact that you've got to obey the law and every single piece of it, which is true, but again, that's not really Christ's intent for making the statement. His focus is to say this. The law and the prophets Point to somebody. They point to Jesus. And I am Him. I'm the person. I'm the Lord Jesus Christ, the Messiah. And I am here to fulfill every single piece. of the law and the prophets. Everything that has been stated, it will all come to pass. I will fulfill it 100%. And the question is, why? Why were the law and the prophets promising a Messiah? Why was Christ coming to fulfill what the law and the prophets stated? It's very simple to save people. Okay? That's why he did this. So what we see is we see his audience, that's the false teachers, the religious leaders, we see the disciples of Christ. We see what he's teaching, how you're converted, entering in through that straight gate, and he talks about discipleship, the way that follows after that, and then he talks about his heart. He wants to save people, to seek and to save those who are lost. That is why he came and fulfilled all. It was in obedience to the Father, but it is also to fulfill all righteousness and to establish a plan of redemption, to actually provide the basis for us to be saved. And so his heart points us to repentance, faith, and rescue from eternal destruction. Turn from the teaching of the Pharisees. Trust in the gospel, be saved from wrath through me. That's what Jesus is saying. So that's the first truth. This passage of scripture is emphasizing the fact that God is concerned for the people who have a misplaced confidence. Second truth. He wanted them to respond correctly to the truth. Okay? If he has a desire that they be saved, well then obviously they have to respond to the truth. They have to take action on what they are given. And so in verse 21, he says this, but he that doeth the will of my father. Now, the people who are going to be citizens of the kingdom have to do the will of the Father. And that should lead us to a simple question. Well, what exactly is the will of the Father, okay? And I I I mean I could answer that question from a lot of different places. Obviously one of those he says it is to believe on him Who has sent me? Okay? And so he talks about faith alone in himself. But I want us to think in terms of what is in the sermon itself. Because Jesus is giving us the conclusion of the sermon. So he's really looking at this contrast. The contrast is the way of the Pharisees and what they are teaching about the way of salvation and the way of truth. That is what Christ is presenting. And so let's think about those for just a moment and the contrast between them. First of all, the way of the scribes and the Pharisees. In verse number one. He says, take heed. Matthew chapter 6, verse 1, he says, take heed that you do not your alms before men. to be seen of them. Otherwise you have no reward of your Father which is in heaven. Therefore, when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and the streets. that they may have the glory of men. Now, that little statement that Jesus is giving where he talks about people doing things to be seen of men And doing this so that they might have the glory of men. What's amazing about that one example, Matthew 6. 1, is that Jesus gives numerous examples throughout the Sermon on the Mount of the Pharisees doing this very thing. And you know what that reveals? That reveals that their mentality, their worldview, was that the reason we have religious practice is so that we can have a self-confidence before God, so that we can promote ourselves before others, and we can pick ourselves up by our own bootstraps. I mean that's essentially what I would say was the religion of the Pharisees. Self-confidence. Belief that we can earn our way to God. So if I want to go to heaven, if I want to be a citizen of the kingdom, I've got to build up my religious credentials. That's why I go to church. That's why I give to the poor. That's why I do these things in the religious mindset of the Pharisees. I am building my confidence that I'm a citizen of the kingdom by the things that I'm doing for God. And this is going to come out in just a minute. Or self-promoting. Belief that it is acceptable to use our religious devotion to promote ourselves before others. So when I'm praying, I'm not really talking to God I'm using the opportunity, the platform to talk to God, as a platform to promote myself, okay? Or when I have the opportunity to teach a lesson, or I have the opportunity to do something religious. I am using that as a platform to build up my credentials before other people. Or self-development, belief that we can become godly through human inventions. If I create all these rules, all these systems, I can earn my way to God. Now I could give you all kinds of examples in the epistles of these kinds of problems being addressed very specifically, but I'm going to keep moving so we keep moving through the text. But you can see the religious system of the Pharisees. It's about me promotion. It's about self-centeredness. It's about self-righteousness. It's about self- confidence. It's not about Christ. It's about self. I'll bring this into the realm of evangelism with somebody in our modern era. You go and you ask them, well, what do you what do you know for sure when you die you're going to heaven? And they say, Yeah, I I do. Okay. Tell me why. And they list all the things they're doing. And you know what they don't mention one time? Christ. Like, do you need him? Well, oh yeah, yeah, Christ is important. Did you believe he died on the cross? Oh, of course he died on the cross. Do you believe he rose from the dead? Oh, of course I believe he rose from the dead. Why did he do that? Oh, that's a good question. See, in that kind of system, what's it telling you? Well, the belief is you earn your way to God. And that was the thinking of the religious leaders. Now let's contrast that with what Jesus was saying. For instance, think about the first couple verses of the Beatitudes. Matthew 5. 3, blessed are the poor in spirit. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Verse 4. Blessed are those who mourn, they shall be comforted. Verse 6, blessed are they which hunger and thirst after righteousness, they shall be filled. What do all three of those beatitudes have in common? A person does not have a high view of their righteousness. A person does not have a high view of their of their character and their ways. They recognize, poor in spirit, I am spiritually broken. I need something. Or I'm mourning because I'm a sinner. Or I'm hungry and thirsting after righteousness because I don't have those things. And so you see this massive difference. We have the religious leaders who are building up credentials, and Jesus' teaching is saying, you've got nothing. You've got nothing to give God. I love the way that Paul puts it in Romans chapter 3. This concept of spiritual brokenness. It is so consistent with what Jesus is saying in Matthew 5, 3, 4, and 6. He says, now We know that whatsoever things the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law, that every mouth may be stopped. And all the world become guilty before God. Now, when he says every mouth is stopped, you might go, well, what are they saying? They're talking about how good they are. They're talking about all the reasons God should accept them. And he says, thou shalt not. And it's like, oh I guess I can't talk about that one. Thou shalt not. Oh, I guess I can't talk about that one. And you go to this whole list and all of a sudden there's nothing to say What do you have to give God? Um apparently nothing. Exactly. That's what he means by poor in spirit. That's what he means by mourning. That's what he means by hungering and thirsting after righteousness. You understand because when you look at yourself before the law of God, you have nothing. Every mouth is stopped. All the world is guilty before God. And so Paul's conclusion is, therefore, by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh. Be justified in his sight, for by the law is the knowledge of sin. Someone might say, well, why would God give us a law we can't can't obey and can't keep? To help us to understand we can't keep it and obey it? I mean really that's what it is. You can even know what the standard is. If we never were told, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this, don't do this, do this, do this, do this. Even though that's the expectation and that's the standard of righteousness, we wouldn't understand that. And so our conscience is awakened. When we see in words on paper, this is what I'm supposed to do and this is what I'm not supposed to do, and I see how far short I followed these things. So the way of the Messiah begins with spiritual brokenness. I don't keep God's law. I have a problem. I'm in trouble. And someone would say, well, then is there hope? Of course there is. But it's not in you and me. It's in something outside of us. And so it's really the righteousness of another person. The imputed righteousness of another person. The imputed righteousness of Christ. Listen to what he says in Matthew 5. 20. Except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, you shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven. And when Jesus makes a statement like that, everybody says, well, then nobody's going to heaven because they're the best people there. He says, well, nobody's going to heaven through their own righteousness. That's what he's saying. Or maybe I'll put it even simpler, reading what Paul says in Romans chapter 3, verse 21, because this really helps us to understand this concept of a righteousness. that is imputed to us by grace alone, through faith alone, and Christ alone. Listen to what he says. This is right after the passage I just read in Romans 3, 19 and 20, where he says, Therefore, by the deeds of the law, no flesh shall be justified in his sight. By the law is the knowledge of sin. And then he says, But Now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested Being witnessed by the law and the prophets, even the righteousness of God, what 's in the next statement, which is by faith. So this isn't a righteousness that I work on. It's a righteousness that I'm given by faith. You know what that's describing? How people get saved. The righteousness of God, which is by faith. I love this little statement. It is unto all and upon all them that believe. Now that's actually a really important distinction. To put it in simple terms, this righteousness is available for anybody. Anybody who was willing to receive it can have it. But it's not given to everybody. It's only given to those who believe. That is how people are saved. They have to recognize I don't, I'm not good enough. I don't keep God's law. I break his law. I am a miserable sinner who has no hope in myself. And God says, but now the righteousness of God is available unto all and upon all them that believe. You can receive it. Place your faith in the finished work of Christ. And then the third piece I'll mention is this, is the word regeneration. That word regeneration means made alive. We are spiritually dead in trespasses. and in sins. And when a person turns to Christ, places their faith in the finished work of Christ, the Bible says they become a new creature in Christ. Old things are passed away, all things have become new. And that's what Jesus is alluding to in Matthew chapter 7, verse 13, when he says, Enter into the straight gate, and then he talks about the difficult way that follows that. This is how you're saved, and this is how you live after you're saved. And he's describing the concept of regeneration. Or when we go to John chapter 3, and Jesus is talking to Nicodemus, and he says, Except a man is born again, that is regenerated, he won't see the kingdom of God. And Nicodemus goes, Well, how's that possible? Can I enter back into my mother's womb? And he says, Nicodemus, what's born of the flesh is flesh. What's born of the spirit is spirit. Don't marvel that I say you must be born again. And he explains to them that the new birth is a miracle. It's like the wind. You don't see it happen, you see what it does. And so we see this concept. Ephesians 2. 1. You at the quickened who were dead in trespasses and in sins. So, the whole point of this is to simply say this. The way of the Pharisees was do good, be good, look good, and earn your way to God. And that is the exact opposite of the way of salvation. Repent and believe. You have no righteousness, you need his. You're spiritually dead. You need to be made spiritually alive. Turn to Christ. Trust in what He's done for you. That is the contrast. Third truth. He did not want them to take comfort in what they were doing for God. This is really important. Notice down in verse number 22 where he says this. He says, many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, and look at the next couple of words. He says, have we not Done. Okay. That that that tells you everything right there. Have we not done? I mean the difference between a Christian and a non-Christian. Is have you not done versus have I not done? I mean that's really the bottom line difference. My confidence is in what he did for me versus my confidence being in what I do for him. Many will say, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? In thy name cast out devils, in thy name done many wonderful works. Now, their emphasis was on what they had done and what they were doing for God. They had confidence because they were in the majority. Many will say, you know, a lot of people say, hey, as long as everybody's saying the same thing that I'm saying, or as long as I'm saying the same thing everybody else is saying, I'm good. That's not how truth is determined, folks. Sometimes everybody's wrong. Sometimes it's just a couple of people that are right, and everybody's giving them grief. You don't determine what's right and wrong based on what everybody thinks about it. You determine what's right and wrong by what conforms to reality. And so they take discomfort in the fact that lots of people are saying this But that's not where you put your confidence. They were putting their confidence in their intellectual knowledge of him. They called him Lord. They said Lord, Lord. They knew who he was. They knew his name That Lord emphasizes that they feel like they're actually submitting to him. They had confidence because they believed they had spoken on his behalf. Have we not prophesied in thy name? They had confidence because they believed that they were speaking with his authority. Have we not cast out devils in thy name? By the way, that's kind of interesting. Somebody thinks they're casting out devils, but they aren't. That's what common today, to be honest with you Anyway, keep moving. They had confidence because they believed they were doing remarkable things by his power. They have done, have we not done many wonderful works in thy name? The point is, all of those things are about what they do, not what he did. And that is the trap. A confidence that is in the wrong place is a confidence that's rooted in what I'm doing, not what he did. And I love this passage description, Philippians chapter 3, where Paul talks about his own conversion. And this is such an important topic when we think about what Jesus is saying here, because the Apostle Paul would have very well been one of the people Jesus was talking about. He was a teacher of the law. He was a guy that had confidence in what he was doing. He was teaching people to follow him, and he was leading them astray. And listen to what he says in Philippians chapter 3 verse 3. He says, We are the circumcision which worship God in the spirit and rejoice in Christ Jesus. And have, listen to this, no confidence in the flesh. Though I might also have confidence in the flesh, if any other man thinketh that he have whereof that he might trust in the flesh, I more. Circumcised the eighth day of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin and Hebrew of Hebrews, as touching the law of Pharisee. Concerning zeal persecuting the church, touching the righteousness which is in the law blameless. But what things were gained to me, those I counted loss for Christ. Yea, doubtless I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus, my Lord, for whom I suffered the loss of all things. And I do to count them but dung that I may win Christ. And be found in him not having my own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. Question. Do you not see what Paul is saying in Philippians chapter 3 and how that is exactly what he says in Romans chapter 3? Same thing. And do you see the continuity between what Jesus is saying in the Sermon on the Mount and what Paul is saying in these passages of Scripture? I'll break it down this way. Paul talks of his current position. We are those who have no confidence in the flesh. Though we might have confidence in the flesh. He said, humanly speaking, I'm a great example of a person who could earn their way to heaven. Because I'm a good guy. And now if somebody's telling you that, you might want to go like, oh, okay. Interesting. But but Paul is saying I I I was as good an example as you could have gotten He's an example of what Jesus is saying when he says, unless your righteousness exceeds the righteousness of the Pharisees, you won't enter the kingdom. I mean, that's Paul, okay? He's saying you've got to be better than Paul. You gotta be better than Gamalio, all these other people. He says, currently, I have no confidence in the flesh. He talks about his conversion. He says, the things that were gained to me, those I counted lost for Christ. What I what I was trusting in as a lost man. They're worthless now. He goes even further to say, I count all things lost. I count them dung that I may win Christ. I was reading a story about some of the presidents, and one of the presidents died of cholera. I don't know if you knew this. He actually died shortly after he became president. The reason he died is because the refuse dump in Washington, D. C. at the time that he went into the White House was uh was flowing into the Potomac River. And the drinking water that they used in the White House at the time was out of the Potomac River where the creek was flowing through the refuse dump. So when Paul says my righteousness is dung, he's basically saying this. That refuse dump that killed the president, okay, 150 years ago or whatever it was. That's how God sees my righteousness. It's pretty filthy. Filthy rags. So his conversion is that he goes from having confidence in the flesh to saying, I got nothing. That is what Jesus is saying when he says, Blessed are those who are poor in spirit, they shall see God. Those who mourn, they will be comforted. Those who hunger and thirst after righteousness. That became Paul's testimony. And then this practical change. And I'm found in him not having my own righteousness which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith. There's the contrast, folks. Truth number four. He wanted them to respond before it was too late. And verse 23 says, Then I will profess unto them. I never knew you. Depart from me, ye that work iniquities. Now, I do think it's important to take notice of this. Jesus doesn't say, then will he profess. He says, then will I? You know what that's telling you about Jesus? He's saying, I'm going to be the one who judges people on that day. In fact, if the people that were listening to the Sermon on the Mount didn't believe that Jesus was the Messiah, that was a blasphemous claim. That he was going to be the ultimate judge on the final day. Think about that. He says, I want you to be warned and I want you to turn to me before I have to be your judge. In other words, there's going to be a time when it's going to be too late. He says, then I will profess unto them. As Jesus is teaching the sermon, they weren't at that moment. There was still opportunity. There was still time. They could turn to him. But there would be a day that that door would shut. In the same way, when Noah was building that ark for 120 years, And then on that day it says, the Lord shut the door of the ark. Guess what? When the rains came, they could beat on that door all day. They weren't going to get in. Because he shut the door. Well, there's going to be a day when the door shuts on us. And if we haven't responded, it will be too late. They never passed from death to life. He says, I never knew you. It's not like Jesus is saying, well, you know, you got saved and then you lost it. He's not saying that See, I never knew you. You never experienced salvation. You never turned to me. You never repented and believed. You were never safe from your sins These people will be eternally separated from God. He says, depart from me, ye that work iniquity. So, how do you apply a passage like this? Let me give you some very simple closing thoughts. The first application is there's a warning here, both a general warning and a specific warning. The general warning is It is possible to have a strong false confidence. The specific is if your confidence is in anything outside of Christ and the gospel, then you have a misplaced confidence. So if you explain the gospel as, well, I'm doing this, I'm doing this, I'm doing this, I'm trying, I'm trying, I'm trying, if that's your expl Explanation, no matter how confident you are in it, that's not the right answer. So that's the warning. But secondly, there's a positive here. And the positive is you're hearing a message from a God who wants to save you. And so repent, believe, and rest. Turn from your self-righteousness to Christ. Turn to Him and trust in His finished work. Rest in the imputed righteousness of Christ. That's what this passage is all about. It is a warning and it's in a positive, it's an invitation. You have time. Do it. Now I know on a Wednesday night probably most of us were saved here, okay? I understand that. But the truth is that we have friends, family members, neighbors, we have people that we interact with that They may very well be in this position. They have a false confidence. And we need to pray for them. We need to take opportunities to speak with them about the gospel. The fact is that it's possible for a person to come to church and hear the teaching and they just never, it never, it click, it never clicks, it never registers for whatever reason. And so it's possible there are people even in our congregation who they would be in this position. Well, I'm saved because I come here. I'm saved because I I you know I got baptized on this date or you know I I signed this card, but they've never understood Christ alone. Grace alone, faith alone, Christ alone. Turn to him from your self-righteousness. Rest in his death, burial, resurrection, and imputed righteousness. And so if there's anyone here tonight who has questions, don't hesitate to reach out. I'd love to speak with you and work through the Word of God to help you have confidence that in fact you have responded. In a biblical way, repent, believe, be safe from your sins. Let's bow for prayer. Father, as we think about this text, I pray you'd use it in our hearts. For those who maybe are shaken in their confidence, when they hear this message, I pray that they would recognize that The message of salvation is simple. It is turning from a self-centered self-righteousness to depending on the death, resurrection, and righteousness of Christ. And help them to see that you accept whoever comes. Father, if there's one who's not certain of their salvation, And they're truly not saved. Or they are confident, but they shouldn't be. I pray that you would use these words to stir up their hearts and to point them to yourself. We ask these things in Christ's name. Amen.