We're going to open our Bibles to 1 Kings 17. I love this chapter, especially from the perspective of the a youth pastor, and I'll get to that uh by the end. But we're going to pick it up 1 Kings 17 Starting with verse 8. Starting with verse 8. And the word of the Lord came unto him, saying, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon. And dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. So he arose and went to Zarephath, and when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering sticks, gathering up sticks And he called to her and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel that I may drink. And as she was going to fetch it, he called her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand. And she said, As the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but a handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruise. And behold, I am gathering two sticks that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die. And Elijah said to her, Fear not, go and do as thou hast said, but make me thereon a little cake first, and bring it unto me, and after make for thee and for thy son. For thus saith the Lord God of Israel. The barrel of meal shall not waste. Neither shall the cruise of oil fail until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah, and she and he and her house did eat many days. And the barrel of meal was not of meal wasted not, neither did the cruise of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah. And it came to pass after these things that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick, and the sickness was so sore that there was no breath left in him. And she said to Elijah , What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? Thou art come unto me to call my sin to remembrance and to slay my son? And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he took him out of her bosom and carried him up into a loft where he abode Abode, and laid him upon his own bed. And he cried unto the Lord and said, O Lord, my God, hast thou also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn by slaying her son? And he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried unto the Lord and said, O my Lord God, I pray thee, let this child's soul come into him again. And the Lord heard the voice of Elijah, and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived. And Elijah took the child and brought him down out of the chamber into the house And delivered him unto his mother. And Elijah said, See, thy son liveth. And the woman said to Elijah, Now by this, I know that thou art a man of God, and that the word of the Lord is in in thy mouth is truth. Father, we come before you, thanking you for this text, that we can read your word. We can just study it here this evening together. Would it be a blessing and encouragement to those that are here, that may be watching by way of streaming? The word of God has worked richly in us as we're sensitive to the Spirit of God as He uses it, as we learn of your truths this evening from Elijah and this widow woman. And just see your faithfulness and how you can provide. And we thank you so much for who you are and that we can trust in you and be obedient to your word. We thank you for this in Christ's name. Amen. So I love this passage in 1 Kings. And we're going to first look at Elijah. How he was sustained by the widow in verses 8 through 16. In verses 8 through 16, how Elijah was sustained by a widow. So what's happened here? Elijah Maxley comes onto the scene earlier in this chapter. He just shows up, tells the king, it's not going to rain, there's going to be drought, and it's not going to happen until I say it's going to rain. Then he runs and he is provided by the Lord with the brook and the raven. And then after this is when we get to verse 8. When the Lord tells Elijah of his command, he's got another plan. The brook is drying up. He says, I'm going to provide for you another way. So that's what he does. The Lord comes to him and he tells him in verse 9. He says, Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there. Behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee. Now, keep in mind, this is in the midst of a famine. It's been going on for quite a while. He is going to a widow's house. And if you remember the location , Elijah here is told to leave where he is and go to Zarephath, which just happens to be the area of which Jezebel has come from. Her dad is over that area, and so you're going into the enemy territory, the person that's probably very mad at you right now, and that's where you're going. And not only that, he's Told by the Lord that a widow woman in this area is the what is going to provide for you Now Elijah might have taken that very strange or odd that God is going to use a widowed woman in the midst of a famine in this area, going into the enemy camp in a sense, to provide for him. That's exactly what the Lord tells them to do. And by this time, when he says, a widow woman will provide for you, just humanly speaking, When you obey the Lord and you follow what he says and you come through it seeing that he was faithful, if God can use a raven , Nothing against local bird, but ravens, as we've discovered before, they're not so reliable. They're not so clean. There's hardly anything good to say about them. But if God can provide through a raven to feed Elijah, now he's saying, well, at least it's a human. Now it's not in a great place, and it's someone you wouldn't expect. But here you think that God is going to com if God will command the ravens to feed me, I'm sure he can do it through a widow woman. So as we obey God, the little truth, the little nugget here to begin with is as we obey God and we see him faithful. It builds our own confidence that when he asks us to take our next step, we're willing to obey and we're willing to follow. That's been my experience. Just throughout my life, after I got saved, I was baptized, the Lord would lead me one step along the way. Had he told me As I've heard some preachers say, Oh, the night I got saved, I knew I was called to preach. That was not how it worked with me. Not even close For me, it was literally one step at a time. I obeyed God, and then he would lead me the next step. And as I obeyed that step, then he would leave, and then before I knew it, I was leaving college. And after staying for seminary and going into the ministry, I never would have thought the day I got on the plane to drive to the far corner of the country would I ever be doing what I'm doing now. Never would have thought it But here Elijah , he's provided through the ravens. Now he wants me to go to this area. I will obey. I will follow. So he does. In verses 10 through 11, we're going to see that Elijah obeys and he goes to meet this widow woman in Zarephath. And so let's look at that again. It says, so he arose. He tried to take all common sense out. You know what? God has been faithful. I can continue to follow him. So that's what he does. He is a man. And so he's a hey I he probably had some of those same thoughts, but he's like, God is faithful, I can trust in him. So he arose and he went to Zarephath, uh roughly about eighty miles in the wrong direction if you're trying to run from the king and you're going to wear his wife uh is from. And so he came to the gate of the city and there he meets the woman and she's gathering sticks. And he calls her and he asks her basically, hey, can I get a drink? Kind of reminds me of John chapter 4. Jesus Christ goes to the well to meet a woman. Hey, can you get me something to drink? Kind of a little interesting there. So he does this. And then she responds and says, as she was going to fetch it, he called to her and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand. So he asks for water in verse 10, and verse 11, he's asking for something to eat. I guess it's a fairly normal request right here, but that is what he's doing. He's going, this is the woman, this is the one that God had led me to, this is the widow of Zarephath. Maybe there was something known about her, I'm not sure. But he goes. He asks for water and something to eat. And then what we see next is that the widow explains or shares her own worries. about her next meal. Because if we look at these two passages, I'm trying to get through the rest of this chapter because it's almost two separate sections. And I think they tie together in a sense of the widow has different worries, but we're going to see that God is faithful, and it's driving this whole chapter, especially these two sections. 8 through 16 and then 17 through 24 is driving all the way to the very end of verses 23 and 24 to where God is going to be see as faithful to his word. And he could work through other people to accomplish that. That's where it's driving. But it's the faith and people taking that next step of faith and watching for God to provide. And when is that challenging? When is it most challenging to obey God? Is when we try to do things on our own and we have our own cares and concerns. And this widow right now is going to share her first major concern with this prophet. And she says in verse 12, She said, And the Lord thy God liveth, I have not a cake. She's got nothing to eat, no bread, no nothing. She says, But I have a handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruise. And behold, I'm gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it and die. There's a famine, she's concerned. She's going out to basically collect her last meal, her last sticks, to get a fire going, to cook their last bit of bread, and just Plan on starving to death with her son. This is her last meal. And so here she shares her concern, she's sharing her worry. There's nothing wrong with that. That that's a challenging situation. But what we're going to see is when we're most likely to take things into our own hands. We feel like things aren't working. Sometimes God allows us to go through trials and difficulties where we can get to the point in our own worry and try to provide for ourselves where we realize, you know what, I just can't do this. God, you you have to do this. And so she's worried, she's scared, she doesn't know where her next meal is coming from. And here this guy is coming along and saying, basically, I want your last meal. And then it continues. It continues. Look in verse 13 and 14. And Elijah said to her, Fear not. Go and do as thou hast said, but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it to me, and after make for thee and thy son. Now if we just stopped right there at verse thirteen, if I read this woman And this man that I've never met before comes up to me and I'm trying to provide the last meal for my family. I'd be like, who do you think you are, bud? Take a hike. This is for me and my son. You don't ever want to come across a frustrated, worried woman and her child. Not a good combination. Okay? Because there's mama bears out there and they can they can come happy, especially when their kids are involved. Don't ask me how I know. Okay. Working with teens for 17 years. I'm not so perfect. Okay. But so this guy comes on and says, I want your last meal. You need to give it to me. But here's the interesting part. It doesn't end there. I'm so thankful for verse 14. Because if it just gave us verse 13, I think he'd be like hanging up there and be like, man, who does this guy think he is? Man, this pious Peter man of God just thinks he could come into town and get whatever he wants. So, let's look at verse 14. He tells her, do not fear, have faith God will provide. So here's what he says in verse 40. Thus saith the Lord God of Israel, the barrel of meal shall not waste. Neither shall the cruise of oil fail until the day that the Lord sendeth rain upon the earth. So he asked for the meal, but what is this doing? This is putting her in a situation where she feels like she has nowhere to turn. She's got nothing to lose. She might as well just believe in this man, although she has a choice not to. She's worried. She's scared. She's thinking of her son. She's thinking of herself. It's in the midst of a famine. This combination is not looking good. And now it's decision time in verse 14. Do I believe this man of God who said that the Lord is going to provide this meal and the oil and it's not going to run out? That seems strange. But she's at the point where I've got nowhere else to turn. And we got this nifty barrel here. This was still lingering around for the case of Bible's called, oh that's so perfect, I'm gonna borrow it. Let me tell ya, first thing I learned about this barrel, it's heavy. This thing is heavy. It's like solid wood and metal. I rolled it in here. Don't tell anyone else that. But I rolled it right down the aisle. I did carry it across the tile, in case you're wondering. But it's heavy. And I don't think her barrel is this big, but I thought this is a cool little illustration of the way. So you have this barrel that's supposed to be full. of you know grain and different things you could eat and make meal. It's like us going to Walmart buying the flour and eggs and the milk okay. Well this this has got like the flour basically in it. And so as you reach down it gets lower and it gets lower. The family's going, she's getting lower, it's getting lower and it's getting lower, it's gett Powers And she's looking here and she's trying to like shake it. You know, what I mean we're gonna see. She's doing that. She's like, I've got enough. I think for a meal, son, we can make it one more day I know we've only had one meal a day for the last couple weeks, but I have just enough. I have a handful. I think we can get one more out of it. So she says, I'll be right back, son. And she goes out, runs into this man and says, I want your last meal. And then he tells her, listen, you give me your last meal, but you know what God's going to do? God is going to continue to provide for you so you can keep eating until it rains again. Now she could think, humanly speaking, this guy is a fool. Who does he think he is? Can God do that? Is that even possible? Do I risk that? I mean I can make one more meal. It's decision time. Is she going to believe in the word of God to provide for her needs? Keep in mind, she's thinking of her son. It's in a famine. Is she willing to obey God's word or use her own understanding with this last meal? That's where she's at. This is decision time. Is she going to believe it or not? Now we already read all the text, but let's look at verse 15. We read these verses, but sometimes I think we forget to add humanity to it. When we're reading your Bible, it's also look at it. And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah. And when she did, she, Elijah, and her house, they ate many days. She had just a handful enough for one more meal. Now she's eating for days. and days. It just doesn't seem to end. Every time she goes that barrel, there's another handful. That's incredible. How's it getting there? That little cruise of oil, every time I pour it, it's out, but every time I go to grab it again, it just it's just always enough. Now she had a decision. She did according to what the Word of God said. That's the hard part. We can sit here and we could read this and we were from one verse to the next. But she had a process. She need to think. She's taking that handful of meal and she's baking it and getting it ready. You don't think the thought crossed her man that that this smells so good Do I really want to give this to that stranger? Is this really going to happen? She's looking at that barrel. I just took I literally just took the last handful out. How is this married more going to get in there? Can I believe that God is going to provide for me? There's nothing there. It's believing in the Word of God. And it says that He provided day after day. It reminds me of the manna. Now God could have filled up the whole entire cruise and that whole barrel. I'm assuming there was more than a handful worth in that barrel. It was probably not this big, safe to say, but I think that it was very possible God could have filled it and said, Thank you for your obedience. Fill the barrel. The cruise of oil is going to be completely topped off. It'll never go below full. You just keep pouring. He provided just enough. And that's what I've found in my life many times. As I walk with the Lord and as I obey him to take that next step, just like with the manna, if they try to take extra, it would be no good. God wants to provide for our daily needs. Sometimes we're trying to figure out all of our tomorrows, and it's much easier to plant our tomorrow's and we got a full barrel And the oil is to the brim. You know, the it it's it's full, everything. You don't think, oh, I can relax and do I need to trust the Lord every day? Because if He did it that way. Would she put it trusting, would it have been quite as amazing of a miracle if it just filled to the brim? If the cruise was topped off to the full Would she have continued to trust in the Lord the same way? And I've seen this true in my life. Sometimes there's a need or something that comes up, and I'm like, I don't know what's going to happen. And sometimes it seems like in just the a a unique way or timing, I've seen I mean I've not had ravens and I've not had a widow come to me with a cruise of oil, okay? Nothing like that. But in just amazing little ways. And sometimes I think God puts us in these situations to daily depend upon Him. Even when we're worried. Because worry oftentimes is us trying to solve the problem on our own. I think that's what she's thinking about her son. How am I going to progress? How am I going to do it? Oh, you want me to believe in God and that He's going to provide? Yes, that's what I want you to do. And that's what happens. And in verse 16 it says, And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of the Lord, which he spake by Elijah. So do you think our confidence is going up day by day? A daily reminder? Man, God is faithful. Every day I go there and I need another meal. It's there. Just enough for another meal. Day after day, God's provision is there. Absolutely incredible. She's thinking about this for days. A long time. So we've seen how Elijah then too is sustained because now not only she has enough for that final meal for her and her son, now she has enough every day for a third person. And God is providing through the widow woman to Elijah sustaining life. So that's what we've seen in verses 8 through 16. Now the second section Is yet another worry or challenge that's going to come this way. But we see Elijah is going to pray for the widow's son. I'm kind of summarizing this in chunk. on his prayer. But let's now look at verse 17. So her confidence is going, well, she's trusting the Lord every day. It's just a miracle every day of her life as God is providing because she trusted in the Lord. If you don't trust in the Lord, how are you going to see the next step if you're not trusting in what He you know you're supposed to do right now? Because what's going to happen is trials and difficulties. are coming. You're either in a trial, you just came out of one, or you're just going to go into one. You might, God might be providing every day, but just because you're a Christian and just because God provides, still doesn't mean that everything's going to be okie-dokey, everything's going to be okay. When you talk to people, oh, you're one of those Christians. You think some people give this perception that Christians have everything figured out, everything always goes our way. No, we have the same problems and challenges as other people, that we just handle them differently. We go to God every day for his provision. We trust God through and during the trial and hopefully not just rely on ourselves. So with that in mind, Elijah is going to pray for this widow. So let's look at that in verse 17. And it came to pass after these things that we just covered. That the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick, and his sickness was so sore that there was no breath left in him. That's a kind way of saying he died. Okay? Not breathing. And look how she responds. So the widow is going to blame Elijah for what is just taking place, for the death of her son. She's going to blame him. Isn't that what happens in trials and difficulties? We don't want to take responsibility. We want the credit. When things go well, I want the credit. When things don't go my way, it's someone else's fault. It's the same thing since the beginning of time with Adam. The woman! The woman that you g you gave me the woman. So God, I'm blaming you for this woman's actions, and I want no part of it. Adam Be irresponsible. But it hasn't changed. So see that's what we're gonna see right here So she said unto Elijah, her son is now dead. A trial has come, a massive mountain of a trials in her life. What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? Art thou come unto me to call my sin to remembrance and to slay my son? She's blaming him. She's blaming God. And she's saying, I know I've got things I've done wrong in my past. And this is how I'm repaid Now, sometimes what she doesn't understand is this is happening to increase her faith, increase Elijah's faith, and that she would ultimately trust him all the more and be fully convinced of what God says is true. She's been seeing daily provision. And that's getting nice. It's getting very kind of mundane. Even people can complain about having food to eat every day. Even if it's a man in the wilderness, you have to walk out and you get free food and you're gonna complain about it? That would be nice. But here she has a mountain of a problem. So the daily provisions, that's nice. But now a challenge is coming on. She's blaming him and the sin. What she's doing is she's worrying about her past. She's worrying about the death of her son, but her past is still haunting It's still coming up to her. She said, wait a minute, is this what's happening? And I just want to say that when challenges come to our life, it is good to maybe examine some things, but we want to trust the Lord through it, but don't always think because of that sinful choice in the past, now my son died. That's what exactly what she's saying. I know I had sinned in the past, and now I'm being repaid. I've been taking care of this man of God, and now my son is dead. That's all your fault. Had you not come here, he wouldn't have died. Why she thinks that, I'm not sure how she's tying that in. But she's bringing up her past. She's still worried about her past. What she's going to learn in the midst of this, too, is God does forgive and over forgive sins of the past, and that he is faithful to his word. But here, she's very frustrated. But just like in our frustration, sometimes we worry, we want to blame everyone else. We do. And don't think that because I sinned in the past, that God's out to seek vengeance on me. God is a good God and He sees the big picture. Sometimes we're carrying around a little piece of the puzzle. We're trying to put the frame together. We can only see little parts. God has the whole thing. He's like the the cover of the picture. Of the puzzle. He sees it all. And sometimes he has to allow trials, sometimes even in your life, to increase your faith, to trust in him, or so others can be encouraged down the road. One of my daughters had the opportunity to uh encourage a younger girl at camp this last week. She was she was So excited about it. She said, Dad, it was so amazing. This girl came to me and she had these trials and things that she was struggling with from the preacher. And she said, It's like God brought her with those problems to me because I had some of those same things. I knew exactly where to go in the Bible because I had some of those same issues in my life. So I knew exactly where to turn to help her out. She said She said, Dad, it was so amazing. I said, so what you're telling me is the same Holy Spirit of God that convicted her, the same Spirit of God that's used worked in your life in the past. is the same God that brought you two together so that you can be encouragement to her, so you can now help her through that trial? She's like, I guess so. That's how God works sometimes. Sometimes just through the trying of your faith that worketh patience, and we seeing the goodness of God and we can see how He is faithful. God might be allowing that to increase your faith and then be a blessing to someone else in the process down the road. Very possible. It's very possible. So I was very excited about that. It was very encouraging to get that phone call this weekend. I enjoyed that very much. But here, she's blaming this man of God, bringing this sin to remembrance, and to slay my son. And what's very interesting here in verse 19. Elijah doesn't even really tackle it. I mean, at least according to scripture, he's not trying to answer her questions. So you find off a couple questions, you man of God, are you doing this? Are you trying to bring my sins into my life and remind me of these things? All he says to her is, just give me thy son. He recognizes the emotion, the heat of the moment, and the problem is she's just very frustrated and she's very worried. This is beyond her control. She cannot Bring her son back to life. She can keep going to the barrel and getting her next handful. She can keep dumping that oil, you know, out of the cruise and getting that. She can do that. But to her dead son, what can she do? That's humanly impossible for her to do anything. So she's frustrated. She's blaming him. He doesn't even directly answer these questions. He just says, give me thy son. And he took him from her bosom and carried him unto the loft, and he abode with him and laid upon his own bed. This is what I have used in my life to help me to understand you Ministry. This is where I kind of develop a lot of my philosophy from this text right here as a youth pastor. You get permission from the parents to help with their children, recognizing it's their child, not mine. I've got four of my own I'm trying to raise. I don't need to be raising all the other teens in the church. It's not my goal. It's not my plan. But I can help. Hopefully, I can share the word of God and encourage them. And as we look through this text, what we see is he is asking permission from the mom. Can I just take your son? I just want to pray over him. I wanted to seek the Lord on his behalf, and that's what we're going to see that he does. So he takes her son and he's going to pray for him, starting with verse 19. He takes him up to his bed, verse 20. And he cried unto the Lord and said, O Lord my God, thou hast also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn. By slaying her son, he's like, God, this does look evil. He's like, I don't understand it. You brought me into this house. You you commanded this woman, uh, you told me that you know provide through this woman, which didn't make sense, but I did, and then provide the meal and and the oil and it has not ended and it's a great provision. And now it looks like you're allowing her son to die. God, I don't understand what's going on here. And he's praying, talking to the Lord about this. God, I don't understand this either. This doesn't look good. And so verse 21 He says, and he stretched himself upon the child three times and cried unto the Lord and said, O Lord my God, I pray thee, let this child's soul come in unto him again. So he's praying intensely. I mean, he is crying out to the Lord. He's beseeching the Lord on behalf of the mother, asking God to do a work that's humanly impossible. It is humanly impossible. God, we need you to work. And for all of us, we can try and change some external things. But we need to allow the word of God and the Spirit of God to use that word of God to change us from the inside out. to change hearts, to draw people, to be used of the Lord, to bring us to himself. So Elijah is praying and he says in verse 21, he says, let this child's soul return unto thing. Can you bring life to him? I cannot do that. And as a youth pastor, I'm only limited. I rely a lot on just the Spirit of God working the hearts and lives of young people to change them to be more like Him. I can't do that. I could facilitate it, we can do different activities. We can teach Sunday school, we can preach in services and preaching at activities, take them to camp, help out with VBS, all these things, teen rallies Winter retreats, Bible quizzing, you name it. You can we can do all I can facilitate and help with all these different areas, but I can't change the heart. Hopefully what I'm doing is helping accomplish what the parents want. A more godly son, a more godly daughter that's following and being led by the Word of God And my perceived, that's what helps me to be a successful youth pastor, is to take their children, teach them the word of God, love on them with the parents' permission. Teach them the word of God, preach, have fun, and maybe even yet say the same things you are at home. They're like, oh Pastor Josh said, and you look at your child and said, I have told you that for 10 years already. And Pastor Jock says it once and it works. Yes. And those same teams go to camp. And they're like, oh, and that evangelist said, and I'm like, I've been preaching that for years. But that's great. That's wonderful. The evangelist said it and now it works. Now I feel like the parent, okay? But why does it work? I don't know. But oftentimes it does So here's what's taking place. Relying on God, praying for a miracle to happen that only God can do. And so he prays over the widow's son. And then we read verse 22. This is just wonderful. The Lord heard the voice of Elijah. And the soul of the child came to Negim, and he revived. Life was brought back to the Son. And when I look at this youth ministry, hopefully if your child is not saved, they can get to know Christ, they can be saved, surrendered, separated, soul conscious, seeking the scriptures and supporting the home. Yes, I alliterated that. It's not all original with me, but the alliteration is. Saved, separated, surrendered, soul conscience, seeking the scriptures and supporting them. If I can start accomplishing that in the teens and encourage them in that way, I think that it would be a great help to the family, to the church. So here's what's taking place. His prayer is answered. And look what he does. He doesn't jump up and down and say, oh, how great of a man I am. I'm such a wonderful guy. Look, God answered my prayer. He didn't answer yours, but he answered mine. That's not what he does. Because it's not of him. God is on it. This is God's grace and his mercy by which anything is done. And when Elijah prays, he answers the prayer, and look what he does. He takes the Son. In verse 23, and he took the child and brought him down out of the chamber into the house and delivered him unto his mother. And Elijah said, See thy son. liveth. So he brings the child down and delivers him unto the mother. This helps me a lot as a youth pastor because it's not my child. What God does in the hearts of life, what it could be great, it could be fun, it could be exciting. I take them and I return from gap from camp. Here's your child. Here's some things that are encouraging. And uh something I did this last year at camp, I think, really helped is I took little uh pictures of the screen so the parents can have a good idea of what might be stirring in the hearts and childs of their uh the hearts and minds of their teenager. These are what they've been preaching. This is what's been heard. I just thought of it. I mean all these years it can't, but I just finally hit me this time. And I had some good uh response from it. I think I'm gonna keep doing that as long as they have more visual and stuff on the screen. Because I want the parents to know what's being preached. I want the parents to know that they can reinforce or encourage and have talking points of what 's going on in their child's life. See, look, this is what happened with your child, and I'm returning them to you, and you can take it and make it part of family devotions, and you can talk about it with them. It's your child. See what God can do and draw them closer to the Lord as a family. And then look at the result. So he prays, Elijah returns the revived son to the mother, giving God, hey, this is what God does. He had done the impossible. And look at the result. If all this is working right and proper and it's for the Lord, look at verse 24. I love this. The widow ends up believing God's word that's being told through Elijah. And the woman said to Elijah, Now, by this, it wasn't even the daily provision of the meal. It wasn't the cruise of oil that never ended. She said, but now by this, something that was beyond humanly possible, I know that thou art a man of God. And That the word of the Lord as commanded all the way back when he was told, I want you to go to Zarephath, and a woman is gonna a widow woman is gonna sustain me. I know I've been using ravens, now I'm gonna use the widow woman. And Elijah obeyed. He passed this message to the widow woman. The cruise of oil will not fail. The barrel will not empty. It will always have enough. And it will keep doing that. She believed. And as you walk with God through the worries and through the challenges, God, I just need to trust in you for the next step. I need to trust you for today Yesterday's gone. Tomorrow might not come. We have today. Can I trust you today? And as we walk with God and we trust in him, both Elijah is increasing his walk in the Lord, because he's got some big trials coming up himself. In the next chapter, we're going to see. This widow woman, now she says, by this, the impossible has now happened. What do you think just happened to her understanding of God and his word and how faithful he is to it? Oh, it just went exponentially up. She says, by this, I know that the word of Lord in thy mouth is truth. When we walk with God and you see impossible, you see how God provides and you see what he's done and he's faithful to keep his word. You know what that's going to do? As God brings us through trials and challenges and our tomorrows? It's going to help us because we're already trusting. in him now. We've seen his faithfulness in his word before. We've seen how he could provide daily. We've seen how he can do amazingly things that seem humanly impossible. And what does that do? Then it increases and it draws us closer to the Lord. It ought to It ought to drive us closer to them and say, wow, the Lord's word is true. How could I not believe it? It's like the love of God constrains us to want to follow him and to want to seek his face and to want to be in his word, knowing that it is true and is accurate from a loving God who wants help and who wants to provide. Sometimes we have to go through thumps and bumps and bruises and turns to get there. Although it doesn't have to be. Sometimes we might have to reconcile with our past. God forgive me for my past. That is one challenge that I've seen when I work with teenagers and and parents. Parents sometimes don't want to correct their kids because I did that as a teenager. I said, I know, don't you wish someone would have told you different? Just because you did it that way when you were young doesn't mean you can't correct your child now. You love them. Correct them now, even if you made those same mistakes when you're younger Use yourself as the tool of learning of God was faithful and I did some things I shouldn't. You're heading down that way, so let's correct it for you. You don't have to learn a hard way like I did. Don't be like your dad. Okay. Don't be like your mom. Trust in the Lord. Follow his word. He will provide. Even in the midst of our challenges and our worries Because what helps us with our worry is recognizing, God, I want to watch you work. I want you to watch you provide daily and in the bigger ways. God, I don't have to try and figure everything out on myself. Now don't get so lazy we're not thinking through and trying to make plans, but recognize we hold our plans loosely. Let God work in and through them. And so when we worry, we're recognizing, wait a minute, am I worrying because I'm trying to do this myself? Am I not trusting in God and his word? Because his word is true. And the widow woman sought by this great miracle and by the daily provisions. May God help us not to worry. Let us clause. Father, we are so thankful for Scripture and really just the transparity of it stepping into people's lives from the kings all the way down to this widowed woman. We have cares, worries. We may even have sins of the past. But Father, you are a good God that will still provide despite ourselves. Because you are good, because you are kind, because you are forgiving, because you are true and faithful to your word, would we learn to trust you each and every day? We thank you, we love you, and may we learn to depend on you even to the challenges and worries of our days. That your word is true and accurate. You are a trustworthy God, worth obeying and worth following, even sometimes when we can't make sense of it ourselves. So we thank you now for what you will do. We thank you for who you are and come to you through Christ's name. Amen